Strategic report Aerospace The aerospace sector continues Advanced manufacture of control surfaces to be a key market.
The need for Adaptive machining relies on probing technology and advanced 41,000 new commercial aircraft by software to enable the economic production of aircraft control 2036 is forecast to meet growing surfaces e. g. flaps and rudders with complex geometries.
demands and the replacement of aircraft within the current commercial fleet.
Renishaw products are used heavily in the aerospace sector and the drive to lightweight components is generating strong interest in additive manufacturing.
Quiet and efficient aero engines Scanning technology for machine tools and inspection equipment benefits the production and maintenance of a broad range of engine components, including the adaptive machining and precision inspection of blades.
Ballbar diagnostics aid Aircraft are highly complex structures andkey airframe manufacture assemblies from engines and wings to control The manufacture of airframe systems and landing gear, all rely on Renishaw components for modern aircraft products for process control and postdemands precision and consistency.
BAE Systems, the global defence, process inspection during their manufacture.
aerospace and security company, This illustration of a typical passenger produces vital airframe components for aircraft highlights afew key applications for the Eurofighter Typhoon which is flown by various air forces around the world.
Without periodic checking and maintenance, CNC machine tools can lose positioning accuracy and introduce errors over time.
BAE Systems machines complex high-value airframe components, and turned to a wireless ballbar system to provide the machine tool diagnostics data it needed to maximise quality and productivity.
Identifying a problem with a machine tool after components have been machined can be costly.
In the case of BAE Systemss airframes, a high 14 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 BAE Systems.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Wings and wing spars Long-range laser encoders provide the accuracy required for largescale machining of composite wing skins whilst on-machine probing systems enable efficient production of wing spars and other machined components.
Control systems and actuators Fluid power componentry, including control valves and actuators, benefit from metal additive manufacturing which enables part consolidation, functional improvements and significant weight reductions.
Landing gear components Precision machining of high-value materials uses on-machine probing to eliminate costly scrap in the production of undercarriage and landing gear equipment.
percentage of components are The efficiency with which ballbarmachined from titanium.
This hightrained machine tool operators strength, lightweight metal, which could run diagnostic checks using is resistant to high temperature the QC20-W meant they could be and corrosion, is high in value and completed between part production increasingly scarce, with stocks runs with little adverse effect on required to be reserved up to a year machine tool throughput.
Machine tool error diagnosis at BAE Utilising Renishaws QC20-W wireless Systems has become virtually instant.
ballbar, the company initiated a Unacceptable machine tool downD BAE Systems employee, site-wide preventative maintenance times the result of lengthy and Jim Walsh, with Renishaw programme to check 60 CNC machine expensive investigations and repairs QC20-W ballbar.
tools on a defined weekly, monthly and have been drastically reduced, and the annual basis.
machine builder is no longer depended upon as the sole source of technical Through detailed interpretation of the insight and support.
QC20-Ws diagnostic data trends across all machine tools, BAE Systems With the help of Renishaw established a dependable go no-go ballbar diagnostics BAE Systems error margin benchmark, against which has benefitted from significant all machines performance could be improvements in workshop productivity quickly checked.
Any circularity error and QA compliance.
in CNC machine positional accuracy greater than 30 microns would demand immediate investigation.
D The Renishaw QC20-W wireless ballbar for machine tool performance diagnosis.
