Strategic report ATOM miniaturising innovation in the encoder business Our strategy in action Modern high-volume production processes, such as semiconductor Continual research manufacturing, demand production-line machines with ever smaller footprints creating strong to maximise productivity while also continually improving accuracy and market positions with throughput.
This results in growing demand for smaller and lighter position innovative products sensors.
These position sensors, often referred to as encoders, comprise a readhead an optical movement sensor paired with a scale an accurately marked ruler.
The readhead measures position by directly sensing the regularly-spaced scale markings.
A smaller readhead allows installation in tight spaces and a lower mass also reduces inertia to enable higher accelerations of the moving parts of the machine.
The ATOM miniature optical encoder was launched in 2014 and is Renishaws smallest incremental encoder product.
It remains one of the most compact optical encoder solutions on the market.
ATOM is the only miniature encoder to use Renishaws unique optics engine with patented filtering technology, which imparts several advantages when compared with other types of miniature encoder, including better dirt immunity, lower cyclic error improved accuracy and higher resolution.
One of the greatest technical challenges in the design of ATOM was shrinking the optics of pre-existing compact encoders, such as the TONiC series.
ATOM readheads occupy less than half the volume of the TONiC equivalent.
Advanced manufacturing ATOM readheads are too small to easily build by hand and so ATOM is the first Renishaw readhead to be assembled with an automated process, which also decreases process variability, leading to lower production costs and more consistent product quality.
An automated assembly process provides significant flexibility of capacity that allows the rate of production to be readily increased from low to high.
Multiple readheads can pass through the assembly process simultaneously.
The ATOM readhead is designed such that fine alignment and assembly operations are performed from one side of the product only and robot arms 34 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information are used for component subassembly The readheads are connected, via Richard Toller, Technical Manager for transfer between each process stage.
an analogue filter and analogue-toRenishaws CMM Products Division, This is a largely unmanned assembly digital converter ADC, to REVO-2s explains: The ATOM encoder system with no human observers electronics.
ATOM, with its highly provides a level of plug-and-play so continuous process checking automated manufacturing that convenience that simply didnt exist is essential.
minimises process variability to before.
The ease of installation and assurethe best quality and the shortest alignment coupled with excellent All parts must first be correctly lead times, was chosen by REVO-2s technical support allowed the REVO-2 orientated by means of bowldesign team as the most costdesign team to fully meet the design feeders and shaped feed-chutes.
specification whilst reducing overall Automatic part identification is production cycle time.
achieved by various means such as In this application, ATOM offers RFID Radio-Frequency Identification leading-edge accuracy and speed To summarise, ATOM helps to tags and advanced image processing that enable excellent servo-loop gain streamline the REVO-2 manufacturing techniques.
Furthermore, a Renishaw levels for outstanding position holding process, while still providing TP20 touch-trigger probe is used and accurate surface scanning of exceptional metrology performance.
to calibrate the scale and readhead parts components.
The ATOM system ATOM is designed to support body datum positions during the was also chosen for several design manufacturing and servicing operations assembly process.
Correct alignment features including: with streamlined installation and robust of the optical components within calibration procedures, in addition its mechanical simplicity and optical the readhead is achieved by a to Renishaws unrivalled technical disc alignment method using a combination of optical checking and support.
The effects on the REVO-2 microscope camera system for output feedback from the encoder production process are reduced improved installed accuracy: sensor itself.
process cycle times, higher unit yields, ease of setup in conjunction with greater efficiency and lower production ATOM and the REVO-2 REVO-2s electronics, allowing both costs.
REVO and ATOM are leading incremental signal calibration and One of the first commercial applications metrology products that are now auto-phasing of reference marks of ATOM was in a new metrology combined in the powerful REVO-2.
without oscilloscopes or external product developed at Renishaw.
equipment: and The REVO system is one of Renishaws flagship products and enables CMM availability of chrome-on-glass rotary users to perform 5-axis measurement scale, with highly accurate scale on a 3-axis CMM.
It measures markings enables REVO-2 to achieve thousands of points per second and a resolution of 0.002 arc seconds, operates at speeds up to 500 mm s. delivering high precision over the full As the head is much lighter and operating temperature range.
more dynamic than the CMM, it can quickly follow changes in the part geometry without introducing harmful dynamic errors.
REVO-2 is an improved version that builds upon the successful REVO system with enhanced power and communications capability to carry the latest REVO probes such as the RVP vision measurement probe.
The original REVO product featured a custom-designed encoder with a fine pitch 12 micron phase scale developed D Renishaws new REVO-2 measuring before highly accurate miniature head incorporates ATOM incremental encoders had been brought to market.
REVO-2 incorporates Renishaws latest ATOM incremental rotary encoder with RCDM rotary angle glass scales on both of its axes yaw and pitch.
It is the first product to have the ATOM encoder designed-in at the concept stage.
Each 20 micron-pitch RCDM glass disc 68 mm diameter is face-read by a dual-readhead setup which helps to optimise REVO-2 performance by eliminating rotational eccentricity error.
D Some of the ATOM design team next to the products automated assembly cell.
