Strategic report The product range includes the following: Our business sectors Craniomaxillofacial custom-made implants Healthcare Additively manufactured from titanium, custom-made craniomaxillofacial Our technologies are helping within implants are structural implants that are used in the reconstruction of a patients applications such as craniomaxillofacial head, face or jaw.
These are most surgery, dentistry, neurosurgery, commonly required after oncology treatment or as a result of trauma.
chemical analysis and nanotechnology research.
These include engineering solutions for stereotactic neurosurgery, analytical tools that identify and characterise the chemistry and structure of materials, the supply of implants to hospitals and specialist design centres for craniomaxillofacial surgery, and D Titanium craniomaxillofacial implants.
products and services that allow dental Neurosurgical robot laboratories to manufacture high-quality A stereotactic robot that provides a dental restorations.
platform solution for a broad range of functional neurosurgical procedures including deep brain stimulation DBS,  SEEG, neuroendoscopy and stereotactic biopsies, and is being L Ms Sasha Burn, Consultant Paediatric used within the context of clinical trials Neurosurgeon at Alder Hey Childrens for both neurosurgical disorders and Hospital, Liverpool, UK - user of brain oncology.
Renishaws neuroinspire planning software and neuromate stereotactic robot in the hospitals Childrens Epilepsy Surgery Service centre.
Dental scanners 3D contact scanners and noncontact optical scanners used for digitising of dental preparations and the measurement of implant locations for tooth-supported frameworks and custom abutments.
D Blue light dental scanner and CAD software.
18 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Dental computer-aided design Raman microscopes CAD software Research-grade inVia Raman microscope for the non-destructive Dental CAD software that allows set-up chemical analysis and imaging of of scanning routines and enables materials used by scientists and laboratory staff to design abutments engineers worldwide.
Its highand structures for crowns and speed, high-quality results and bridges, including powerful anatomic upgradeability are valued in fields as design functions.
diverse as nanotechnology, biology Dental structures and pharmaceuticals.
manufacturing service A central manufacturing service that can handle CAD files from a wide variety of dental CAD systems to produce structures for crowns and bridges in cobalt chrome, and Healthcare revenue 18% abutments in cobalt chrome.
33.4m D inVia Qontor confocal Raman microscope.
Healthcare adjusted operating loss Hybrid Raman systems Hybrid systems that unite the chemical analysis power of Raman 7.2m spectroscopy with the high spatial resolution of other techniques, D Additively manufactured dental structures.
such as atomic force microscopy and scanning electron microscopy.
Neurosurgical planning These new instruments are vital tools Percentage of group revenue software forinvestigating materials and devices Software that allows advanced fornanotechnology applications.
planning of targets and trajectories for 6% stereotactic neurosurgery.
Turn-key Raman analysis RA800 benchtop platform, which provides companies with a highperformance chemical imaging and analysis system that can be tailored for the needs of their customers.
RA800 gives research-grade Raman microscopy performance in a Class 1 laser-safe, simple-to-use form.
Pharmaceutical analysis RA802 pharmaceutical analyser, a compact benchtop Raman imaging D Neuroinspire neurosurgical planning software.
system designed exclusively for the pharmaceutical industry.
It enables Neurosurgical implants users to formulate tablets more Implantable devices that allow efficiently by speeding up the analysis surgeons to verify expected DBS of tablet composition and structure.
electrode position relative to targeted anatomy using magnetic resonance imaging MRI for the treatment of Parkinsons disease, other movement disorders andneuropathic pain.
Neurosurgical accessories Specialist electrodes and instruments for use in epilepsy neurosurgery, manufactured by DIXI Medical.
