Strategic report Perfect fit castings for Ricardo Tridan Engineering, based in Clactonon-Sea, UK, is using Renishaw Automotive RMP600 and OMP60 machine tool probes to align complex castings Worldwide demand for vehicles as part of a motorsport machining contract for Ricardo.
For the first batch continues to grow and there is of parts, a project that would normally increasing focus on fuel efficiency and have taken around two months, was compressed into a 17-day turnaround emissions control from both domestic time without any compromise in and commercial transport.
There is the quality standards demanded by the client.
also an increasing need to produce Ricardo Performance Products were extremely accurate and reliable having problems in the testing of a manufacturing systems, with a trend rear axle for a rally car that we had manufactured on previous occasions, towards automated manufacturing explained Paul Coupland, Machine processes to reduce cycle times.
Latest engine technology From camshaft manufacture to quality control of valve seats, probing systems enable modern engines to deliver enhanced performance, higher reliability and reduced emissions.
D Renishaw OMP60 inspecting machined Ricardo casting at Tridan Engineering Ltd.
The majority of key components on domestic and commercial vehicles are subject to process control using Renishaw products.
This illustration highlights just a few key applications for our products relating to a typical car.
Precision gears and reliable gearbox components High-volume precision machining and rapid part inspection necessary to support automotive gearbox and drivetrain production are made possible with process control and gauging technologies.
16 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Shop Manager at Tridan.
The Tremec Mexico reduces issue was one of design strength, shop floor gauging time of so they needed a new beefed-up Daimler parts by 85% with axle to test.
A project like this would Equator gauges normally take 8-10 weeks as we At the Tremec Queretaro plant, near would arrange meetings with the Mexico City, transmission systems are customer, offer  produced for Daimler, Volvo, GM, John recommendations to help remove cost, Deere and agriculture and construction prepare tooling and so on.
Accuracy is the main reason we use Tremec decided that its manufacturing D Paul Coupland, Machine Renishaw technology.
I dont think we process could be improved Shop Manager at Tridan, could do half of what we do without considerably, since the process control displaying the final part their probes.
As a company they are of parts was taking far too long.
very supportive, although to be honest new Daimler gear project, it decided to weve never had to call on their service use Renishaw Equator gauges to take department the products simply dont a different approach during grinding go wrong.
These cells produce 550 to 600 gears daily and with the Equator system, inspection time per unit has reduced from around 20 minutes to just two and a half minutes.
D The Equator system has made it easy for Tremec to gauge every controlled feature of gears on the shop floor.
Body panels and components Automated production lines rely on indexable and scanning probe systems for checking car bodies known as Body in White prior to painting and assembly.
Wheels Alloy wheel manufacture requires highly productive precision machining that can adapt to the variation inherent in forging processes.
On-machine probing systems ensure productivity through automated process control.
Suspension and braking components Systems that enable automation and the quality control of parts on the shop floor are paramount for the economic production of high-quality components inthe volumes required by the automotiveindustry.
