Strategic report Making time for luxury watches Michiel Holthinrichs, the founder of Holthinrichs Watches, is working with Consumer products a Renishaw Additive Manufacturing Solutions Centre AMSC to build up Consumer products and electronics his knowledge about the potential of metal AM and to speed up the overall continue to change at a rapid pace, manufacturing time for his high-end, with ever shorter life cycles driven limited-edition watches.
His first design Ornament 1 combines traditional as much by fashion as functional watchmaking elements, including a requirements.
Advances in technology, Swiss movement with manual winding and a design inspired by classic including more sophisticated watches of the 1950s, with metal 3D hardware and sleeker physical design, printing used to produce the case, crown and buckle.
call for rapid improvements Michiel first worked with a reputable in manufacturing capabilities.
3D printing bureau in Belgium to 3D print prototypes and the first stainless steel Ornament 1 watch on its Renishaw AM250 system.
He noted, however, that customers seemed to be less concerned by the method of manufacture, but rather more by the details in the design which could not be achieved by traditional manufacturing and highlights the capability of Renishaws high-performance AM systems to produce highly precise and fine detail features.
Now that Michiel has proved Ornament 1 can be produced, he is working with an AMSC to investigate how reproducible it is, to streamline the labour-intensive finishing process and to offer an alternative material.
His plan is to develop a core range of classic style watches that are high-end and have a strong element of personality, D Titanium watch cases manufactured for Holthinrichs Watches but which could be completely using Renishaw additive manufacturing systems.
The fast-paced nature of the consumer Digital display manufacture products market demands flexible Large-scale manufacturing of flat panel displays requires accurate manufacturing systems that can adapt encoders for position and motion control of high-speed systems.
to shorter lifecycles, yet still meet the Absolute encoders improve reliability and productivity.
requirements for high-quality, highvolume components.
This illustration of a typical household shows a few Plastic moulded casings examples of how Renishaw products are Additive manufacturing and precision machining technology are allowing manufacturers to satisfy these used to produce injection mould tooling with optimised conformal demanding requirements.
cooling for leading consumer brands, enhancing product quality and production efficiency.
40 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information A decade down the line and Breton From marble slabs to began to diversify its expertise into machine tools the production of high-speed CNC Focusing initially on designing and machining centres for the metalbuilding machinery to process natural cutting industry.
stone, the Italian company Breton S. p. A soon moved to producing Switching from processing stone complete systems for the manufacture materials to metals demands a of composite stone.
This proved to be significant increase in precision, and the backbone of its growing business using Renishaws laser interferometers, for many years.
The 1980s saw rotary axis calibrators and ballbars all D Breton employee using Breton begin building CNC machinery Bretons machines undergo calibration XL-80 laser interferometer to for processing marble, granite and routines which guarantee their optimum calibrate a CNC machine.
composite stone slabs, this also operation.
As a result, Bretons CNC included the arrival of the companys machining centres are now seen first five-axis systems.
as being among the worlds most advanced in the sector.
High-quality look and feel Metal housings for computers Precision manufacturing using High-volume production multiple process control techniques machining needs probing is used to produce the high technology to automate part standard of fit and finish required setting and control cutting tools D Luxury watch from on casings and components for to minimise scrap and maximise phones and tablets.
production capacity from each Holthinrichs Watches machine tool.
featuring a 3D-printed metal case, crown and buckle.
Watches jewellery Additive manufacturing is allowing the cost-effective customisation of complex luxury watches and jewellery, including the ability to add personalised designs messages during the manufacturing process.
