Strategic report The product range includes the following: Our business sectors Co-ordinate measuring machine CMM products Metrology Sensors, software and control systems for three-dimensional CMMs, including Our metrology products help manufacturers touch-trigger and scanning probes, automated probe changers, motorised to maximise production output, significantly indexing probe heads and 5-axis reduce the time taken to produce and measurement systems, which enable the highly accurate measurement inspect components, and keep their of manufactured components and machines running reliably.
In the fields of finished assemblies.
industrial automation and motion systems, Machine tool probe systems our position measurement and calibration Sensors and software for computer numerically controlled CNC metalsystems allow machine builders cutting machine tools that allow the tomanufacture highly accurate automation of setting and on-machine measurement operations, leading andreliable products.
to more productivity from existing machines and reductions in scrap and rework.
These include laser tool setters, contact tool setters, tool breakage detectors, touch probes, contact scanning systems and high-accuracy inspection probes.
D Machine tool scanning probe system.
Styli for probe systems Precision styli that attach to probe sensors for CMMs, machine tools and TM Equator gauging systems to ensure that accurate measurement data is acquired at the point of contact.
D Five-axis measurement system for CMMs.
12 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Performance testing products Position encoders Calibration and testing products to Position encoders that ensure determine the positioning accuracy of a accurate linear and rotary motion wide range of industrial and scientific control in a wide range of applications machinery to international standards, from electronics, flat panel displays, including a laser interferometer, rotary robotics and semiconductors to axis calibrator, wireless telescoping medical, precision machining and ballbar and software for data capture print production.
magnetic encoders, incremental optical encoders, absolute optical encoders and laser interferometer encoders.
Additive manufacturing AM Advanced metal AM systems for direct manufacturing of 3D-printed metallic components.
A total solution Metrology revenue 26% is offered from systems, materials, ancillaries and software through to consultancy, training and support for a 503.4m range of industries including industrial, D Laser calibration system testing healthcare and mould tooling.
Gauging TM Equator enables process control Metrology adjusted operating profit 29% by delivering highly repeatable, thermally insensitive, versatile and reprogrammable gauging to the shop floor, both as a standalone device and 115.9m as part of an automated manufacturing cell.
Combined with IPC intelligent process control software, Equator provides the functionality to fully Percentage of group revenue automate tool offset updates in CNC manufacturing processes.
94% Fixtures Modular and custom fixtures used to hold parts securely for dimensional D Reduced build volume accessory for inspection on CMM, vision and additive manufacturing systems.
Vacuum casting Vacuum casting machines from entry-level to high capacity, for rapid prototyping and production of polymer end-use parts.
D Fixturing system for Equator gauge.
