14 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Market dynamics Market dynamics The global beverage alcohol market is profitable and i growing.
An estimated six billion equivalent units i of alcohol are sold each year, generating 300 billion of net sales.
High levels of regulation combined with the increasing expectations of consumers and other stakeholders create a complex operating environment.
We are well placed to navigate this operating environment and to create opportunities for Diageo to succeed.
A market that is diverse, profitable Our ability to use insight and measurement consumers premium products.
Emerging ii and growing markets also contain a large proportion to drive brand performance means we can Industry growth is well supported by robust activate the best brands to meet consumers of the worlds informal alcohol market, macro and consumer trends: local tastes and preferences.
estimated to account for 25% of alcohol iii sales globally, which presents risks to We currently expect 500 million new Developed market opportunities consumers health as well as impacting legal purchase age consumers to come to While populations in developed markets overall tax revenues.
Mainstream spirits is an the market over the next decade India are typically stable or growing more slowly important opportunity, providing consumers and Africa will account for half of this than those in emerging markets, overall access to safe, branded products at levels of disposable income are higher.
Many Around 730 million more consumers will affordable price points, as they aspire to consumers seek to drink better, not more be able to afford international style spirits, progress to international premium brands.
as they aim to develop their tastes while over the next decade, with 85% of this maintaining a balanced lifestyle, and are growth coming from emerging markets Operating in a volatile environment prepared to pay a premium for high-quality Spirits penetration in many emerging Like all consumer goods businesses, we brands with heritage and provenance.
markets is still low when compared continue to operate in a global economy Our international spirits, and within them to developed markets subject to political instability and sudden our reserve portfolio, offer these consumers changes to economic variables.
Diageos brands that connect with them and share Alcohol is an established part of how many global scale provides a natural hedge against their values.
people socialise and celebrate life.
We can respond alcohol is consumed is often deeply rooted Emerging market opportunities quickly to local dynamics through our in local tastes and customs, which can vary The global growth in the number of people market-based business model.
Our increased as widely as the cultures and conditions in of legal purchasing age is largely driven by emphasis on local sourcing, including local which people live.
Understanding this population growth in emerging markets.
An bottling, helps us manage risk and plan diversity while anticipating and shaping increasingly wealthy middle class in these contingencies.
We are building a stronger trends is key to winning in the marketplace.
markets also presents opportunities to offer business through our focus on productivity.
Strategic report Market dynamics DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 15 Earning trust and respect Diageo sites located in water-stressed areas 32 Delivering measurable social and 21 29 environmental benefits is intrinsic to 34 18 commercial efforts to drive performance.
35 19 38 Our 2020 targets focus on the areas that are 24 23 20 most material to us and our stakeholders, 25 33 and are aligned to the UNs Global Goals.
22 37 At the same time, we seek ways for our 30 28 13 15 11 12 1 17 16 36 14 individual brands to act as catalysts for 2 8 26 3 creating positive social impacts not only 10 5 27 31 9 because this is the right way to do business, 4 7 6 but because we want consumers to Sites recognise the purpose that has underpinned India 28 Malkajgiri, Telangana 1 Kenya Brewing, Nairobi 9 Dar es Salaam, Tanzania 2 East Africa Maltings, 10 Mwanza, Tanzania 18 Alwar, Rajasthan 29 Meerut, Uttar Pradesh many of our brands for generations.
Nairobi 11 UBL, Kampala, Uganda 19 Asansol, West Bengal 30 Nacharam, Telangana 3 Seybrew, Seychelles 12 IDU, Kampala, Uganda 20 Aurangabad, Maharashtra 31 Palakkad, Kerala Creating a positive role for alcohol in society 4 SA Cider, South Africa 13 Accra, Achimota, Ghana 21 Baddi, Himachal Pradesh 32 Pathankot, Punjab 22 Baramati, Maharashtra 33 Pioneer, Maharashtra The beverage alcohol industry is one of the 5 Phelindaba Brewery, 14 Kumasi, Kaasi, Ghana South Africa 15 Ogba, Lagos, Nigeria 23 Bhadrakali, West Bengal 34 Rosa, Uttar Pradesh most highly regulated in the world, and that 6 Butterworth Brewery, 16 Paraipaba, Cear, Brazil 24 Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh 35 Serampore, West Bengal South Africa 17 Agricultural lands, 25 Four Seasons Winery, 36 Sovereign, Karnataka regulation varies widely between countries 7 Khangela Brewery, Cear, Brazil Maharashtra 37 Tern, Andhra Pradesh and jurisdictions.
Diageo complies with all 26 Hospet, Karnataka 38 Udaipur, Rajasthan South Africa 8 Moshi, Tanzania 27 Kumbalgodu, Karnataka laws and regulations, wherever we operate, as a minimum requirement, and we advocate effective, evidence-based alcohol policies as commitments designed to support Member value chain.
Human rights is a key focus, while important initiatives include local sourcing, described on page 41 of this report.
States implementation of the World Health While legal and regulatory requirements Organizations WHO global strategy to particularly in Africa where we aim to source are a vital part of the operating context for Reduce the Harmful Use of Alcohol.
80% of agricultural materials locally by 2020. beverage alcohol companies, alcohol itself We also work beyond our industry, Water and the environment plays a much broader role in society and forming partnerships with governments, Businesses that rely on agricultural raw materials culture, and has been part of celebrations law enforcement agencies, educators and are exposed to a variety of environmental around the world for centuries.
The majority civil society to support campaigns to reduce issues, including those associated with climate of people who choose to enjoy alcohol harmful drinking.
These issues may be felt directly, do so moderately and responsibly, but all At the same time, we advocate against or indirectly as a result of their impact on the alcohol companies must recognise that measures that are not based on evidence wider value chain and associated communities.
the misuse of alcohol can be harmful to or which could have unintended For beverage alcohol companies like ours, individuals and society, and that preventing consequences.
This includes policies that water scarcity is particularly important, this is important to the long-term future of inadvertently push consumers towards as water is our main ingredient.
the industry as well as for the individuals unregulated or illicit alcohol, which can We have a clearly defined environmental concerned and their communities.
Creating be a risk to public health.
strategy that includes programmes to a positive role for alcohol in society through Building thriving communities reduce greenhouse gas emissions and partnerships, industry collaboration and our Our value chains are a critical component water use throughout our value chain.
own initiatives has always been a priority of our operating environment, supporting Our Water Blueprint defines our approach to for us, and we continue to put skills and both supply networks and markets.
We aim water stewardship and focuses specifically resources into programmes that prevent and to strengthen them by contributing to the on stewardship in the water-stressed areas reduce alcohol misuse, raise awareness, and prosperity and resilience of the communities shown in the map above.
This includes change negative attitudes and behaviour.
As well as the contribution improving our water efficiency, replenishing Industry collaboration and partnerships we make through direct and indirect water used, managing water quality and to reduce harmful drinking employment and taxes, our sustainable helping farmers improve water management We are one of 12 global producers of beer, development strategy aims to leverage the in agriculture.
wine and spirits which in 2013 started a set of economic and social impact of our entire Examples of our strategic responses Innovation holistic lifestyle products Mainstream spirits Reserve mass luxury The mainstream spirits opportunity is critical Holistic lifestyle is a growing trend across Luxury is increasingly becoming accessible to to accessing emerging middle class consumers.
markets and we are moving to participate in this everyone.
Modern luxury speaks to globalisation space.
With Baileys Almande we are redefining The emerging middle class consumer is worth and pride in local culture.
We call this trend mass iv the liqueur category with a gluten free, dairy 11 billion and accounts for 1.1 billion equivalent luxury, and have identified that it presents 78% iv units globally.
Our acquisition of United Spirits free, vegan almond milk liqueur.
We have also of our reserve growth opportunity to 2020.
USL in India gave us not only the footprint to launched Smirnoff Seltzer in the United States To deliver against this we reached more outlets and Smirnoff Pure in Australia.
Both are low compete and win in India, but also the know-how and consumers this year, and nearly doubled calorie and low sugar ready to drink products.
to expand and apply how we develop and sell our presence in the biggest cities around mainstream spirits in Africa.
