Strategic report D D DiiIage age AGEo o O iin n IN 2 2 20 017 17 01 7 D D DII IA A AG G GEE EO O O AN AN ANNU NU NUAL AL AL R R RE E EP P PO O OR R RT T T 2 2 20 0 01 1 17 7 7 01 01 1 Diageo in 2017 Diageo is a global leader in beverage alcohol with an outstanding collection of brands across spirits and beer.
Our products are sold in more than 180 countries around the world.
Our brands include Johnnie Walker, Crown Royal, JB, Buchanans and Windsor whiskies, Smirnoff, Croc and Ketel One vodkas, Captain Morgan, Baileys, Don Julio, Tanqueray and Guinness.
Our performance ambition is to be one of the best performing, most trusted and respected consumer products companies in the world.
We are proud of the brands we make and the enjoyment they give to millions.
We are passionate about alcohol playing a positive role in society as part of a balanced lifestyle.
This is central to our purpose to help people celebrate life.
Cover image: Diageo Cambus Cooperage, Scotland.
Image inspired by a submission to our employee competition The Big Picture, by Graduate Trainee, Rory Slater.
Rorys photo won the Proud of what we do category.
Each competition category celebrates one of Diageos values.
For more information about Diageo, our people and our Contents brands, visit www.
Visit Diageos global responsible drinking resource, Strategic report www.
com, for information, initiatives, and Our business model 02 ways to share best practice.
Our strategy 04 In addition, Diageo has prepared a Sustainability & Our global reach 06 Responsibility Performance Addendum 2017, which is available Our brands 07 on www.
It outlines further economic, social and environmental disclosures in line with the Global Reporting How we measure performance: Initiative Sustainability G4 Guidelines and the United Nations key performance indicators 08 Global Compact advanced reporting criteria.
Chairmans statement 10 Chief Executives statement 12 Diageo is listed on both the London Stock Exchange DGE and the New York Market dynamics 14 Stock Exchange DEO.
Our strategy in action 16 This is the Annual Report 2017 of Diageo plc for the year ended 30 June 2017 and it is dated 27 July 2017.
The Annual Report is made available to all shareholders on How we protect our business: risk Diageos website www.
management and principal risks 19 This report includes names of Diageos products, which constitute trademarks or trade names which Diageo owns or which others own and license to Diageo for Group financial review 22 use.
In this report, the term company refers to Diageo plc and the terms group Business reviews 28 and Diageo refer to the company and its consolidated subsidiaries, except as the context otherwise requires.
Category review 38 Diageos consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Sustainability & Responsibility review 40 International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union EU and IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Definitions and reconciliations of nonReferences to IFRS hereafter should be construed as references to both IFRS, as adopted GAAP measures to GAAP measures 52 by the EU, and IFRS, as issued by the IASB.
Unless otherwise indicated, all financial information contained in this document has been prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Unless otherwise stated in this document, percentage movements refer to organic Governance movements which are non-GAAP financial measures.
For a definition of organic Board of Directors and Company movement and reconciliations of non-GAAP measure to GAAP measures see Secretary 58 page 52.
Share, unless otherwise stated, refers to value share.
Unless otherwise stated in this document, the percentage figures presented are reflective of a Executive Committee 59 year-on-year comparison, namely 2016-2017, only.
Corporate governance report 60 The brand ranking information presented in this report, when comparing information with competitors, reflects data published by sources such as Impact Databank.
Market Report of the Audit Committee 65 data information and competitive set classifications are taken from independent industry sources in the markets in which Diageo operates.
Diageo plc 2017 Directors remuneration report 68 Directors report 88 Diageo plc is incorporated as a public limited company in England and Wales.
Diageo was incorporated as Arthur Guinness Son and Company Limited on 21 October 1886.
The group was formed by the merger of Grand Metropolitan Public Financial statements 90 Limited Company GrandMet and Guinness PLC the Guinness Group in December 1997.
Diageo plcs principal executive office is located at Lakeside Drive, Park Royal, Additional information London NW10 7HQ and its telephone number is 44 0 20 8978 6000. for shareholders 157 Cautionary statement: this document contains forward-looking statements.
For our full cautionary statement, please see on page 159.
