04 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our strategy Our strategy Growth in the spirits category is being driven by To support this, we participate in both beer and population and income growth, and the increasing mainstream spirits selectively where it delivers penetration of spirits in emerging markets.
We organisational scale and distribution reach, allows aim to grow our participation in international consumers to access our brands at affordable price premium spirits.
points and to shape responsible drinking trends in markets where international premium spirits is an Our strategy is to support premiumisation emerging category.
in developed markets and increase our spirits participation in emerging markets through Our broad portfolio means we have leading categories that give us access to the growing positions across many of our markets, enabling middle class consumer.
us to serve consumer occasions with our brands, across price points.
Everywhere we operate, we do so in a responsible and sustainable way.
Our strategy is delivered through Six executional priorities Keep premium core vibrant Drive innovation at scale Our premium core brands account for roughly two thirds We build on our existing brands, fulfil new consumer of Diageos net sales.
Ensuring we have a vibrant premium occasions and create the brands of tomorrow with a focus core is therefore critical to our overall performance.
Increase participation in Build an advantaged route to consumer mainstream spirits Consumers are at the heart of our business: using insights Mainstream spirits is a sizeable and growing opportunity.
we ensure we understand where we invest our resources We have rapidly invested in mainstream spirits and now and that our brands show up consistently.
have a strong foundation from which to drive growth.
Continue to win in reserve Embed productivity to drive out costs We build our reserve brands by ensuring they are available and invest in growth in the most influential accounts and build their reputation We are focused on everyday efficiency, effectiveness with the bartenders and consumers who set trends.
and agility to reduce costs and create fuel for our growth.
Our strategy in action pages 16 & 17.
Our sustainability and responsibility priorities and our commitment to governance and ethics Creating a positive role for alcohol in society Reducing our environmental impact We are committed to alcohol playing a positive role in society We are dependent on the natural resources we share with our work to tackle alcohol misuse alongside the industry.
with the communities around us, and with the wider world.
We remain focused on delivering the five Global Producers We are working to reduce our impact in the areas of water, i Commitments and our own stretching 2020 targets.
i For more information on the Beer, Wine and Spirits Producers Commitments, visit www.
Highest standards of governance and ethics We are constantly looking for ways to strengthen our Building thriving communities culture of integrity to help our people make the right We want to continue to make Diageo a great, safe and choices.
For example, within 30 days of joining, all diverse place to work for our people.
We want to build employees complete our Code of Business Conduct sustainable supply chains and create programmes that training, which sets out our commitment to conducting empower communities and individuals and increase their business in accordance with the laws and regulations to access to opportunity.
which our activities are subject, in a way that brings to life our purpose and values.
Our strategy in action page 18.
Strategic report Our strategy DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 05 We measure progress against our strategy using the following financial and non-financial indicators Outcomes of our strategy 1 Organic net sales growth 1 Organic operating margin improvement 1 Earnings per share before exceptional items 1 Free cash flow 1 Efficient growth 2 Return on average invested capital 2 Consistent value creation 2 Total shareholder return 3 Credibility and trust Reach and impact of responsible 3 4 drinking programmes 4 Motivated people 3 4 Health and safety 1 3 Water efficiency 1 3 Carbon emissions 3 4 Employee engagement index See our key performance indicators KPIs on pages 8 & 9
