16 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our strategy in action Continue to win in reserve: Our strategy in action Europe Great Britain GB Here we share a selection of case studies that demonstrate how we are putting our strategy into action at a market and global level.
The case studies also show how our approach to sustainability and responsibility supports everything we do.
Keep premium core vibrant: Mexico Actuando Mejor Model Cities aims to Making Johnnie Walker improve the ways in which alcohol is sold and the most iconic spirits consumed in Mexico.
It has reached more than 118 million people through campaigns, training brand in Mexico and law enforcement to reduce underage Our vision for Johnnie Walker in Mexico is drinking, binge drinking and drink driving.
to become the most iconic spirits brand.
Recently, Actuando Mejor has focused on To help achieve this, in 2017 we launched reducing underage drinking by training people Crocs success has been built on a deep understanding of how and when consumers want to celebrate.
Keep Walking Mexico, a vibrant campaign who sell alcohol and partnering with the aimed at recruiting a new generation of Education Ministry of Queretaro to provide millennial legal purchase age consumers.
information to students about the dangers of Croc Great Britains Keep Walking Mexico taps into an underage drinking, and how to make healthy leading luxury vodka increasing wave of national pride, reaching lifestyle choices.
Police officers in 113 cities have the consumers, through digital, TV, out received training through the programme to proves influence is key of home advertising and social media.
Winning in reserve is essential to deliver We have also launched the Johnnie Walker our strategy.
Croc is one of the exceptional Red Hour to support the campaign spirits brands that sits within our reserve on-trade, and off-trade we are reaching portfolio, and while performance in the those millennial consumers through music United States, its core market, has been festivals and Formula 1.
Across the scotch challenging, we have continued to focus on portfolio in Mexico net sales were up 17%, the opportunity for expansion across the rest driven by strong performance across price of the world, and a great example of this tiers and brands.
Our scotch growth in Mexico comes Croc became the number one ultra alongside one of our most impactful Keep Walking Mexico advertisement premium vodka in GB by volume in 2016, and programmes to support responsible drinking.
at Antara Fashion Hall, Mexico.
has continued to gain share in 2017.
Its success has been built on a deep understanding of Increase participation in mainstream spirits: Africa Regional Markets Cameroon how and where consumers want to enjoy luxury celebrations.
Through partnering 60% of the country through 37 local distributors.
with an influential selection of nightclubs and The Cube bringing Diageo has a proud history in Cameroon.
venues in cities across GB, Croc has captured mainstream spirits to Our Guinness brewery in Douala has been the celebration occasions with consumers part of the community since 1969, and our and created a halo effect that has filtered consumers in Cameroon presence extends beyond our brands and into growth in the on and off-trade.
In February, we launched the Cube, our production.
Our Water of Life programme More broadly, ambassadors in the form stand alone bottling facility in Douala, has connected 900,000 people across the of our Learning for Life graduates also play a Cameroon.
This has enabled us to bring country to clean water since 2008.
We aim key role in our responsible drinking strategy accessible and affordable mainstream spirits to source 70% of raw materials locally by and 2017 saw another successful cohort of to consumers in Cameroon for the first time.
2020 and have reached 15,000 people with graduates.
The programme helps prepare Local production is key to achieving our our responsible alcohol use programmes.
young adults to find and succeed in jobs in strategy to grow mainstream spirits and hospitality and bartending through practical shape the beverage alcohol market in training and coaching.
Learning for Life Cameroon and Africa.
Through the Cube, training always includes our DRINKiQ.
com Cameroon is the first country in Africa alcohol awareness module, which helps to bottle Black & White Scotch whisky, graduates play their part in reducing harmful a brand that has strong local appeal.
More than 900 people have To support the launch of Black & White in graduated from 80 courses, and Learning for Cameroon, the team leveraged our existing Life helped Diageo win the British Institute of beer platform and route to consumer to bring Innkeepings Training Company of the Year Cameroon is the first country in Africa to bottle the product to market quickly, covering about Black & White Scotch whisky.
Strategic report Our strategy in action DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 17 Drive innovation at scale: US Spirits Build an advantaged route to consumer: India and the introduction of a new regulation Innovations driving prohibiting the sale of alcohol near highways.
success of North American Despite these challenges, we have remained focused on capturing the consumer whisk e y opportunity.
Our Perfect Stores programme In the autumn of 2014, we launched Crown is aimed at winning at the point of purchase.
Royal Regal Apple, which became the fastest So far we have transformed about 20,000 spirits variant to reach one million cases ever, stores to Perfect Stores across India.
To in the United States US.
Two years later, on achieve this, we set a clear set of executional the back of this success we launched Crown standards and worked with retailers to focus Perfect Stores account for a third of outlets across India.
Vanilla is one of the most on the right visibility, share of shelf and recognisable flavours in the world and we merchandising.
Perfect Stores expect it to bring even more interest to the As always, Diageo is committed to transforming the consumer Crown Royal brand.
These innovations have reducing harmful drinking.
This year, we resulted in increased awareness and trial as continued to build on our Road to Safety experience in India well as bringing new millennial, female and programme, which has been running for the multicultural consumers to the brand.
We want consumers to enjoy every aspect past three years and has covered 15 states Crown Royal is not the only success story of our great brands starting with their and 50 cities in India.
The programme has purchasing experience.
We do this by among our North American whiskies.
Bulleit trained 4,000 police officials on traffic improving the ways we reach consumers, is the hottest bourbon in the US, growing regulations, enforcement of drink driving faster than the category.
To support this ensuring our brands are available and offences and the correct usage of breath growth, in March 2017 we opened a new presenting our products at their best alcohol analysers and educated 6,000 drivers what we call route to consumer.
This is a key Bulleit distillery in Shelbyville, Kentucky that of commercial vehicles on the dangers of will produce 1.8 million proof gallons a year.
element to achieving our ambition in India, drink driving.
In March 2017, we held the first The new state of the art distillery features the where we are treating every store and every ever Diageo Young India Summit on Road first industrial solar array in Shelby County, bar as an opportunity to showcase our brands.
Safety at Delhi University in partnership with This year, we faced a number of which will collect enough energy to run all ENACTUS, a global network of students, on-site mobile equipment and a bio pond headwinds in India including demonetisation academics and business leaders.
that will act as a natural filtration system for rainwater.
Embed productivity to drive out costs and invest in growth: Global best practice manufacturing processes across our supply footprint, improving sourcing strategies, optimising our logistics footprint and breaking down and assessing the cost of goods.
To assess the cost of goods, we have developed a codified analytical framework that ensures product cost and formats are competitive and that we are aware of the cost and value trade-offs we are making in every aspect of our product and packaging design.
The relaunched Johnnie Walker Aged 18 Years.
In 2016, the Johnnie Walker Platinum bottle and packaging were among the first International Supply to go through our new tramlining process.
Driving out cost to We discovered that a lot of the cost drivers were coming from the packaging and that reinvest in growth by addressing these we would be able to In July 2015, we announced our productivity deliver multi-million pound savings, while programme across Diageo focusing on every not compromising on the premium design day efficiency to drive out cost across our of the bottle and packaging.
In March 2017, business and invest in future growth.
We we relaunched Johnnie Walker Platinum, have made great progress against this and with a new name, Johnnie Walker Aged 18 Years, and sophisticated new packaging.
in July 2017 announced that we raised our productivity goal to 700 million in savings Our productivity programme provides and 175bps in operating margin over the the fuel to grow our business.
In 2017, we three years ending 30 June 2019.
Our started to reinvest our savings in the United States, increasing our marketing spend in productivity programme has five key focus areas, one of which is global supply.
We have the second half and in F18 we will continue Crown Royal Vanilla launched in the autumn of 2016. been focused on developing and rolling out to reinvest in the US and in scotch.
18 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our strategy in action Creating a positive role for alcohol in society: global Reducing our environmental impact: India Preventing drink driving, Using renewable promoting good decisions energy to drive climate Drink driving is never the right decision change action and, as a business committed to helping people make good decisions, were taking Solar power and the use of agricultural action to prevent it.
by-products as biomass fuel are transforming The fall in alcohol-related traffic deaths the carbon footprint of USL in India and in developed countries over the past decade helping us meet our global commitment supports our conviction that improving to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions.
awareness and consistent enforcement of New solar panels at our Baramati and legal blood alcohol limits are the most Nasik sites in Maharashtra, installed and effective ways to stop drink driving.
operational within three months of initial We have been working with governments, planning, are now producing 1.2 megawatts police, NGOs and other community of energy enough to supply around stakeholders for many years.
In 2016, thanks 20% of the sites electricity needs.
At the to our track record in this field, UNITAR United same time, we have adapted boilers at our Nations Institute for Training and Research Aurangabad Distillery that previously burnt chose Diageo as their partner for a two-year coal so that we can use some of the biomass initiative to improve road safety globally.
materials left over by farmers and our But a single death anywhere caused by Johnnie Walkers Join The Pact campaign encouraging processes, including bagasse, rice husks drink driving is one too many.
There is much consumers never to drink and drive.
more to be done to extend and build on Through these initiatives, we have effective programmes until drink driving has reached more than 40 countries, with reduced carbon emissions overall at USL by fatalities are eliminated globally.
3.1 million people making the commitment 20,000 tonnes, or around 30%, compared We are working on this in many ways.
We have also reduced waste For example, we support training and As part of an industry group, we helped to landfill by 50%, by eliminating ash from enforcement initiatives for police officers the Dominican Republic formulate its first burning coal, and reduced the cost of through programmes such as Road to Safety ever laws on blood alcohol limits in 2017 producing steam by 3 per tonne or 20%.
in India, Twa Kwano Mmom in Ghana, and we have even taken our commitment and our partnership with traffic police into virtual reality.
This year we launched a in Thailand.
We also support brand-led hard-hitting virtual reality simulation that puts Highest standards of governance responsible drinking campaigns like Johnnie the viewer in the middle of a drink driving and ethics: Africa Regional Markets Walkers Join The Pact.
The programme tragedy as part of our DRINKiQ campaign.
Cameroon Addressing human rights Building thriving communities: Africa Regional Markets Ethiopia and security challenges in of local communities and stakeholders.
Transforming farming our complex environments This helps Diageo to work intelligently and communities in Ethiopia responsibly to empower farmers and their We use private security personnel at our families all over the world.
Since 2013, we have been improving the Guinness operation in Cameroon.
Although income and wellbeing of Ethiopian farming they had been trained to operate in line communities through our Sourcing for with our Code of Business Conduct and Growth S4G programme.
With more than human rights policy, a confidential SpeakUp 6,000 farmers now growing and selling report identified that staff were unable barley for our brewery, we are building a to take annual leave and were working reliable local barley supply for the good unacceptably long hours.
This is in direct of everyone.
This gives communities a more robust We expect our suppliers to promote economy and better food security.
It is the principles of our Code within their own making a real difference in peoples organisations and throughout their own everyday lives with many families feeling supply chain, and to be able to verify this.
more financially stable and enjoying better Disciplinary action was taken against the relationships and welfare 2016 impact security firm for breach of contract, while study.
And S4G is giving our brewery a supplementary training provided for line reliable, sustainable ingredient supply that managers and senior leaders at the location helps minimise its environmental impact.
now ensures security personnel operate Programmes like this also help us to within the global policies and procedures We are supporting Ethiopian farming communities understand the intricacies and challenges through our Sourcing for Growth programme.
they are expected to follow.
