e t a W v o e n s e n i l l e W 02 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our business model Our business model Diageo is a global leader in beverage alcohol We do this by identifying and executing against with iconic brands across spirits and beer.
We truly the most valuable growth opportunities, using our understand the consumer and have world-class global expertise to supply our brands efficiently and marketing and innovation skills to build powerful effectively, and sourcing and producing locally where brands that play a positive role in society.
Our organisation is structured into a market-based We aim to deliver returns for shareholders, while business model, applying country-specific strategies creating value for our customers and employees.
to meet consumer and customer needs.
In everything we do, we set out to make a positive contribution to society.
Our business model enables us to identify and act on consumer trends early and deliver sustainable performance.
Global leader Values Passionate about customers and consumers: be the best: freedom to succeed: proud of what Strength through global reach we do: valuing each other.
and iconic brands Broad portfolio We build global brands alongside local stars.
These brands Across categories, brands and price points.
Our markets have broad consumer appeal across geographies to meet draw on a portfolio of global and local brands to best meet their consumer and customer needs.
demand now and in the future.
Global reach We produce We innovate 180 countries: we have a leading position in We are committed to efficient, Led by consumer insights, we the geographies that will generate most of the sustainable production to the unlock new opportunities medium-term industry growth and have broad reach in key markets, the United States and Europe.
through our recruit, re-recruit, disrupt approach.
Our role in society Passionate about ensuring alcohol plays a positive We market We sell role in society.
Increasing access to opportunity to We invest in world-class We work to extend our sales support thriving communities and reducing our marketing to build our brands, reach by ensuring our products environmental impact.
focused on programmes are available where people want which recruit and re-recruit them and by delivering Financial strength consumers responsibly.
memorable consumer Strong financial returns and consistent experiences.
Efficient supply and procurement Doing business the right way High-quality manufacturing and environmental standards.
For us, standards are everything, from how we produce and market our brands, to how we innovate and sell, and Brilliant execution in governance and ethics as set out in our Code of Cutting-edge consumer insights and marketing, scalable innovation, and valuable winning Business Conduct.
relationships with our customers through distribution and sales.
Value creation: shareholder value: investment in W e e c u m d a o r r k p e e t W Strategic report e t a W v o e n s e n i l l e W e s o p Our business model DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2017 03 Key highlights Brands Employees 200 30,400 Production sites Countries 143 180 Agile business model Market-based Consumer insights: Our in-market teams are able to identify trends more accurately and quickly, delivering more locally relevant solutions.
Portfolio strategy: We have the flexibility to select the best portfolio of brands to capture the unique consumer opportunity in each market, and then to invest directly against the most valuable growth opportunities.
Supply resources: Our markets are designated as import markets: import and third party production markets: or import and local-owned production markets.
Celebrating life, Global functions every day, Our markets are supported by a global structure everywhere and shared services designed to drive efficiency, share best practice, impart knowledge and help build capability at a local level, as well as set the standards for governance of controls, compliance and ethics.
Our people We want all our employees around the world to reach their full potential and play their part in the success of our business.
To achieve this we have created a diverse and inclusive culture, with shared values and a common purpose.
the business: customer, employee and social value.
