Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT AND POLICY continued Key elements of remuneration Recovery or Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics withholding All-employee share schemes All employees including Executive The SIP is a flexible, tax-efficient, all-employee plan.
Partnership, Free, Dividend and Matching HMRC or non-UK No performance metrics apply to this benefit.
No recovery or Directors are encouraged to shares may be granted under the SIP.
plan equivalent limits withholding applies to become shareholders through the will apply to any this benefit.
If other HMRC-approved all-employee plans are introduced, they will operate in operation of an HMRC-approved all-employee schemes accordance with HMRC guidance and limits.
share-incentive plan SIP and or such that may be introduced.
other all-employee share plans as the Similar non-UK plans may be operated to enable non-UK employees and Directors to participate.
This currently constitutes Company may adopt in the future.
a small proportion of Executive Directors total remuneration.
Share ownership policy This aligns the interests of A share ownership policy was introduced from the financial year ended 31 May 2014. management and shareholders and Under this policy, the Chief Executive Officer is required to build a holding of shares to the promotes a long-term approach to value of a minimum of 200% of base salary, and for other Executive Directors a requirement performance and risk management.
of 150% of base salary applies.
Only vested shares forming part of the Directors share interests and shares purchased by the Director out of his own funds are included in the guideline, which, unless there are exceptional circumstances approved by the Committee, must be achieved within five years from the date of appointment.
The Committee will review progress annually, with an expectation that Executive Directors will make progress towards achieving the shareholding policy each year.
Sustained performance plan SPP Approved by shareholders at the We are initially operating the SPP by reference to five consecutive plan years.
The first plan The maximum plan The quantum of any awards granted is dependent on performance against the The Committee may year was the financial year which ended 31 May 2014.
2013 AGM, the SPP provides a single contribution in respect targets set by the Committee for each relevant financial year.
decide within three years incentive plan for Executive Directors of a plan year is an of a plan contribution Performance targets may comprise, for example, diluted earnings per share Awards of shares either in the form of par value options, nil cost options or conditional awards, rather than having separate annual award of shares with a that the underlying known as plan contributions are made after the announcement of results relating to each DEPS targets, Total Shareholder Return TSR and non-financial measures.
market value of no more award will be subject plan year.
Performance is measured over single plan years financial years except for TSR than 500% and 400% of to clawback.
This may from plan year 2 awards in respect of financial year ending 31 May 2015.
We It provides a simple and competitive Plan contributions are granted by reference to achievement against applicable performance an annual rate of salary happen where there currently intend to apply the following performance criteria: incentive mechanism that encourages targets and accumulate within a participants plan account.
for the Chief Executive has been a material DEPS a sliding scale of targets will apply for each plan year.
The targets and rewards both annual and Each year, a percentage of the accumulated balance in the plan account vests ie options or and Chief Financial misstatement in the will be set at the start of each plan year.
Targets and performance will be sustained long-term performance, awards are released to participants.
Companys financial disclosed retrospectively in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the linked to the Companys results or an error in relevant financial year-end Therefore, a participants plan account will comprise the sum of the plan contribution if any strategic objectives.
assessing any applicable being made in relation to the relevant plan year plus the accumulated awards registered in the Relative TSR the Companys share price plus dividends reinvested performance condition.
The SPP encapsulates traditional plan account from previous plan years.
performance is measured against an appropriate comparator group.
For It may also be triggered annual bonus and long-term incentive the first plan year, performance was based on that plan year alone: for the In the first five plan years, a participants plan account vests as follows: if there has been plans.
It is entirely share-based, second plan year, performance was based on plan years 1 and 2.
For plan years thereafter performance is measured over three plan years ending with substantial failure of risk encouraging executives to build up Following Financial year ending % of cumulative shares in plan account vesting the plan year being reported on.
The Committee retains the discretion to management, or if the a substantial stake in the Company, Plan year 1 31 May 2014 40.0% scale back the level of award if it feels the Companys underlying financial participants employment thereby aligning the interests of performance does not warrant the level of award resulting from TSR Plan year 2 31 May 2015 40.0% is terminated for management with shareholders.
Plan year 3 31 May 2016 33.3% Non-financial these may comprise strategic goals, operational and client The clawback may be Plan year 4 31 May 2017 33.3% satisfaction measures for each plan year.
Targets and performance will be satisfied by a reduction disclosed retrospectively Plan year 5 31 May 2018 33.3% in the amount of any Where possible, a sliding scale of targets will be set.
For the DEPS and relative subsisting plan account, If the SPP is closed following plan year 5, unvested awards remaining in the plan account will TSR measures, no more than 25% will be payable for achieving threshold a reduction in the vest in tranches of 50%, 25% and 25% on the first, second and third anniversaries of the SPPs performance, rising to full pay-out for achieving a more challenging target.
vesting of any subsisting closure.
The same principles will apply on a later termination of the plan.
vested awards or future The scorecard of financial, share price and non-financial metrics may Participants may receive a payment at the time of delivery of vested shares of an amount share awards and or a vary from year to year in accordance with strategic priorities and the equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on those shares while in the plan account requirement to make regulatory environment.
This amount may assume dividend reinvestment.
At the time of determining the contribution for plan year 5, in the event that the will not accrue on vested but unexercised awards.
Committee feels the Companys underlying financial performance over the first five plan years has not been satisfactory, the Committee may scale back the final balance of the plan account.
| | 66 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 67
