Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements BOARD GOVERNANCE continued Received regular updates on corporate governance The Chairman of each Board Committee reports to the Board on the matters discussed at Committee meetings.
The minutes of each Business, operational highlights and current trading developments and approved relevant governance Committee meeting are made available to all Directors.
Reports from the Chairman of each Board Committee, including information on the Regularly received updates on business progress and the issues documentation including in relation to the implementation of the and challenges faced by management through CEO reports and Committees composition and activities in the year, can be found in the sections relating to each Committee within this Annual Report.
Market Abuse Regulations monthly management information packs Received regular updates on the Groups approach and response Received reports on matters of interest such as latency, to regulation and several local regulatory consultations limited risk accounts, cyber security and IT development and Succession planning and appointments to EFFECTIVENESS location strategy the Board Financial performance Board composition The Board uses succession planning to ensure that Executives with Reviewed the financial performance of the Group and approved Quarterly forecast and budget the necessary skills, knowledge and expertise are in place to deliver The Boards size and the skills and experience of its members have a all financial results announcements and the Annual Report with Received updates on performance against the prior year, budget our strategy, and that it has the right balance of individuals to be significant impact on its effectiveness.
It aims to maintain a balance the respective Financial Statements and dividends and market analyst consensus able to discharge its responsibilities.
The Board regularly reviews its in terms of experience and skills of individual Board members.
Reviewed a four-year forecast Discussed the risks and opportunities for the FY17 budget and composition to keep it constantly refreshed.
Any searches for Board These factors are regularly reviewed to ensure that the Board has approved the FY18 budget candidates, and appointments made, are based on merit against the right mix of skills and experience for constructive discussion Other objective criteria.
and, ultimately, effective Board decisions.
Received regular reports from Board Committee Chairs Governance, risk and regulation The breadth of skills and experience currently on the Board includes The Nomination Committee has specific responsibility for the Evaluated the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and Discussed the results of the employee engagement survey experience in a number of key areas such as financial services, appointment of Non-Executive and Executive Directors and it internal control systems, reviewed and approved the Groups Agreed the renewal of the Groups revolving credit facility finance and accountancy, strategy, government and regulatory, Risk Appetite Statement and key regulatory documents including recommends new appointments to the Board.
It regularly reviews marketing, risk management and regulatory liaison, technology the Individual Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP, Reviewed the Groups crisis-management response the structure, size and composition required of the Board and makes and digital.
Certain Non-Executive Directors currently undertake the Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment ILAA documents recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
More information Undertook a review of and agreed the forward-looking and the Groups Recovery Plan RP executive roles outside of IG.
on the work of the Committee can be found in the report of the market-reporting strategy Received regular reports on key compliance issues identified Nomination Committee on pages 60 and 61.
The Board as a whole There is an appropriate combination of Executive Directors and Received an update on the Groups people strategy, culture, during the year including reviews of conduct risk and culture risk is also involved in overseeing the development of management Non-Executive Directors such that no individual or small group of aims and values resources across the Group.
individuals can dominate the Boards decision-making.
Undertook an external evaluation of its effectiveness and the effectiveness of each Board Committee and individual Directors Board tenure as at the date of this report Director independence The Company is and continues to be fully compliant with the UK Tenure Board Committees Corporate Governance Code, which requires that at least half of the 0-3 years Certain governance responsibilities have been delegated by the Board to Board Committees to ensure that there is independent oversight Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive of internal control and risk management and to assist the Board with carrying out its responsibilities.
These Board Committees comprise Directors who are determined by the Board to be independent.
3-6 years independent Non-Executive Directors and, in some cases, the Chairman.
Each Committee has agreed terms of reference approved by the Executive Directors Over 6 years The independence of the Non-Executive Directors is considered by Board, which are available on our corporate website, iggroup.
the Board and reviewed on an annual basis, as part of the Board A brief description of the roles of each Committee is set out below.
The Board considers factors such as length of tenure and relationships or circumstances, which are likely to affect or appear to affect the Directors judgment in determining whether they remain independent.
Following this years review, the Audit Committee Board Risk Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Board concluded that all of the Non-Executive Directors continue to remain independent in character and judgment and are free from Responsible for the integrity Responsible for providing Responsible for reviewing Responsible for making Non-Executive Directors any business or other relationships that could materially affect the of the Financial Statements oversight and advice to the the composition of recommendations exercise of their judgment.
of the Group, including its Board in relation to current the Board and Board to the Board on the annual and interim reports and future risk exposures of Committees to ensure Groups senior executive the Group and promoting that they are appropriately remuneration policy Conflicts of interest Reviews and recommends a risk-awareness culture balanced in terms of Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they to the Board the Reviews and recommends within the Group diversity, knowledge, skills may have interests that conflict with those of the Company, unless effectiveness of the Groups to the Board the Groups and experience Internal Audit function Recommends to the remuneration policy that conflict is first authorised by the Board.
Directors are required and risk management Board the design and Reviews and recommends which is consistent with to disclose both the nature and extent of any potential or actual system, annual internal implementation of risk to the Board effective risk management, conflicts with the interests of the Company.
audit plan, appointment, management policy and appointments to the the framework for the In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles re-appointment measurement strategies Board and to other senior remuneration of the and removal of the across the Group, the management positions Companys Chairman and of Association allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts that external auditors Groups risk profile, risk Executive Directors and all may arise, and to impose such conditions or limitations as it sees fit.
Conducted succession appetite and key risk share-based awards under During the year, potential conflicts were considered and assessed Responsible for monitoring planning reviews at Board indicators for the current the Groups Employee by the Board and approved where appropriate.
the effectiveness of the level for recommendation and future strategy Share Incentive Scheme control environment to the Board relating to the management Reviews and recommends Monitors developments and safeguarding of client to the Board the adoption in remuneration and money and assets of key risk-related reward practice to documents, including the ensure the Groups Reviews the management ILAA, ICAAP and RP policies take account of and control framework for stakeholder expectations the governance, operation Commissioned thematic risk and maintenance of the reviews relating to key risks Groups legal entities | | 54 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 55 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements BOARD GOVERNANCE continued All Board members and the Company Secretary completed Induction Information provided to the Board web-based surveys addressing the performance of the Board and Following appointment, each Director receives a comprehensive and formal induction to familiarise them with their duties and the The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board receives its Committees, the Chairman and individual Directors.
Lintstock Companys business operations, risk and governance arrangements.
The induction programme, which is co-ordinated with the help of accurate, timely and clear information to enable it to make subsequently produced a report of its findings, which were the Company Secretary, includes briefings on industry and regulatory matters relating to the Company, as well as meetings with senior appropriate challenges, to encourage debate and to ensure its discussed with the Chairman and subsequently with the Board.
management in key areas of the business, such as compliance, legal, IT, human resources, finance, risk, marketing and investor relations.
These are supplemented by induction materials such as recent Board papers and minutes, organisation structure charts, history of the Overall, the results indicate that the Board is operating effectively, The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in ensuring Group, governance matters and relevant company policies.
Newly appointed Directors also meet the Companys external auditor, brokers with a number of areas rated positively.
Progress has been made appropriate and timely information flows to and from the Board and and advisers, and attend a presentation led by Linklaters on the roles and responsibilities of a UK-listed company director.
with all development areas identified in 2016, including: its Committees.
Inductions are tailored to each Directors individual experience, background and areas of focus.
Paul Mainwarings induction programme on Improvements to the consistency of papers provided to All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company the Board joining the Board in 2016 covered those aspects set out below.
Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board Succession planning procedures are followed and compliance with applicable laws and Briefing on Group history and management structure Company structure, history, Improvements in the process for strategic reviews regulations is observed.
strategy and business Group strategy including opportunities and threats Developing and embedding the people strategy The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in setting the Strategy and Business Model including peer comparison and what could break Board agenda, and Board papers are distributed to all Directors Continuing to manage and enhance our understanding and the business in advance of Board meetings via a secure electronic system.
The management of cyber threats Company Secretary is also responsible for advising the Board, Material business lines and markets, including international markets Ensuring our risk timetable and risk processes are driven through the Chairman, on all corporate governance matters.
holistically and reviewed in an efficient and timely manner Growth trajectory, strengths, challenges and future plans Directors receive financial and risk information on the Company The main areas agreed by the Board for development in the coming on a regular basis, and they receive briefings from the Board and Board Committee Terms of Reference year are: Governance and regulatory Chief Executive Officer and other executive officers, in the periods Board and Committee procedures Continuing to progress succession-planning at Board level and at between meetings.
senior management level Share dealing and market abuse responsibilities Re-election of Directors Using optional Board training information sessions to free the Listing obligation for Directors Boards time for more strategic discussion The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that all directors Regulatory framework and proposals impacting the business of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election by Creating an enhanced programme for Board interaction with shareholders.
Each Director and the Board as a whole underwent management below Executive Committee level Key responsibilities for regulated activities and financial crime issues and challenges a performance evaluation during the course of the year.
Following Ensuring the Board increases its focus on strategic discussion by this, all Directors will stand for re-election at the AGM.
Market risk, credit risk, operational risk, remuneration risk and other key risks Risk management, capital managing the flow of information to the Board and priorities and liquidity Revisiting our Incubator Governance Framework to ensure it Board evaluation Risk appetite and assessment of its effectiveness remains fit for purpose Each year, an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board Key current aspects of the liquidity regime and regulatory expectations We will report on actions taken and progress made in next years is conducted.
The evaluation includes an assessment of the Annual Report.
effectiveness of Board Committees and individual Directors.
In Stress-testing including reverse stress-testing for capital and liquidity 2017, an external evaluation was carried out by Lintstock Limited Led by Malcolm Le May, the Senior Independent Director, a review as the final part of a three-year programme that began in 2015.
IGs various products, markets in which clients can trade Products, finance, marketing of the Chairmans performance was carried out by the Board.
The Lintstock has no other connection with the Company.
and shareholder engagement performance of the Chairman was discussed without the Chairman Business plan, standalone and consolidated Balance Sheets, budgeting process and This year the programme was enhanced by including one-to-one present, following which the Senior Independent Director and financial projections interviews between Board members and Lintstock.
Chairman met to discuss the review findings.
Overview of marketing plans and marketing budgets As part of the review, it was agreed to give additional focus to areas The evaluation of the performance and contribution of each Overview of the share register and key institutional shareholders identified following the 2016 review and areas that had emerged Director was conducted with reference to a self-performance review during the 2017 financial year, including: questionnaire completed by each Director.
This was then discussed Current and future strategic projects IT, HR and remuneration at sessions between each Director and the Chairman.
Embedding risk management within the Key strategies to mitigate personnel risk and reduce staff turnover organisational framework The reviews concluded that each Director continues to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to the role.
The effectiveness of the operational control framework as the Group becomes increasingly geographically diverse Ongoing professional development Time commitment Managing strategic development in the face of In order to facilitate greater awareness and understanding of the Groups business and the environment in which it operates, all Directors Following the Board evaluation process detailed above, the Board regulatory headwinds are given regular updates on changes and developments in the business.
is satisfied that each of the Directors is able to allocate sufficient Succession planning and organisational development at Board time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Training opportunities are provided through internal meetings, workshops, presentations and briefings by internal advisers and business and senior management level Externally, while there have been changes to the Chairmans heads, as well as external advisers.
The Company Secretary updates the Board on any relevant legislative, regulatory and governance The first stage of the review involved Lintstock engaging with external appointments, there has been no overall increase in the changes on a regular basis.
the Chairman and the Company Secretary to set the context level of significant commitments of the Chairman during the year The Directors meet with global country heads in order to receive further insights into the operations of the business in the jurisdictions for the evaluation, and to tailor the surveys used to the specific which would impact the time he has to fulfil the role.
circumstances of IG Group, while ensuring consistent questioning to facilitate ongoing analysis of performance improvement.
During the year, the Directors attended briefing sessions on information security, regulatory developments, Brexit Euro response, competition law, operational risk and risk appetite.
The Chairman ensures that the Directors continually update and refresh their skills and knowledge, and independent professional advice is provided when required, at the Companys expense.
| | 56 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 57
