Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW continued Securities and Markets Association ESMA and shared its concerns caveat that any mandated leverage caps should aim solely to In the Companys experience, when tighter regulation has been Leading the way about the divergence of regulation across the EU.
resolve the probability issue, IG fully supports this development applied appropriately, client outcomes have improved, the industry IG takes its leadership position in the industry extremely seriously has become more sustainable, and more compliant providers have and constantly assesses its self-imposed restrictions and controls, Consultations in France and Germany have been finalised, and the benefitted over the longer term.
Potential regulatory impact and actions which ensure access to complex financial products is only provided outcome of a requirement to provide an account which limits the to clients for whom they are appropriate.
Just after the end of being taken downside for clients fits with the leadership position IG took last Outlook the financial year, the Company carried out a full review of its year and enhances IGs competitive position in these countries.
The IGs UK and EU OTC leveraged revenue last year of 330 million onboarding criteria and process.
As a result of this, IG altered IG will continue to lead the way in the industry with respect to results of the consultations in The Netherlands and Ireland have not included 78 million from products and clients for which it is various elements, including raising its self-imposed wealth hurdles how it markets its services, how it deals with clients, and through yet been announced.
anticipated any regulatory impact would be minimal equities and its minimum deposit.
IG has also created and rolled out the products and levels of client service it offers.
IG believes in trading, where leverage levels are low, corporate clients and In December 2016, in the UK, the FCA announced its intention to globally a new appropriateness test, which means that prospective doing the right thing, rather than simply complying with minimum non-resident clients.
Therefore, around half of Group revenue will enhance conduct of business rules for firms providing contract for clients who were previously allowed to proceed at their own risk regulatory requirements.
The Company is taking measures to be unaffected by the proposals being discussed by regulators difference products to retail clients, and detailed a very specific set can no longer have a leveraged account with IG unless they can further differentiate itself within its core OTC leveraged derivatives across the EU.
Following an announcement by ESMA in June 2017, demonstrate that they understand the potential risks and rewards of trading environment, and will continue to improve the transparency the FCA decided to delay making final rules until ESMA finalises its A potentially significant mitigating factor to the impact of any such an account.
This is a clear example of IG doing the right thing of its products, and extend its geographic footprint in order to discussions.
ESMA announced it is in the process of discussing the regulatory restrictions on retail clients, would be qualifying clients to ensure fair client outcomes and going beyond what is demanded maintain and extend its competitive advantage.
The recent product possible use of its product intervention powers under Article 40 of electing to take on a professional status in order to continue to by regulation.
As a result of these actions, the Company expects to extension into share dealing and investments sets IG further apart MiFIR, the possible content of any such measures, and how they trade as before.
To qualify, a client must pass two of the three tests recruit fewer clients, of greater average value, and so may see a fall from the competition and extends the loyalty of the current could be applied.
Measures being discussed include leverage limits, defined under MiFID: sufficient trading experience, a substantial in simple measures of market share.
guaranteed limits on client losses, and restrictions on the marketing investment portfolio, relevant occupational experience.
As None of the recently announced regulatory changes have adversely and distribution of these products.
has always been the case, the Companys revenue is relatively Regulation impacted the business to date, and the current year has started well.
concentrated towards the most active end of the client base.
In The Company believes a common set of regulations across the EU The retail leveraged trading industry is under scrutiny globally, The nature and timing of potential regulatory changes in the UK and the last year, 80% of the Groups revenue excluding the US was provides a greater chance of successfully protecting consumers with particular emphasis currently in the UK and Europe.
This new some other key markets for the Group remain uncertain, and it is generated by less than 9% of clients.
The vast majority of IGs top against poor behaviour in the industry.
Any inconsistency in the level of scrutiny is overdue and IG believes that a well thought therefore difficult to predict what impact, if any, regulatory change 9% of clients have a recent trading history which would suggest application of regulatory standards in the EU region only creates through update to regulation should be beneficial for clients if may have on the Group this financial year and beyond.
Actions have they should pass the sufficient trading experience test.
In addition, arbitrage opportunities for ill-intentioned providers to take it is proportionate, consistent and properly enforced.
IG has been taken to manage costs, to allow for investments to be made a recent independent survey found that approximately 15% of IGs advantage of less sophisticated consumers.
IG will continue to differentiated itself within the industry through its adherence to in strategic initiatives without a significant increase in the fixed cost clients have a financial instrument portfolio of a sufficient size to engage actively with NCAs and ESMA to seek to establish a set of the highest regulatory standards and its focus on fair outcomes base.
Operating costs excluding variable remuneration in FY18 are pass the second test.
These statistics underline the journey the rules which improve consumer outcomes and protect competition.
However, too many providers have been allowed to expected to remain at a similar level to FY17.
Group has been on for a number of years to focus on serving the enter this industry in recent years, many of which have behaved upper end of the OTC leveraged trading market.
The Company In its engagement to date, IG has provided consistent advice to IG is better placed than most, if not all, providers in the industry to very badly and targeted clients for whom such a product is cannot be sure of the degree of overlap between these groups of individual NCAs and to ESMA.
IG believes the correct response both influence and respond to regulatory change.
The Company will entirely inappropriate.
This has been exacerbated by an influx clients, and it is not possible to determine how many eligible clients needs to be broad and properly enforced.
IG sees five main areas continue to engage fully with regulators, to seek to achieve the best of entirely illegal providers, based in offshore regimes and using would choose to be classified as professional.
where regulators are expressing concern and suggesting the need possible outcomes for current and future clients of this industry, and the uncontrollable nature of the internet to take advantage for remedies: the greatest long-term value for shareholders of the Company.
For clients who would not be able to, or who choose not to, take of unsophisticated or unwary individuals through misleading Marketing.
Regulators are seeking to ensure the product is on professional status, it is not possible to determine how they advertising.
These companies have often provided a single product, marketed only to the correct audience, with an appropriate would respond to regulatory restrictions on their activities.
Overall, the up down binary option, using high-pressure sales practices.
This risk warning, including the probability of trading successfully.
IG clients with open positions are leveraged under ten times.
This combination of poorly regulated and illegal providers has often left This would also outlaw sports sponsorship.
IG fully supports calculation compares client cash on accounts with open positions the impression that the entire industry is at fault and made it very this development to the total size of those notional trading positions and makes no difficult for compliant providers, such as IG, to make their voices allowance for the very different levels of leverage in the various heard.
In order to improve outcomes for clients, the Company Bonus offers.
There is a movement to ban account-opening asset types.
believes it is vital that regulators support and work with companies bonus offers.
IG does not offer these and fully supports like IG to remove or greatly reduce the impact of these illegal and this development Many of the Groups clients, however, currently have excess cash Peter Hetherington the poorly supervised providers.
on their account compared to the trading margin required, and Appropriateness.
There already exists an obligation to assess Chief Executive Officer could choose to continue to trade with less headroom.
Some clients In recent months, IG has been even more active in liaising with whether a product is appropriate for a prospective client.
may choose to increase the cash on their account to maintain their 18 July 2017 regulators to assist them in their efforts to improve outcomes for However, under current MiFID guidance, firms are allowed to headroom.
Other clients may choose to utilise their share portfolio clients across the world.
There are a number of reviews either warn prospective clients that the product is inappropriate but held with IG as collateral.
It is likely that some clients will simply complete or ongoing in countries where IG has either a presence or allow them to proceed to trading.
The ESMA Q&A makes it constrain their trading, or open an account with a less constrained a material degree of business.
clear that a prospective client should not be allowed to proceed provider, although an EU-wide harmonised approach to regulation where the product is deemed inappropriate.
IG does not take on In Australia, the Government and regulator are proceeding to reduces that risk.
inappropriate clients and fully supports this development better protect client money in the way that IG always has and IG has commenced work on developing a multi-lateral trading to provide additional powers of intervention on financial products No-negative protection.
Certain NCAs have mandated only facility MTF to serve the European market.
This on-exchange provided to retail.
IG welcomes both of these measures.
In Dubai offering accounts to retail clients where the client cannot lose offering could provide further protection for IGs business across the regulator, the DFSA, has indicated an intention to alter the more money than they have deposited on their account.
ESMA Europe and increase the opportunity for further growth in this current regime surrounding leveraged products.
IG has assisted has indicated this may form part of its future guidance.
There can be no certainty of success here.
the considerations of the DFSA and the outcomes are expected to already offers this option and fully supports this development be announced in the near future.
The Company does not believe The Group is planning for the UKs exit from the EU, and good Leverage.
There already exists an obligation to act in the best its activities are the subject of regulatory concern and so does not progress is being made in securing regulatory approval for a interests of a client.
Given this, it is already impossible to justify expect the changes to materially impact its operation in Dubai.
subsidiary based in the EU.
The Group is also at the early stages of high levels of leverage where the significance of the transaction exploring further opportunities outside the EU.
In Europe the regulatory situation is complex and in transition.
IG fee can skew the clients probability of success.
IG does not offer is working with National Competent Authorities NCAs in several any products with this characteristic.
However, there is pressure countries and has also been in discussion with the European from certain regulators to explicitly cap leverage levels.
With the | | 18 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 19 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES Objective Progress in 2017 Priorities for 2018 Address the needs of active traders and investors Our goal is to build lasting, valuable relationships with our Successfully launched a new self-directed wealth Continue development of our investments product, including allowing clients to individually configure their portfolios, and consider the management platform to UK investors, with a full clients.
Having previously targeted active traders, who are launch of the product in additional countries ISA and SIPP offering valuable because they tend to deal frequently and in large Support this with an extension of the share dealing platform, improving functionality around dividend reinvestment and a regular sizes, we have now widened our product range in our more Launched and rolled out our market-leading savings mechanism mature markets to appeal additionally to sophisticated and limited risk account, which provides active investors.
These clients select providers who offer downside-protection for clients Take an increasingly analytical approach to client content, providing clients with tailored materials that are delivered at the right time, the best tools and products and the highest standards of on the right platform, in the right format for them Broadened the IG ecosystem through MyIG, integrity to manage their long-term finances.
IG is ideally allowing clients a single portal from which to Provide clients with complete transparency in their trading and investing, through improved analytics positioned to fulfil their needs, and so to enhance client access all their accounts, education, analysis and loyalty and improve retention.
Additional functionality will be continually rolled out through this tool Purchased assets of DailyFX a news, research and analysis website that helps clients and prospects improve their trading knowledge.
With content that is suitable for novice traders through to those with advanced knowledge, it helps people identify trading opportunities and offers education and insight, with direct links to IGs product set Achieve, maintain or extend market leadership Our market leadership in CFDs and spread betting reflects Achieved significant client growth over Extend our leadership position by further improving our application procedure, to ensure only entirely appropriate clients receive the year 7% in leveraged and 203% in the unrivalled service, products and platform technology we accounts with IG non-leveraged trading provide.
We will continue to strengthen our position in these Provide an unrivalled customer experience by leveraging our internal expertise, acting on research and analytics data and making best core products, while also creating competitive innovative Maintained our revenue per trade use of tools such as our customer contact management system offerings in the share dealing and wealth management Delivered strong revenue growth at Nadex fields.
These initiatives will be founded on our existing Extend our availability to clients, moving closer to 24 7 365 26% increase year-on-year strengths cutting-edge technology, transparency, integrity Adapt our offering to enable IG to adjust very quickly to regulatory change and expert client service helping to drive the long-term Introduced a brand new, market-leading trading platform that includes built-in training, analysis profitability of our business.
Continue to expand our share dealing and investments business and insight functionality.
This platform is now Offer clients an ever-increasing range of products in response to their demand, and market opportunities: for example, increasing our used by all spread betting clients who joined IG range of crypto currencies from January 2017.
The transition of other clients is ongoing Introduced improvements to our application process, making it more straightforward for appropriate applicants to become clients.
This work has included enhancements to our document upload capabilities and a refocussing of our sales teams, so applicants are always contacted by a product expert prior to becoming a client Strengthen our global reach We have a mix of more and less mature countries of Achieved significant growth in our new Switzerland Increase opportunities in non-office locations by providing dedicated ownership of target countries and Dubai offices, both of which are performing operation, all of which have room for growth.
Having initially Develop best-in-class websites that boast easy navigation, leading-edge web technology and effective search engine optimisation ahead of our expectations executed our international expansion by establishing a local presence, we are now also seeking to grow our business Maximise the impact of DailyFX to expand IGs brand awareness in retail FX Continued roll-out of localised websites to across borders, without the need for a physical presence, improve client acquisition across diverse territories Assess opportunities to expand into additional countries as regulatory developments allow utilising the strength of our single, global brand, combined Over 35 million of revenue generated from with our expertise in online marketing techniques.
clients based in countries where we do not have an office | | 20 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 21
