Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements RISK MANAGEMENT AND VIABILITY STATEMENT continued The Group operates in a highly competitive environment, including The Group sets its market risk limits with the objective of achieving The COM, client-initiated stops and limited risk accounts all result Regulatory environment risk from some unregulated and illegal operators.
The Group seeks the optimal trade-off between allowing clients trades to be in the transfer of an element of the market risk from the client to IG operates in a highly regulated environment which is continually to mitigate competitor risk by maintaining a clear distinction in internalised, the cost of hedging and the variability of daily the Group.
This market risk arises following the closure of a client evolving.
IG defines regulatory environment risk as the risk that the market in terms of product, service and ethics, and by closely revenue.
The Group seeks to manage its market risk so that its position, as the Group subject to the market risk limits discussed the regulatory environment in any of the jurisdictions in which monitoring the activity and performance of its competitors, trading revenue predominantly reflects client transaction fees net of above may hold a corresponding hedging position that will, the Group currently operates, or may wish to operate in, changes including detailed comparison of the terms of the product offers.
hedging costs, and is not driven by market risk gains or losses.
assuming sufficient market liquidity, be unwound.
in a way that has an adverse effect on the Groups business or operations, through reduction in revenue, increases in costs or IG regards itself as the leader in its market, and given the Groups The market risk that arises as a result of offering binary contracts, IG has significant financial exposure to a number of financial increases in capital and liquidity requirements.
strong ethical values, unlike some of its competitors, the Group options and guaranteed stops for clients is difficult or not institutions, owing to the placement of financial assets at banks and does not deploy questionable practices that can be commercially cost-effective to hedge, and there is often no direct underlying the hedging of market risk in the wholesale markets, which requires The Group operates to the highest regulatory standards and leads attractive to clients such as offering excessive leverage.
However, market which can be utilised in setting the price which the the Group to place margin with its hedging brokers.
the industry in the way in which it deals with its clients.
The Group the Group seeks to ensure that its product offering remains Group quotes.
The Group normally undertakes no hedging for maintains a strong relationship with its key regulators and an active Financial institution credit risk is managed through the application attractive, taking into account the other benefits that the Group these markets, but can hedge specific positions if considered dialogue with them to keep abreast of impending regulatory of the Groups Counterparty Credit Management Policy.
offers its clients, including brand, strength of technology and client necessary.
The Group aims to reduce the volatility of revenue developments.
In the last year, there has been a series of significant service quality.
This allows the business to provide a competitive from these markets by offering a large number of different trading Financial institution counterparties are subject to a credit review regulatory proposals, particularly from UK and other European offering overall and manage competitor risk without compromising opportunities, the results of which should, to some extent, offset when a new relationship is entered into, and this is updated Union country regulators, to impose restrictions on the provision of the Groups values.
each other irrespective of the underlying market outcome.
semi-annually or more frequently as required, eg upon changes to leveraged products to retail clients.
The proposals have included the financial institutions corporate structure.
Proposed maximum a range of measures from leverage restrictions, requirements The Groups trading revenue reflects the transaction fees paid The Group monitors its market risk exposures on a real-time basis as exposure limits for these financial institutions, reflecting their credit for additional risk warnings, restrictions and bans on marketing, by clients less the transaction costs incurred in hedging market well as through regular stress-testing and scenario-testing to analyse rating and systemic position, are reviewed and approved by the and outright bans on the provision of CFDs and binary options.
The extent of client trading activity and the number of the impact of potential stress events, and takes action to reduce its Executive Risk Committee.
The timeframes for the final rules from some of the consultation active clients in any period are the key determinants of revenue in risk exposures and those of its clients as appropriate.
The ability to attract new clients and the willingness The Group actively manages the credit exposure to each of its Credit risk audited of clients to trade depends upon the level of opportunities clients broking counterparties, settling or recalling balances at each broker The Group has responded to all relevant consultations, with each IG faces the risk that either a client or a financial counterparty fails perceive are available to them in the markets.
The Groups revenue on a daily basis in line with the collateral requirements.
As part of its of the regulatory proposals analysed in depth.
A comprehensive to meet their obligations to IG, resulting in a financial loss.
is therefore partly dependent upon market conditions.
management of concentration risk, the Group is also committed to analysis has been presented to regulators through a series of As a result of offering leveraged trading products, IG accepts that maintaining multiple brokers for each asset class.
detailed response documents and consultation meetings.
The The Group seeks to mitigate market conditions risk through detailed client credit losses can arise as a cost of its business model.
Client Group has engaged with a broad range of interested parties to review of daily revenue analysis, monthly financial information and The Group is responsible under various regulatory regimes for the credit risk principally arises when a clients total funds deposited explain its stance on the issues raised.
Where applicable, in addition other Key Performance Indicators KPIs, and regular reforecasts stewardship of client monies.
These responsibilities include the with the Group are insufficient to cover any trading losses incurred.
to the comprehensive analysis in support of the firms position of its expected financial performance reflecting the latest and appointment of and periodic review of institutions with which client In addition, a small number of clients are granted credit limits to on each issue, IG has put forward alternative rule changes that expected market conditions.
The Group uses these forecasts to money is deposited.
The Groups general policy is that all financial cover running losses on open trades and margin requirements.
it considers would be more likely to achieve the outcomes that determine actions necessary to manage performance in the context institution counterparties holding client money accounts must have regulators are seeking to achieve.
Client credit risk is managed through the application of the firms minimum short and long-term ratings of A-2 and Arespectively, Client Credit Risk Policy.
although in some operating jurisdictions where accounts are The Board has been actively involved in overseeing the formation The Group updates its investors and market analysts on its revenue maintained to provide local banking facilities for clients, it can and execution of IGs response to these proposals, receiving regular performance on a regular basis, including quarterly updates and The business sets margin requirements that reflect the market price be problematic to find a banking counterparty satisfying these updates from the Executive Committee advising on the regulatory pre-close statements, and engages with investors and market risk for each instrument, and uses tiered margining so that larger minimum ratings requirements.
In such cases the Group may use a and legal position and appropriate response strategy.
analysts to manage the risk that the impact of market conditions is positions are subject to proportionately higher margin requirements.
These criteria also apply reflected in performance expectations.
The business offers training and education to clients covering all Within regulatory environment risk, the Group also includes the for the Groups own bank accounts held with financial institutions.
aspects of trading and risk management, which encourages them risk of significant adverse changes in the way in which the Group to collateralise their accounts at an appropriate level in excess In addition, the majority of deposits are made on an overnight Business model risk itself, or the Groups business, is subject to taxation.
Examples of of the minimum requirement.
In addition to cash, the Group also or breakable term basis which enables the Group to react the tax risk faced by the business include the risk of the imposition IG defines business model risk as the risks faced by the Group accepts collateral in the form of shares from clients with a share immediately to any deterioration in credit quality, and deposits of an of a financial transactions tax, which could severely impact the arising from the nature of its business and its business model, dealing account.
unbreakable nature or requiring notice are only held with a subset economics of trading, and the risk that the basis under which the including market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and capital of counterparties which have been approved by the Executive Group is taxed, in any of the jurisdictions in which it operates, adequacy risk.
The business further mitigates client credit risk through the real-time Risk Committee.
monitoring of client positions via the close-out monitor COM, and Market risk audited by giving clients the ability to set a level at which an individual deal Liquidity risk audited IG takes market risk for the purpose of facilitating instant Commercial risk will be closed the stop level or guaranteed stop level.
We also Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its financial execution of client trades.
The business manages this market risk The Group defines commercial risk as the risk that the Groups require less experienced clients to use limited risk accounts, while obligations as they fall due.
by internalising client flow allowing clients trades to offset each performance is affected by a failure to adopt or implement an offering the option of a limited risk account to all other clients.
other and hedging when the residual exposures reach defined The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure it has effective business strategy, by new or existing competitors offering limits.
The Groups real-time market position-monitoring system The COM is an automated liquidation process which automatically sufficient liquidity to meet its broker margin requirements and other more attractive products or services, or by a prolonged period of allows it to monitor its market exposure against its market risk limits identifies accounts that have broken the liquidation threshold.
financial liabilities when due, under both normal circumstances and adverse market conditions.
If exposures exceed pre-determined limits, hedging is Where client losses are such that their total equity falls below the stressed conditions.
These liquidity requirements must be met from undertaken to bring the exposure back to the limit.
The Group seeks to mitigate its strategic management risk through specified liquidation level, positions will be liquidated, resulting in the Groups own liquidity resources, as client money cannot be used the Boards regular, thorough review and challenge of the Groups reduced credit risk exposure for the Group.
IG has a Market Risk Policy which sets out how the business strategy and the performance of the various strategic initiatives manages its market risk exposures.
The Market Risk Policy Clients placing trades with guaranteed stop levels pay a small The Group holds liquid assets to enable the funding of broker taken.
The Board holds an annual strategy day to consider and incorporates a methodology for setting market position limits, premium in the event that the stop is triggered.
With a guaranteed margin requirements, to ensure that appropriate prudent margins agree the strategic priorities for the business.
The Board also consistent with the Groups risk appetite, for each financial market stop, the maximum loss is known at the point of trade.
The Groups and buffers are held in segregated client money accounts in order considers specific strategic actions and initiatives during its normal in which the Groups clients can trade, as well as certain groups of limited risk account combines this trade-by-trade protection with to fully protect clients funds and assets to support the growth schedule of Board meetings.
markets or assets which the business considers to be correlated.
the assurance that a client can never lose more than the total of the business and its need for capital, and to maintain a liquid These limits are determined with reference to the expected liquidity The Groups strategy will be reviewed again in the context amount of equity they hold in their account.
and volatility of the underlying financial product or asset class, and of the outcome of the various regulatory consultation papers represent the maximum long and short client exposure the Group discussed above.
will hold without hedging the net client exposure.
| | 38 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 39 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements RISK MANAGEMENT AND VIABILITY STATEMENT continued The Group manages its liquidity centrally, and key liquidity The Group is supervised on a consolidated basis by the UKs The Groups people strategy has four themes: clarity and External events risk decisions are discussed at the Executive Committee and Executive Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
In addition to its two UK measurement, focused on creating clear policies and measurement The Group faces the risk of loss as a result of damage to physical Risk Committee.
FCA-regulated entities, the Groups operations in Australia, Japan, to shape and track how people are performing: performance and non-physical property or assets, or the inability to access Singapore, South Africa, United States, Switzerland and Dubai are and reward, to ensure that people are motivated to deliver high property or operate its business arising from natural or non-natural The Group carries out an Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment regulated on an entity basis.
Individual capital requirements in each performance: talent and growth, to enable individuals to develop external causes.
ILAA each year, and while this applies specifically to the Groups regulated entity are taken into account when managing the Groups to their full potential: and working environment, to enable teams FCA-regulated entities, as liquidity is centrally managed through The protection of property and other assets from external events capital resources.
and the Group as a whole to operate in a constructive and these entities, this process provides the context for determining is managed through a mix of risk avoidance, risk mitigation, collaborative way.
the mitigating actions that would be taken in the event of stressed operational controls and risk transfer mechanisms.
The Group has Operational risk liquidity conditions for the whole Group.
The Group operates a clear set of controls and a range of well-developed security, business continuity and disaster recovery Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from indicators to manage, monitor and mitigate people risk.
This procedures in place, commensurate with the scale and nature of the The Group uses a number of measures for managing day-to-day inadequate or failed internal processes, people activities, systems or includes an annual employee engagement survey, performance operations it has in particular locations.
The Groups key operational liquidity risk, including the level of total liquid assets of same-day external events.
IG includes, within operational risk, the risk that the check-ins, measurement and analysis of employee turnover, talent hubs are supported by appropriate disaster-recovery facilities.
available cash and forecasted cash requirements.
Group is unable to attract and retain the staff it requires to operate identification, succession and development planning and internal The Group has a global insurance programme in place to cover a its business successfully.
The Group is required to fund margin payments to brokers on recruitment.
New employees are subject to pre-work checks.
number of insurable risks, and reviews this programme annually.
Broker margin requirements are driven by the gross IG recognises that operational risk arises in the execution of all The Group has undertaken a significant programme of work to hedging positions held by the Group.
The value of these positions Conduct risk activities undertaken by the Group, and identifies and manages develop and communicate the Groups vision and values that is and the margin requirements are in turn driven by the number operational risk in four categories: technology risk, people risk, IG recognises and manages the risk that the Groups conduct intended to promote a cohesive, positive and progressive culture to of active clients, the level of client activity, the make-up of the process risk and risk from external events.
may pose to the achievement of fair outcomes for consumers, or support the delivery of the Groups business objectives.
total client exposure, exchange rates, interest rates and the value to the sound, stable, resilient and transparent operation of the The Group continues to develop its operational risk framework to of instruments.
Within people risk, the Group also identifies the risk of loss financial markets.
The Group has implemented a conduct risk ensure visibility of risks and controls, clear accountability for controls intentionally or unintentionally caused by an employee, such strategy that aims to analyse the conduct risks that may arise, and In addition to its liquid assets the Group mitigates its liquidity risk and escalation and reporting mechanisms, through which risk events as employee error and employee misdeeds, issues relating to sets out how those risks are managed and mitigated.
It also sets through maintaining access to committed unsecured bank facilities.
are identified and managed and appropriate action is taken to employment, including disputes, and risks relating to employment out specific controls used to manage conduct risk.
The Group The Group regularly stress-tests its liquidity forecasts to validate the improve controls.
law, health and safety and HR practices.
If policies are breached, seeks to ensure that all employees are aware of the importance of appropriate level of facilities it holds, and draws down on the facility or employees behave inappropriately, the Group has a disciplinary managing conduct risk through programme conduct risk training The Group is rolling out its Risk and Control Self-Assessment at least once during each year to test the process for accessing framework to address and resolve issues.
RCSA methodology, focused on areas of the business identified that liquidity.
as a priority, and has introduced a new operational risk event Process risk The Group manages and monitors the risk of clients failing to The Group produces detailed short-term liquidity forecasts self-reporting process which provides increased visibility over events The Group faces risks related to the design, execution and understand the functionality of our products and suffering poor and stress-tests, such that appropriate management actions or and control actions to be taken, which are monitored through a maintenance of key processes, including process governance, outcomes.
The Group recognises that some of its products are not liquidity facility draw-down can occur prior to a period of expected consolidated Control Action List.
clarity of roles, process design and execution.
Process risk also appropriate for some consumers and operates a process to identify liquidity demands.
includes record-keeping failures, regulatory compliance failures and Technology risk potential new clients for whom the product may not be appropriate.
Capital adequacy risk reporting failures.
IG is heavily dependent on technology to supply its service to The Group supports clients with education and training, and The Group seeks to ensure that it has sufficient capital to operate clients and to run its internal processes.
Technology risk is managed offers account types that limit a customers risk.
Such accounts are Management are responsible for implementing an appropriate its business successfully and to meet regulatory requirements.
through the Groups Technology Risk Management Framework, mandatory for less experienced and less wealthy clients.
Client control framework and ensuring that all staff are aware of their The Group manages its capital resources with the objectives of and is overseen by the Groups Technology Risk Committee.
The outcomes are monitored and reported to the Board.
It does this through the maintenance of policy and facilitating business growth, maintaining its dividend policy and Group seeks to manage system outage risk through processes procedure documents, training, risk and control self-assessments The Group recognises the risk of causing poor market outcomes if complying with the regulatory capital resources requirement set by for prevention, including capacity assessment and management that identify key controls and highlight areas for improvement, and proper controls are not in place, for example, to detect instances the FCA and other global regulators in jurisdictions in which the of single points of failure, processes for detection of emerging the production and review of appropriate management information.
of market abuse which must then be reported on.
Clients may also Groups entities operate.
system or application hotspots using real-time monitoring systems, attempt to use IG to commit fraud or launder money, and the Group Financial reporting risk is managed by the finance function.
and processes for correction with a well-established incident The Group undertakes an annual Internal Capital Adequacy has designed its systems, controls and monitoring programmes to The Audit Committee receives papers and presentations from management process embedded in the Group.
Assessment Process ICAAP through which it assesses its capital mitigate and detect such issues.
both finance management and External Auditors to allow the requirements, including through a series of stress-testing scenarios.
Information security is managed by a dedicated information security Committee to assess the integrity of financial reporting, and The Group recognises the risk that the actions of its staff can result The ICAAP document is reviewed and challenged by the Executive team.
The threat of attacks from outside the Group, such as DDoS to conclude whether the presentation of financial information in poor outcomes for clients, or the financial markets.
The Group Risk Committee and the Board Risk Committee and is then and hacking, are managed through several layers of control to externally, including through the Annual Report, is fair, balanced seeks to ensure that its staff are appropriately trained, managed reviewed, challenged and approved by the Board.
provide in-depth defence, including volumetric scrubbing, multiple and understandable.
and incentivised to ensure that their behaviour and activities do not firewalls, an intrusion detection system and anti-virus scanners to The firm monitors its capital resources and capital requirements inadvertently result in poor outcomes for clients or the markets.
Regulatory compliance and record-keeping risk is managed block incoming emails containing malware.
The Group undertakes daily, calculating the credit and market risk requirements based on by the compliance function.
Compliance keeps an up-to-date regular penetration tests to detect vulnerabilities, and receives The compliance function operates a compliance monitoring the exposures at the end of each business day, to assess the total understanding of regulatory requirements and maintains policies to intelligence on emerging threats from an external organisation.
programme and a series of deep dive reviews to assess conduct capital requirement and available headroom.
The firm maintains ensure that IG continues to comply with its regulatory obligations, Information security risks from inside the Group, such as virus risk in specific areas or processes.
The Group also reviews an additional internal warning indicator threshold with its Board including AML and KYC, account opening and client on-boarding, outbreaks and data loss, are managed through several layers of remuneration policies and incentive schemes to ensure that they are performance reporting, and breaches, if any, would be escalated to PEP and sanctions, gifts and hospitality and conflicts of interest.
controls, including data loss prevention controls to detect leakage appropriate and conducive to good conduct by staff.
the Board with a recommendation for appropriate remedial action.
The established compliance monitoring programme is designed of sensitive data and the application of network policies, end-point IG operates a regulated business and is required to hold sufficient to, among other matters, detect any failure of the Group to comply protection and proxy servers.
regulatory capital at the Group level, as well as in each individual with its regulatory obligations.
People risk regulated entity, to cover its risk exposures.
IG is dependent upon attracting and retaining the staff it requires to operate its business successfully, and has an established HR management framework with processes and controls to manage that risk.
| | 40 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 41 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements RISK MANAGEMENT AND VIABILITY STATEMENT BUSINESS CONDUCT AND SUSTAINABILITY continued After over 40 years in business, we understand that sustainable Central to our commitment to our customers is the quality of VIABILITY STATEMENT AUDITED long-term returns stem from good conduct whether that be in the our order execution, and our investment in the technology and The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors to way we treat our clients and our employees, or the way we interact monitoring behind it.
We process 100% of active client trades make a statement regarding the viability of the Group, including with the markets and our regulators.
In all our relationships we seek automatically.
We never re-quote prices and, outside our set margin explaining how they have assessed the Groups prospects, the to act with integrity and transparency, maintaining a reputation of tolerance, our innovative price-improvement technology enables period of time over which they have made the assessment and why for professionalism and ethical practice along with a constant customers to receive a better price if one becomes available as a they consider that period to be appropriate.
determination to do things better.
The Group has a forecasting and planning cycle consisting of Client support and education a strategic plan, an annual budget for the current year and We provide extensive educational resources for our clients, SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS financial projections for a further three years.
The output from including an introduction programme that promotes responsible Our conduct as a business is driven by much more than simply this business-planning process is used in the Groups capital trading, an interactive educational app and a wide range of compliance with risk or regulatory requirements.
This is reflected in and liquidity planning, and the most recent forecasts are for the seminars and webinars.
We continually look to keep this content the shared values that underpin all our attitudes and behaviours: four-year period ending May 2021. engaging and targeted towards our clients needs.
Champion the client The four-year forecasting period is the length of time over which Based on client feedback, and following the launch of our in-house the Board strategically assesses the business, is the period of time Lead the way TV studio in 2014, we increased the amount of original video the Board would typically look to pay back investments, and is the content we supply for this purpose.
Clients can now get instant Love what we do period over which the Board reviews its regulatory capital resources access to expert tutorials, which cover everything from fundamental and requirements.
Our values provide the foundation for our future growth and trading concepts to risk management.
success, and they give us an ongoing focus in our day-to-day work.
The first year of the planning period has a greater degree of We also provide an extensive range of trading tools, such as regular We recognise the importance of defining and communicating these certainty and is therefore used to set detailed financial targets free news, commentary and analysis on IG TV and via the News values to all of our people, providing them with a strong framework across the Group, and is also used by the Remuneration Committee and Analysis section of our website.
We offer charting packages and direction.
As well as helping our employees to realise our to set targets for the annual incentive scheme.
Caution about the and various technical analysis tools that enable our clients to screen overall vision, this helps ensure that good conduct remains at the degree of certainty needs to be exercised, however, due to a lack markets for trading opportunities and to receive alerts when trading core of our culture.
of clarity about the detail and impact of final rules that may be signals appear.
implemented by our regulators, and the timing of implementation.
We are conscious of the risk that poor conduct presents to our clients, our business model and the wider financial industry.
For this The further three-year period provides less certainty of outcome, reason, we have actively developed a risk management strategy OUR COMMITMENT but provides a robust planning tool against which strategic and embedded various quantitative and qualitative measures to A sense of responsibility manifests itself in everything we do.
It has decisions can be made.
These forecasts are also considered identify, measure, manage and monitor conduct risk.
Our strategic underpinned our conduct as a business since our inception, playing when setting targets for the executive and senior management initiatives include producing monthly Key Risk Indicators KRIs and an instrumental role in the growth and success of IG and the leading share plans.
dashboards for conduct risk, along with a rolling plan of thematic standards we have set in the industry.
The Group undertakes stress-testing on these forecasts and through conduct risk reviews and formalised conduct consideration before Protecting our clients data, funds and assets the ILAA, ICAAP and Recovery Plan, providing the Board with a project sign-off.
We prioritise the security of our clients information and have robust assessment of the potential consequences of principal risks In this way we ensure effective communication of the tone from the achieved the ISO 27001:2005 certificate for information facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business top throughout the organisation.
We apply high standards across security management.
model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
our businesses, and specifically in our corporate governance as set We fully segregate client funds for retail individuals, in compliance The types of scenarios used include the impact of major regulatory out in the Corporate Governance Report and the Directors Report, with relevant regulations, and we hold segregated client money changes: the collapse of a major financial services firm: major in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The and assets entirely separately from our own money across a diverse currency appreciation: and cyber-attacks.
Additionally, the sections below demonstrate how we do this in practice.
This ensures that, in the event of our default, client Group has undertaken reverse stress-testing to understand the Commitment to our customers funds and assets would be returned to the clients rather than being circumstances under which the Groups business model is no longer Ensuring fair client outcomes is at the core of our business model treated as a recoverable asset by our general creditors.
With appropriate management actions, the results of these and strategy.
To achieve this, it is crucial that we continually strive stresses showed that the Group was resilient to all severe but We continue to engage  LLP to conduct to understand our clients needs and the way that they view plausible scenarios, and would be able to withstand the impact.
ongoing independent reviews of our controls and procedures for and interact with our products and services.
We regularly seek client money calculation and segregation ISAE 3000.
In committing Given the potential changes to the regulatory landscape in which and review feedback from our clients, as well as monitoring the to this review process we have taken an additional step, over the Group operates, as well as the uncertain consequences of outcomes they receive.
This enables us to develop our products and and above standard audit checks and our regulators reporting Brexit, there is a range of potential outcomes.
Four-year forecasts services to meet the needs of retail traders and investors globally, requirements.
This reflects our dedication to keeping our clients have therefore been prepared on different scenarios, including and to provide our non-leveraged clients with the right tools and funds secure and delivering beneficial outcomes for customers.
one that assumes all of the proposals from each of the consultation services to help them create, grow and protect their portfolios.
papers published by our regulators are enacted, and that there are We have made a number of pioneering changes to our product Appropriateness no cost-reduction actions from management.
offerings, with the best interests of our clients at their heart.
These Regulators are demonstrating an ever-growing recognition of the include the market-leading features of our limited risk accounts, risks to consumers posed by poor practices in the industry.
As a Overall, the Directors consider the Group is well-placed to manage the expansion of our longer-term investment product offering and, market leader, we have always prided ourselves in setting higher its business risks successfully, having taken into account the current crucially, the way we onboard clients and assess the appropriateness standards than our peers and those required by regulation, and economic outlook, the consequences of principal risks facing the of our products for them.
we believe the industry would benefit from the elimination of business in severe but plausible scenarios, and the effectiveness of poor practices.
any mitigating actions on the Groups profitability and liquidity.
We are committed to investing in process, training and improvements to our culture, to prevent poor customer experiences We recognise that good conduct is particularly vital in relation On the basis of these and other matters considered and reviewed and to address root causes where any practice falls short.
We to marketing and client recruitment, to encourage fair by the Board during the year, the Directors have reasonable maintain this policy even when it may have a negative impact on our consumer outcomes.
expectations that the Group will be able to continue in operation own revenue or costs.
and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the four-year period ending 31 May 2021.
| | 42 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 43 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements BUSINESS CONDUCT AND SUSTAINABILITY continued Conscious that our products are not right for everyone, we have Communication and involvement Health and wellbeing To make the most of charitable donations, we continue to work with a number of procedures that ensure the appropriateness of our As a global employer with over 1,500 staff in 17 locations All our employees receive appropriate protection benefits and the Charities Aid Foundation, allowing our employees to operate products for clients.
We follow strict guidelines to ensure that we worldwide, our challenge is to maintain a clear vision and a sense discounted gym access.
In the UK, our people can access the a charity fund and make contributions to selected charities from only promote our services to a target audience within appropriate of unity for all of our people.
We are committed to ensuring that all cycle-to-work initiative through our new flexible benefits portal, gross earnings, directly from their monthly pay.
Not only do we sectors and demographic groups.
We also conduct rigorous checks our employees feel connected and are aligned to a shared purpose.
which also provides increased opportunity for individuals to support charities with gifts of money, but also by providing time and to ensure that all promotions are clear, fair and not misleading, personalise benefits to their lifestyle requirements.
Our absence-management policy offers the opportunity We take pride in being an open, non-hierarchical organisation, and that risks are not downplayed compared to the benefits of for our people to take up voluntary work, for which we grant where all of our people have access to senior management.
Our A confidential employee-assistance programme is available to all our products.
additional leave on a like-for-like basis up to a maximum of five Chief Executive Officer addresses all employees every six months our head office employees and their immediate families, offering matched days per annual leave year.
Before we allow a prospective client to open a CFD trading or to present the Groups half-year and full-year financial results and a 24 7 telephone counselling service for impartial advice on all spread betting account, we carry out comprehensive assessments answer any questions.
He and other members of the senior team matters for example, housing and personal finance.
Our workforce to determine whether it is appropriate for them.
Over the last year also maintain a schedule of visits to our global offices, taking this In terms of gender, our workforce is made up as follows at Rewarding high performance we have reviewed this assessment process and implemented some opportunity to engage in dialogue with local employees.
31 May 2017: Recognising the link between individual performance and global fundamental changes.
We actively question applicants about their We aim to provide our people with multiple communication growth for the business, this year we introduced a new check-in Board knowledge and relevant trading experience, as well as providing channels, and we continue to develop our intranet, IG hub.
With process to replace the traditional annual appraisal approach.
If we are not satisfied that prospective Number % usage increasing significantly this year, this is now the default source new system ensures that each of our people has a clearly defined clients are equipped to understand the risks involved, we simply of information for our people.
It provides a highly effective way purpose, with specific deliverables and expected behaviours.
do not allow them to access our products.
This differentiates us Female 2 25 of communicating news about internal developments within the Regular meetings with the line manager then provide opportunities from many of our peers.
It demonstrates our commitment to good business, as well as building awareness of the external financial and for feedback, goal realignment and recognition of success.
Male 6 75 consumer outcomes, and is ultimately in the longer-term interests of economic factors affecting us.
We offer a competitive reward package and a market-related Senior executive team Employee engagement salary structure that is regularly benchmarked.
We also include the Limiting client losses We are proud to have been certified as one of Britains Top majority of our employees in a group bonus scheme.
Bonus levels We have a number of services designed to help clients limit any Number % Employers by the Corporate Research Foundation for ten are intrinsically linked to the financial and operational performance losses they may make.
We believe it is important to regularly consecutive years, and are committed to making IG a great of IG, including client satisfaction.
At the end of each financial year, Female 2 29 monitor the effectiveness of these, taking a nimble approach to place to work.
bonuses are distributed based on both Company and individual protect our clients in both normal and volatile market conditions.
Male 5 71 performance, as discussed during check-ins throughout the year.
To understand our employees perceptions of the business and Our clients can choose to attach guaranteed stops to their positions, address their concerns, we carry out an annual engagement survey.
The remainder of our employees are included in specific Senior leadership team so that they know their maximum possible loss at the outset of a By collecting their feedback in this way, we give our people a direct sales-related bonus schemes.
We also reward our high-potential trade.
Last year we introduced an innovative new charging system channel of communication to the executive team and the Board.
We employees through a long-term incentive plan, and we offer our Number % that facilitates the use of guaranteed stops.
No premium is payable take into account the insights we receive when making decisions employees in the UK, Australia and the US the chance to share in for attaching a guaranteed stop unless it is triggered, so clients Female 4 17 that are likely to affect employees interests.
our success through our tax-advantaged share-purchase schemes.
will frequently receive protection free of charge.
IG was the first An average of 36% of eligible employees took part in our share Male 20 83 provider to offer guaranteed stops on this basis.
From July 2016, A diverse and fair workplace plans in the 2017 financial year.
We are currently reviewing options we also introduced a limited risk account, which has now become We believe that a diverse workforce brings creative energy to our to extend similar schemes to our other larger offices Krakow Employees the default account we offer to clients who are less experienced or business, and we are committed to developing a team of individuals and Bangalore.
towards the lower end of the wealth acceptance scale.
Clients who with the best skills to help us realise our vision and strategy Number % are eligible for our other account types can also request a limited regardless of their ethnicity, faith, gender identity, sexual orientation In the next year we will continue to strengthen our global risk account, if they wish.
Our inclusive culture was evidenced in 2016, recognition strategy by linking it directly to our values Female 456 30 when our employees led the creation of IG Open, a network for and behaviours.
Our close-out monitor COM, which seeks to automatically those who identify themselves as LGBT and their allies.
Male 1,051 70 liquidate clients positions when their margin has been significantly Developing talent eroded, is also a means by which we help protect clients.
At We have extensive human resource policies in place to ensure that We take the development of our people very seriously, recognising Total times when market volatility is expected, such as during elections we recruit the right people and enable them to develop without that a constant flow of talent and skills is key to our ongoing or referendums, we devote considerable time to reviewing our experiencing discrimination or harassment.
We continually invest in improving the quality of the Number % margining practices, ensuring our margins protect both clients and reinforce the need to treat all employees fairly, creating an learning opportunities our people can access, and we encourage IG from any volatility.
We make amendments where necessary, environment free from bullying, where people of all grades or employees to progress within the business, supporting them in their Female 464 30 actively communicate with our clients, and test our systems to positions enjoy dignity and respect.
Male 1,082 70 ensure they can continue to operate effectively under stress.
At We fully consider applications for employment from disabled All of our employees are able to benefit from a variety of learning 31 May 2017, 99.75% of all client accounts were subject to the persons with aptitudes and abilities in line with our requirements.
and development resources, ranging from on-the-job coaching automatic COM procedure.
Where existing employees become disabled, temporarily or and mentoring to webinars, secondments and Board exposure OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT permanently, it is our policy to provide continuing employment programmes.
We encourage attendance at relevant external As a business that conducts nearly all of its client trades online and wherever practicable in the same or an alternative position.
events and, where appropriate, sponsor our people to undertake SUPPORTING OUR PEOPLE undertakes no industrial activities, we do not see ourselves as a Appropriate training and or graduated back-to-work programmes, formal, industry-recognised training courses and achieve Nurturing a team of talented and dedicated people is central to significant emitter of environmentally harmful substances.
However, in conjunction with the occupational health professionals, help professional qualifications.
our strategy, enabling us to deliver the exceptional products and we still take any necessary actions to ensure that we minimise the achieve this aim.
We have also developed succession plans for our more senior roles, services that keep us at the forefront of our industry.
impact of our operations on the environment.
Human rights and will now be implementing a similar approach for other core By providing an inclusive, fair and engaging environment, we ensure Our greatest environmental impact comes from running and We conduct our business in an ethical manner, following policies roles across the Group.
that our people can thrive and achieve their potential.
This in turn maintaining our IT infrastructure.
This technology supports our that embody key human rights principles.
More information enables them to drive our business forward thinking creatively, Community involvement award-winning platform and ensures we are consistently able to can be found in our Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement working collaboratively and building rewarding relationships with We are keen to encourage our people to engage in activities maintain our high level of platform uptime.
Powering and cooling on iggroup.
that both help their own development and contribute to local our datacentres results in the majority of our energy usage as well communities, so we are proud to support a wide variety of charities as our energy costs.
As such, we update our hardware and software that are close to our employees hearts.
We match any funds our as appropriate to save money and energy.
employees have raised for sponsored events.
| | 44 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 45
