Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements BUSINESS CONDUCT AND SUSTAINABILITY continued Our offices are the second-largest consumer of energy.
We apply Basis of preparation Mandatory greenhouse gas emissions report a number of energy-saving processes and have a far-reaching Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated on the basis of financial recycling policy.
This not only encompasses a proportion of our daily control, with the emissions data included for the companies 2015 16 2016 17 2015 16 2016 17 Emission type CO2e tonnes CO2e tonnes CO2e tonnes CO2e tonnes office waste, but also extends to our IT equipment when we replace consolidated in the Financial Statements, noting the Statement of hardware.
We try to use any desktop equipment for its maximum Exclusions given below: Location based Location based Market based Market based functional life.
Our methodology has been based on the principles of Scope 1: Operation of facilities 429.9 429.9 429.9 429.9 Our head office building, where around half of our employees are the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, taking account of the 2015 54.5 Scope 1: Combustion 130.9 54.5 130.9 based, is also ISO 14001 certified and we have installed sensor amendment which sets out a dual reporting methodology for 560.8 484.4 560.8 Total Scope 1 emissions 484.4 lighting.
This year we completed a major refit of the premises, which the reporting of Scope 2 emissions 3247.5 4000.4 2402.1 will help us to work in a more energy-efficient way and reduce our Scope 2: Purchased energy 3914.6 We have reported on all the measured emissions sources environmental impact.
By moving to a hot-desk working model 3247.5 4000.4 2402.1 required under The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and 3914.6 Total Scope 2 emissions and providing all employees with laptops, we have enabled our Directors Report Regulations 2013, except where stated 3808.3 4484.8 2962.9 Total emissions 4399.0 people to work from home regularly, reducing the workspace required in our premises.
This means we can now use our office This includes emissions under Scope 1 and 2, except where space more efficiently, cutting costs.
stated, but excludes any emissions from Scope 3 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity We carried out the refurbishment with sustainability in mind, taking The period of our report is 1 June 2016 31 May 2017 inclusive Total footprint Scope 1 and Scope 2 CO2e.
a number of steps to minimise our impact on the environment: Conversion factors for UK electricity location-based 95% of existing glazing was reused to create new partitions methodology, gas and fugitive emissions are those published Previous year 2015 16 Current year 2016 17 Year-on-year variance by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs 80% of existing ceiling tiles were recycled for 2015-16 Net trading revenue 456.3m 491.1m 7% Existing light fittings were reused where possible, with new LED Intensity ratio, location-based method tCO2e 100,000 9.64 7.75 -20% Conversion factors for UK electricity market-based lamps installed to save energy Intensity ratio, market-based method tCO2e 100,000 6.03 -39% 9.83 methodology are published by electricityinfo.
org Dimmable LED lighting was installed in open-plan areas Statement of exclusions All desk lamps were fitted with time clocks Global diesel use for vehicles has been excluded from the All existing carpet tiles were removed and recycled report on the basis that it is not material to our carbon footprint Existing raised-access flooring was modified, avoiding the need Our fugitive emissions have only been reported for regions to install new floor tiles where the data has been made available 50% of existing desks were reused Our Krakow office has been excluded on the basis that this is a new site and it is not possible to obtain a full years worth of Existing mechanical plant was reused, with modifications to data.
This will be reported in next years report support new layouts Unwanted furniture was donated for reuse, where possible All waste was removed by the contractors registered recycling provider We have rolled out laptops and the hot-desk working model to our global offices wherever practical, as well as installing environment-friendly, state-of-the-art video conferencing and collaboration technology provided by Skype for Business.
This has reduced the need for work-related travel between our global locations.
We make every effort to source our office services from providers that are committed to sustainable principles.
For example, in the UK our fruit supplier plants one fruit tree in Malawi, Africa, for every basket purchased.
During the past year, around 6,000 trees were planted thanks to IG.
Emissions Data We provide emissions data in respect of the financial year ended 31 May 2017 in the Mandatory Greenhouse Gas Emissions Report and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity Ratio tables on page 47.
In the tables, Scope 1 emissions are those incurred in air conditioning our offices and running back-up generators for our servers, while Scope 2 emissions are purchased energy such as electricity.
For the most significant sources of energy consumption discussed above, we purchase electricity via our landlords.
| | 46 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 47 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our results continue to demonstrate strong growth, leading to record revenue, profits and STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE client numbers.
This is against the backdrop of a quiet period for financial markets, together The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code sets out the standards of good practice in relation to how a company should be directed and governed.
As we have a Premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, the Company reports in accordance with the Code published with unprecedented regulatory activity that has negatively affected the share price.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and further information can be found on its website at results are underpinned by an enduring governance culture, which continues to put high frc.
The Board considers that the Company has been compliant with the provisions of the Code for the year ended 31 May 2017. ethical standards and fair client outcomes at the heart of all we do.
I am grateful for the support and dedication of the CEO, senior management team, and of all IGs people.
The Board has appointed a Chief Executive Officer CEO who has Overview of Corporate Governance Framework delegated authority for the development and execution of strategy, IG recognises that its structure is subject to the determination of In this years Chief Executive Officers review, we reported on The success of the Board is dependent on a shared vision and providing effective leadership and management of risk throughout its shareholders who agree the Articles of Association, approve another strong set of results achieved during a period of significant common purpose.
The relationship between the Chairman and the organisation.
The Board has also appointed a Chief Financial transactions mandated through the listing rules and annually global political events and an uncertain regulatory landscape which Chief Executive Officer is central to this, and Peter and I continue Officer CFO whose delegated authority extends to the stewardship consider the re-appointment of Auditors and the Directors and has led to a significant fall in the Companys share price.
We share to work closely together and to develop a strong relationship of Group assets, the safeguarding of client money and assets, approve the final dividend.
regulators concerns that some in our industry are behaving in ways which is predicated on transparency and constructive dialogue, as statutory and regulatory reporting and investor relations.
The Board of Directors is responsible for appointing Directors that are not in clients best interests.
We are deeply engaged with well as shared culture, values and ethics.
With the support of the Below Board level IG operates a number of executive management to the Board and for agreeing and monitoring progress with the regulatory bodies to help them find positive solutions to these Board, IG has introduced an updated set of values centered around Committees.
The Executive Committee is IGs most senior executive implementation of the Groups strategy.
The Board has overall issues, while ensuring that where appropriate clients can continue championing our clients, leading the way and loving what we do.
management Committee, comprising the CEO, CFO and executive responsibility for ensuring the long-term success of the Company, to take advantage of trading opportunities in the markets.
I remain We are actively encouraging our people to innovate, challenge management.
It oversees and helps direct the implementation providing leadership and direction, including in relation to culture, confident that, once this period of uncertainty is resolved, the the status quo and demonstrate an enquiring mindset: and we are of Group strategy agreed by the Board, and provides advice and ethics and values.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters Group is well placed to continue demonstrating market leadership strengthening commitment to our business and our people through support to executive management in the day-to-day running of the reserved to it for decision.
In the meantime, the Board is encouraging personal achievement, inclusion and sharing.
focused on delivering results, creating new opportunities for the Certain governance responsibilities have been delegated by the The Board is focused on succession planning at IG and we future and ensuring we have the right talent to succeed.
The CEO and CFO are also supported by the Executive Risk Board to Board Committees to ensure independent oversight over are continuing to develop our plans particularly at executive Committee, which provides advice to operational management and internal controls and risk management and to assist the Board Since our home regulators consultation on leveraged products management level.
We have continued to focus on our the risk function in the day-to-day operation of risk governance, with carrying out its responsibilities.
Further information on the began, the Board and senior management team have been very medium-term and long-term strategy.
The quality of debate which applies the principles of sound corporate governance to the role of the Board and of the Audit, Remuneration, Board Risk active in supporting the development of proportionate regulation at our November strategy day was excellent, and we have identification, assessment, management, monitoring and reporting and Nomination Committees is set out in the following pages.
In to meet the challenges faced in the industry.
I would like to thank made significant improvements to the way in which we monitor of risks within the risk appetite agreed by the Board.
In addition addition the Board has a Standing Committee which deals with my colleagues for the quality of debate and decision-making performance of strategic developments across our leveraged and the CFO is supported by the Client Money and Assets Committee Board-reserved matters required to be considered at short notice throughout this period, and in particular the exemplary approach unleveraged businesses.
relating to oversight arrangements and operations in respect of the and where there are administrative matters requiring approval and of Peter and his executive team in continuing to promote and I am pleased to report that we have seen additional improvements holding and safeguarding of client money and assets.
evidencing that do not warrant a full Board.
evidence the Groups industry-leading commitment to fair client in the timeliness and quality of materials provided to the Board outcomes.
All stakeholders, including our shareholders, staff and and its Committees.
The Board now receives improved monthly clients, can be confident that the Company has left no stone data and management information to support its decision-making.
unturned in our efforts to ensure the best outcomes for you all.
In support of the proper performance of their duties by members of the Executive Committee, the Group also has the following principal Together with improved processes and an increased awareness by operational management Committees and forums: The Board of Directors continues to be committed to maintaining paper producers and presenters of the Boards expectations, this the highest standards in the way the Company is directed, governed has helped improve the quality of debate and facilitated informed and managed.
We believe that good-quality governance underpins and timely decision-making.
We will continue to work to improve Committees Responsibilities IGs ability to deliver sustainable future growth and long-term the quality and content of materials.
The way the Group has applied all aspects of the UK I would like to thank Board colleagues for their continued support Corporate Governance Code is set out in the following ICAAP and ILAA Assists management in the monitoring of stress-testing and scenario-testing outlined in ICAAP and ILAA in ensuring timely, robust and constructive challenge and debate Corporate Governance Report.
Last year I reported that Paul Mainwaring Control Functions joined the Group as Chief Financial Officer.
Paul has made great Assists the CFO in the execution of his responsibilities for ensuring a sound system of internal controls Oversight strides in continuing to improve control infrastructures and has brought fresh perspectives to discussions at Board.
Since October 2016 the Board Risk Committee has been chaired by Technology Risk Assists the Chief Information Officer in the proper performance of his duties Sam Tymms, who brings a wealth of regulatory experience to the Andy Green role.
I would like to thank Stephen Hill for his wise stewardship as Chairman Chairman of the Board Risk Committee from its inception in 2014 Best Execution Assists the Chief Compliance Officer in helping define the best execution requirements for the Group and for guiding it through a period of significant change and growth for the Group.
We are grateful that Stephen has agreed to extend his role on both the Board and the Board Risk Committee for a Pricing Group Supports the Chief Analytics Officer in ensuring fair, complete and accurate pricing of IG products further year.
Following completion of my first three years in office, I am also delighted to report that the Board has agreed to renew my appointment as Chairman for a further three years to June 2020.
Supports the Board of IG Markets Limited in overseeing the investment management process and Investment procedures relating to the IG Investments product | | 48 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 49 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements THE BOARD The Board is responsible for determining the Groups strategy and for promoting our long-term success through creating and delivering long-term value for shareholders.
Andy Green Peter Hetherington Paul Mainwaring Malcolm Le May June Felix Stephen Hill, OBE Jim Newman Sam Tymms Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director  Age: 61 Age: 48 Age: 54 Age: 60 Age: 56 Age: 52 Age: 53 Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Age: 59 Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: 9 June 2014 Deputy Chairman 25 February 2003 20 July 2016 Appointed: 4 September 2015 28 April 2011 1 October 2013 22 May 2013 Chief Operating Officer 10 September 2015 16 October 2014 Chairman Andy has significant board 4 December 2015 Malcolm has broad experience Pauls in-depth knowledge June brings to the Board Stephen brings significant Jim has in-depth knowledge Sam has extensive experience in experience including within Chief Executive Officer and knowledge of the financial of financial services and significant international quoted-company board and experience of the the regulatory field and detailed major listed companies.
He services and investment sectors experience in several public experience and knowledge experience.
Stephen is financial services sector, knowledge of compliance is the Senior Independent along with extensive experience Peter has spent his whole career companies is helping IG to of the digital sector as well as currently a Non-Executive as well as considerable matters from her time with the Non-Executive Director of on the boards of publicly with IG, having joined as a make further progress in experience in strategy, product Director of Applerigg experience both as a CFO London Stock Exchange and Avanti Communications Group listed companies.
In building and growing the innovation and delivery.
She Limited and Chairman of the and in the implementation of Financial Services Authority.
plc and holds a number of 1999 he was appointed Head of operational and strategic is the President of Verifone, Alzheimers Society.
He is the Senior Independent Sam is a Managing Director other roles, including chairing Financial Dealing, and in 2003 capability of the business.
Europe and Russia, with Non-Executive Director He has previously served as A qualified Chartered at Promontory Financial Digital Catapult.
He is President he joined the Board following responsibility for the operation Paul joined IG from Tullett and Chairman of the the CEO of Betfair plc and Accountant, Jim was Finance Group, a leading strategy, of UK Space, Co-Chairman his appointment as Chief of its business throughout Prebon plc where he served Remuneration Committee at has held roles at Pearson plc Director for Resolution plc, risk-management and of the Space Leadership Operating Officer COO, where these territories.
as Finance Director from 2006 Provident Financial plc and a where, amongst other positions, having joined the company  Council, and was recently he was responsible for IT as IG to 2016.
Prior to this, he was Non-Executive Director and June has held various executive he was CEO of the Financial as Group Financial Controller.
consulting firm, where she appointed as a Commissioner developed its online offering.
Group Finance Director of Chairman of the Remuneration management positions at a Times Group.
Stephen was He spent ten years at Aviva, advises financial services at the National Infrastructure His COO role developed to Mowlem plc and TDG plc.
Committee of Hastings Group number of large multi-national Chairman of Interactive Data where he was Group Integration businesses on a wide range of Commission.
Andys other encompass the leadership of the From 1993-2000, he held Holdings plc.
He is a partner at businesses.
These include Corporation in the US and the Director for the CGU Norwich risk and regulatory matters.
current roles enable him to sales and marketing functions.
various financial roles at Opus Corporate Finance LLP Citibank, where she was Royal National Institute for Union merger and Finance bring to the Board a wide Sam began her career at the Peter was appointed Interim Caradon plc including three and Juno Capital LLP and holds Managing Director of Global Deaf People.
He has served Director of Norwich Union perspective on technology and London Stock Exchanges Chief Executive Officer in years as Finance Director of an advisory role at Heidrick Healthcare, Citi Enterprise as a Director on the boards of Life, Avivas UK life insurance digital development.
Surveillance Division, which over October 2015, and following an MK Electric.
Payments and IBM Corporation, Royal Sun Alliance Insurance business.
He was formerly time became the Securities and Andy has previously served as extensive search was appointed a chartered accountant with where she led their global Group plc, Psion plc, Channel the Corporate Development Malcolm has served as Senior Futures Authority and eventually Group Chief Executive of Logica Chief Executive Officer in Price Waterhouse in 1987, and Banking and Financial Markets 4, Ofcom, Aztec Limited and Director for Friends Life Group, Independent Director of the Financial Services Authority.
plc, as CEO of Group Strategy December 2015. obtained an MBA from Cranfield business.
June was also Global Cambridge University Judge where his responsibilities Pendragon plc and was a During that time, she held a and Operations at BT Group School of Management in 1991.
General Manager for Banking Business School.
included overseeing the final Peter graduated from Non-Executive Director and range of supervisory roles and and as a board member of the & Financial Markets and separation and integration of Nottingham University with a Paul has no other Chairman of the Investment Committee membership: worked for two years in the CBI.
Until recently, Andy also strategy consultant at Booz, the UK life business acquired degree in economics, and from current appointments.
Committee at RSA Insurance Board Risk Committee, Investigations and Enforcement served as Senior Independent Allen & Hamilton.
She began by Resolution plc, as well as the the London Business School Group plc.
Prior to this, he Remuneration Committee and Division.
As a supervisor, she Non-Executive Director of ARM her career at P&G in brand delivery of the overall group with a masters in finance.
Peter held various executive roles at Nomination Committee.
ran departments overseeing Holdings plc, as Chairman of management marketing.
change portfolio and strategic served as an officer in the Morgan Grenfell plc, Drexel global investment firms, retail DockON AG and as a member corporate development.
Royal Navy prior to joining IG.
Burnham Lambert, Barclays fide Committee membership: and investment banks and major of the Digital Economy Council.
Zoete Wedd Holdings, UBS AG, Board Risk Committee and Jim has no other insurance groups.
Peter has no other Committee membership: ING Barings Ltd, Morley Fund Nomination Committee.
Committee membership: Nomination Committee Chair Managers now Aviva Investors, Committee membership: Board Risk Committee and Remuneration Committee.
JER Partners Ltd, where he was Audit Committee Chair, Chair, Audit Committee and European President, and Matrix Board Risk Committee, Nomination Committee.
Remuneration Committee and Committee membership: Nomination Committee.
Remuneration Committee Chair, Audit Committee and Nomination Committee.
| | 50 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 51 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements BOARD GOVERNANCE The Chairman is also responsible for promoting effective Senior Independent Director Attendance at Board meetings LEADERSHIP communication between the Board, Non-Executive Directors, Malcolm Le May is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director The number of full scheduled Board meetings attended by each shareholders and other major stakeholders.
and in this capacity he acts as a sounding board for the Chairman.
Director during the year, including the Board strategy day, is set The role of the Board He serves as a trusted intermediary for the other Directors when out below: The Chairman has a close working relationship with the The Board provides guidance and entrepreneurial leadership necessary.
He is also available to shareholders if they have concerns Chief Executive Officer and the Company Secretary to ensure of the Company by setting the strategic direction of the Group which communication via the normal channels of Chairman, that the strategies and actions agreed by the Board are and overseeing managements implementation of the strategy.
Scheduled Scheduled Chief Executive Officer or other Executive Directors has failed to effectively implemented.
It provides robust challenge, within a framework of prudent and Board meetings eligible meetings resolve, or when shareholders prefer to speak directly to him.
He effective risk management and controls.
The Board is provided with to attend attended is responsible for evaluating the performance of the Chairman on timely and comprehensive information to enable it to discharge Chief Executive Officer behalf of the other Directors.
its responsibilities, to encourage strategic debate and to facilitate The Chief Executive Officer CEO, Peter Hetherington, has specific Chairman robust, informed and timely decision-making.
responsibility for recommending the Groups strategy to the Company Secretary Andy Green 7 7 Board and for implementing agreed strategy once approved.
In The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success The Company Secretary, Tony Lee, supports and works closely undertaking such responsibilities, the CEO takes advice from and of the Group through the creation and delivery of sustainable with the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Board Independent Non-Executive Directors is provided with support by his senior management team and all shareholder value.
In exercising this responsibility the Board takes Committee Chairs in setting agendas for meetings of the Board Board colleagues.
into account the needs of all relevant stakeholders including June Felix 7 7 and its Committees.
He supports the accurate, timely and clear clients, investors, employees and suppliers and the effect of the Additional specific authority includes the development of the Risk information flow to and from the Board and the Board Committees, 1 Stephen Hill 7 6 strategy on the environment as a whole.
Management Framework, regulatory stakeholder management and and between Directors and senior management.
In addition, he supporting the Chairman to ensure the promotion of appropriate Malcolm Le May 7 7 supports the Chairman in designing and delivering Directors It is accountable for ensuring that, as a collective body, it has standards of corporate governance and shareholder engagement.
induction programmes and the Board and Committee performance the appropriate skills, knowledge and experience to perform its 2 Jim Newman 7 5 evaluations.
The Company Secretary also advises the Board role effectively.
Together with the Chief Financial Officer, the CEO monitors the on corporate governance issues and Board procedures and is Sam Tymms 7 7 Groups operating and financial results and directs the day-to-day In considering the powers of the Board as set out in the Companys responsible for administering IGs Share Dealing Code of Conduct business of the Group.
The CEO is also responsible for recruitment Articles of Association, and its developing strategy, the Board and the Annual General Meeting.
Executive Directors and development of the Groups executive management team has this year undertaken a comprehensive review of the matters below Board level.
Peter Hetherington 7 7 reserved to it for decision-making.
These include agreeing the How the Board operates Groups strategy: approval of major transactions, annual budgets, 3 Paul Mainwaring 6 6 The Board meets regularly, at least seven times a year, including an Chief Financial Officer and changes to the Groups capital and governance structure.
The annual strategy day to review strategic options open to the Group The Chief Financial Officer CFO, Paul Mainwaring, is responsible matters reserved also require regular reviews of operational and 1 Stephen Hill was unable to attend one meeting due to incapacity.
in the context of the economic and regulatory environment.
In for the financial reporting of the Group, for monitoring the Groups financial performance: reviews of succession-planning for the Board 2 Jim Newman was unable to attend the November meetings due to short notice addition the Board has established a Standing Committee whose operating and financial results and for management of the Groups and senior management: setting the risk appetite of the Group unforeseen events.
responsibility is to consider Board reserved matters at short notice, internal risk management and financial control systems.
The 3 Paul Mainwaring was appointed to the Board on 20 July 2016. and approving any changes to the Groups risk management and or where there are administrative matters requiring evidencing that CFO also has responsibility for oversight of capital and liquidity internal control framework.
Stephen and Jim both received papers for and provided the does not warrant a full Board.
There were seven scheduled Board management and the management and safeguarding of client Chairman with detailed comments in advance of the meetings they Specific matters for approval and recommendation to the Board meetings this year, including the annual strategy day.
He supports the CEO in implementing the were unable to attend.
have been formally delegated to certain Board Committees.
The Groups strategy and in relation to the financial and operational Senior executives below Board level attend meetings as required Matters Reserved to the Board and Committee Terms of Reference performance of the Group.
to present and discuss matters relating to their business areas are available on the Companys website, iggroup.
Board activities during the year and functions.
The Board meeting agendas during the year included business Non-Executive Directors The full Board also meets when necessary to discuss important Board composition across the key areas of strategy, governance, risk and financial The Non-Executive Directors are independent of management and ad-hoc emerging issues that require consideration between performance pursuant to the schedule of matters reserved to the The Board currently comprises a Non-Executive Chairman who was are considered by the Board to be free from any business or other scheduled Board meetings.
There were seven such meetings Board and an agreed annual forward calendar.
independent on appointment, two Executive Directors and five relationships that could compromise their independence.
Their role held during the year, convened principally to consider the Boards independent Non-Executive Directors, supported by the Company is to effectively advise and constructively challenge management, preparedness and response to the UK referendum on membership Secretary and senior management.
Strategy along with monitoring managements success in delivering the of the European Union, the launch of IG Investments and responses Annual strategy day held in November 2016 to discuss and agreed strategy within the risk appetite and control framework The Board operates a clear division of responsibilities between the to regulatory consultations.
agree the forward-looking strategic priorities for the Group agreed by the Board.
They are also responsible for determining Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
in respect of its leveraged and unleveraged businesses appropriate levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors.
Each Director commits an appropriate amount of time to their and to consider the regulatory framework under which the duties during the financial year, and the Non-Executive Directors Chairman Group operates met the time commitment reasonably expected of them, including The Chairman, Andy Green, is responsible for leading the Board Conducted a twice annual review of strategic incubator projects pursuant to their letters of appointment.
and creating the right conditions, including its membership and that having first developed a comprehensive incubator governance of its Committees, to ensure the Boards effectiveness in all aspects Where Directors are unable to attend meetings, they are model, including a review of performance against targets of its role.
encouraged to give the Chairman their views in advance on the In light of the FCA Consultation Paper relating to the provision matters to be discussed.
The Chairman sets the Boards agenda, in consultation with the of leveraged products for retail investors, discussed the Groups FY18 strategic themes at a pre-Board presentation in May 2017 Chief Executive Officer and Company Secretary, taking full account The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet formally in the of Board members issues and concerns and the need to allow absence of the Executive Directors at least twice a year.
There were Approved the acquisition of DailyFX assets, a global news sufficient time for robust and constructive discussion and challenge five such meetings during the year.
and financial portal, from FXCM Inc. and the launch of the IG on all relevant matters.
He is responsible for encouraging and Investments product During the year, Non-Executive Directors led by the Senior facilitating active engagement by all Directors, drawing on their Independent Director, met without the presence of the Chairman, skills, knowledge and experience.
including to evaluate the Chairmans performance.
| | 52 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 53
