Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements OUR CLIENTS During this fledgling stage of our relationship, we actively Over more than four decades, IG has built its name on innovation, fairness and outstanding EXTENSIVE LEARNING encourage clients to use our range of educational materials, and client service.
Its a reputation were extremely proud of, and one we believe sets us apart we build their awareness of the up-to-the-minute trading news and RESOURCES research we provide via channels such as DailyFX and IGTV.
from all other firms in our industry.
In achieving our market-leading status, weve constantly For all our clients, we provide access to a myriad of educational Importantly, the new business team also provides another layer put clients at the heart of our business.
resources, prepared using our long-standing expertise in the key of  assessment.
Our people are trained knowledge areas required for successful trading.
This includes Our marketing approach is therefore deliberately aimed towards to evaluate, during their conversations, whether the client has a materials to help people learn common trading techniques, as well OUR PURPOSE people who fit that profile, and we carefully test all our marketing realistic expectation of IG and our products.
as instructional content that demystifies industry jargon or guides To empower informed, decisive, adventurous people to access material to make sure it resonates with appropriate potential clients.
clients through every part of our product suite and platforms.
Constant access to expertise Across the globe we also take measures to ensure our marketing is Our investment in education and training is extensive, and has a Once clients have become acquainted with IG, we offer them balanced, honest, straightforward and fitting for our products and single purpose to help people become more successful traders.
ongoing support and assistance via our trading services teams.
Through our free IG Academy app, for example, clients can learn OUR VISION Available continuously from 8am Sunday to 10pm Friday, as well via interactive, step-by-step trading courses aimed at all experience To be a global leader in retail trading and investments.
We want to attract new clients.
But only the right clients, and in as 9am to 5pm on Saturday, members of this team are experts in levels.
Likewise, our extensive collection of online how-to videos is the right way.
Our marketing approach reflects that, providing an our products, and are responsive and solely customer-focused.
If accessible at any time to help clients enhance their knowledge.
important first introduction to IG and our client-centric approach.
clients have questions about our products, want to know how our A STRATEGY BUILT ON Earlier this year we also acquired DailyFX the worlds leading platforms work or have any other type of enquiry, they can get help portal for forex research, trading news, charts, indicators and A robust onboarding process from our trading services team around the clock.
And with native CLIENT FOCUS analysis.
This bolsters our already extensive news and analysis speakers from every territory in which we are present all available Once prospects have gone beyond the marketing stage and Our strategy puts our clients first in all our planning and decision offering, and positions us very clearly as a leading provider of via phone, email or Live Chat we make it as easy as possible for applied to open an account, were again careful to ensure that only making.
Supporting our clients is something we invest in heavily, market updates and data in our industry.
clients to get the information they need, quickly and in the way they those people for whom our products are appropriate proceed to and we believe it makes good business sense.
To ensure clients have access to this information anywhere, at any model is dependent on trading volumes, so we provide extensive time, and in ways that best suit them, we embed it in our platforms, We manage and capture all of our interactions with clients using educational resources to help our clients identify opportunities.
For all of our products, clients must complete a thorough and serve it on our websites and publish it via channels such as YouTube sophisticated technology.
This ensures we can understand the We also deliver news and analysis that traders can use to make robust application form to ensure their suitability for an account.
whole relationship we have with each client, and have people informed investment decisions, and we develop technology to help This assesses their trading or investing experience and product available to meet their requirements on demand.
clients trade more effectively, equipping them with the tools they knowledge specific to the account type they want to open Its our strong belief that by using appropriate educational materials need to seize opportunities rapidly.
and requires them to disclose information about their education, and having reliable information at their fingertips, our clients can In recognition of our commitment to clients, and to ensure were occupational background and financial position.
We assess this to make better trading decisions.
Clients are our lifeblood, and our top priority is giving them the delivering best practice service, last year we became members determine whether or not such an account is right for them.
To discover exactly what clients want, we of the Institute of Customer Service.
This enabled us to have our ask them.
That means conducting surveys and focus groups, as service standards independently appraised and verified by the In each of the territories in which we operate, if through the initial A CULTURE OF REGULATORY well as studying data to identify trends or to find common areas of UK-based organisation.
application process, an applicant fails to prove a sufficient level of frustration that could be solved through technology improvements knowledge and experience, rather than opening an account we COMPLIANCE or adjustments to the way we conduct business.
invite them to follow a learning programme and insist they take and Compliance is not just a team of people at IG, its a concept central MARKET-LEADING pass a further test.
Only on passing this test will an applicant be The result is a constant process of improvement and evolution, to our culture.
We dedicate significant resource to ensuring that we allowed to proceed to trading with IG.
always driven by the feedback from our clients and our TECHNOLOGY comply with a huge swathe of regulations worldwide with a large understanding of their changing needs.
It has led to enhancements Here IG is well ahead of what is required by regulation, but we team reporting directly to the Chief Executive Officer.
We recognise that our technology is central to the customer ranging from the introduction of limited risk accounts last summer believe its the right thing to do, and reflective of our status as experience, and we seek to get it just right.
We invest heavily in IT However, awareness and respect for the regulatory framework is to the unveiling of our new web trading platform at the start of industry leader.
This proactive stance sets us apart from other development, and are continually looking at ways in which we can also embedded throughout the organisation, and is taken into 2017, and from our continued investment in client education to the providers and is a key part of our client-focused approach improve the tools clients use to engage, invest and trade with us.
account from the very beginning of a products design through the launch of our new investment products.
At every stage of the client experience we We believe clients should be empowered by the technology we Unlike most providers, we reject clients who we believe lack the have described, compliance is key and going beyond regulatory offer and not restricted by it, so in the last year we introduced financial means to bear potential losses.
Earlier this year we raised requirements has become the norm at IG.
Our first value sums this OUR VALUES significant advancements to help our clients trade more effectively.
our required wealth bands, and first-time clients must now place up champion the client.
This client-centric approach is central for our people, too, and The launch of our New Web Trading Platform NWTP was a an increased opening balance on their account before they begin everyone at IG lives by a set of values that guide how we do For example, we decided some years ago to segregate retail headline improvement, delivering a more intuitive, personalised trading.
As far as possible, our aim is always to ensure that the business.
We believe these three simple statements define IG: client money, by default, across the globe often ahead of what trading experience than ever before.
Fast and customisable, it offers prospects our advertising attracts are right for us, and that our is required by regulation.
Our recent introduction of limited risk Champion the client integrated research, market commentary and news alerts, including products are right for them.
accounts, and our decision to prevent clients trading with IG if a social media feed.
Were proud that our clients can now access a Lead the way they are deemed inappropriate through the application process, platform at the very cutting edge of trading technology.
Love what we do Dedicated initial support are indicative of how we place the client at the heart of our To ensure we live these values, we embed them in every part of our When a client first joins us, we understand they may sometimes feel This year has also seen us improving our mobile capability in compliance regime.
business and throughout the client journey from initial marketing a little daunted.
Even the most experienced trader needs time to particular investing in solutions that allow a seamless transition In order for this to happen effectively, we need the right people to opening an account and beyond.
become familiar with a new platform.
To ensure clients are properly between desktop, mobile and tablet.
and we need to provide the framework within which they can excel.
supported in those early days, we employ a professional new In our customer research, clients repeatedly tell us how much they business team to introduce them to IG and to explain exactly what Targeted marketing value good trading technology, and that they seek solutions to they can do with our platforms.
We recognise that our products must be aimed squarely at the right help them trade in a smarter, faster way thats tailored to suit them.
people not every product is right for everyone.
As a result were For this reason we continue to invest heavily in our technological Naturally inquisitive and helpful, members of our new business team extremely targeted in our marketing approach, carefully selecting capabilities, and will keep doing so going forwards.
are tasked with understanding what clients hope to accomplish, how and where we promote ourselves.
The audience we seek to then showing them how our products can help achieve those aims.
attract is knowledgeable about the markets, financially astute, familiar with our products, wealthier than average and risk-aware.
| | 10 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 11 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements OUR PEOPLE Employee voice One unified IG Talented people, supported by a strong organisational culture, are vital to the service we Through our annual engagement survey, we ensure that our people With 1,546 people based in separate locations around the globe, provide for our clients.
Their skill and commitment drive our success in every aspect of our have a direct channel of communication to the executive team and were conscious of the need to actively promote equality, diversity business from designing and building innovative products and cutting-edge platforms to the Board.
The feedback we receive provides important insight and inclusiveness.
We take great pride in creating an open, that helps us achieve our people strategy, enabling us to track our supportive culture, and we believe this is critical to our success, handling client queries efficiently and resolving issues.
progress against three key goals: enabling us to unlock the potential of the workforce in every country where we operate.
We recruit and train people who are skilled in helping clients To fill our business with engaged and dedicated people 1.
Global employer of choice understand the technical nuances and potential risks of our products We have extensive human resource policies in place to attract and In essence, our guiding principle is that were one IG a unified To develop strong leaders from grassroots to Board level a responsibility we take extremely seriously.
support the right people, and to ensure that those who join us can business where energised, engaged people are aligned in their To foster a culture that values employees commitment and develop without experiencing discrimination or harassment.
We commitment to a shared purpose providing the best possible By focusing on quality, transparency and fairness in everything we celebrates their success continuously reinforce the need to treat all employees fairly, creating client experience.
A progressive and diverse working environment do, we can build long-term relationships with our clients.
an environment free from bullying, where people of all grades or Were proud of our working culture, and believe it nurtures the supports collaboration, and encourages each of our people to We continually seek ways to further assist and engage with current positions enjoy dignity and respect.
behaviours and decision-making processes that best serve our achieve their full potential.
In our 2016 engagement survey 2017 financial year, In 2016, our employees led the creation of IG Open, a network to Our global expansion has highlighted the importance of maintaining employees across all locations reported that cooperation, We recognise that a strong team is pivotal in forging mutually support those who identify themselves as LGBT.
It aims to provide clarity of vision and a sense of unity for all of our people.
We teamwork, manager effectiveness, respect and ethics are all clear rewarding, long-term relationships with our clients.
By attracting and a forum for people to exchange experiences and speak comfortably, continue to develop our operational presence in locations where we strengths at IG.
On the downside, our people expressed clearly that developing talented individuals, and by providing an inclusive, fair in a safe space where they can be open and proud of their identity.
can pursue our strategic objectives most efficiently and effectively, they need greater clarity on the vision for IG.
and engaging environment in which they can thrive, were able to and our offices in Krakow and Bangalore together now account We fully consider applications for employment from disabled achieve our strategic objectives.
In the 2018 financial year well be focusing on ensuring that all our for 25% of our employees.
Expanding these operational hubs has persons with aptitudes and abilities in line with our requirements.
people understand our vision and feel able to share in it.
To support enabled us to access additional high-quality talent, particularly in Where existing employees become disabled, temporarily or this, weve developed the more clearly articulated purpose and new technology and support functions.
Approximately half our global permanently, its our policy to provide continuing employment A DECADE OF RECOGNITION values detailed on page 10.
Reflecting the client-centric and global headcount remains based in our London headquarters.
wherever practicable in the same or an alternative position.
In 2017, IG was named as one of Britains Top Employers for the nature of our business, these values will underpin our performance Were committed to ensuring that all our people feel fully tenth successive year.
Appropriate training and or graduated back-to-work programmes, management, people development and recognition processes, as connected and are able to work seamlessly together, regardless in conjunction with the occupational health professionals, help well as providing guidance for decision-making and shaping our The Top Employer certification is awarded only to organisations that of location.
meet the highest standards in human resource management, and were very proud to be a long-standing recipient.
The award, by the Wellbeing Collaboration and communication Corporate Research Foundation, is based on a strong performance Were fully committed to the health and wellbeing of our people, To improve flexibility and collaboration, during the year we in each of the audited categories: pay and benefits, training and ensuring that all our employees receive appropriate protection transitioned 80% of our employees to working on laptops.
development, corporate culture and career development.
benefits and discounted gym access.
In the UK, our people can Together with enhanced collaboration technology, this gives our access the cycle-to-work initiative through our new flexible benefits people the mobility and scope to work in different locations and portal, which also provides increased opportunity for individuals to cross-functional project teams, according to their varying needs.
personalise benefits to their lifestyle requirements.
We also redesigned and updated the interior of our UK A confidential employee-assistance programme is available to all headquarters and acquired a large, contemporary office space our head office employees and their immediate families, offering in Bangalore.
Both aim to provide a vibrant and flexible working a 24 7 telephone counselling service for impartial advice on all environment, reflecting our culture and helping us to attract and matters for example, housing and personal finance.
Alongside the physical space, we continued to develop our intranet, OUR PEOPLE STRATEGY IG hub.
With key internal and industry news updates added daily, Our focus over the past year has been on strengthening the it has become the default source of both static and dynamic relationship between our people, our strategic purpose, our values information for our people.
Were seeing a month-by-month rise in and our clients.
As a global employer, our aspiration is for all of our usage and increased engagement, with the site now receiving more people, in every location, to feel equally connected to our clients.
than twice as many daily page views versus September 2016.
In each and every role, whether customer-facing or back-office, we believe its vital for our people to share a passion for improving the client experience.
Were a global employer with people in 17 countries We employ 1,546 staff 90% of employees feel that theres a strong sense of teamwork and cooperation in IG Weve been certified as one of Britains Top Employers for ten consecutive years There are three key themes within our people strategy: 1.
Talent and growth | | 12 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 13 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements OUR PEOPLE continued We also offer our employees in the UK, Australia and the US 2.
Performance and reward the chance to share in our success through our tax-advantaged Our reward and recognition system is designed to drive high share-purchase schemes.
An average of 33% of eligible employees performance and global growth for the business, developing took part in our share plans in the 2017 financial year.
Were the leaders of the future.
It centres on providing our people with currently reviewing options to extend similar schemes to our other a clearly defined purpose, specific deliverables and expected larger offices Krakow and Bangalore.
Our aim is to ensure that each individual is aligned with our strategy, understands their role in achieving our goals and has 3.
Talent and growth the maximum possible opportunity for advancement.
We recognise that a constant flow of emerging talent is vital to With this in mind, during the year we introduced a IGs continued success, and were committed to ensuring that our high-performance model that gives our people greater clarity on people are equipped to deliver our strategy and growth in the years whats expected of them.
A new check-in process provides regular, ahead.
This means identifying the key roles that well need in the ongoing opportunities for feedback, goal realignment and career future and recruiting, training and developing the right individuals discussions, and has replaced the traditional annual appraisal to fulfil them.
We believe this new framework actively helps to embed During the year we focused on building succession approaches a culture of recognition, better acknowledging and celebrating the for our more senior roles.
Going forward, well implement similar successes of our people.
principles of identification, assessment and development for other To attract and retain the right people, we offer a competitive reward core roles across the Group.
package that recognises performance to date and encourages To bring new talent into the business, we offer a number of our key talent to be part of our future.
In 2016 we adjusted some graduate positions and apprenticeships both in our head of our salary ranges to ensure we remain competitive.
While we office and in various global locations.
These roles are designed acknowledge a possible influence from external factors such as to challenge and develop high-potential people, giving them a Brexit, we believe that our proactive approach has positively platform to display and grow their skills and so to progress rapidly.
As well as offering a market-related salary structure that is regularly We encourage all of our employees to take responsibility for benchmarked, we include the majority of our employees in a group their own development while theyre with us.
Bonus levels are intrinsically linked to the financial recognise that resources need to be in place to enable this to and operational performance of IG, including client satisfaction.
As well as embedding check-ins to encourage better the end of each financial year, bonuses are distributed based on and more regular performance and development conversations, both company and individual performance, as discussed during were also introducing career development workshops, building check-ins throughout the year.
specialist and sales development pathways, introducing Board exposure programmes and continuing to implement coaching and The remainder of our employees are included in specific mentoring programmes.
We also reward our senior and key As an international company, were also able to offer overseas employees through a long-term incentive plan.
secondments and project-based development opportunities for Alongside our formal reward structure, recognition also takes the selected individuals.
form of peerand manager-nominated awards delivered in local All our leaders and potential leaders worldwide are now able teams.
These celebrate achievements in areas such as innovation, to access the Manager Success series of interactive webinars.
mentoring and being a team player or client champion.
In the next These are available in local time zones and provide best-practice year well continue to strengthen our global recognition strategy by tips and techniques to help our people handle common linking it directly to our values and behaviours.
| || 14 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 IG Gr IG Group Holdings plc oup Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 15 15 Company overview Strategic report Corporate Governance report Financial statements CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW Given the tough external environment, Im extremely proud of Profit after tax was 169.2 million, 3% ahead of the prior year 2017 was another interesting and challenging period for IG.
The year was dominated by a the way our people at IG have pulled together over the past 2016: 164.3 million, assisted slightly by a fall in the Groups series of significant global political events, with some surprising outcomes, and a regulatory 12 months.
Teams of employees have been working on our Brexit effective tax rate to 20.8%, from 21.0% in the prior year.
planning, others have been heavily engaged in consultation with landscape entering a period of uncertainty.
Against this backdrop, I am delighted that the our regulators, and more still have been working hard behind the Business performance Company again delivered record revenue and profits.
scenes on initiatives to further differentiate ourselves from our In the principal product area, OTC leveraged trading, the Company competitors and to prepare IG to take advantage of regulatory experienced good growth across all regions outside the UK.
The change all of this while running the business from day to day.
Its strongest relative performance came in EMEA, where revenue was been a fantastic effort, and I want to thank each and every one of ahead of the prior year by 17%, with particular year-on-year strength our employees for their contributions during a difficult time.
OVERVIEW in Switzerland, Dubai and South Africa.
Revenue in APAC was ahead of the prior year by 9%.
Client numbers were up in all regions, with Surprisingly, given the significance of the political events in the To guide our business going forwards, I am especially pleased to growth at a Group level averaging 7%.
The number of client first period not least the UKs EU referendum, the US presidential have relaunched our Company purpose, vision and values this year.
trades was also well ahead of the prior year, up by 15%.
election and a number of key European elections financial markets Detailed below, I believe these statements articulate why IG exists remained incredibly quiet by historic standards.
This fact makes our and what makes us tick.
They underpin all our activity, express the The share dealing service, launched in the UK in 2014, grew well in 2017 performance even more pleasing.
way we behave and set out our ambitions as we strive to achieve the period.
It was launched in Australia in the middle of 2016 and our future vision for the Company.
grew well during the year in both countries.
At the end of the year, The political events will ultimately be consigned to history, but 2017 the Company had just over 20,000 clients holding positions, up will be remembered in our industry as the year when regulatory To demonstrate our commitment to these statements, I and around 200% on the prior year.
And I believe, if regulators can really grasp members of my senior leadership team introduced them to this opportunity, the change which is coming will be fundamentally everyone in the business during a series of more than 50 global In the US, Nadex continued to grow strongly.
Group revenue from positive for consumers globally and will put the industry on a firmer workshops this summer.
We also reminded ourselves where IG came the US was 26% ahead of last year, at 14.1 million.
Ongoing and more sustainable footing going forward.
from we have a history of true entrepreneurialism and innovation.
marketing success, the addition of further market makers and The feedback at those events was extremely positive, and Im technology improvements around latency and the mobile platform Throughout our history, IG has always sought to differentiate itself confident that we have the right people to deliver our strategic aims have all delivered benefits.
from other providers by adhering to and, in some cases, going for 2018 and beyond.
We seek to do what is right, not what Further detail of the regional performance is provided in the is possible.
We understand that CFDs and spread bets arent right Operating and Financial Review on page 30.
Our purpose for everyone, and we therefore believe that it is in the best interests We exist to empower informed, decisive, adventurous people to of many consumers to be stopped from accessing them.
As such, Business development access opportunities in financial markets.
we target our advertising to an appropriate audience, we dont offer The Company continued to make good strategic and operational any form of account opening bonus and we refuse to open accounts progress during the year.
for people who dont understand the product or have insufficient Our vision wealth to be trading financial markets using leverage.
I hope To be a global leader in retail trading and investments.
The rollout of our new web trading platform began late in 2016 with forthcoming changes in regulation will enforce similar behaviours a trial for UK spread betting clients and has since progressed well.
across the industry, and I look forward to a day when all consumers This is now the default platform for UK spread bettors, with more Our values are similarly protected.
than half of all client desktop trades being placed here.
The CFD Champion the client rollout will commence later this year in the UK and will be extended to other countries by the end of 2017.
Be part of their whole experience.
Make every moment count The Company relaunched its limited risk account in July 2016, which and stick with them all the way.
requires all clients using the account to cap the downside risk of every trade, which avoids them ever having a negative balance on Lead the way their account.
IG also only provides this type of account for new Be brave.
Innovate and adapt to win.
clients with lower levels of appropriateness, experience or wealth.
Stand In the last half of the year, around 28% of all OTC leveraged first up and speak your mind.
The acquisition of DailyFX from FXCM for $40 million was Love what we do completed in October 2016.
While the websites are delivering the Make it personal.
Care, be passionate, have fun.
expected number of new leads, the rate of conversion into trading Respect our diversity and learn from each other.
clients has been lower than anticipated.
However, the accounts Share your enthusiasm, take pride in each others which are opened have proved to be more valuable than expected.
achievements and work as a team.
This asset is likely to prove increasingly valuable in countries where paid-for-marketing restrictions are put in place.
GROUP PERFORMANCE REVIEW IG is in a period of rapid product transition.
The Company launched its discretionary managed investments service in the UK towards the The Company once again delivered record revenue in the end of this financial year.
Together with the share dealing service, twelve-month period, up 8% on the prior year to 491.1 million this is expected to be an effective means of engaging and retaining 2016: 456.3 million a good performance in relatively quiet valuable leveraged trading clients.
The number of clients using financial markets.
Profit before tax was ahead by 3% at multiple products a leveraged account and a share dealing or 213.7 million 2016: 207.9 million.
Operating expenses rose by investments account more than doubled in the period and there is 14%.
Excluding the impact of the acquisition of DailyFX in October early evidence that these clients trade more actively, making them 2016, marketing investment, which continued to pay back very more valuable.
rapidly, accounted for almost half of the absolute rise in expenses.
|| | 16 16 IG Gr IG Group Holdings plc oup Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2017 17
