Governance Report Directors and Management KS Sternberg Directors Karl Sternberg was appointed a Director in 2013.
He worked for JGD Ferguson Morgan Grenfell Asset Management owned by Deutsche Bank James Ferguson was appointed a Director in 2002 and became from 1992 to 2005 in a variety of roles, ultimately as the chief Chairman in 2005.
He is chairman of Value & Income Trust plc, investment officer of Deutsche Asset Management Limited.
He left The Scottish Oriental Smaller Companies Trust Plc, The North that role to establish Oxford Investment Partners, an investment American Income Trust PLC and Northern 3 VCT Plc.
He is a management company for a group of Oxford colleges, where he director of The Independent Investment Trust PLC.
He joined was chief executive officer until 2013.
He is a director of JPMorgan Stewart Ivory in 1970, becoming chairman and chief executive in Elect Plc, Alliance Trust PLC, Herald Investment Trust plc, Lowland 1989 and retiring in 2000.
He is a former deputy chairman of the Investment Company PLC, Jupiter Fund Management plc and Association of Investment Companies.
EM Harley JJ Tigue Edward Harley was appointed a Director in 2003.
He joined Jeremy Tigue was appointed a Director in 2014 and became Cazenove & Co in 1983, becoming a partner in 1994.
He has Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 May 2015.
Mr Tigue was considerable experience of overseas markets, having worked in the fund manager of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC New York and latterly with responsibility for the firms business in from 1997 to June 2014.
He is currently chairman of ICG Latin America, S. E. Asia and Australia.
He is currently a director at Enterprise Trust plc and Syncona Limited and is a director of The Cazenove Capital Management.
He is involved with the charitable Mercantile Investment Trust plc and Standard Life Equity Income sector both as a trustee and as a member of investment Trust PLC.
He was a director of the Association of Investment committees and is chairman of the Acceptance in Lieu Panel.
DCP McDougall All of the Directors are members of the Audit Committee with the Douglas McDougall was appointed a Director in 1999 and is the exception of Mr JGD Ferguson, who stood down from the Senior Independent Director.
He is chairman of The Independent Committee on 11 April 2017, and Mr DCP McDougall.
Investment Trust PLC and is a director of Pacific Horizon Managers and Secretaries Investment Trust PLC.
From 1969 to 1999 he was a partner in Baillie Gifford & Co and from 1989 to 1999 was joint senior The Company has appointed Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, a wholly partner and chief investment officer.
He is a former chairman of owned subsidiary of Baillie Gifford & Co, as its Alternative the Investment Management Regulatory Organisation, the Fund Investment Fund Manager AIFM and Company Secretary.
Managers Association and the Association of Investment Baillie Gifford & Co Limited has delegated portfolio management Companies.
services to Baillie Gifford & Co. Baillie Gifford & Co is an investment management firm formed in 1927 out of the legal firm BJ Richards Baillie & Gifford, WS, which had been involved in investment Belinda Richards was appointed a Director in September 2016. management since 1908.
She is a former senior partner at Deloitte LLP with a thirty year Baillie Gifford is one of the largest investment trust managers in career specialising in business operations and strategy the UK and currently manages seven investment trusts.
Baillie development with a particular focus on the Financial Services and Gifford also manages unit trusts and Open Ended Investment Consumer Products sectors.
She is currently the chair of the audit Companies, together with investment portfolios on behalf of committee of Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC, the senior pension funds, charities and other institutional clients, both in the independent director of Grainger plc and a non-executive director UK and overseas.
Funds under the management or advice of of Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
In addition, she is a member Baillie Gifford total around 171 billion as at 23 June 2017.
Based of the FRCs Advisory Group of Audit Committee Chairmen and a in Edinburgh, it is one of the leading privately owned investment member of the Governing Council of the Centre for the Study of management firms in the UK, with 43 partners and a staff of Financial Innovation.
Professor Sir Nigel Shadbolt The manager of Monks portfolio is Charles Plowden and the Professor Sir Nigel Shadbolt was appointed a Director in March deputy managers are Spencer Adair and Malcolm MacColl.
He is Principal of Jesus College, Oxford, Professorial Charles, Spencer and Malcolm are all partners at Baillie Gifford Research Fellow in the Department of Computer Science, and have been working together since 2005.
Charles is one of University of Oxford and a visiting Professor of Artificial Intelligence Baillie Giffords two joint senior partners.
at the University of Southampton.
He specialises in open data and Baillie Gifford & Co and Baillie Gifford & Co Limited are both artificial intelligence and is currently also Chairman of the Open authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
