Strategic Report Managers Report We also saw strong relative share price performance across a Background broad spread of holdings including financials such as Sberbank, Markets were strong in the year to end April 2017, with returns to First Republic and HDFC respectively Russian, American and Sterling investors flattered by the pronounced weakness in the Indian banks : industrials such as Renishaw, Atlas Copco, CRH pound which followed the UKs decision to leave the European and Lincoln Electric: and consumer companies including Royal Union.
Global headlines throughout the period were dominated by Caribbean Cruises.
The only notable negative contributors to political uncertainties and predictions of economic gloom, yet the performance, both of which remain in the portfolio, were Myriad reality was that few of these fears were realised and companies Genetics medical diagnostics and Novo Nordisk, the world across the world were, in general, able to produce good revenue leader in diabetes treatment.
Both fell victim to pricing pressures and profit growth against a background of stable low inflation and as regulators and competitors combined to try to get US continuing low interest rates.
There was limited divergence of healthcare costs under control but we believe each has technical performance between the major markets or between sectors: it leadership which should enable a better long-term outcome.
was a year when stock selection dominated.
Performance was also helped by gearing, with borrowed funds Performance invested in the equity markets contributing approximately 1.7% to During the year to 30 April 2017 the Companys net asset value returns for the year.
We put the equity gearing in place in two NAV, with borrowings at fair value, returned 40.0%, significantly stages following market weakness in late 2015 and early 2016. ahead of the FTSE World Index at 31.0%.
While this is a more We have been waiting patiently for an opportunity to take the level than satisfactory outcome, we believe that performance should of borrowings to what we consider the long-term norm of 10% of only be judged over longer time periods of five years or more, so shareholders funds.
The markets strength has dissuaded us from it is still early days for the new management team.
Over the two taking out further borrowings for the time being but we remain years since the change in approach the NAV return has been alert to opportunities and we have scope within our existing bank 39.4% compared to the benchmark at 31.6%.
arrangements to move quickly should the chance arise.
Remarkably 29 of our holdings appreciated by more than 50% in In addition to the strong performance of the underlying portfolio Sterling during the year and 7 by more than 100%.
These big and the positive impact of gearing, shareholders also benefited winners come disproportionately from two of our favourite growth during the year from a narrowing of the discount from 9.5% to areas: Platform businesses and Technology companies, notably 0.6% calculated with borrowings at fair value.
This boosted the those involved in semi-conductors.
Among the Platforms we saw share price total return to a gain of 53.9%.
The reduction in the big contributions from long-term holdings including Amazon discount was the result of our efforts to generate more buyers of which is now our largest holding, MercadoLibre and Alibaba Monks shares in the market while reducing the level of selling by respectively the leading Brazilian and Chinese ecommerce existing shareholders.
The approach we have taken is to explain platforms, Naspers, a South African based internet investor, and clearly and consistently our investment approach to both existing MarketAxess which is an electronic bond trading platform.
The and potential shareholders, focusing on those we consider to be diverse nationality of these companies demonstrates that the natural long-term holders, namely private individuals, those geography was not a big influence but rather similarities in advised by intermediaries such as wealth managers and smaller business model and scale alongside secular changes in behaviour charities and foundations.
The main factor tying these groups enabled by the internet and the development of mobile services together is their willingness to take a very long-term view of their were the key success factors.
It is interesting to note that despite investments, without the inclination for expensive and uncertain very strong share price appreciation we made no sales of any of short-term portfolio trading.
these holdings but rather added to Alibaba and Naspers during We are encouraged by progress so far but recognise that if we the year as we continue to believe such companies are capable of are to prevent the discount from widening out again, we shall substantial further growth.
have to continue to demonstrate ongoing potential for strong Broader technological progress is also driving demand for performance.
We are pleased that this is the second successive advanced electronics and in particular for the semi-conductors year where the Company has not needed to buy back shares which enable everything from our mobile phones to industrial and, in contrast, we are now approaching the position where we automation, medical diagnostics and treatments and electric and might potentially issue new shares at a premium to NAV in order eventually autonomous vehicles.
The semi-conductor industry to satisfy demand from buyers.
Now that we have agreed a new has historically proven highly cyclical and unpredictable but it lower tiered fee scale with the Board, any growth in assets will remains our contention that significant consolidation across result in lower costs for all shareholders.
several strands of the industry will result in more dominant leaders and more rational behaviour, particularly as it relates to new Portfolio Changes capacity and pricing.
Combined with a rapid uptick in demand Portfolio turnover was lower than in recent years at 13.8%, based on this wide range of new applications, this should suggesting an average holding period of over seven years, in line produce significant future profits and a more positive assessment with our long-term perspective.
The table on page 5 shows the of the companies involved.
The strong share price performance of new purchases and complete sales.
We sold a number of holdings such as Nvidia, Teradyne, Samsung Electronics and successful investments where valuations now largely discount Veeco, each of which more than doubled in the year, along with future prospects, including Shimano, Ferrari, Wolseley and Dolby Rohm and TSMC suggests that this process has begun, though and in a similar vein we also reduced Markel, First Republic, as with the Platform winners, we believe there is considerably Ryanair and CRH.
The balance of disposals were of companies more to go for.
04 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report growth from a range of strong and adaptable businesses with New Purchases Complete sales superior prospects.
We are less confident that aggregate Abiomed Aggreko stockmarket indices will make continued progress given the AP Moller-Maersk American Express number of large companies and industries which look to us to be China Biologic Products Banco Popular Espaol ripe for disruption and long-term decline.
Our job is to ensure that Ctrip.
com International Coca Cola HBC the portfolio has sufficient exposure to the winners and the GRAIL Dolby Laboratories HTC eBay foresight to avoid too many of the losers.
Infineon Technologies Ferrari Politics across the developed world does seem to be becoming Interactive Brokers Group Jardine Matheson less predictable, in part because of competition from fast Jardine Strategic Holdings Monsanto developing economies and in part because of the impact of new Kansai Paint Nanoco LendingTree Praxair technologies on societies.
While aggregate market valuations Line Qualcomm appear high and perhaps fail to reflect some of the external risks, PageGroup Shimano we believe that the portfolio carries significantly lower redundancy Resmed SK Hynix risk and well above average growth potential, thereby justifying SiteOne Landscape Supply SoftBank premium valuations.
Half of the portfolio is, in any case, not Trupanion Stratasys dependant on general economic development but rather on Verisk Analytics THK secular drivers.
Such companies, and we have already referred to Victrex Volvo several of them in discussion of performance and transactions, Wolseley should succeed or fail on their own efforts and we describe these as economically agnostic see chart on page 8.
In many cases we believe that the winner in a particular industry will take the vast which have failed to develop as we had previously hoped, many majority of the rewards, so that as a dominant leader such as of which had entered the portfolio as smaller incubator Amazon, Alibaba, Samsung or Facebook emerges, so the risks positions, reflecting the wide range of possible outcomes and from competitors reduce, higher valuations can be justified and uncertainties.
It is our practice not to dwell on such unknowns as holdings can be allowed to rise in size.
While the growth rates of risk taking is at the heart of our investment approach and failures such companies will eventually slow, margins and cashflows are inevitable: the key is to include as many successes as should improve and returns to shareholders remain healthy.
The other half of the portfolio is more economically sensitive and Several of the new purchases were of Rapid growth stocks, reflects three broad themes: continued confidence in American including a number of relatively immature but high potential growth: a revival in Emerging Markets: and cautious optimism that companies which address large markets with innovative solutions.
we are past the worst in Japan and Europe.
While the progress of Examples include Abiomed heart pumps, LendingTree the Trump administrations reforms are uncertain, we believe the consumer finance portal, China Biologics plasma products and direction of tax and industrial policy is broadly positive and should GRAIL cancer diagnosis.
GRAIL is a start up company, working support the economy, with incentives to increase investment and on the development of blood tests for the early detection of research particularly important for the longer term.
It is currently not listed on the stockmarket but has a Emerging Markets are benefiting from a cyclical recovery after a pedigree list of backers including Illumina, Google and a number difficult few years, supported by competitive currencies and of leading pharmaceutical companies.
One of the advantages of praiseworthy efforts to improve governance and reduce investment trusts relative to open-ended vehicles is this ability to corruption: in several such countries politics is actually becoming invest in unquoted companies.
We will continue to look out for a cause for optimism.
The portfolios exposure to Europe and further unique and high potential opportunities not otherwise Japan is currently modest but the passage of time and increased accessible through public markets, however, we do not expect to pressure for change and reform suggests growing scope for hold more than a handful of such companies.
purchases represented more established growth businesses such as Resmed, Verisk, Infineon and Ctrip.
Lastly, we acquired initial Overall we are seeing more opportunities for profitable investment incubator sized holdings in two out of favour Latent growth all over the world and we look forward with confidence.
We stocks HTC and AP Moller-Maersk.
In each case we are hoping believe we are closely aligned with the interests of investors for much improved future prospects, especially as capacity is now looking for a low cost, actively managed global trust which they growing more slowly than demand while self help and can buy easily in the market and then hold for the very long term.
restructuring offer benefits on top.
Both are strongly financed and would look significantly undervalued should our positive case Charles Plowden come through.
Spencer Adair Outlook for the Portfolio Malcolm MacColl Following the significant rise in the Monks share price over the Baillie Gifford & Co last twelve months we must prepare ourselves for the likelihood of 27 June 2017 lower returns in the future.
But importantly, we still believe portfolio returns should be positive, based on continued profit Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 05
