Governance Report Directors Report The Directors present their Report together with the audited Directors Financial Statements of the Company for the year to 30 April 2017.
Information about the Directors who were in office at the year end and up to the date the Financial Statements were signed, Corporate Governance including their relevant experience, can be found on page 18.
The Corporate Governance Report is set out on pages 22 to 24 Ms Carol Ferguson retired from the Board on 3 August 2016. and forms part of this Report.
Ms Belinda Richards and Professor Sir Nigel Shadbolt, having Manager and Company Secretaries been appointed to the Board during the year, are required to Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Baillie seek election by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Gifford & Co, has been appointed as the Companys Alternative Meeting.
The Directors believe that the Board will benefit from Investment Fund Manager AIFM and Company Secretaries.
their extensive knowledge and experience and recommend their Baillie Gifford & Co Limited has delegated portfolio management election to shareholders.
All the other Directors are retiring at services to Baillie Gifford & Co. the Annual General Meeting and are offering themselves for re-election.
Following formal performance evaluation, the The Investment Management Agreement sets out the matters Chairman confirms that the Board considers that their over which the Managers have authority in accordance with the performance continues to be effective and that they remain policies and directions of, and subject to restrictions imposed by, committed to the Company.
The Board therefore recommends the Board.
The Investment Management Agreement is terminable their re-election to shareholders.
on not less than six months notice.
Compensation fees would only be payable in respect of the notice period if termination were Directors Indemnity and Insurance to occur sooner.
The annual management fee payable for the year The Company has entered into qualifying third party deeds of to 30 April 2017 was 0.45% of total assets less current liabilities, indemnity in favour of each of its Directors.
The deeds, which calculated and payable quarterly.
With effect from 1 May 2017 the were in force during the year to 30 April 2017 and up to the date annual management fee is 0.45% on the first 750 million of total of approval of this report, cover any liabilities that may arise to a assets and 0.33% on the remaining total assets, where total third party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or assets is defined as the total value of all assets held less all breach of trust or duty.
The Directors are not indemnified in liabilities other than any liability in the form of borrowings intended respect of liabilities to the Company, any regulatory or criminal for investment purposes.
fines, any costs incurred in connection with criminal proceedings The function of the Management Engagement Committee is in which the Director is convicted or civil proceedings brought by fulfilled by those members of the Board who are also members of the Company in which judgement is given against him her.
In the Audit Committee Qualifying Directors.
The Board reviews addition, the indemnity does not apply to any liability to the extent investment performance and monitors the arrangements for the that it is recovered from another person.
The Company also provision of investment management and secretarial services to maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance.
the Company on a continuous basis.
A formal evaluation of the Conflicts of Interest Managers by the Qualifying Directors is conducted annually.
The Each Director submits a list of potential conflicts of interest to the Qualifying Directors annual evaluation considered, amongst Board on an annual basis.
The Board considers these carefully, others, the following topics: the quality of the personnel assigned taking into account the circumstances surrounding them and, if to handle the Companys affairs: the quality of policy guidance considered appropriate, they are approved for a period of one and explanations: the investment strategy and performance: year.
Having considered the lists of potential conflicts there were administrative competence: the quality and coverage of papers: no actual direct or indirect interests of a Director which conflicted the marketing efforts undertaken by the Managers: with the interests of the Company.
communication with shareholders: and the service level provided by, and relationship with, the Managers generally.
Dividends Following the most recent evaluation in March 2017, the Qualifying The Board recommends a final dividend of 1.25p per ordinary Directors are in agreement that the continuing appointment of share for the year.
If approved, the recommended final dividend Baillie Gifford & Co Limited as AIFM and the delegation of on the ordinary shares will be paid on 4 August 2017 to investment management services to Baillie Gifford & Co on the shareholders on the register at the close of business on 7 July terms agreed, is in the interest of shareholders as a whole.
The ex-dividend date is 6 July 2017.
The Companys Registrar offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan see page 53 and The Qualifying Directors consider that maintaining a low ongoing the final date for elections for this dividend is 14 July 2017. charge ratio is in the best interest of shareholders.
The Qualifying Directors continue to give careful consideration to the basis of the Share Capital management fee.
Capital Structure Depositary The Companys capital structure consists of 213,963,859 ordinary BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited has been appointed shares of 5p each at 30 April 2017.
There are no restrictions as the Companys Depositary.
The Depositarys responsibilities concerning the holding or transfer of the Companys ordinary include cash monitoring, safe keeping of the Companys financial shares and there are no special rights attached to any of the instruments, verifying ownership and maintaining a record of other shares.
assets and monitoring the Companys compliance with investment limits and leverage requirements.
The Depositary has delegated the custody function to The Bank of New York Mellon SA NV the Custodian.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 19 Governance Report Dividends would be in the best interests of the Company to do so.
This authority will continue until the conclusion of the Annual General The ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends.
Interim Meeting to be held in 2018 or on the expiry of 15 months from the dividends are determined by the Directors, whereas the proposed passing of the resolutions, if earlier.
final dividend requires shareholder approval.
Purchase of Own Shares Capital entitlement At the last Annual General Meeting the Company was granted On a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the authority to purchase up to 32,073,182 ordinary shares surplus assets will be paid to ordinary shareholders in proportion equivalent to approximately 14.99% of its issued share capital, to their shareholdings.
such authority to expire at the Annual General Meeting in respect Voting of the year ending 30 April 2017.
No shares were bought back Each ordinary shareholder present in person or by proxy is during the year under review and no shares are held in treasury.
entitled to one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to one The principal reason for share buy-backs is to enhance net asset vote for every share held.
value per share for continuing shareholders by purchasing shares at a discount to the prevailing net asset value.
Information on the deadlines for proxy appointments can be found on page 51.
The Company may hold bought-back shares in treasury and then: Major Interests in the Companys Shares i sell such shares or any of them for cash or its equivalent The Company has received notifications of the following interests under the Treasury Shares Regulations : or in 3% or more of the voting rights of the Company as at 30 April 2017.
There have been no changes to the major interests in the ii cancel the shares or any of them.
Companys shares intimated up to 23 June 2017.
Shares will only be sold from treasury at a premium to net asset value.
Ordinary 5p shares held at The Directors are seeking shareholders approval at the Annual Name 30 April 2017 % of issue General Meeting to renew the authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares in issue at the date of passing Old Mutual Plc 11,136,744 5.2 of the resolution, such authority to expire at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in respect of the year ending Annual General Meeting 30 April 2018.
Issuance of Shares In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, At the last Annual General Meeting, the Directors were granted the maximum price excluding expenses that may be paid on the shareholders approval for a general authority to allot shares and exercise of the authority must not exceed the higher of: also an authority to issue shares or sell shares held in treasury on a non-pre-emptive basis without first offering such shares to i 5 per cent above the average closing price on the London existing shareholders pro-rata to their existing holdings.
Both Stock Exchange of an ordinary share over the five business authorities expire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and the Directors are seeking shareholders approval to renew them ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the for a further year, as detailed below.
highest current independent bid on the London Stock Resolution 15 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting seeks a Exchange.
general authority for the Directors to allot shares up to an The minimum price exclusive of expenses that may be paid is aggregate nominal amount of 1,069,819.
Purchases of shares will be made within guidelines represents 10% of the Companys total ordinary share capital in established, from time to time, by the Board.
The Company does issue at 23 June 2017 and meets institutional guidelines.
The not have any warrants or options in issue.
Your attention is Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
drawn to Resolution 17 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting This authority will continue until the conclusion of the Annual on page 50.
This authority, if conferred, will be exercised only if to General Meeting to be held in 2018 or on the expiry of 15 months do so would result in an increase in net asset value per ordinary from the passing of the resolutions, if earlier.
share for the remaining shareholders and if it is in the best Resolution 16, which is proposed as a special resolution, seeks interests of shareholders generally.
authority for the Directors to issue shares or sell shares held in Articles of Association treasury on a non-pre-emptive basis for cash up to an aggregate The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by nominal amount of 1,069,819 representing 10% of the issued special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
ordinary share capital of the Company as at 23 June 2017.
This authority will only be used to issue shares or sell shares from treasury at a premium to net asset value on the basis of debt valued at par value and only when the Directors believe that it 20 Annual Report 2017 Governance Report The Board extends its appreciation to  Directors Fees Limit LLP for its services as Auditors and confirms that there are no The Companys Articles of Association provide that Directors matters in connection with  LLP ceasing fees may not exceed 200,000 per annum in aggregate, or such to hold office as Auditors following the 2017 audit which need to larger amount as may be agreed by the Company by ordinary be brought to the attention of shareholders.
Whilst the Board has no intention of increasing from  LLP confirming the reasons Directors fees this year, it is seeking shareholders approval at the connected with its ceasing to hold office as Auditors is included forthcoming Annual General Meeting to increase the aggregate on page 57. annual limit, which has not changed since 2003, to 300,000 as a consequence of the increase in the number of Directors and Greenhouse Gas Emissions with a view to creating suitable headroom.
Your attention is All of the Companys activities are outsourced to third parties.
drawn to Resolution 14 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting The Company therefore has no greenhouse gas emissions to on page 50. report from its operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act Future Developments of the Company 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
The outlook for the Company is dependent to a significant degree on economic events and the financial markets.
Further comments Bribery Act on the outlook for the Company and its investment portfolio are The Company has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and is set out in the Chairmans Statement on page 2 and the committed to carrying out business fairly, honestly and openly.
Managers Report on pages 4 and 5.
The Managers also adopt a zero tolerance approach and have policies and procedures in place to prevent bribery.
Financial Instruments The Companys financial instruments comprise its investment Recommendation portfolio, cash balances, borrowings and debtors and creditors The Directors unanimously recommend you vote in favour of the that arise directly from its operations such as sales and purchases resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting as it is awaiting settlement and accrued income.
The financial risk their view that the resolutions are in the best interests of management objectives and policies arising from its financial shareholders as a whole.
instruments and the exposure of the Company to risk are disclosed in note 19 to the Financial Statements.
On behalf of the Board Disclosure of Information to Auditors JGD Ferguson The Directors confirm that so far as each of the Directors is aware Chairman there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys 27 June 2017 Auditors are unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps that they might reasonably be expected to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Post Balance Sheet Events The Directors confirm that there have been no post Balance Sheet events which require adjustment of, or disclosure in, the Financial Statement or notes thereto up to 27 June 2017.
Independent Auditors For the regulatory reasons explained in last years Annual Report, the Company conducted an Audit Committee-led tender of its audit services during the year under review to coincide with the end of the five year rotation cycle of the current Audit Partner of  LLP.
The result of the tender process, described more fully on page 26, was that the Board has approved the proposed appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors for the financial year commencing 1 May 2017.
Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to be appointed Auditors to the Company.
The appointment is subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 2 August 2017 and resolutions concerning Ernst & Young LLPs appointment and remuneration will be submitted to that meeting.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 21
