THE BOARD DR KEITH HELLAWELL QPM SIMON BENTLEY Non-Executive Chairman, Chairman of Nomination Committee Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman of Audit Committee Appointed: 24 November 2009 Appointed: 02 March 2007 Committees: Nomination and Remuneration Committees Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees Previous roles: Prior to joining the team at Sports Direct International plc, Dr Hellawell spent over 40 years in public sector Previous roles: Simon qualified as a Chartered Accountant in management being a former Chief Constable of two British police 1980 and in 1987 joined Blacks Leisure Group Plc where he was forces.
While working directly for the Prime Minister between 1998 Chairman and Chief Executive for 12 years.
and 2002 he wrote and coordinated the United Kingdom national Present roles: Simon chairs and is on the board of a range of and international anti-drugs policy.
Dr Hellawell has been involved companies and organisations.
Among these, he is Chairman in the private sector since 1998 when he joined Evans of Leeds, of the hair brand Umberto Giannini, is the principal owner and a fully listed property company.
Since then he has served on the Chairman of the leading mobile ATM operator Cash on the Move, Boards of both Dalkia plc and Sterience Limited, subsidiaries of is a Supervisory Board Director of Global Home, a designer and the French company Veolia Env.
He was Non-Executive Chairman manufacturer of indoor furniture for retailers, based in Vietnam, of Goldshield Group plc, a marketing-led pharmaceutical and is Chairman of Yad Vashem UK Foundation.
and consumer health company, from May 2006 to its sale in December 2009.
He has held a number of other Non-Executive Key skills and experiences: He has lengthy experience of the Board positions in private companies in sectors such as vehicle sporting goods industry, and has the recent and relevant financial manufacturing and IT.
experience and accounting background necessary to be Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Present roles: Dr Hellawell is currently a Non-Executive Director of Mortice plc, a Singapore-based facilities management company, a Director of the Super League team Huddersfield Giants and Non-Executive Chairman of SmartWitness plc, a leading designer, DAVE SINGLETON manufacturer, and supplier of in-vehicle cameras, recorders, Non-Executive Director, Chairman of Remuneration Committee and software.
He also runs his own management and training consultancy company.
Appointed: 27 October 2007 Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees Key skills and experiences: Dr Hellawell has worked in both the Previous roles: Dave spent 25 years with Reebok International public and private sector for over 50 years.
Throughout this time he has built up a wealth of experience which he brings to Limited.
He stepped down in April 2007 having assisted with the Group to ensure the successful and effective operation of the successful integration of Reebok following its acquisition by adidas Group in January 2006.
For eight years he was Vice the Board.
President of Northern Europe Region & UK and then was Senior Vice President of Europe, Middle East & Africa.
Dave will retire from the Board at the 2017 AGM.
MIKE ASHLEY Present roles: Dave is Chairman of Bolton Lads & Girls Club and Chief Executive Bolton Community Leisure Trust.
He is also a Trustee at Bolton Appointed: 1982 founder Wanderers Community Trust.
Previous roles: Mike established the business of the Group on leaving school in 1982 and was the sole owner until the Groups Key skills and experiences: Dave has an extensive senior listing in March 2007.
He was Executive Deputy Chairman prior to management record and brings valuable experience of being appointed Chief Executive in September 2016. international sports brand operations.
Key skills and experiences: Mike was the founder of the Group and has the necessary skills for formulating the vision and commercial strategy of the Group.
With over 30 years in the sports DAVID BRAYSHAW retail business with Sports Direct he is invaluable to the Group.
Non-Executive Director Appointed: 8 December 2016 Committees: Audit Committee Previous roles: David is a very experienced senior investment and commercial banker.
He has over 30 years experience with organisations such as Barclays Capital, HSBC, Citigroup and Pilkington plc.
Key skills and experiences: David graduated from Oxford in 1975 with a Masters of Arts in Chemistry.
He has spent a long career in the field of corporate financing for a number of major financial institutions, and completed time as the Group Treasurer of Pilkington plc.
