OUR BUSINESS From our beginnings as a standalone sports store in Maidenhead The Fitness Division comprises 32 gyms located across the UK.
in 1982, Sports Direct today operates a diversified portfolio of Our sites were largely accumulated through the acquisition of 25 sports, fitness, fashion and lifestyle fascias and brands.
We aspire LA Fitness gyms.
A further three gyms have been co-located with to be a leading sports and lifestyle retailer internationally, and to SPORTSDIRECT.
We have been working on our deliver sustainable growth for our shareholders in the medium customer proposition in Fitness and this year we have continued to long term.
Sports Directs c. 29,000 people work together to to invest in product development, as well as new equipment and serve customers and communities, work with our third-party re-modelling of the LA Fitness club layouts.
We have recently brand partners, and our Group Brands and suppliers.
Our values re-branded some gyms as Everlast, a Group brand, to offer are: operating as one team: planning for success: striving to lead greater differentiation and customer appeal.
and energise others: doing things the right way: creating a good Our Premium Lifestyle division includes the Groups premium impression: wowing our customers: and delivering results.
fascias such as Flannels and lifestyle fascias like USC, and is a BUSINESS MODEL core component of the Elevation Strategy and our new generation retail concept.
Its focus is to offer fashion conscious shoppers a Last year the Group commenced re-aligning its business model large format, premium multi-brand retail destination with towards our key medium to long-term strategic goal, which is high-end and on trend products.
to elevate our retail proposition in the direction of becoming the Selfridges of sports retail.
We have used this term to describe Our new generation concept brings together the breadth of the our Elevation Strategy to enhance our offering to customers Group across sports retail, lifestyle, premium, and fitness, and towards new levels of excellence, in our multi-sport and multispans the Groups channels, with our key elevation initiatives brand offering to customers.
The Elevation Strategy includes being mirrored across stores, online, and our marketing rolling out a new generation of stores, which include flagshipinitiatives.
The creation of these retail destinations boosts our style stores that average approximately 40,000 sq.
ft. appeal to more customers, and generates operating synergies for These flagship stores are of sufficient scale and are ideally the Group.
located, in order to showcase the very best products that our third party brand partners are able to offer to our customers.
OUR FASCIAS AND RETAIL CHANNELS The Group has a range of fascias and our retail channels This elevation is vital to continue to strengthen our relationships include standalone sites stores and multi-fascia retail spaces, with our third-party brand partners: to deliver benefits for our concessions within department stores, such as Debenhams, and customers: to drive the Groups long-term profitability, and to online, including partnership arrangements.
ensure we move forward together to offer an unrivalled range of global brands.
Our elevation plans span product, stores, online, The focus of our fascia and retail channel approach has and marketing, and will equip the Group to continue to deliver an evolved this year as we elevate our sports retail proposition and unrivalled range of leading global brands through new generation implement our new generation retail concept, introduced above.
retail concepts that appeal to a broad range of consumers.
Our new generation stores will typically include exceptional visual merchandising and branded category areas, and lead with third Below we have outlined the key components of our business party branded performance areas: an extensive sport category model in more detail: our offer to customers, our fascias and retail offering: adjacent lifestyle and or premium store s, and a branded channels, our third party brand partners and our Group Brands, fitness gym.
They can be situated in prime retail shopping areas, our National Distribution Centre at our Shirebrook campus, our or in out of town shopping destinations.
centralised commercial and support functions, and our people.
The critical enabler to deliver the elevation strategy is the Groups OUR OFFER TO CUSTOMERS active management of its store property portfolio.
As highlighted Our overarching commitment to our customers continues to at the AGM Open Day on 7 September 2016 and since, the Group focus on delivering an unrivalled range, availability and quality of is focused on elevating its store portfolio through acquisitions products both third party brand and Group branded products and relocations.
To increase the Groups ability to secure strategic with different customer value propositions across our sports retail locations that are commercially viable, our Property division retail, lifestyle and premium fascias.
alongside senior management has the flexibility to invest in freehold properties and development projects, which can span In UK Sports Retail, we offer a complete range of sporting apparel, vacant buildings, development land or re-development projects, footwear and equipment through our predominant fascia, and multi-tenanted schemes or properties.
To ensure an efficient SPORTSDIRECT.
Our current forward looking view is that the transition and reduce non-trading space, the Group seeks to align majority of our customer offer must include third party brands, store openings with existing lease expiries where possible.
and the elevation of our sports retail proposition is key to ensure This wide-ranging but controlled brief ensures the Group is able to we are fully aligned with our third-party brand partners future rollout our plans while efficiently transitioning the store portfolio.
To this end, in our FY17 H1 presentations in December, we stated that we envisage investing c. 1bn i. e. potentially in excess For International Sports Retail, we are evolving our customer of c. 300m per annum over 2 to 4 years on property asset proposition in line with the strategy, while also seeking to tailor acquisitions.
We remain committed to this strategy and will take our proposition more to the local markets where we operate.
decisions based on the medium to long-term aspirations of the Group, whilst managing the short-term volatility.
44 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 An example of our new generation concept is in Southport, where During this ongoing work, the Board and management team, we opened a new generation store during the year.
The Southport as well as the Companys appointed legal advisor, RPC, have store spans c. 70,000 sq.
ft. in retail space and includes a Sports identified strengths and areas requiring improvement in the Direct store, a Flannels store premium, a USC concession Companys approach to managing its people.
A number of existing lifestyle, and an Everlast gym together on one site.
Other recent practices have been strengthened and new practices have been examples of new generation stores that feature Sports Direct and introduced which have benefitted our people and the Company.
USC include Sunderland on the site of a former BHS and Dublin.
Below we have provided an overview of some of these initiatives Including the new generation stores, the Group has a total of c. within elements of our people management framework.
468 sports retail stores in the UK, and c. 289 sports retail stores The Groups overall approach to managing our people is discussed internationally.
Across our Premium Lifestyle division, we have further in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of this c. 73 stores throughout the UK.
OUR GROUP BRANDS REMUNERATION & REWARDS The Group retains a portfolio of world famous heritage brands, We have and continue to foster a high performance, high reward which we offer via our fascias, and also wholesale and license based culture that enables our staff to share in the success of the to partners internationally.
Alongside our Group Brands we work Company.
With respect to salaries and wages, on 31 December with our leading third party global brand partners and provide 2015 the Company announced it would pay above the National significant prominence to these specialists with our customers, in Minimum Wage from 1 January 2016.
From April 2017, rates that our stores and online.
are above the statutory National Living Wage were introduced across our workforce for those over 25 years of age.
The Company Our third party and Group brands are managed by central brand pays awards and incentives of c. 19 million annually, from which and marketing teams.
This centralised structure significantly both permanent and casual staff can benefit.
benefits the Group by enabling the individual brands to participate in Group buying and sourcing: aggregated supplier relationships A key element of the Groups approach to long-term incentives and enhanced supply chain disciplines: Group stock monitoring historically has been the Groups share schemes.
The Group and replenishment: and more inspired and harmonious visual introduced share schemes in 2009 as a way of attracting, merchandising in-store.
motivating and incentivising our existing and future employees by aligning the interests of our team with our shareholders, and Our Group brands include Karrimor, Slazenger and Everlast.
giving our employees the opportunity to participate in the success The Group has maintained investment in selected brands to of the Group.
While the Group successfully achieved the targets preserve value, and is proud to have a number of high profile relating to the 2011 Share Scheme, the Group did not achieve the sporting and entertainment personalities, as well as international targets set by the 2015 Share Scheme, and disappointingly, the sporting events and sporting venues, as ambassadors.
Scheme lapsed and the Share Awards were not achieved.
OUR CENTRALISED COMMERCIAL AND SUPPORT FUNCTIONS The final tranche of the Share Awards relating to our 2011 Share Scheme will result in c. 14 million shares vesting to approximately The Group operates centralised commercial and support 2,000 eligible participating employees in September 2017. functions which are based both at our Shirebrook campus and In December 2016 the Company announced that, as a result in our London office.
Our Head Office team works across Retail, of the continued volatility in the Companys share price, the Buying, Brands, HR, Warehousing, IT, Property, E-commerce, Company would put in place arrangements to deliver a minimum Legal, Mergers and Acquisitions, and Finance.
These functions value of 3 for each share awarded to participants.
This will reside in the office space and work alongside our people in the be delivered via a flexible cash bonus arrangement, which Shirebrook warehouse, transport and retail stores.
will operate, as necessary, to top up the market value of a Having centralised commercial functions brings a significant participants shares on exercise at any time up to four years from scale benefit to the businesses within the Group, which enhances the date of vesting.
If eligible employees wish to postpone vesting the efficiency of day-to-day operations.
until September 2018 the 3 guarantee will rise to 4.
OUR PEOPLE The Board continues to work towards developing a new longThe past two years have been tough on our people, and protecting term incentive scheme that continues to align the interests of our people remains a priority.
We believe our teamwork is our our employees and shareholders.
The Companys approach to strength One Team, One Goal and when our people are strong, remuneration and its Remuneration Policy is discussed further in our business is strong.
The Sports Direct family consists of c. our Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
29,000 people who strive to offer customers an unrivalled multisport category and multi-brand retail experience.
It is our policy WORKERS REPRESENTATIVE to treat all with dignity and respect, and we continue to make The Workers Representative is Alex Balacki pictured on page 15, positive progress as the Boards review of our people strategy a store manager who started with Sports Direct 13 years ago as a remains ongoing following the Boards commission of a Working casual sales assistant.
Alex attends all scheduled meetings of the Practices Report, which was published in September 2016, a copy Board, which facilitates a healthy and constructive dialogue on of which is available on our corporate website.
behalf of the Sports Direct family.
A new Workers Representative will be elected annually and next year the Representative will be from our warehouse or Head Office.
45 OUR BUSINESS STAFF FEEDBACK The Company has a rolling dialogue with staff via Your Company, Your Voice.
This follows a pilot in Shirebrook in which permanent and warehouse agency staff were invited to submit feedback via suggestion boxes.
A similar system has now been rolled out at store level in the UK to ensure staff can flag issues of concern via a digital portal.
All contributions received are read by senior management.
Improvements as result of this dialogue include changes to working arrangements, the introduction of English lessons and free Wi-Fi in canteens.
The Workers Representative also reads all contributions and provides the Board with an overview, as well as replying to staff where appropriate.
YOUR COMPANY YOUR VOICE CASUAL WORKERS WELLBEING SERVICE We continue to make progress and review our arrangements for We are pleased to confirm that the Company is in the process of casual staff.
We have taken steps to promote stability for this launching a health and wellbeing service for staff in Shirebrook in group by ensuring changes to scheduled hours by the Company conjunction with Derbyshire Community Health Service.
In accordance with relevant regulatory This will facilitate a health worker providing training for a team requirements, our casual staff are entitled to accrued holiday of our people who will become welfare guardians for their fellow leave and statutory sick pay.
Our research found that in common staff.
We are also grateful to Derbyshire Police for providing advice with surveys by other companies, the vast majority of our casual about our anti-drugs policies and anti-hate crime initiatives.
staff wish to remain on flexible arrangements.
We are therefore RETAIL TRUST now conducting further work in conjunction with the Workers Representative to ensure continued good practice.
We are pleased to confirm that the Company has become a member of the Retail Trust, whose patron is Her Majesty the LISTENING GROUP Queen.
The Trust is the leading wellbeing charity for the retail Our staff forum has been replaced by a Listening Group that industry and it offers a friendly ear to staff across the business consists of staff drawn from the warehouse in Shirebrook.
who wish to seek advice about welfare issues from independent Management attend monthly meetings, during which there is an experts.
We also host a Chaplaincy Service in Shirebrook that open forum including for matters raised by agency employees.
offers confidential help and advice.
This aims to ensure early visibility of problems and facilitate TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT solutions.
Sports Direct also conducted a survey of warehouse staff to monitor satisfaction levels, the results of which showed We have launched an organisational development programme that an overwhelming majority of staff feel they are treated with to give our people visibility over career opportunities within the respect by their supervisors.
We also strive to offer staff the tools to achieve their personal development goals through training and other means.
HEALTH & SAFETY COMMITTEE It should be noted that the majority of store managers are Staff from the Listening Group also sit on the staff Health & promoted from within, and over a third of them started as casual Safety Committee, which is attended by The Group Head of sales staff.
We are pleased to report that our people have We have an existing purpose-built training centre at our campus embraced a pro-active culture in this area, which has resulted in in Shirebrook, which is dedicated to ensuring our people have 100 extra staff achieving first aid certification after volunteering appropriate opportunities to develop their skills and progress for training from our new Warehouse Training Officer.
There are their careers within the Group.
During FY17, we have enhanced ten first aid stations in the warehouse and the Company is now a our welcome programme for new retail staff, and continued to registered member of the British Safety Council.
strengthen the product training that we provide in conjunction with third party brands.
Further details of our staff training programmes are contained in our Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
46 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 OUR STRATEGY We aspire to be a leading sports and lifestyle retailer internationally and to deliver sustainable growth for our shareholders in the medium to long term by offering our customers an unrivalled range of high quality leading brands.
The Groups strategy is to invest in our people and our key third party brand partners in order to elevate our retail proposition to attain new levels of excellence across our multi-brand, multi-sport offering to customers.
As part of this strategy, we anticipate that the core Sports Direct business will move towards becoming the Selfridges of sport.
Further discussion of the Groups strategic priorities and our progress made in FY17 is outlined in the Chief Executives Report and Business Review on page 48.
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES We aspire to be a leading sports and lifestyle retailer internationally and to deliver Mission sustainable growth for our shareholders in the medium to long term Invest in our people and our key third party brand partners to deliver an enhanced multi-brand, multi-sport Strategy customer experience, which we have described as an aspiration to become the Selfridges of sports retail ONE TEAM, ONE GOAL #SDFAMILY Strategic ELEVATION OF SPORTS RETAIL Priorities IMPROVING STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 47
