A D A P T I N G O D U A R E F H L A E E G T N A I N N N D A C L O P S T P O S I T I O N OUR BUSINESS MODEL CREATING SUSTAINABLE VALUE We create value through the short-term rental of equipment that is used for a wide variety of applications to a diverse customer base.
Our rental fleet ranges from small hand-held tools to the largest construction equipment and is available through a network of stores in North America and the UK.
WHAT WE DO HOW WE DO IT PURCHASE We purchase equipment from leading manufacturers and maintain it through its useful life.
01 02 DIFFERENTIATING ENSURING OUR FLEET AND OPERATIONAL SERVICE EXCELLENCE OUR RENT CUSTOMERS We rent on a short-term basis, a full range of construction and industrial equipment to a 04 03 diverse range of customers.
MAXIMISING INVESTING IN OUR RETURN ON OUR PEOPLE INVESTMENT SELL We sell old equipment in the second-hand market and buy new.
READ MORE DISCOVER HOW WE MANAGE THE CYCLE PAGE 20 PAGE 20 18 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 S C E A I R T I E N F U U L T R B O A L P A P N O C F E O S E H G E A E T T N M A A V N D A A G E G M N I E K N A T T STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION VALUE CREATION RENTAL SOLUTIONS D IFFERENTIATING OUR FLEET 01 The provision of cost-effective rental AND SERVICE solutions to a diverse customer base.
Broad fleet mix PAGE 21 Highly responsive no job too small Scale to meet size and range of requirement PAGE 21 EN SURING OPERATIONAL LONG-TERM 02 EXCELLENCE RELATIONSHIPS Optimal fleet age Nationwide networks in US and UK Developing long-term relationships Long-term partnerships with leading with customers and suppliers.
equipment manufacturers PAGE 22 Focused, service-driven approach Strong customer relationships Industry-leading application of technology PAGE 21 ENHANCING IN VESTING IN 03 COMMUNITIES OUR PEOPLE Highly skilled team Enhancing the communities in which we Devolved structure operate, through employment, opportunity Maintaining significant staff continuity and community involvement.
Strong focus on recruitment, training RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT PAGE 53 and incentivisation PAGE 23 M AXIMISING OUR RETURN SUSTAINABLE 04 ON INVESTMENT RETURNS Effective management and monitoring of fleet investment Generating sustainable returns for Optimisation of utilisation rates and returns shareholders through the cycle.
Flexibility in local pricing structures FINANCIAL REVIEW PAGE 38 Focus on higher-return equipment Appropriate incentive plans consistent with improved returns PAGE 22 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 19 OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED Providing temporary WHAT WE DO IS SIMPLE.
climate control solutions for retail premises, office buildings and HOW WE DO IT IS NOT.
At its most basic, our model is simple we purchase an asset, we rent it to customers and generate a revenue stream each year we own it on average, seven years.
Then we sell it in the second-hand market and receive a proportion of the original purchase price in On-site hire depot and contractors disposal proceeds.
village for long-term maintenance and construction projects.
Assuming we purchase an asset for $100, Our ability to excel in these areas enables we are likely to be affected, as the signs generate revenue of $55 each year us to generate strong margins and deliver will have been visible in other parts of the equivalent to 55% dollar utilisation and long-term, sustainable shareholder value, economy for some time.
We are therefore receive 35% of the original purchase price whilst managing the risks inherent in our able to plan accordingly and react in a as disposal proceeds, we generate a business refer to pages 34 to 36. timely manner when necessary.
Key to return of $410 on an initial outlay of $100 the execution of our model is the planning over an average seven-year useful life.
MANAGING THE CYCLE we undertake to capitalise on the We incur costs in providing this service, We describe ourselves as being a late opportunities presented by the cycle.
principally employee, property and cycle business in that our main end The opportunities are for both organic transportation costs and fleet market, non-residential construction, growth, through winning market share depreciation.
However, this simple is usually one of the last parts of the from less well positioned competitors, overview encompasses a significant economy to be affected by a change in and positioning ourselves to be able number of moving parts and activities.
This means that we to fund acquisitive growth if suitable have a good degree of visibility on when opportunities arise.
See content on our strategy on page 24.
20 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Designing bespoke lifting Designing, Providing traffic management Managing the flow solutions for complex erecting and solutions for engineering projects for sewer bypasses problems, including dismantling or clean-up after an accident.
to enable the lifting the faade onto scaffolding refurbishment of multistorey buildings.
ageing infrastructure in a dry environment.
Rapid response to natural disasters such Renting generators, as floods, tornadoes access equipment, and hurricanes, lighting, barriers and including pumps and temporary trakway power generation to an outdoor music equipment.
DIFFERENTIATING OUR FLEET Our customers range in size and scale HOW WE OPERATE AND SERVICE from multinational businesses, through Our operating model is key to the way The differentiation in our fleet and service strong local contractors to individual we deliver operational excellence: means that we provide equipment to many do-it-yourselfers.
Our diversified customer different sectors.
Construction continues base includes construction, industrial In the US we achieve scale through to be our largest market but now and homeowner customers, as well a clustered market approach of represents around 48% in North America as government entities and specialist grouping large and small general tool as we have deliberately reduced our contractors.
Our core market is the small and specialist rental locations in each of reliance on construction.
We continue to to mid-sized local contractor.
The nature our developed markets.
This approach develop our specialty areas such as Pump of the business is such that it consists of allows us to provide a comprehensive & Power, Climate Control, Scaffolding, a high number of low-value transactions.
product offering and convenient service Oil & Gas and Industrial Services which In the year to April 2017, Sunbelt dealt with to our customers wherever their job represented 21% of our business.
over 570,000 customers, who generated sites may be within these markets.
Residential construction is a small average revenue of $5,800.
When combined with our purchasing proportion of our business 5% as it power, this creates a virtuous circle is not a heavy user of equipment.
The individual components of our fleet of scale.
You can find out more on are similar to our peers.
However, it is our cluster strategy on pages 27 and 28. the breadth and depth of our fleet that In the UK, our strategy is focused on differentiates us from them and provides having sufficient stores to allow us to the potential for higher returns.
The size, offer a full range of equipment on a age and mix of our rental fleet is driven nationwide basis.
We have migrated our by the needs of our customers, market network towards fewer, larger locations conditions and overall demand.
The which are able to address all the needs equipment we provide to each customer of our customers in their respective is diverse and we are often involved in markets.
This difference in approach supplying various types of equipment from the US reflects the nature of the over an extended period at each distinct customer base more national accounts stage of a projects development.
Our and the smaller geography of the UK.
equipment is also used in a wide range Across our rental fleet, we seek of other applications including industrial, generally to carry equipment from one events, repair and maintenance and or two suppliers in each product range facilities management.
and to limit the number of model types of each product.
We believe that having a standardised fleet results in lower costs.
This is because we obtain greater discounts by purchasing in bulk and reduce maintenance costs through more focused and, therefore, reduced Breadth and training requirements for our staff.
depth of our fleet provides differentiation.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 21 OUR BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED We are also able to share spare parts We also aim to offer a full service We guarantee our service standards between stores which helps minimise solution for our customers in all and believe that our focus on customer the risk of over-stocking.
Our specialty product service and the guarantees we offer we can easily transfer fleet between range includes equipment types help distinguish our businesses from locations which helps us achieve leading such as pumps, power generation, competitors and assist us in delivering levels of physical utilisation, one of our heating, cooling, scaffolding, traffic superior financial returns.
Our key performance indicators KPIs.
management, temporary flooring and responsiveness to customer needs is We purchase equipment from welllifting services, which involve providing critical in a business where around 70% known manufacturers with strong service expertise as well as equipment.
of orders are placed for delivery within reputations for product quality and Our large and experienced sales force 24 hours.
We have worked with a lot of reliability and maintain close is encouraged to build and reinforce our customers for many years.
Our relationships with them to ensure customer relationships and to customer retention is high due to the certainty of supply and good afterconcentrate on generating strong, scale and quality of our fleet, our speed purchase service and support.
We work whole-life returns from our rental fleet.
of response and our customer service.
with vendors to provide early visibility Our sales force works closely with our of our equipment needs which enables customers to ensure we meet their them to plan their production schedules needs.
Through the application of and ensures we receive the fleet when technology, it is equipped with real-time we need it.
However, we believe we have access to fleet availability and pricing sufficient alternative sources of supply information enabling it to respond for the equipment we purchase in each rapidly to the needs of a customer product category.
THE CHALLENGE OUR SOLUTION We provided the hoists to get Her Majesty HRH Queen Elizabeth II down to the Underground needed a lift to view the GB Access provided hoists used by Her Majesty during her visit to the still under-construction still under-construction Crossrail Elizabeth Line station at Bond Street in London.
The new Bond Street station site will Crossrail Elizabeth Line see 24 trains per hour in each direction when the new railway opens in 2018.
Crossrail will transform travel across the capital, boosting the economy and supporting thousands of new jobs and homes.
We were happy to oblige, Your Majesty!
Dave Patrick Maintenance Manager, GB Access 22 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our local management teams are experienced and incentivised to THE CHALLENGE produce strong financial returns and high quality standards.
We believe that the autonomy given to management Hurricane Matthew caused teams to take decisions locally ensures that, despite our size, we retain record flooding along the US the feel of a small, local business for our employees.
coastline from Florida to Virginia We invest heavily in our computerised point of sale and service systems as well as the software and online capabilities required to deliver efficient service as well as high returns.
Customers can track the equipment they have on rent, place new orders, request pickup or service or extend their contract.
Our sales reps have access to the same information, along with details of the location of our fleet and all other information required to serve the customer.
INVESTING IN OUR PEOPLE Our people enable us to provide the exceptional customer service that keeps our customers coming back.
Our exceptional staff and focus on service give us a huge competitive advantage in what we do.
On page 50 we discuss the importance of our staff and corporate OUR SOLUTION culture in more detail.
We aim to recruit good people and then invest in them More than 400 truckloads of equipment and 17 disaster trailers throughout their careers.
mobilised to devastated areas In preparation for the storm, our Emergency Response Team ERT set up a Storm Centre at the Fort Mill Support Office.
15 team members provided sales and logistical support from there, while 25 team members were deployed to stores to provide operational support.
As the storm travelled up the coast, nearly 400 employees were assembled, preparing to offer their support.
ERT members and local representatives deployed hundreds of assets including generators, pumps, lifts, light towers, and more.
Were used to responding quickly in an emergency.
Hurricane Matthew caused massive destruction but we were there to provide emergency support for our customers when they needed it most.
70% Walter Hoehn LEVEL OF ORDERS FOR Operational & Sales Support, DELIVERY WITHIN 24 HOURS Pump & Power Services Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 23
