Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors of Sports Direct International plc present their The Directors were authorised to allot shares in the capital of the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017.
Group up to an aggregate nominal amount of 19,948,829 being approximately one third of the then issued share capital for the PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW period expiring at 6 September 2017, the date of the 2017 AGM.
The Chief Executives Report on pages 48 to 55 provides a In line with guidance from the Association of British Insurers the detailed review of the Groups current activities and potential Company was also granted authority to issue a further third of future developments together with factors likely to affect future the issued share capital to a nominal amount of 39,897,658 in development, performance and conditions.
There is also a table connection with a rights issue.
of the principal risks and uncertainties likely to affect the Group on pages 66 to 70.
The financial position of the Group, its cash An authority to allot shares up to a maximum nominal value of flow, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in 2,992,324 being approximately 5% of the then issued share the Financial Review on pages 56 to 59.
The Corporate Social capital as if statutory pre-emption rights did not apply, was Responsibility Report on pages 60 to 65 reports on environmental also approved.
In addition, the Directors were granted a further matters, including the impact of the Groups businesses on the authority to allot up to a maximum nominal value of 2,992,324 environment, the Groups workforce, and on social and being approximately 5% of the then issued capital as if statutory community issues.
pre-emption rights did not apply when such allotment was for the purposes of financing or refinancing, if the power is used within The principal activities of the Group during the year remained six months of the original transaction a transaction which the unchanged and were: Board determined to be an acquisition or other capital investment of a kind contemplated by the Pre-emption Groups Statement of retailing of sports and leisure clothing, footwear and Principles on Dis-applying Pre-emption Rights.
equipment: The authorities expire at the close of the next AGM of the wholesale distribution and sale of sports and leisure clothing, Company, but a contract to allot shares under these authorities footwear and equipment under Group-owned or licensed may be made prior to the expiry of the authority and concluded in brands: and whole or part after the AGM, and at that meeting other authorities will be sought from shareholders.
The Group was authorised to make market purchase of ordinary Further information on the Groups principal activities is set out in shares of 10p each in the Company of up to a maximum the front of this document and in the Chief Executives Report on pages 48 to 55. aggregate number of 89,709,882 representing 14.99% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at the 2016 AGM.
RESULTS FOR THE YEAR AND DIVIDENDS The above authority expires at the close of the next AGM of the Company.
Revenue for the 53 weeks ended 30 April 2017 was 3,245.3m and profit before tax was 281.6m compared with 2,904.3m During the period to 30 April 2017 the Company has purchased and 361.8m in the prior year.
The trading results for the year and 31,173,026 ordinary shares at a cost of 108,689,056 excluding the Groups financial position as at the end of the year are shown purchasing costs and representing 5.80% of the issued share in the attached Financial Statements, and discussed further capital.
The maximum number of shares held in treasury by the in the Chief Executives Report and Business Review and in the Company during the period was 79,310,534 representing 12.38% Financial Review on pages 48 to 55 and 56 to 59 respectively.
of the issued share capital.
No shares have been disposed of by the Company.
The Board has decided not to propose a dividend in relation to FY17.
The Board remains of the opinion that it is in the best As at 18 July 2017 the Company has purchased an additional interests of the Group and its shareholders to preserve financial 31,702,877 ordinary shares at a cost of 93,482,879 excluding flexibility, facilitating future investments and other growth purchasing costs and representing 4.95% of the issued share opportunities.
The payment of dividends remains under review.
No shares have been disposed of by the Company to this date.
SHARE CAPITAL AND CONTROL As at 19 July 2017, there are 640,602,369 ordinary shares of SHAREHOLDERS 10p in issue and fully paid, of which 111,013,411 were held in No shareholder enjoys any special control rights, and, except as treasury.
As at the year end there were 79,310,534 ordinary set out below, there are no restrictions in the transfer of shares or shares held in treasury.
Further information regarding the Groups issued share capital As a controlling shareholder Mike Ashley has entered into a written can be found on pages 125 to 126 of the Financial Statements.
and legally binding Relationship Agreement with the Company.
This agreement ensures that the controlling shareholder complies Details of our Share Schemes are also set out on pages 125 with the independence provisions set out in Listing Rule 6.1.
Under the terms of the Agreement Mike Ashley undertook that, for so long as he is entitled to exercise, or to control the exercise There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares, which of, 15% or more of the rights to vote at general meetings of the are governed both by the general provisions of the Articles of Company, he will: Association and prevailing legislation.
conduct all transactions and relationships with any member The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Group on arms length terms and on a normal of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the commercial basis: transfer of securities or on voting rights.
73 exercise his voting rights or other rights in support of the Number of Percentage Nature of Company being managed in accordance with the Listing shares held of issued holding Rules and the principles of good governance set out in the UK ordinary Corporate Governance Code and not exercise any of his voting share capital or other rights and powers to procure any amendment to the with voting Articles of Association of the Company: and rights held 1 other than through his interest in the Company, not have Mike Ashley 330,000,000 62.06% Indirect any interest in any business which sells sports apparel and 1 Mike Ashley holds the shares through two companies, namely MASH Beta Limited equipment, subject to certain rights, after notification to the and MASH Holdings Limited, which hold 303,507,460 ordinary shares 57.08% of the Company, to acquire any such interest of less than 20% of issued ordinary share capital of the Company and 26,492.540 4.98% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company respectively.
These figures are as at 13 July the business concerned, and certain other limited exceptions, 2017, being the last date on which the Company was notified of a change in the without receiving the prior approval of the Non-Executive percentage of shares.
Directors: and not solicit for employment or employ any senior employee of the Company.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by The Company has complied with this Agreements independence special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Subject provisions during the period and, as far as the Company is to applicable law and the Companys Articles of Association, the aware, the controlling shareholder and his associates have also Directors may exercise all powers of the Company.
TAKEOVERS As at 30 April 2017, the Company had been advised that the following parties had an interest in 3% or more of the issued The Directors do not believe that there are any significant share capital of the Company pursuant to Rule 5 of the Disclosure contracts that may change in the event of a successful takeover Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR : of the Company.
Details of the impact of any successful takeover of the Group on the Directors bonus and share schemes are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 86 to 91.
Number of Percentage Nature of shares held of issued holding SHARE SCHEMES ordinary Details of the Executive Share Schemes are set out in the share capital Directors Remuneration Report on pages 86 to 91 and details of with voting the Share Schemes for participating employees on page 60 of the rights held Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
1 Mike Ashley 330,000,000 58.01% Indirect STAFF INVOLVEMENT Odey Asset 28,011,702 4.98% Direct Management The Group currently has a c. 29,000 strong workforce in its stores, 2 LLP offices and warehouses.
3 FIL Limited 28,656,107 5.07% Indirect The workforce is notified of announcements and major changes in Phoenix Asset 18,119,748 3.03% Direct the business via Company news emails and our intranet, as well as Management information being transmitted through line managers.
During the Partners year, a Workers Representative was elected to attend all Board 4 Limited meetings and provide feedback from SD Family members to the Board.
The Company also introduced Your Company, Your Voice 1 Mike Ashley holds the shares through two companies, namely MASH Beta Limited which enables staff to raise issues of concern via suggestion and MASH Holdings Limited, which hold 303,507,460 ordinary shares 53.35% of the boxes.
The contributions are read by senior management and issued ordinary share capital of the Company and 26,492.540 ordinary shares 4.66% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company respectively.
the Workers Representative who provides the Board with an 2 These figures are as at 6 April 2017, being the last date on which the Company was overview and replies to staff if appropriate.
Training programmes notified of a change in the percentage of shares.
and induction courses provide the workforce with opportunities to 3 These figures are as at 28 March 2017, being the last date on which the Company keep up to date with the latest developments of the Group.
was notified of a change in the percentage of shares.
Our annual conference offers attendees an opportunity to mix 4 These figures are correct as at 11 July 2016, being the last date on which the with teams with which they wouldnt ordinarily mix, to learn about Company was notified of a change in the percentage of shares.
the Groups aspirations, and to keep up to date with the latest changes in the Group.
This is a full day event and also has a range Between 30 April 2017 and 19 July 2017 being the latest of activities tailored to the specific area in which each individual practicable date prior to the publication of this report, the works.
Further information on relationships with our people can Company has been advised that the following party had an be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages interest in 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company 60 to 65 and on pages 45 to 46 of Our Business review.
pursuant to Rule 5 of the DTRs.
74 Sports Direct International plc Annual Report 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Copies of the service contracts of Executive Directors and of the appointment letters of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The Groups recruitment policy is to match the capabilities are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and talents of each applicant to the appropriate job.
Factors during normal business hours and at the AGM.
such as gender, race, religion or belief, sexual orientation, age, disability or ethnic origin should be ignored and any decision No Director has a directorship in common or other significant which is made with regard to candidates should be irrespective of links with any other Director except in the case of Executive these.
Discrimination in any form will not be tolerated under any Directors holding directorships of subsidiary companies of circumstances within the Group.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are given full DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST and fair consideration for all vacancies, and are assessed in The Board has formal procedures to deal with Directors conflicts accordance with their particular skills and abilities.
During the year the Board reviewed and, where The Group endeavours to meet its responsibilities towards the appropriate, approved certain situational conflicts of interest that training and employment of disabled people, and to ensure that were reported to it by Directors, and a record of those situational training, career development and promotion opportunities are conflicts is maintained and reviewed.
The Board noted any available to all.
transactional conflicts of interest concerning Directors that arose and were declared.
No Director took part in the discussion or The Group makes every effort to provide continuity of employment determination of any matter in respect of which he had disclosed where current employees become disabled.
Attempts are made in a transactional conflict of interest.
every circumstance to provide employment, whether this involves adapting the current job role and remaining in the same job, or DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES moving to a more appropriate job role.
Job retraining and job The Group has granted the Directors with Qualifying Third-Party adaptation are just two examples of how the Group works in the Indemnity provisions within the meaning given to the term by interests of its workforce to promote equal opportunities in order Sections 234 and 235 of the Companies Act 2006.
This is in that an individuals employment within the Group may continue.
respect of liabilities to which they may become liable in their The Group values the knowledge and expertise that employees capacity as Director of the Company and of any company within have gained throughout their time with us, and therefore does not the Group.
Such indemnities were in force throughout the wish to lose valued employees.
financial year and will remain in force.
With the aim of restoring a balance of female representation on SPORTS DIRECT EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST our Board, we are actively seeking applications from potential We note that the Trustees of the Sports Direct Employee Benefit female Non-Executive Directors.
Trust have waived their right to receive dividends on the ordinary shares comprised in the trust fund.
No dividends were paid by the Further information on our diversity policy can be found in the Company during the 53 weeks ended 30 April 2017.
Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 60 to 65.
DISLOSURES REQUIRED UNDER UK LISTING RULE 9.8.
4 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The information required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 is set out in the The Group designs clothing and some footwear for sale in stores table below:- and has arrangements with suppliers for the research and development of goods for the Brands division.
4 Disclosure provided CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS 1 Interest capitalised by the Group N A During the year, the Group made charitable cash donations of 117k 2016: 5k in the UK.
No political donations were made 2 Publication of unaudited financial information N A 2016: nil.
There have been a number of further donations of 3 Requirement deleted from the Listing Rules - sporting equipment made to worthy causes, and these are set out on page 64.
4 Details of long-term incentive schemes only involving N A a director DIRECTORS 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director N A Details of current Directors, dates of appointment, their roles, 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director N A responsibilities and significant external commitments are set out on page 71.
David Daly will join the Board as a Non-Executive 7 Non pro-rata allotments for cash issuer N A Director with effect from 2 October 2017.
8 Non pro-rata allotments for cash major subsidiaries N A Although the Companys Articles of Association require retirement 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary N A by rotation of one third of Directors each year, the Group complies 10 Contracts of significance N A with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code and at each AGM all of the Directors will retire and stand for reappointment.
11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Page 88 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Page 75 Information on service contracts and details of the interests of the Directors and their persons closely associated PCAs in the 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends N A share capital of the Company at 30 April 2017 and at the date 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Page 73 of this report is shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 86 to 91.
75 GREENHOUSE GAS EMMISSIONS ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT See pages 64 to 65.
A statement by the Auditor can be found on page 96 detailing their reporting responsibilities.
The Directors fulfil their ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING responsibilities and these are set out in the responsibility statement on page 92.
The 2017 AGM will be held on 6 September 2017 at The auditorium Unit D, Brook Park East, Shirebrook, NG20 8RY.
AUDITOR The meeting will commence at 11am.
The Board encourages shareholders to attend and participate in the meeting.
Grant Thornton UK LLP will be proposed for reappointment at the AGM.
In accordance with Section 489 4 of the Companies Act GOING CONCERN 2006, resolutions to determine remuneration are to be agreed at the AGM.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS out in the Business Review on pages 48 to 55.
See note 40 of the Annual Accounts.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages 56 to 59.
In addition, the Financial Statements By Order of the Board include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: Cameron Olsen details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its Company Secretary exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
19 July 2017 The Group is profitable, highly cash generative and has considerable financial resources.
The Group is able to operate comfortably within its banking facilities and covenants, which run until September 2018, and is well placed to take advantage of strategic opportunities as they arise.
The Group is currently in discussions regarding arrangements for post-2018.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the continued uncertain economic outlook.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonable possible changes in trading performance, and its exposure to foreign currency movements in respect of future purchases in US Dollars, and the forward contracts and written options entered into to sell Euros, show that the Group should be able to operate within the level of the current facility.
Having thoroughly reviewed the Groups performance and having made suitable enquiries, the Directors are confident that the Group has adequate resources to remain in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
On this basis, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis for the preparation of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
