CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors report and disclosures The directors present their annual report together with the audited Share capital financial statements of the company and the group for the 52 weeks Details of the authorised and issued share capital of the company, which ended 30 April 2017.
The company has chosen, in accordance with comprises a single class of shares, ordinary shares of 12.5p, are set out in section 414C 11 of the Companies Act 2006, to include matters of note 26 to the financial statements.
The rights attaching to the shares are strategic importance, such as future developments in the business of the set out in the articles of association.
There are no special control rights in group and details of the greenhouse gas emissions in the strategic report relation to the companys shares and the company is not aware of any which otherwise would be required to be disclosed in the directors report.
agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Profits and dividends A total of 748,840 ordinary shares, with an aggregate nominal value of The groups profit before tax for the period amounted to 184.9m 93,605, were allotted for cash during the period in connection with the 2016:189.8m.
An interim dividend of 8.8p per share 2016: 8.45p was companys share option schemes.
The directors recommend a final dividend of The company makes regular use of the employee benefit trust EBT to 24.4p per ordinary share 2016: 23.6p, making a total dividend for the year of 33.2p per share 2016: 32.05p.
Subject to the approval of shareholders satisfy the exercise of share options and will make market purchases of the companys shares from time to time to ensure that it has sufficient at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 15 September 2017 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 11 August 2017. shares to enable it to do so.
During the year 200,000 shares were acquired by the trustees of the EBT at a cost of 1.6m.
Directors Purchase of own shares Details of the current directors are given on pages 44 and 45.
During the In accordance with the companys articles of association, authority was year IanDurant retired on 9 September 2016, having served for nine and sought at the last AGM to purchase up to 10% of the companys shares in a half years as a non-executive director.
Gordon Fryett was appointed to issue as at 22 July 2016.
The authority, which has not been exercised, was the board on 1 December 2016. approved and remains exercisable until the next AGM or 8 December 2017, The board has recommended that all of the directors offer themselves for whichever is earlier.
The directors have again sought approval for the re-election at the forthcoming AGM, with the exception of Gordon Fryett, authority to purchase the companys own shares.
who will be standing for election for the first time.
Details of the directors service agreements, remuneration and interests Voting rights inlong-term incentives and awards are set out in the directors In a general meeting of the company, on a show of hands, every member remuneration report.
who is present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote.
On a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy shall Directors interests in shares have one vote for every share of which they are the holder.
The AGM notice gives full details of deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect The beneficial interests of each of the directors and their immediate families in the ordinary share capital of the company are shown below: of resolutions to be considered at the meeting.
No voting rights will be exercised in respect of any own shares held 1 May 2016 30 April 2017 bythecompany.
Rooney Anand 529,041 599,919 Mike Coupe 3,690 3,690 Transfer of shares There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the company other Kirk Davis 4,000 4,000 than those which may from time to time be applicable under existing laws Gordon Fryett and regulations for example under the Market Abuse Directive.
Rob Rowley 3,000 3,000 In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, Lynne Weedall 2,051 3,051 directors of the company and persons discharging managerial responsibility are required to obtain prior approval from the company to deal in the Philip Yea 30,000 40,000 companys securities and are prohibited from dealing during close periods.
There have been no changes in the interests of the current directors Change of control between 30 April 2017 and the date of this report.
All of the companys share incentive plans contain provisions relating toachange of control and full details of these plans are provided in the Interests in contracts directors remuneration report.
Outstanding options and awards would No director had a material interest in any contract, other than an normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject employment contract, that was significant in relation to the groups tothe satisfaction of performance conditions, if applicable, at that time.
business at any time during the period.
The groups banking facility agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a Substantial shareholdings change of control.
Certain of the companys trading contracts also contain The company has been notified of the following significant holdings similar provisions.
3%ormore of voting rights: 1 May 2016 30 April 2017 There is one employee who, on a change of control of the company resulting in the termination of their employment, would be entitled to Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited 4.774% 4.774% compensation for loss of office.
However, in the context of the company The Capital Group Companies, Inc 16.28% 16.28% as a whole, this agreement is fide minimis.
HSBC Global Custody Nominees UK Ltd 3.01% 68 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The company values employee engagement across the business and Articles of association produces a monthly publication that is circulated to all employees containing The companys articles of association may only be amended by special company news and articles.
In addition, the company provides regular resolution at general meetings of shareholders.
briefings and presentations to staff on the companys performance and strategy as well as annual and interim results.
The company operates an Appointment and replacement of directors HMRC-approved sharesave scheme open to all employees which helps The number of directors on the board shall be no less than five nor toalign employees interests with the performance of the company.
Directors may be appointed by the company by ordinary We are a people business so it is vitally important that we recruit and resolution or by the board of directors.
A director appointed by the train the right people to deliver value, service and quality to our customers.
board of directors holds office until the next AGM, and is then eligible The company works in partnership with local communities to promote forelection by the shareholders.
and provide opportunities for all.
The articles provide that at each AGM all those directors who were elected, or last re-elected, at the AGM held in the third calendar year before the Diversity current year shall retire from office and may stand for re-election.
In practice We take pride in making sure all of our team members are given the same directors submit themselves for annual re-election in accordance with the opportunities to achieve their full potential.
We are committed to our equal provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
opportunities policy to ensure that our team members and candidates are The company may by ordinary resolution, of which special notice has recruited, developed, remunerated and promoted on the basis of their been given, remove any director from office.
skills and suitability for the work performed.
Any director automatically ceases to be a director if i they give the company We promote an environment in our pubs, restaurants, hotels, headquarters, a written notice of resignation, ii they give the company a written offer pub company support centre and breweries that is free from discrimination.
to resign and the directors decide to accept this offer, iii all of the other We work to a policy in which no employee receives less favourable treatment directors remove them from office by notice in writing served upon them, on the grounds of their colour, nationality, race, religion belief, ethnic or iv they are or have been suffering from mental ill health and have a court national origin, sex, marital or civil partnership status, gender reassignment order for their detention or the appointment of a guardian made in respect whether proposed, started or completed and under or not under medical of them, v a bankruptcy order is made against them or they make any supervision, disability or past disability, part-time or fixed-term status, arrangement or composition with their creditors generally, vi they are pregnancy or maternity, parental responsibilities, sexual orientation prohibited from being a director by law or vii they are absent from orage a protected characteristic.
board meetings for six months without leave and the other directors Percentage resolve that their office should be vacated.
Male Female Total female Directors 6 1 7 14 Powers of the directors Senior managers The business of the company is managed by the directors who may exercise excluding directors 165 53 218 24 all the powers of the company, subject to its articles of association, any All employees 19,347 21,311 40,658 52 relevant legislation and any directions given by the company by passing a special resolution at a general meeting.
In particular, the directors may exercise all the powers of the company to borrow money, issue shares, Human rights appoint and remove directors, and recommend and declare dividends.
Even though the company does not have a formal human rights policy, itiscommitted to conducting business with integrity and fairness.
Communications with shareholders Shareholders who are interested in signing up to e-communications Corporate responsibility should refer to the shareholders information page for further information Disclosure of the groups greenhouse gas emissions is contained within on how to register via www.
thecorporate responsibility statement on page 43.
Charitable donations Directors and officers indemnity insurance The group continues to support community initiatives and charitable The group has taken out insurance to indemnify the directors of the company causes, in particular Macmillan Cancer Support, full details of which are against third party proceedings whilst serving on the board of the company given in the corporate social responsibility section of this annual report.
This cover indemnifies all employees of the group who The group makes no political donations.
serve on the boards of all subsidiaries.
These indemnity policies subsisted throughout the year and remain in place at the date of this report.
Employment and recruitment policies It is the companys policy to ensure that employees are recruited, selected, Financial instruments developed, remunerated and promoted on the basis of their skills and The groups policy on the use of financial instruments is set out in note 24 suitability for the work performed.
The company is committed to treating to the financial statements.
all employees fairly and equally and will endeavour to provide workplace adaptations and training for employees or candidates who have a disability Post balance sheet events and colleagues who become disabled during their employment.
Details of events occurring after the year end are set out in note 32 tothefinancial statements.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors report and disclosures continued Directors statement as to disclosure of information to the auditor The directors who were members of the board at the time of approving the directors report are listed on pages 44 and 45.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the companys auditor, each of these directors confirms that: to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the companys auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps a director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
Going concern The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect itsfuture development, performance and position, are set out in the chiefexecutives review.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial review.
In addition, note 24 to the financial statements includes the groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit and liquidity risk.
The directors are of the opinion that the groups forecast and projections, which take account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, and its stress testing to take account of severe but plausible shocks to the business show that the group should be able to operate within its current borrowing facilities and comply with its financing covenants.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation thatthe company and the group have adequate resources to continue inoperational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual reportand financial statements.
Auditor Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office andaresolution to re-appoint the firm as the companys auditor will beproposed at the AGM.
Annual general meeting The AGM will be held at 12.30pm on Friday 8 September 2017 at the Millennium Grandstand, Rowley Mile Racecourse Conference Centre, Newmarket, Suffolk.
The notice of the AGM is set out in the separate circular to shareholders.
The directors consider that all of the resolutions set out in the notice ofAGM are in the best interests of the company and its shareholders as awhole.
The directors will be voting in favour of them and unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each of them.
By order of the board Lindsay Keswick Company secretary 28 June 2017 70 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017
