STRATEGIC REPORT Our strategy TO BE THE BEST PUB COMPANY IN BRITAIN Overview Our vision is to be the best pub company inBritain the best for our customers, our teams, our communities and our shareholders.
Bybeing the best, we believe we will generate superior underlying growth and returns for our stakeholders.
Pubs have to contend with awider set of competitors, including coffee shops, takeaway aggregators and grab-and-go stores, more than ever before, and a fasterpace of consumer change.
This means we will try to redefine what our pubs offer their customers, Build attractive Industry-leading ensuring they have a broader and more lasting appeal.
In order to deliver our vision, we have 1 and strong 2 value, service identified five strategic priorities for the medium term: brands and quality We have a strong portfolio of categoryWe remain committed to exceeding customer Best for our customers, best for our leading brands and ensuring that our expectations and we will achieve this by teams, best for our shareholders portfolio remains attractive and relevant to constantly improving the value offer to our and best for our communities the increasingly demanding consumer will customers, the service delivery of our teams be critical in driving our long-term growth.
and the quality of our food and drink offer.
We will continue our brand optimisation We will use our scale to deliver leading value programme, converting pubs to the most propositions through the successful Build attractive and strong brands 1 suitable brand within our portfolio and we execution of known value item KVI and will maintain flexibility in this programme to everyday low pricing EDLP strategies to ensure that we develop our brands in line drive a sustainable mix of volume and Industry-leading value, with the changing economic environment.
We will continue 2 service and quality For Green King Locals, Pub Partners and investing in our people as well as our digital Brewing & Brands, the Greene King brand capabilities to ensure we lead the industry is key to superior performance and we will on service and successfully compete with Work with the best people 3 continue to invest in communicating the the wider competitive set.
Lastly, we will brands benefits in order to maintain our evolve and improve the quality of the food, brand marketing leadership.
A strong digital drink and accommodation we offer our Own the UKs best invested pub estate presence is vital to sustain and grow customers, regularly benchmarking against 4 successful brands and we will continue the best in class.
toexpand our already extensive digital Maintain a strong balance sheet programmes to further build customer Key progress in the last 12 months: 5 and flexible capital structure engagement and loyalty.
Extended EDLP KVI pricing into ex-Spiritbrands Key progress in the last 12 months: Rollout of Greene King service Delivering attractive 63 brand conversions completed and measurement culture into Spirit shareholderreturns, earnings strongsales uplifts averaging over 30% Further improvement in third party anddividend growth Greene King brand rolled out across over foodquality benchmarking 100 Taylor Walker pubs in London Invested in grill quality and 4K screens 24% increase in combined total Facebook inFlaming Grill fan base to 2.9m followers 20 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Work with the Own the UKs Maintain a strong 3 best people 4 best invested 5 balance sheet We employ around 44,000 people at pub estate and flexible Greene King and being an attractive place to work means offering a sociable and engaging Our aim is to own and run the best pubs capital structure environment while creating opportunities inBritain, which we will achieve through todevelop and grow careers.
Greene King proactive management of our pub portfolio Underpinning our company strategy is isuniquely positioned to offer careers across and continued industry-leading investment afinancial strategy designed to maximise a number of roles, disciplines, environments in our estate.
We will continue to drive thestrength and flexibility of our balance and locations and we work hard to ensure thequality of our estate upwards within sheet.
Through a relentless focus on that every member of our team gets the both Pub Company and Pub Partners by cashgenerated from operations, we opportunity to learn and progress.
We put acquiring properties at the top end of our willcontinue to cover our debt service apprenticeships at the core of our talent portfolio while divesting of those at the obligation, our core capital expenditure strategy to help us develop skilled and bottom.
We will also look for investment and our dividend through internally committed individuals and our  to put more premium offers generated cash flow.
Our long-term leading position has been recognised at the into our assets to better protect the financing provides us with funding for Springboard Awards for having the Best long-term cash generation from our pubs.
general business operations, including Apprenticeship Strategy.
We also want to Annual core capital investment is expected increasing our optionality to invest in attract, recruit, retain and develop the best to be 130m to 145m over the next three thebusiness.
operators in our Pub Partners business and years.
We will retain an element of flexibility this means extending our focus on training in both brand conversion capex and core Key progress in the last 12 months: and development to both existing and future capex to ensure we invest in the most Free cash flow continues to cover licensees.
Working with, and investing in, suitable way in response to thechanging scheduled debt repayments after the best people will help us to deliver the economic environment.
corecapex and dividends very best service to our customers across 4.0x net debt to EBITDA ratio our managed and tenanted pubs, our Key progress in the last 12 months: Dividend up 3.6% breweries and our depots.
Average 56 year investment cycle Invested over 120m in core capex Key progress in the last 12 months: across the estate in the year Around 44,000 people working Continued returns WACC forthecompany 65 tail disposals in our managed estate Maintained a strong employee and 54 disposals in Pub Partners engagement score of 85% 3,076 apprentices joined the company during the year Won Best Apprenticeship Strategy atthe Springboard Awards and was theonly pub company to appear in the Ratemyapprenticeship.
co. uk Top 70 SchoolLeaver Employers Table 2017 Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 21
