Strategic report Our key differentiators We are dedicated to providing great service, quality and innovation.
We are able to do so because of the scale of our business and our investment in innovation and process improvement.
See page 24 Pan-European scale enables us Our people for more to serve large customers efficiently We employ dedicated, skilled and motivated about our people on a multinational basis people, and invest in ensuring that they understand how to play their part in the success Our corrugated packaging presence throughout of the business.
We work hard to integrate new Europe enables us to serve customers locally and colleagues, including those who join from with short lead-times.
businesses acquired by DS Smith, as quickly Long-standing relationships with a wide range of and smoothly as possible.
Our strong corporate values underpin our culture Investment in innovation adding value and behaviours, and are central to how wider value is created for our business and to our customers stakeholders.
Network of PackRight Centres and Impact Centres.
Sustainability is at the heart of Intellectual property and know-how.
our business Collaboration with leading universities.
Total value approach aligns us with our customers who seek to maximise their efficiency Sell more, reduce costs, manage risk.
Customer Supply chain and market insight consultancy services.
We help our customers achieve more Supply Cycle Thinking Packaging Recycling More sales Range, availability, activation, Box to box recycling promotional success and more in 14 days More sales Paper Lower cost Driving out waste, cost and carbon in packing, warehousing and distribution Lower cost We have long recognised the importance of the circular economy Watch our video online Our recycling, paper and packaging operations at dssmith.
com Managed risk are closely integrated.
Cardboard boxes are made, packaging strategists Security, future proofing, our-vision used, collected, recycled, pulped, pressed and sustainable practice and made back into cardboard boxes again, from Managed risk regulatory compliance start to finish in as little as 14 days.
