STRATEGIC REPORT Our markets OUR CORE MARKETS Overview Economic environment Our core markets are the UK eating out and UK drinking out markets.
Consumer confidence has weakened since the outcome of the EU We also compete in the UK ale market through our brewing of our referendum with consumers uncertain about the future outlook for both industry-leading ale portfolio and have a foothold in the UK staying theeconomy and their personal finances.
Despite this, UK real household outmarket.
We remain cautious about the future economic environment as we have seen nominal wage growth start to The last 12 months have been characterised by a period of increased fallbehind rising inflation, creating a squeeze on the household disposable consumer uncertainty driven by a number of political and economic income available for discretionary spend.
Despite this uncertainty, consumer spending on eating out and 1 drinking out is estimated to have grown 1.7% in the last 12 months.
Ourcore market, UK pubs and restaurants, is estimated to have grown 1 2 1.5% with LFL growth of 1.1% over the last 12 months.
Consumer confidence weakened following theoutcome of the EU referendum Alongside this, our core markets have become increasingly dynamic andcompetitive, with more choice for consumers than ever before.
UK CONSUMER CONFIDENCE COMPOSITE INDEX Wehavecontinued to develop our offer to address this challenge and PubCompany successfully outperformed the market in the 12 months 10 toApril2017, growing total sales by 7.7% and LFL sales by 1.5%.
0 -10 Our core market, pubs and restaurants, -20 continuedtosee positive LFL growth -30 UK MARKET LFL GROWTH % ROLLING MAT -40 Apr 2013 Apr 2014 Apr 2015 Apr 2016 Apr 2017 2.5% 2.0% Source: GfK.
1.5% 1.0% We remain cautious about the future economic outlook and expect rising inflation to create a 0.5% squeezeon real disposable income 0.0% UK AVERAGE EARNINGS VS CPI INFLATION % Apr 2016 Jul 2016 Oct 2016 Jan 2017 Apr 2017 4.00 Greene King Market Source: Coffer Peach Tracker total index.
3.00 2.00 1.00 Our core markets have 0.00 become increasingly -1.00 Apr 2012 Apr 2013 Apr 2014 Apr 2015 Apr 2016 Apr 2017 dynamic and competitive.
CPI inflation Average earnings ex bonuses, %y y Source: Thomson Datastream, Capital Economics.
18 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT 2 driver of the evolution of the pub sector 4.1% CAGR as consumers are Political environment drawn to brands that stand out and have defined, consistent propositions The current political environment is adding further challenges to the that signal reassuring brand familiarity, excitement and the opportunity to industry through the National Living Wage, the National Minimum Wage, try something new.
In contrast, overall spend in the tenanted and leased the Apprenticeship Levy and the recent proposed increases in business sector will continue to decline primarily as a result of falling supply.
We see rates and alcohol duties.
All these policy initiatives will impact on costs an opportunity here to buck the inherent market decline by strengthening andmargins within the hospitality industry going forward.
We continue the quality of our estate to win share from less well invested competitors.
towork closely with trade organisations to encourage the government tooffset some of the industry impact from these initiatives while, at the same time, being proactive in dealing with these external headwinds.
Pubs are a core segment within the overall Following the removal of the beer duty escalator in 2013, beer duty has UKeatingand drinking out market either been cut or frozen in successive budgets until March 2017 when UK EATING OUT MARKET STRUCTURE 2017e BN itwas increased by 3.9%, along with similar increases for wines, spirits andciders.
This is expected to cost the UK pub industry 125m and 1 couldcost up to 4,000 jobs.
UK eating 22 66 88 anddrinking out The statutory Pubs Code went live in July 2016 and before the launch wetrained over 100 team members to ensure we were as fully compliant Pubs 4 8 10 22 with the statutory code as we were with the voluntary code.
The main impact on Pub Partners will come from the ability of licensees to take a market rent only MRO option or, essentially, a commercial free-of-tie Pubs Tenanted and leased agreement.
We have 27 MRO applications currently going through the Other Independent Managed and branded adjudication process and at the year end we had no MRO agreements taken.
We remain of the view that MRO will have no material impact on the group.
UK eating and drinking out We offer a variety of eating and drinking out options and experiences UK ale market across both our destination pubs and local community pubs.
We compete The overall UK ale market declined by 2.7% in volume for the year in a broad UK eating and drinking out market made up of 327,000 outlets 2 toApril 2017, driven largely by standard ale in keg and can.
Changing and annual total spend of more than 88bn.
Within this market, the pubs promotional dynamics in the grocery sector in response to inflationary and bars segment consists of 47,000 outlets and total spend of more than pressures have resulted in an eight-year low in promotional levels.
22bn, or 25% of overall eating and drinking out spend.
Thevolume-driven standard ale sector has been particularly affected.
Thepremium ale category, however, continues to grow, being up 3.5% The market is increasingly dynamic and competitive with the supply of involume terms.
new branded eating out sites improving the convenience and choice for consumers.
At the same time, eating at home has become more attractive With continued interest from consumers for beers with heritage and due to the twin drivers of grocery food deflation and the growth of branded provenance, as well as new drinkers looking for new styles of beer, we feel, takeaway and delivery businesses.
There are also demand challenges with as the UK brewer with the leading premium ale brand OldSpeckled Hen higher consumer expectations for value, service and quality, which are and the leading premium cask ale brand Abbot Ale, coupled with an exciting mainly impacting the value food sector, the ongoing digitalisation of leisure range of seasonal and craft beers, we are wellplaced to capitalise on and the demand for healthier options.
Through our pubs and our portfolio of award-winning ales we offer choice We expect the UK ale market to continue to evolve and improve but for all types of drinkers and occasions.
Drink is a key driver of overall thefocus will move away from volume and towards value as the trend spend in the pubs sector with 40% of all meals involving an alcoholic drink towards premiumisation continues.
We remain confident in our ability and 52% of consumers saying that alcohol is an important choice driver 3 tocontinue to grow share with our enviable portfolio of brands that for where to eat.
A strong drinks range is therefore a crucial factor in canmeet the needs of consumers across all drinking occasions.
achieving overall customer satisfaction and we aim to capture share of spend by providing a drinks range that offers value, quality and an experience for our guests.
UK staying out market We compete in the UK provincial staying out market and offer great value Although we have seen a decline in UK alcohol consumption, drinking out and convenience to guests on both business and leisure visits.
We see the habits continue to evolve with an increasing shift towards quality vs quantity combination of a pub restaurant and adjacent rooms to be an attractive presenting opportunities arriving in areas including premium ale and craft.
guest proposition in the context of increasing business and leisure travel, We have also seen a reduction in capacity in the wet-led pubs market.
and therefore one which offers plenty of opportunity for pubs to take These two factors have resulted in strong market performance in the share from the more traditional branded hotel chains.
In 2016, we have wet-led pubs segment, which outperformed the overall market in the therefore added a further 36 bedrooms to our estate, taking our year-end 12months to April 2017 market segment LFL sales growth of 2.9%.
Weremain optimistic about the future growth opportunities in wet-led pubs, which will be underpinned by premiumisation, events and new The staying out market enjoyed a strong year in 2016 benefiting from occasions e. g. breakfast and coffee.
RevPAR in the provincial staying out market isexpected to grow 3% in 2017 and 1.7% in 2018, driven by moderate The overall UK eating and drinking out market is expected to grow by 2.3% 4 increases in occupancy and average daily rate ADR.
Weexpect to see 2 over the next three years, supported by supply growth in the market, further upside from the increased popularity of the staycation, due to increases in the proportion of adults eating out of home and the frequency theincreased cost of overseas holidays, and increases in inbound tourism with which they do so, and rising population and employment levels.
Segments of the market such as fast food and retail grab and go will be among the fastest growing parts of the market.
The pubs and bars segment is forecast to grow from 22bn today to 2 23bn by 2020 1.5% CAGR.
Our largest division, Pub Company, sits 3.
within the managed and branded pubs segment which will be the key 4.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 19
