STRATEGIC REPORT Operational review continued We launched gluten-free varieties of GreeneKingIPA and Old Speckled Hen.
BREWING REVENUE 200.3m 1.7% 1 EBITDA & BRANDS 36.2m -4.2% Brewing & Brands sells and distributes a wide range 1 of award-winning craftales to both the on and the OPERATING PROFIT off-trade.
They are brewed in one ofourtwo 31.0m -5.2% breweries inBury St Edmunds and Dunbar.
1 OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN OUR CORE BRANDS 15.5% -1.1%pts 1.
Before exceptional and non-underlying items.
28 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT In Brewing & Brands, our long-term strategy is to win market share and increase cash generation through building consumer loyalty to our core ale brands and our innovative range of seasonal and craft ales.
This strategy has led to us being the UKs leading premium cask ale brewer.
1 OBV fell 2.8% in a cask ale market down 3.8% and a total ale market 1 down 2.7%.
Performance over the full year was held back by the weaker ale market combined with the reduction in our exposure to lower margin accounts in the onand off-trade channels.
The second half saw improved trading leading to record full year revenue of 200.3m, up 1.7%.
Margins were impacted, however, by the increased cost of goods sold and investment in marketing and price.
Greene Kings core brands maintained their UK market-leading positions: Greene King IPA continues to be the fastest selling cask ale brand in the on-trade: Old Speckled Hen is still the number one premium ale brand with the highest prompted awareness amongst beer drinkers of 75%: Abbot Ale continues to be the number one premium cask ale brand and delivered a particularly strong year of growth: and Belhaven Best, Scotlands number one draught ale, became the number four keg ale in the UK.
Greene Kings Craft Academy was launched in February with five new beers.
This continued success was helped by maintaining our industry-leading brand investment: our sponsorship of the England and Wales Cricket Board included a new television advert starring Alastair Cook, Ben Stokes and Michael Vaughan: we won additional sporting sponsorships across rugby, football and cricket: we became the official beer supplier to the Royal Albert Hall: and we have been trialling a new lager brand for the Scottish market called Saltire.
Most recently, Greene King partnered with Radio X to make a Radio X beer, available exclusively in Greene King pubs, called Amplified Ale.
Brewing & Brands had a particularly innovative year, launching its Craft Academy in February and debuting five new beer brands developed by Greene Kings core our team of apprentice brewers.
The beers are Over Easy 3.8% session IPA, Big Bang IPA 5.6% bold and citrusy IPA, Bitter Sweet 6% black IPA, Desert Ryeder 4.8% rye beer and High & Dry 5% dry hop lager.
brands maintained Inaddition, we successfully launched new gluten-free variants of GreeneKing IPA and Old Speckled Hen in January.
their leading Our beers won multiple awards this year.
Our flagship iconic brand, Greene King IPA, achieved the sought-after Best Advertising Campaign at market positions.
the Beer Marketing Awards and Best Packaging Redesign at the International Beer Challenge: Belhaven was named Exporter of the Year at the Scottish Beer Awards and scooped Best TV Cinema advert in the Scottish CreativeAwards: and six prestigious gold medals were awarded in the internationally recognised Monde Selection to Old Crafty Hen, Mighty Moose IPA, Twisted Grapefruit IPA, Twisted Thistle IPA, Intergalactic DryHop Lager and Bitter Sweet IPA.
Our brewery tours were also awarded a fifth consecutive Certificate of Excellence by TripAdvisor and the Westgate brewery brought home a Presidents Award from ROSPA for achieving its eleventh consecutive goldsafety award.
At the end of the year, we decided to combine the leadership of Brewing & Brands and Pub Partners, which we believe will foster greater collaboration between the two divisions as well as bringing increased cost efficiencies.
We remain fully committed to investment in our market-leading brands and to driving further innovation within the Brewing & Brands business.
Source: BBPA Beer Market data to April 2017.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 29
