Our business model Our business model is focused on sustainable packaging What we use What we do Be caring Financial capital We use our insight and innovation to design the optimum packaging for our customers We are funded by a combination of shareholder supply chains, and then manufacture it to equity, debt raised and cash flow generated the highest standard.
by our operations, which is reinvested in the business.
Manufacturing capital We have an extensive network of corrugated packaging manufacturing sites, paper mills, Be tenacious Insight recycling depots, Impact Centres, PackRight Centres and offices throughout Europe and worldwide.
DS Smith also utilises the infrastructure of the countries in which we operate, such as the transportation networks, energy providers and telecommunications.
Human capital We employ approximately 26,000 people.
We have an employee engagement programme, OWN IT!, designed to help align employees with the overall aims of the business, in order that all employees understand how their work contributes to the success of DS Smith.
Intellectual capital Paper As a leader in this industry we have substantial business know-how which is used throughout the Group.
We own patents, for example for certain packaging design processes, in both corrugated and particularly plastic packaging.
Manufacture Corrugated Social capital and plastic We have a set of values that all employees are expected to follow in their interactions with packaging other employees, customers, suppliers, and their communities.
We have very long-standing relationships with many of our customers, commonly 10 years or more.
These relationships are built on mutual Recycling understanding and trust, based on our commitment to continue to provide excellence in our service and products.
Natural capital We operate a highly sustainable model through the recycling of natural material, in particular wood fibre.
We collect used fibre and use it to make paper for packaging, and then convert that paper into corrugated board, which is then made into packaging.
After the packaging has been used, that board then goes back into the recycling process and the loop begins again.
Design Be responsive The paper-making process requires substantial amounts of water, so sites are typically situated close to a natural water source.
Supported by our values 18 Strategic report What we use What we create Our business operations Returns Returns for our equity holders and Packaging Paper Recycling Plastics debt providers.
Assets Cash to re-invest in our assets and our people.
Efficiency See page 20 for more about our business Packaging that helps our customers drive cost Be challenging Insight inefficiencies out of their supply chains.
We work with many of the leading FMCG brand Opportunity owners, major retailers and leading industrial Employment, training and development companies.
This breadth of interaction with opportunities for all our employees regardless businesses on a multinational basis, combined of gender, race or age.
with our own expertise, means that we have considerable knowledge in how changing Supply cycle thinking consumer and retail trends affect the role and use of packaging.
We showcase our insight in Thought leadership across the whole our network of Impact Centres, designed to inspire supply chain.
our customers and help them understand how A strong culture packaging can help them sell more, reduce their costs and manage their risk.
An engaged workforce that enhances the communities they operate in.
Innovation Innovation in packaging design can help customers sell more such as SalesFront, reduce costs such as Trayzer or manage their risks such as interlocking, non-tip systems.
Our network of designers work with customers Balance of our business to create innovative packaging solutions to meet Innovation their requirements.
Best practice is shared million tonnes per annum internally and designers are coordinated across all our regions.
In corrugated packaging, we also Corrugated packaging develop innovative machine solutions that build boxes at high speeds, which can significantly 3.7 reduce costs and improve efficiency for customers.
Corrugated paper manufacturing Design Using our network of 27 PackRight Centres, 2.5 we design packaging that fulfils our customer requirements at all stages of their supply chain, Fibre sourcing recycling including the manufacturing process, logistics, and marketing.
We work collaboratively with our 5.2 customers to come up with the optimum solution wherever their end market is.
Unless otherwise specified, all data regarding our Manufacturing operations, including sites, volumes and employee numbers, include all businesses acquired by 30 April 2017, We manufacture corrugated packaging, plastic with sales volumes stated on an annualised basis.
packaging and paper to a high standard, expertly designed for its purpose.
For corrugated packaging, we manufacture corrugated board, then print, cut and glue the boxes, which are then shipped flat on pallets, ready for assembly and filling at our Be trusted customers factories.
We have invested in the most advanced digital pre-printing capability in an exclusive relationship with Hewlett Packard.
Plastic packaging is manufactured by us and supplied to our customers ready for filling.
Our paper mills manufacture recycled corrugated case material See page 22 for our CCM from old corrugated cases OCC.
strategic goals and KPIs Annual report & accounts 2017 | dssmith.
