Our markets Responding to a changing environment Packaging is integral to the efficient supply chains of our customers.
Those customers are responding to changes in the consumer environment, which means that the packaging used needs to be designed to work optimally at every stage of the supply chain, from the point at which the product is packaged, to when it is in the customers hands.
Market drivers Whats happening The impact Retail and High growth in e-commerce.
Packaging becomes designed for e-commerce fulfilment at the e-retail outset, including being suitable for all elements of the supply chain Traditional retail in a state of flux, and ultimately presentation to consumers as the packaging that is with large format stores in decline delivered to the home.
and discount and convenience stores rising.
Packaging has to be adaptable to the needs of different store formats.
Increased importance of product presentation in the retail environment, which requires higher quality packaging.
Brands Large brands, while clearly still Packaging can help to differentiate brands, large and small.
significant, are being challenged Packaging can offer personalisation.
by micro-brands, for example Packaging can provide links to information about the product, both those sold direct to customers enhancing the product and providing details about its provenance.
Consumers seek a more personalised or customised product.
Social pressure Packaging is still widely perceived Packaging is required that is better designed to minimise void for zero as a problem, including excess space and deliver value across the whole supply chain.
packaging packaging, voids in e-commerce, Recycled and recyclable packaging will be in greater demand, and unrecyclable materials that so long as this can be demonstrated and communicated.
are badged as recyclable, for example disposable coffee cups.
Customers Customers are focusing on their Packaging businesses need to be able to work within complex end consumer and are seeking supply chains to drive value.
fewer, longer-term supply Packaging businesses need to be able to serve customers across partners to drive efficiencies multiple manufacturing sites and countries.
Demographics Consumers are more interested Packaging needs to be more visually appealing and facilitate the in making their brand choice primary product being chosen in store.
inside a store, rather than Point of sale packaging, i. e. temporary displays commonly used driven by advertising viewed for promotional products which provide flexibility for retailers.
at home online or through traditional media.
See page 22 for our strategic priorities See page 39 for how we manage our risk 16 Strategic report Our market environment Facts and figures The European corrugated packaging market is fragmented, with the top five corrugated packaging producers estimated to comprise around 40 per cent of the total European market.
Plastic packaging is a global business with numerous niche products.
European corrugated packaging market by geography The DS Smith response 43bms DS Smith is well positioned, as a leader in corrugated packaging in Europe, to respond to these trends.
We are responding in four ways.
Focus on multinational capability Germany 23% UK 10% We continue to build our coverage of Europe, in order to serve customers who require a Italy 15% Poland 9% multinational solution for their packaging.
Focus on e-commerce packaging and point of sale Spain 11% Other 10% We are further building our expertise in this area with recruitment and allocation of Source: FEFCO 2015 resource within the business, and the acquisition of a number of businesses in 2016 17.
Focus on innovation, research and development We are continuing our investment in Impact Centres and PackRight Centres with 12 opened in 2016 17 and a further 16 planned for 2017 18.
We also have a collaboration with a research institute in Sweden, associated with Stockholm University, to lead the European CCM industry in paper science.
Implementation of our performance packaging programme We are continuing our focus on optimal efficient use of fibre in packaging, both within 28mt our packaging business and in collaboration with our paper manufacturing operations.
Thought leadership at DS Smith Testliner 23mt Kraftliner 5mt DS Smith has published a set of scenarios, which are the result of work considering the Source: CEPI big trends that will forge the future to 2025 and what the consequences might be.
They are not predictions, but they are plausible, and are radically different to todays business environment.
We undertook this work because we believe we will not only thrive in that future, but also can shape it too.
Please see our videos and brochure, available on our website see link below.
Caring convenience packaging market E-commerce creates consumer pressure to rethink packaging and logistics.
Everything is an experience 43bms Consumers demand ever-more exciting experiences from brands.
Asian new deal Led by China, the worlds governments create a data-driven circular economy.
FMCG and agriculture 43% Industrial 40% The results are in three short films and a brochure: www.
com packaging strategists our-vision Other consumer 17%  Source: FEFCO 2015 bms billion metres squared mt million tonnes ccm corrugated case material Annual report & accounts 2017 | dssmith.
