STRATEGIC REPORT Focus area BEST FOR TEAMS we believe we have a responsibility to support young people by creating opportunities to earn and learn.
The greatest asset we have at Greene King is our people.
Weemploy around 44,000 team members across the group and so being an attractive place to work, retaining the best people and developing and investing in them are keys to our continued success.
Greene King is uniquely positioned to offer careers across a number of roles, disciplines, environments and locations and we work hard to ensure that every member ofour team gets the opportunity to learn and progress.
We have developed an industry-leading apprenticeship programme, with over3,000 apprentices joining Greene King over the last year, gaining valuable skills which will help them build their career with us.
Our programme offers bespoke qualifications that cover a range of jobs, including front of house, kitchen and management, which are tailored to each of our brands.
This year we launched Craft Academy, a brewing venture led by apprentices and based at Greene Kings brewery in Bury St Edmunds.
The Craft Academy helps craft new talent by giving young people the chance to earn while they learn about brewing, design, marketing and sales.
With the help of experienced mentors, the18-month course teaches participants industry-specific skills as they work towards a bespoke apprenticeship qualification, all the while creating beers under the Craft Academy brandand bringing them to market.
Award winning Our overall apprenticeship programme has been recognised bywinninganumber of recent awards, including: Top 100 National Apprenticeship Employer 2016  Service Best Apprenticeship Strategy 2016 Springboard Awards of Excellence Top 70 School Leaver Employers Table 2017 Rate My Apprenticeship National Apprenticeship Service East of England HighlyCommended2016 Top 100 Employers for School and College Leavers 2016 AllAboutSchool leavers Pictured is one of our team members, Adam Walch.
Turn to page 39 to read moreabout him.
8 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 9 STRATEGIC REPORT Focus area BEST FOR COMMUNITIES We strive to be the best for the communities in which we serve.
Our pubs support their communities in a number of ways, but charity is one of the key areas of focus.
Locally, we support important charities close to our pubs, team members andcustomers hearts, but as a business we have come together to establish apartnership with Macmillan Cancer Support.
Greene King and Macmillan both share the privileged position of being at the heart of the community.
We think this is one of the reasons our partnership is so successful.
We began working with Macmillan in 2012 and are proud to have just reached the incredible milestone of having raised 3m for the cancer charity.
This year, we launched our first company-wide fundraiser, Miles for Macmillan, in which our team members and customers are invited to walk, run, cycle and swim enough miles to reach the moon.
The impressive challenge will see us cover a combined quarter of amillion miles, taking part in local fun runs and bike rides, the London to Paris cycle ride and climbing Mount Kilimanjaro.
As the partnership grows from strength to strength, we are now looking at how we candevelop our support further.
By 2020, one in two people will be affected by cancer during their lifetime and we believe that, by being so close to our communities, we have an opportunity to support people living with cancer.
Therefore, during the next year, we are hoping to launch an employee volunteering programme with Macmillan where they can offer light touch emotional support and raise awareness of national and local cancer support services to team members and customers.
We are also developing Macmillans work and cancer training programme, which will enable our HR and management teams to support our own team members who are affected by cancer.
We achieved a huge amount last year and are looking forward to continuing to make a difference to the lives of those who are living with cancer.
Headlines New milestone 3m raised for Macmillan Record-breaking Worlds Biggest Coffee Morning raised 234,000 Record-breaking year raised 885,000 in one year Won the award for Fundraising Excellence at Macmillans annual corporate partnership event Raising money for Macmillan Cancer Support.
10 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 11
