STRATEGIC REPORT Operational review continued Discussing the Michelin Star recently awarded to the Crown in Burchetts Green, Maidenhead, with tenant Simon Bonwick.
PUB PARTNERS AVERAGE NUMBER OF PUBS TRADING 1,196 0.3% Pub Partners is responsible for operating our tenanted, leased and franchised pubs across Britain and aims to be the REVENUE preferred partner forthe best operators in the industry.
198.8m 5.8% 1 OUR AGREEMENTS EBITDA Standard tenancy agreement 103.1m 8.2% Standard lease agreement 1 OPERATING PROFIT Franchise tenancy 92.8m 8.8% Local Hero franchise-style agreement Turnover tenancy 1 OPERATING PROFIT MARGIN Turnover lease 46.7% 1.3%pts Retail Ready agreement 1 MRO agreement AVERAGE EBITDA PER PUB Joint venture agreement 86.2k 7.9% 1.
Before exceptional and non-underlying items.
26 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT In Pub Partners, our strategy is to be the preferred partner for the best operators in the industry.
We will achieve this through the offer of the best retail partnerships in flexible formats and in the best pubs.
Pub Partners has had another impressive year of growth, recording sector-leading LFL EBITDA growth and receiving a series of well deserved industry awards.
The division operated 0.3% more pubs on average during the year, while revenue was up 5.8% to 198.8m.
Revenue growth was driven by the increased number of turnover agreements in our estate, food supply agreements with licensees and the inclusion of the Spirit acquisition forafull year.
EBITDA was up 8.2% to 103.1m and average EBITDA perpubwas up 7.9% to 86.2k.
LFL net profit was up 5.0% against a4.4%comparative in FY16.
We will continue to target growth and profitability within the division through increasing the number of turnover agreements, expanding the number of pubs ordering food directly through our supply chain and developing the offer available to those already benefiting from our supplychain, alongside a strong investment programme.
we received the Publican award for Leased and Tenanted Pub Company of the year.
Investment in our partners, including leadership, multi-site training and apprenticeship support, led to 12-month retention of new licensees of 96%.
Over 2,000 delegates benefited from training over the year and werecently launched a 12-month Management Development Programme, designed to help licensees develop and retain their key team members.
We continue to dispose of non-core pubs which we do not believe will deliver good returns in the long term and to help us invest in those pubs with a long-term future.
Over the course of the year, we sold 54 non-core pubs in line with this strategy.
Most of our investment is targeted at repositioning pubs from value to mainstream or mainstream to premium, increasing the food mix within our pubs and improving the trading potential of outdoor spaces.
This has driven improved financial performance in Pub Revenue growth Partners ROI and ROCE.
The statutory Pubs Code went live in July 2016 and before the launch was helped by the wetrained over 100 team members to ensure we were as fully compliant with the statutory code as we were with the voluntary code.
The main impact on Pub Partners will come from the ability of licensees to take a increased number market rent only MRO option or, essentially, a commercial free-of-tie agreement.
We have 27 MRO applications currently going through the of food supply adjudication process and at the year end we had no MRO agreements taken.
We remain of the view that MRO will have no material impact onthe group.
Our success in being the preferred partner for the best independent operators was recognised when we received the Publican award for Leased and Tenanted Pub Company of the Year, the NITA training prize for our licensee development programme and the ALMR BDM of the year.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 27
