STRATEGIC REPORT Focus area BEST FOR CUSTOMERS We aim to be the best in the eyes of the customer, which means offering them industry-leading value, service and quality.
Our offering is delivered by the best people andin high quality, appealing pubs with clear and excitingbrands and formats.
With the dual challenges of weakening consumer confidence and growing competition, exceeding our customers expectations is more important than ever.
This year we have invested more in improving value, service and quality VSQ inorder to provide an even better offer for our customers, in line with our overarching aim of becoming thebest pub company in the UK.
Our food development team is responsible for developing and delivering new menus and dishes across Pub Company.
Its objective is to create best-in-class menus, making Greene King recognised for quality and choice, and offering customers experiences that they will value, remember and want to share.
We have been focusing particularly on improving the quality and consistency ofthe most ordered dishes across Pub Company, targeting increased consumer loyalty.
The team has reformulated how we serve these pub classics, including fish and chips and hunters chicken, with better ingredients and presentation across our retail brands.
The investment in improving these dishes has been reflected in the results of our mystery guest programme, in which we benchmark our pubs against more than 20 other brands on VSQ measures.
Recent results Greene Kings top four dishes outperform the non-Greene King brands surveyed in our mystery guest programme, averaging over 8 10 versus non-Greene King brands, which averaged 7.81 10 Chef & Brewers burger scored the highest of all pubs surveyed Chef & Brewer also scored highest for its chicken tikka masala and its chips Flaming Grill scored highest for its hunters chicken Greene King Locals Mainstream scored highest for its fish and chips Our food development team was recently recognised at the Menu Innovation and Development Awards Pictured are two members ofour food development team.
6 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 7
