What we do Our business operations Packaging Paper Recycling Plastics We are a leading European We are a leading European We are the market leading fibre Our plastics business comprises packaging company of customermanufacturer of high-quality recycling and waste management flexible packaging and dispensing specific corrugated packaging recycled papers.
Our papers are company and the largest paper solutions, extruded and injection with an emphasis on leading edge used by the packaging industry for recycler in Europe, collecting moulded products, and foam design and the highest quality conversion into board for making c. 5.2 million tonnes annually.
We work with many service in the geographies our corrugated boxes.
We also make of the worlds leading companies Our customers rely on us to customers demand.
Our product some specialist paper grades such in a diverse range of industries provide them with integrated portfolio includes transit packaging, as plasterboard liner, all of which and markets.
solutions, with the aim of making consumer packaging, displays and are from recycled material.
100 per cent of resources into Plastic packaging is a specialist promotional packaging, customised We operate a unique paper something useful once more.
market with numerous protective packaging and industrial sourcing platform that coordinates niche products.
packaging, providing solutions for We harvest quality paper and the decisions around make, buy, each market requirement.
cardboard for recycling from a Flexible packaging and sell for the paper grades and quality range of sectors, including retailers, dispensing solutions We operate along the whole required by our packaging business.
manufacturers, local authorities, Our product brands include Rapak, supply-cycle, from the raw Paper is readily transportable print, recycling and waste a global leader in bag-in-box materials to the high-quality and is traded globally.
packaging and filling systems, and finished product.
We offer our Worldwide Dispensers high quality customers sustainable packaging The recyclate we collect provides precision moulding and customer which also helps them achieve the most cost efficient raw material design solutions.
for the Groups paper making processes.
We also sell recyclate Extruded products Corrugated packaging is typically to third parties globally.
We design and manufacture produced within c. 200km of extruded products such as its destination due to the corrugated plastic sheets and requirements for just-in-time returnable transit packaging delivery and the cost of transport.
Injection moulded products We are a leader in Europe in the design and manufacture of plastic beverage crates, pallets, speciality trays and bulk containers.
Foam products We design and manufacture foam moulded custom designed components and protective packaging.
c. 2,000 c. 800 c. 21,000 c. 1,900 employees employees employees employees 8 9 33 13 countries countries countries countries 20
