In conversation with the Group Chief Executive Packaging is an essential part of everyday life, and changes in the consumer environment are making it more relevant than ever.
Miles Roberts Group Chief Executive What do you mean by redefining packaging?
Packaging is an essential part of everyday life and changes in the consumer environment are making it more relevant than ever.
Packaging is also playing an increasing role in the sale of an item, and, in the case of e-commerce, needs to convey the brand and quality proposition of an item in the way that traditionally a shop has done.
In that respect, packaging is fast becoming the new Redefining advertising, as demonstrated by the move of marketing budgets away from traditional media to in-store marketing.
It also plays an essential role in the smooth running of the packaging supply chain the process of getting goods from the manufacturer into the hands of the consumer.
As that supply chain gets more complex, so the requirements for smart packaging increase.
I see the opportunities for packaging continuing at an even faster pace and therefore it is an opportunity for DS Smith, as a leader in the industry, to redefine packaging to meet these new requirements.
Watch the full year results interview: www.
com investors  14 Strategic report DS Smith aims to be a leader in sustainable From left to right: Colin McIntyre packaging solutions Head of Paper what does being a and Recycling, Stefano Rossi leader mean?
Head of Corrugated Packaging, In addition to building market share Mark Smith in the short term, at DS Smith we are Head of Plastics looking to the long-term.
Thought leadership is important, and by that I mean challenging ourselves to think Function business heads about the future, so that we can Our corrugated packaging business is operated on a regional basis, with packaging, anticipate changes in the world paper and recycling integrated in order to maximise efficiencies between them.
around us and how they might In order to ensure consistency of approach to customers and the highest possible operational performance, we also have function heads for corrugated impact the business.
This is key to a packaging, and for paper and recycling.
Plastics is operated separately from sustainable business.
This year, our fibre-based packaging.
strategy team has developed a set of scenarios that have helped us think about the future five to 10 years hence, and I encourage you to watch the short videos on our website, that summarise some of those themes.
colleagues, and we all recognise perspective as a manufacturer and a These cover a wide range of potential that change can sometimes be a large employer, we would like to see influences on our business, from challenge.
I am particularly pleased minimum barriers to trade and to the the rise in e-commerce, social with the way that the businesses movement of labour, and we will pressure for zero packaging, potential acquired over the last two years work with whatever agreement regulatory or legislative pressure have been integrated.
around the use, reuse and recycling Duropack was acquired in July 2015 of raw materials, to the changes in and initially lagged behind the Group What are you global demographics.
These all have on certain employee engagement the potential to materially influence most proud of measures.
We have worked together the business environment in the in 2016 17?
over the period implementing our years to come, both positively Engaging Managers programme, or negatively.
We use this work The year has been one of consistent and I was delighted to see, in the to inform our medium-term improvement and delivery against See page 22 for employee survey conducted in the planning and risk analysis too.
financial targets, against service delivery against autumn of 2016, that this region targets, against health and safety our KPIs www.
com packaging is now leading the way, in a Group targets, and against our own plans strategists our-vision rehearsingcontext.
It is a great example of the-future for integration of new businesses.
many of our corporate values, Health and safety is our number such as caring, responsiveness Culture and values and tenacity, contributing to one priority and I am very proud of are important to the improvements we continue to the business being a success.
However, any accident is one can be hard to pin too many and during the year a tragic What might be the accident in Germany resulted down.
What does impact of Brexit in the death of an employee.
Our DS Smith do that on DS Smith?
thoughts are with his family, demonstrates friends and colleagues.
Within Europe DS Smith has your approach?
The While the political world has We put substantial work into UK represented approximately changed a great deal over the last Read the Chief communicating with employees so 20 per cent of Group revenues 12 months, we have kept focused on Executives review that they understand our strategy in 2016 17.
While the UK may be our business and continued to drive it on page 28 and are kept up to date with what leaving the EU, it remains part of forward.
Our corporate values include is going on in the business.
DS Smith does responsiveness, trust and tenacity, we buy businesses, this process relatively little trade across the and these have all been demonstrated, is particularly important as the English Channel and customers are many times over, throughout successful integration of a business largely served locally by our broad the organisation, and by our depends on the commitment of both network of sites across Europe, whole workforce.
DS Smith employees and our new including those in the UK.
From our Annual report & accounts 2017 | dssmith.
