STRATEGIC REPORT Our business model DELIVERING LONG-TERM GROWTH AND RETURNS Our business model Leading UK pub Large, category Well invested Experienced Strong acquisition companyandbrewer leadingbrands estate managementteam trackrecord Pub Company Pub Partners Brewing & Brands Pub Company consists of both morefoodPub Partners is responsible for operating our Brewing & Brands operates two breweries, focused destination pubs and restaurants tenanted, leased and franchised pubs and aims one in Bury St Edmunds and the other in andmore community-focused local pubs.
to ensure that each pub has the right licensee to Dunbar, that brew our core portfolio of ales, Theprincipal revenue streams are food operate it, on the right agreement and with the which are complemented by an innovative anddrink available for consumption on our right offer.
Revenue in our Pub Partners business range of craft ales.
We generate revenue in premises.
We gain further revenue from our of 1,155 pubs is principally achieved through the this division from the sale and distribution accommodation offer on some sites, and supply of beer and other drinks to our licensees ofales produced by us in our ownbreweries, anumber of our sites have gaming machines.
and the rent that they pay us for the pub and and from the sale and distribution of drinks The success of Pub Company is driven byour our support.
We also derive a small portion of both alcoholic and non-alcoholic produced customers desire to eat anddrink outside of revenue from gaming machines.
We both invest bythird parties.
Aswell as to our internal their homes and is specifically determined by in this business, to ensure that we can offer customers in the other divisions, wealso sell the number of customers we attract and the prospective lessees the best pubs, and divert our ales to other pub companies and to amount thatthey spend with us.
Pub Company cash generated to invest in PubCompany.
Afurther 1,769 pubs is the key growth driver for the important revenue streamis the saleof group and in this division we typically own ourown-brewed ales tosupermarkets and operate the pubs.
This division is a key andother retail outlets and, increasingly, focus area for growth and we will continue intheexport market.
toinvest the cash generated from the group in our people and our pubs to ensure that Pub Company continues to gain share in theUK eating and drinking out market.
Operational review page 24 Operational review page 26 Operational review page 28 An integrated business model In addition to driving growth in Pub Company through enhanced investment, further benefits of our integrated business model include the flexibility to transfer pubs between Pub Company and Pub Partners and ensure that we match each pub with the best operating model.
BothPubCompany and Pub Partners are customers of Brewing & Brands, increasing the distribution of our ales.
Underpinning our business model is a financial strategy to maximise the strength, flexibility and efficiency of our balance sheet, with the aim ofsupporting growth through investment in our estate and selectively acquiring new sites, while maintaining our progressive dividend policy.
16 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Value created Value shared with GROUP RETURN ON INVESTMENT Customers We place customers at the heart of what wedo, aiming for industry-leading value, 24.5% 3,000 serviceand quality and regularly benchmarking PUBS, RESTAURANTS against the best in class.
ANDHOTELS GROUP RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED Employees We employ around 44,000 people and 9.4% workhard to make sure that every member 44,000 ofourteam gets the opportunity to learn EMPLOYEES andprogress.
We maintain high employee engagement scores and were pleased to FREE CASH FLOW receivethe award for Best Apprenticeship Strategy at the Springboard Awards in 2017.
119.6m Shareholders Greene King has a long-term track record ADJUSTED BASIC ofearnings growth, a disciplined approach 33.2p EARNINGS PER SHARE tocapital management and strong cash flow generation supporting an attractive and DIVIDEND PER SHARE sustainable dividend.
70.8p Communities EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Our communities support includes: our partnership with Macmillan Cancer Support, 3m forwhich we have raised over 3m: our 85% RAISED FOR MACMILLAN sponsorship of Pub is the Hub: and our CANCER SUPPORT schemewith The Princes Trust offering unemployed young people an opportunity towork and gain skillsinthe leisure sector.
TOTAL DIVERSION OF WASTEFROMLANDFILL Environment 95% Greene King is committed to operating its business in a sustainable way and was the first Zero pub company this year to apply for a licence to WASTE TO LANDFILL self-supply water, enabling us to reduce water BY2020PLEDGE usage in our business.
We also became the first major pub company in the UK to pledge that by2020 we will send zerowaste to landfill.
Annual report 2017 GREENE KING PLC 17
