Strategic report Developments in risk management Viability statement One of our priorities for 2016 17 has been to fully embed In accordance with the revised 2014 UK Corporate an ongoing risk monitoring environment and validate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the the effectiveness of our current controls.
Specific risk viability of the Group over a three-year period to discussions were added as a regular agenda item at the 30 April 2020, which is a longer period than the twelve divisional trading meetings held monthly by the Group months outlook required in adopting the going concern Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
This has basis of accounting.
The three-year time supported, with effective tone from the top, the evolution period was considered appropriate given the time of our risk management systems.
As a result, the scale of the Corporate Plan, the evolution of the effectiveness of our business risk assessments Group over the last three years, and the medium-term has been challenged and refined to ensure early nature of our pan-European customer relationships.
identification of new and emerging risks.
A robust assessment of the principal risks facing the To supplement regular risk assessments our strategy Group as detailed on pages 42 to 45 was performed, team and a representation of employees from various including those that will threaten its business model, divisions and functions developed a suite of scenarios future performance and solvency or liquidity.
to understand how some of the most powerful threats, The assessment of the Groups viability considers uncertainties and opportunities could shape the future likely downside sensitivities including mitigating of our industry.
Whilst the scenarios are in no sense actions, both individually and in combination.
Downside intended as predictions, using their outputs has provided sensitivities selected are severe but plausible scenarios a rich context to enable our Board to better understand aligned to the principal risks and uncertainties set out on the nature of key threats and their impact on our pages 42 to 45 where the realisation of these risks business plans and to actively debate with and is considered more than remote, taking into account challenge executive management.
the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and These two examples demonstrate our commitment to control systems and considering current risk appetite.
continuously improve our risk management processes.
The degree of severity applied to the sensitivities We strongly believe that a risk aware culture has a great was based on historical extremes and the Directors potential to lead to positive outcomes.
The Board is assessment of plausible movement in assumptions.
confident that the investments to support our risk Sensitivities considered included a prolonged downturn management capabilities will continue to produce in paper price, significant adverse foreign exchange new insights to maintain resilient and sustainable movements, and significant drops in packaging volumes.
To rigorously challenge the resilience of the Group, a worst case scenario including downsides on all these sensitivities was included in the evaluation.
Integrating risk management scenario planning with viability assessments The Groups viability assessment assumes that the existing banking and debt facilities will remain in place or Throughout the year our risk management team, mature as predicted.
The Directors have also considered working alongside the strategy and finance teams, mitigating actions available to the Group to respond to has reviewed the principal risks detailed on page 39. the stressed scenarios such as restrictions on capital The teams have also analysed the connections between investment, further cost reduction opportunities and these risks and our scenario planning activities.
In the restricting dividend growth.
It has been assumed that context of the three scenarios published earlier in 2016, these mitigating actions can be applied on a timely the following principal risks were considered: basis, and at insignificant or no cost.
impacts of macro-economic developments on foreign Based on this analysis, the Directors have a reasonable exchange rates within the Group trading activities: expectation that the Group will be able to continue in higher than expected volatility in the price and operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over availability of fibre and paper: the three-year period of their assessment.
changes in shopping habits: and unforeseen government interventions, including restrictive regulations adversely affecting credentials of our sustainability business.
Using key insights from our scenario planning sessions and connecting these with the identified principal risks, the teams were able to establish a clear set of conditions.
These conditions were later used to model outcomes Going concern page 58 Directors report over the three-year plan period and provided the basis for sensitivities considered in the Groups 2017 viability Find out more about our scenarios on our website at www.
com assessment and subsequent statement.
com 41 Principal risks continued Risk impact key Increased Stable Decreased Link to Inherent Controlled strategic Risk How does the Board review Principal risk areas risk risk priority appetite What threats could we potentially face?
What opportunities are we considering?
How is management addressing this risk?
To double Our acquisition plans could lead to substantive We believe that there are significant We have adapted our capital allocation to put The Board participates in a full Acquisition strategy our size and integration difficulties.
opportunities to be had in the use of corrugated more emphasis on e-commerce and display.
discussion on the three-year profitability packaging, particularly in display and Corporate Plan.
Our acquisition growth may fail to fully support Our M&A team continues to build a strong e-commerce.
our customers, as they seek to develop a more pipeline of actionable potential At each Board meeting the global supply chain.
We also believe that the adoption of bag-in-box acquisition targets.
Group Chief Executive provides packaging presents significant updates on progress of the growth opportunities.
To double Uncertainty over the impact of Brexit and the We continuously review alternative sources of Our centralised treasury function actively Our Audit Committee regularly Access to capital our size and unpredictable global political landscape could liquidity and evaluate what is required to manages all cash and debt to optimise liquidity.
reviews liquidity schedules, markets and liquidity profitability restrict our access to funds.
cash flows, covenant headroom We maintain effective relationships with a restrictions and semi-annually confirms on Unplanned decreases or changes in sources of small number of core banking partners, who the going concern assumption.
finance might restrict our ability to fund the are committed to providing liquidity to Corporate Plan.
The Group Finance Director provides regular updates to We continue to have access to various the Board with regards to financing facilities, including a revolving alternative financing credit facility.
To double Our competitive position in our existing We aim to identify the best consolidation Our experienced leadership team participates The Board receives regular Increasing market our size and markets could weaken, due to competitors opportunities through market mapping in regular market reviews.
They also consider updates on competitors consolidation profitability rapid growth.
and broadening our geographical spread.
contingency arrangements and the activity.
These updates are development of strategic segments a part of the Group Finance The integrity of our business model could We continue to exploit our European markets, and service offerings.
which remain attractive due to segmentation.
We are committed to building stronger global Our bargaining power and margins could be We also consider regions outside Europe, where and pan-European strategic alliances and adversely affected if our supply chain becomes growing populations and demand for branded implementing new strategic approaches too limited or concentrated.
consumer goods enhance their attractiveness.
to improve all our procurement activities.
To delight We might uncover a systematic failure or We are committed to ethical behaviour at We continue to develop safety strategies The Audit Committee regularly Governance and our weakness in our internal systems of control, all times when dealing with our customers, and occupational safety programmes.
reviews results of internal compliance customers functions or operational areas that could regulators and other stakeholders in line control reports.
We implement Group policies relating to adversely affect our business.
business ethics, including operating The Board receives updates As we expand into new markets, our We continue to maintain our collaboration framework, anti-trust, competition law throughout the year on health business practices could be challenged and with various associations to monitor and better and modern slavery.
and safety performance, cultural differences may conflict with our understand regulatory implications in order to corporate governance, modern We have a robust divisional self-assessment core business ethics.
address and reposition our business model slavery, market abuse, ethics compliance process.
to ensure we remain fully compliant.
To delight Vulnerabilities in one or more critical business We actively pursue all forms of efficiency Management continues to implement asset The Board keeps updated on Process changes our processes might lead to an unanticipated and opportunities to enhance the effectiveness management and other techniques across the transformation programme customers a protracted business disruption.
of our fibre processing programmes.
our businesses and ensures their covering support functions.
Failure to properly implement a change in our We continue to improve asset strategic processes or systems could cause management through footprint and machine We have a broad network of sites across delays or unanticipated cost overruns.
specification, new technology reviews Europe that operate independently but can and integration.
pick up and complete orders from another site.
To delight Our investments in innovation might fail to We continue to identify growth and through We continue to invest in innovative resources The Board has been presented Changes in shopping our meet the expected growth across existing extensive engagement with our customers within our divisions to ensure the deployment with strategic updates on how habits customers retail markets.
we are well positioned to notice early signs of innovation around different themes, i. e. e-commerce, innovation and of potential opportunities.
e-commerce, bricks and mortar, digital world in-store activation links into We might not be quick enough to address the and delighting consumers.
use of new materials and large scale product We maintain a long-term commitment to Our more from less services initiative The Board reviews the Group substitution of the traditional single use and research and development R&D and to recyclable packaging.
maintain divisional strategies underpinned continues to build momentum.
strategy and scenario planning outputs.
42 Strategic report Link to Inherent Controlled strategic Risk How does the Board review Principal risk areas risk risk priority appetite What threats could we potentially face?
com 43 Principal risks continued Risk impact key Increased Stable Decreased Link to Inherent Controlled strategic Risk How does the Board review Principal risk areas risk risk priority appetite What threats could we potentially face?
To delight We may fail to adopt digital technology to We are targeting investment to strengthen our We have a well invested infrastructure and The Board has reviewed Digital vulnerabilities our accelerate the speed and flexibility needed to packaging division and build capabilities in remain confident that we are secure against security risks in the context of customers deliver improvements in our packaging solutions.
perceived threats addressed through our the Corporate Plan and scenario IT security capability.
Weaknesses in the Groups network security may fail to protect critical IT infrastructure, creating an We have created an information and IT security There have also been a unforeseen and prolonged impact to the Groups governance structure to support our business number of reviews focusing ability to operate.
on innovation and digital investment, e-commerce, There is an IT transformation programme customer experience and underway which will further improve our IT transformation plans.
To double We might not be able to adapt to structural changes We explore the opportunities to reposition Management teams, as a matter of course, The Board reviews performance Eurozone and our size and caused by governmental actions or interventions.
our business model outside our traditional are always evaluating cost optimisation and and forecasts of the business macro-economic profitability markets, across all divisions and alternative operational efficiency.
activities in relation to the In response to Brexit, we may fail to successfully limits sources of supply.
reposition the business model to maintain desired We have formed a Group Brexit committee to levels of supplier and customer costs oversee our response to developments in the The Board has planned a full and performance.
Brexit review to consider the key implications.
Adverse foreign exchange rates and volatility in We continue to invest in a strategy to address other markets could create new and unpredictable any long-term Eurozone currency imbalances pressures on our input costs.
To lead Our paper short strategy may leave the Group We improve our supply chain performance We continue to develop and refine our fibre There are regular discussions at Interference in the way in excessively exposed to significant volatility in by implementing our strategy based on strategy based on performance packaging, Board meetings which focus on securing required M&A updates from the paper sustainability prices or availability.
a closed loop and paper short approach, which alongside a dynamic geographical footprint and paper supplies significantly enhances our customer appeal.
changing capacity needs of our packaging division.
We remain vulnerable to unanticipated and prolonged price volatility and availability of specific We continue to leverage the scale of our own We aim to maximise the recovery of paper price The Board also receives regular paper grades in the locations where the Group does sourcing and production with the external changes though timely commercial negotiations updates on fibre risks and paper not have its own production capabilities.
market to generate a cost and quality best fit.
and index contracts which allow payment price trends.
adjustments linked to prices of commodities.
To lead We might fail to adapt to rapid technological We continue to research and evaluate a variety We pursue improvements in fibre efficiency The Board is provided with Unanticipated fibre the way in changes in new fibre recovery, paper technology of fibre technologies that have the potential to through strategic investments, specifically regular updates on the Groups technology changes sustainability and new packaging materials.
support the Groups product and in fibre recovery and stock preparations.
We support research and development areas of fibre recovery, papermaking and performance packaging.
To lead We could fail to meet planned targets of energy We recognise the potential for a cleaner We plan to disclose our sustainability data The Board has been updated Sustainability the way in demands within our sustainability and energy energy strategy in all production upgrades, to provide visibility and assurance to on the reporting arrangements promise sustainability cost plans.
expansion plans and redevelopment of our all stakeholders.
energy production infrastructure, which We might incur an unsustainable inflation cost Our capability continues to build across The Group Finance Director has includes improvements such as our due to the adoption of climate change and energy leadership and operational management provided updates on energy, energy from waste project.
policies or a change in recycling behaviours that with the development of specific internal including a waste project that could make other packaging more attractive.
sustainability indicators to track performance.
attracted an investment in a new anaerobic digestion plant.
To realise We could experience weaknesses in the We focus on improvements in health and Our OWN IT!
programme has been refreshed The Board has received regular Talent barriers the potential organisational structure, fail to keep pace with safety processes and explore ways of a more to highlight our vision, strategy and values to updates and reports and of our growth or become unable to drive innovation, efficient and effective use of people skills our employees.
routinely discusses people manage change or embed an identifiable business and experience.
The human resources HR information culture across the Group.
We are developing a specific Group-wide system has been improved, in order to drive Despite extensive research and development approach to secure young and HR processes and ensure more efficient and R&D activities, we could experience shortages in exceptional talent.
effective use of people skills and experience.
innovation-led skills or might be unable to integrate We refresh and refine our succession planning, them into our standard operational activities.
assignments and talent review processes.
44 Strategic report Link to Inherent Controlled strategic Risk How does the Board review Principal risk areas risk risk priority appetite What threats could we potentially face?
