2 The net asset value per share growth is based on NAV per share as adjusted for warrants and subscription shares.
3 Dow Jones World Technology Index total return, Sterling adjusted and from April 2013 with the removal of relevant withholding taxes.
All data sourced from Polar Capital LLP Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 05 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview Strategic Report Section STRATEGIC REPORT SECTION 08 Chairmans Statement 10 Managers Report 30 Portfolio Review 37 Strategic Report Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 06 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 ROBOTICS The evolution of advanced components such as operate, making highly versatile production lines machine vision, sensors and reduction gears have possible.
Advances in control system and sensor made highly accurate and repeatable movement technologies are also allowing predictive possible.
This is driving a significant market maintenance to be both affordable and precise, expansion as industrial robots traditionally used paving the way for manufacturers to achieve zero for tasks unsuitable for humans to perform over down time ZDT and avoid expensive unplanned work sustained periods such as welding, painting and stoppages which cost on average 5% of total output loading tasks can today address consumer value.
The vision is real-time information sharing electronics assembly, healthcare, logistics and many across connected machines and cooperation between other sectors.
The robotics opportunity has also been cyber-physical systems and humans.
However, this advanced by e-commerce which is forcing a rethink of will require a fundamental overhaul of how factories the whole supply chain while cobots robots with are built in order to enable real-time data collection, enhanced safety control functions are now able to monitoring and analysis.
The replacement operate alongside humans in a production line opportunity is enormous with c. 60m machines in without a safety barrier.
The arrival of human-robot factories globally of which 70% are more than fifteen collaboration is radically changing the way factories years old and only 10% are currently connected.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 07 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview
