Overview ABOUT YOUR COMPANY OBJECTIVE BENCHMARK The investment objective is to maximise long-term The Company has a Benchmark of the Dow Jones World capital growth through investing in a diversified Technology Index total return, Sterling adjusted, with portfolio of technology companies around the world.
the removal of relevant withholding taxes against which The investment policy is set out in full in the NAV performance is measured for the purpose of StrategicReport.
While the Investment Manager is Benchmark aware in RATIONALE the construction of the portfolio it seeks to identify high Over the last three decades the technology industry growth companies which can result in a significant has been one of the most vibrant, dynamic and rapidly difference between the portfolio and the Benchmark and growing segments of the global economy.
Technology an analysis of the portfolio is set out on pages 30 to 36. companies offer the potential for substantially faster The full portfolio at the 30 April 2017 is available on the earnings growth than the broader market.
Technology may be defined as the application of GEARING scientific knowledge for practical purposes and technology companies are defined accordingly.
The Company uses gearing in the form of bank loans which are used on a tactical basis by the Investment While this offers a very broad and dynamic investing Manager, when considered appropriate.
The overall level universe and covers many different companies, the of net gearing is agreed between Polar Capital LLP as portfolio will be focused on technology companies the Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM and which use technology or which develop and supply the Board.
The Board approves and controls all bank technological solutions as a core part of their business facilities and any net borrowings over 15% of the models.
This includes areas as diverse as information, Companys net assets at the time of draw down will media, communications, environmental, healthcare, only be made after approval by the Board.
financial and renewable energy, as well as the more obvious applications such as computing and The Investment Managers use of derivatives is controlled associatedindustries.
by the Board in accordance with the Companys investment policy and any leverage from the use of such INVESTMENT APPROACH derivatives will be subject to the restriction on gearing.
Stocks are selected for their potential shareholder DIVIDENDS returns, not on the basis of technology for its own sake.
The Investment Manager believes in rigorous The Company has not historically paid a dividend as fundamental analysis and focuses on: the objective is capital growth.
management quality: MANAGEMENT the identification of new growth markets: The Company is led by an experienced Board of the globalisation of major technology trends: Directors with extensive knowledge of investment matters and the regulatory framework in which such exploiting international valuation anomalies: and activity is undertaken.
The Directors are all Nonsector volatility.
executive and have appointed various third party suppliers to provide a range of services including investment management, depositary and administrative services to the Company.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 02 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 The role of the Board is to provide oversight of the WEBSITE Companys activities and to ensure the appropriate The Companys website can be found at financial resources and controls are in place to deliver www.
co. uk the investment objective and manage the risks associated with such activities.
Details of the Directors It contains useful information on the Company including skills and relevant experience are given on pages 50 stock exchange announcements, financial statements and 51. and other reports and notices, commentary by the portfolio manager and useful links to third parties.
Polar Capital LLP has been the appointed Investment Manager and AIFM throughout the year.
Ben Rogoff, the REGISTRAR appointed portfolio manager, has been responsible for Equiniti Limited the Companys portfolio since 1 May 2006 and is Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex, supported by a team of technology specialists.
Details BN99 6DA of the investment team are given on pages 52 and 53.
Shareholder helpline: 0800 876 6889 Polar Capital LLP is authorised and regulated by the or 44 121 415 7047 Financial Conduct Authority.
co. uk FEES Shareholders who have their shares registered in their The Company pays both a tiered basic management fee own name, not through a share savings scheme or ISA, and a performance fee, details of which are set out in can contact the registrars with any queries on their the Strategic Report on page 46. holding.
Post, telephone and Internet contact details are given above.
SHARE PRICE AND NET ASSET VALUE In correspondence you should refer to Polar Capital Information on the Company including Monthly Technology Trust plc, stating clearly the registered name Factsheets, Net Asset Values NAV and share price and address and if, available the full accountnumber.
can be found on the Companys website.
The Companys NAV, is released on the next working day following the ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS calculation date, to the London Stock Exchange.
If you hold your shares in your own name you can choose Share price information is also available from The London to receive communications from the Company in Stock Exchange Website www.
This method reduces costs, is PCT, Bloomberg PCT.
LN, Datastream PCT, Lipper environmentally friendly and, for many, is convenient too.
L. If you would like to take advantage of Electronic The SEDOL code for the ordinary shares is 0422002 Communications please visit our registrars website at and the ISIN is GB004220025.
You will need your Shareholder reference number.
If you agree to the terms PORTFOLIO DETAILS and conditions, in future, on the day that documents are sent to Shareholders by post you will receive an e-mail A full portfolio listing is published quarterly on the providing the website address where the documents can Companys website.
Paper copies will still be available on request.
AIC The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies AIC and the AIC website www.
co. uk contains detailed information about investment trusts including guides and statistics.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 03 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview
