Strategic Report Section MANAGERS REPORT ban and the unsuccessful effort in March to repeal the MARKET REVIEW Affordable Care Act which highlighted existing divisions Our fiscal year saw equity markets enjoy an outstanding within the Republican party.
year as the goldilocks investment backdrop persisted with just enough growth and inflation to keep estimates Other developed markets also performed well with and hopes alive while allowing policy to remain returns in Japan 28.6% in Sterling terms particularly accommodative.
The combination of earnings growth robust, driven by GDP upside 1% vs. 0.5% forecast and and ongoing valuation expansion particularly post the the end of negative interest rate policy NIRP which Presidential election victory of Donald Trump saw most likely caused some rotation from bonds into equities.
major markets deliver strong performance during the While European growth also modestly surprised to the period.
Once again returns were supplemented by upside, equity returns 24.4% in Sterling terms trailed Sterling weakness following Britains unexpected those elsewhere due to concerns over the Dutch and decision to leave the EU in its June referendum.
While French elections that potentially threatened the survival the Pound recovered from its nadir, it still ended the of the European Union EU, a concern that materially year 12% 7% 8% lower against the Dollar, Euro and Yen intensified following Brexit which also weighed heavily respectively.
As a result, the FTSE World TR index on UK returns and the resignation of Italian Prime advanced by 30.7% during the year, with currency Minister Renzi following his referendum defeat in accounting for c. one-half of the total return.
Stabilising commodity prices and markets continued to climb the proverbial wall of worry reacceleration in China following earlier intervention as commodity price stabilisation, improving economic allowed emerging markets EM to outperform.
While data and soothing commentary from the Federal the Trump victory caused a brief wobble, the potential Reserve about the pace of likely rate tightening for a more protectionist agenda proved unable to ameliorated investor concerns about political risk derail EM momentum.
Within Asia, the strongest and the rise of so-called populism.
performances were reserved for tech-heavy markets including Taiwan and Korea both of which benefited The US market 33.2% in Sterling terms remained a from sustained outperformance of semiconductor, strong relative performer despite headline GDP growth display and other component stocks.
that fell 0.8% short of earlier expectations.
Rather than worry about headwinds associated with lower energy Our financial year began with US Dollar strength driven prices and an inventory drawdown, investors instead by improving US economic data and more hawkish focused on supportive corporate news flow with share commentary from the US Federal Open Market buybacks and record M&A activity augmenting Committee FOMC.
While the first-quarter earnings respectable earnings progress ex.
After a season disappointed, this largely reflected weakness short-lived panic, the unexpected election outcome and in energy and select retail stocks.
In contrast, UK Republican clean sweep of Congress was welcomed by economic data was weak ahead of the Brexit investors excited by the new Presidents pro-growth referendum, before fears were realised in June when platform.
Bond and equity markets diverged as yield Britain decided to leave the EU, surprising financial curves steepened and forward earnings estimates were markets and pundits alike.
Sterling plunged by more revised higher as the market attempted to size the new than 8% on the day and considerably more in the weeks Administrations potential impact on growth.
Sharply that followed with cable revisiting levels last seen in higher US Treasury yields presaged a dramatic rotation the mid 1980s.
The resignation of PM Cameron and the within the market away from growth and in favour of leadership contest that followed added further to the perceived beneficiaries of higher bond yields, lower post-Brexit uncertainty resulting in a flattening taxes and infrastructure spending.
While the dispersion of global yield curves and bank share weakness.
between sectors associated with this so-called Trump The notion of lower for longer was seemingly trade was the most extreme since 2005, the final third supported by muted second-quarter US economic of the year saw it largely unwind following a number of growth, a third consecutive monthly fall in Chinas failed attempts by the new President to enact change manufacturing PMI and a downward revision to including Executive Order 13769 the so-called travel global growth expectations by the World Bank.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 10 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 The second half of the fiscal year was dominated by an eventful US Presidential election with Donald Trump prevailing, confounding pollsters and pundits alike.
Rising risk aversion masked by Sterling weakness ahead of the US Presidential election despite positive saw US ten-year Treasury yields hit all-time lows of global economic data that saw Chinese factory output 1.4% and 70% of all German sovereign debt trade grow at the fastest rate in five years and Eurozone with negative yields.
employment rise for the 23rd consecutive month.
While Janet Yellen did her best to sound dovish, ten-year US Equity markets initially rebounded during July on Treasuries rose 23bps and the trade-weighted US Dollar hopes of accommodative central bank policy delivered rose more than 3%, driving a sharp rotation among in the UK as the BoE cut interest rates by 0.25% and sectors with rate sensitivity.
announced a larger than expected round of QE.
The second half of the fiscal year was dominated by an US interest rate expectations were also dampened eventful US Presidential election with Donald Trump following mixed economic data with Q2 GDP annualising prevailing, confounding pollsters and pundits alike.
at just 1.2%, impacted by an inventory drawdown.
However, it was far from all doom and gloom as Chinese After an initial panic, markets regained their poise as GDP increased by 6.7% in Q1, while post-Brexit concerns a Republican clean sweep of Congress and a political were further allayed by the unexpected early agenda with fiscal stimulus and tax reform at its core appointment of Theresa May as UK Prime Minister.
Soaring risk appetite Strengthening US economic data including a notably saw the trade-weighted US Dollar gain more than 3% strong payroll report led to more hawkish commentary during November alone with sharply higher sovereign from the Federal Reserve, reiterated by Fed Chair Janet bond yields triggering a reflation led market rotation.
Yellen in August during her speech at Jackson Hole Financials soared on hopes of easing bank regulation where she noted, the case for an increase in the federal and a steeper yield curve while copper prices leapt funds rate has strengthened in recent months.
c. 19% as an anticipated beneficiary of future Economic improvement was also evident in China where infrastructure spending.
Positive momentum continued real-time estimates of economic growth indicated into December with growing hopes of widespread around 7.8% in stark contrast to the c. 5% recorded in reform augmented by strengthening global economic January.
This stabilisation helped emerging markets data as the JP Morgan Global PMI hit an 11-month high recover back towards trend growth while Japanese while Chinese data was solid and Eurozone indicators manufacturing production rose for the first time signalled strong expansion.
As such it was little surprise since February.
that the US Federal Reserve raised the target for its federal funds rate by 0.25% and signalled the likelihood Although equity markets made limited further progress of three further rate hikes during 2017, ahead of market in local terms during the final two months of the first half, expectations.
This saw continuation of the so-called another leg down in Sterling drove strong returns Trump trade with higher US Treasury yields and the following PM Theresa Mays October announcement of trade-weighted Dollar driving a pronounced equity her intention to trigger Article 50 before April 2017. market sector rotation.
Not even the rejection of September proved an eventful month for macroeconomic constitutional reform in Italy and the resulting developments with three Central bank policy meetings resignation of Prime Minister Renzi could dampen taking place.
While the ECB meeting was uneventful, and burgeoning investor sentiment.
the Fed left rates unchanged, the Bank of Japan BoJ signalled a clear change of direction away from its 2017 began with a bang as newly inaugurated President negative interest rate policy NIRP by setting a goal to Trump signed a total of 22 executive orders within his target ten-year bond yields at zero, designed to steepen first two weeks in office.
Despite this somewhat the yield curve and improve bank profitability.
A $14bn frenzied debut, markets added to their gains during demand made by the US Department of Justice to January as investors remained focused on the Deutsche Bank related to mis-selling of mortgage underlying health of the US economy and the hope that securities prior to the financial crisis led to some the new President would ultimately deliver pro-growth short-lived weakness due to speculation over a potential policies including corporate tax reform, overseas cash capital shortfall.
A relatively lacklustre third-quarter repatriation, deregulation and fiscal stimulus.
earnings season saw weakness extend into October Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 11 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview Strategic Report Section MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Technology outperformance was led by a valuation re-rating which began by reversing out early 2016 losses when a broader market growth scare left next-generation valuations at levels rarely seen since 2009.
While fourth-quarter GDP came in at an annualised fell to a new cycle low 4.4%, there were some notable 1.9%, US industrial output rose at the fastest pace in disappointments, not least the weakest Q1 GDP print more than two years.
Robust economic growth in three years while a disappointing Manufacturing PMI continued into February driving markets higher during pointed to the impact of earlier policy tightening in China.
US economic data was particularly The end of April marked the 100th day of the new US encouraging with consumer prices rising at the fastest Administration and coincided with the announcement of rate since 2012 and business optimism hiring some broad tax reform plans but its limited impact on intentions spiking higher with NFIB surveys at twelvemarkets suggested few believed the bill would pass in its year highs.
Stronger data saw the Fed take on an current form.
increasingly hawkish tone with FOMC Vice Chair Bill Dudley stating that the case for monetary tightening has TECHNOLOGY REVIEW become a lot more compelling.
Global economic data The technology sector enjoyed one of its strongest years was also robust during the month, the JP Morgan Global of absolute and relative performance in recent memory, PMI rising for a fifth consecutive month.
Economic the Dow Jones World Technology index advancing a expansion was fastest in developed markets driven by remarkable 53.4% in Sterling terms.
While some of this Eurozone growth the Markit Flash PMI at the highest outperformance was passive reflecting the sectors level since April 2011, and the largest monthly rise in disproportionate exposure to the US US Dollar, the Eurozone employment since 2007.
Chinese economic technology sector outperformed significantly in most data remained more mixed, a weak composite PMI more major markets.
Pronounced Sterling weakness added than offset by improving business confidence and new materially to overall performance, accounting for loans at their second highest ever level.
The US approximately c. one-third of our Benchmarks return reporting season proved an additional positive with during the year.
Technology outperformance was led by both revenues and profits coming in modestly ahead a valuation re-rating which began by reversing out early of expectations.
2016 losses when a broader market growth scare left next-generation valuations at levels rarely seen since Politics returned to the fore during March as UK Prime 2009.
This healing process was accelerated by the Minister Theresa May invoked Article 50 starting the return of strategic M&A as suitors took advantage of two-year negotiation period of ending EU membership.
2016 ended up as record year for contrast, the outcome of Dutch elections represented an technology M&A worth $467bn in aggregate.
While important setback to the populist movement that led to software remained a focal point, the semiconductor both Brexit and Donald Trumps unlikely US Presidential industry also experienced another frenzied year of victory.
Populism also took another blow in the form of a deal-making.
Incumbents remained the most important failed attempt to repeal the Affordable Care Act aka group of buyers, accounting for the two seminal deals of Obamacare with divisions in the Republican party the year Microsoft buying LinkedIn for $26bn and raising questions about the new Presidents ability to Oracle acquiring rival Netsuite for $9.3bn.
However, deliver on other campaign pledges such as tax reform.
private equity was also very active as were nonFortunately, improved sentiment appeared unaffected by traditional buyers such as GE, Siemens and Roper, the realpolitik with a number of indicators hitting multiepitomised by Softbanks acquisition of ARM Holdings year highs during the month, epitomised by the NFIB during the aftermath of Brexit.
This expanded universe Small Business Optimism index hitting its highest reading of buyers, together with an accelerating pace of cloud in 43 years.
In contrast, hard economic data remained disruption likely explained the high deal premiums paid, more mixed which may have influenced the dovish with 40%50% achieved on average.
commentary that accompanied the Feds decision to raise short-term interest rates by 0.25%.
A positive outcome in While M&A no doubt acted as a catalyst for technology the first round of the French Presidential election, stocks to recapture valuation ground previously lost, together with a strong start to Q1 earnings season saw the sector also continued to attract new investors due markets rally during April, offset by US Dollar weakness.
to its ability to deliver well above average growth.
Economic data remained mixed: although US employment Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 12 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Next-generation companies also performed well as most continued to deliver strong growth and some margin improvement despite ongoing macroeconomic uncertainty.
This was particularly true within the Internet subsector These included private equity buyers who picked off where strong fundamentals at each of Facebook, three companies Cvent held, Marketo and SciQuest Amazon, Netflix and Google aka FANG and highlighted during April and May.
M&A activity stepped up the structural attractions of Internet-based global significantly during June with the Trust directly platforms.
Next-generation companies also performed benefitting from the acquisitions of Demandware, well as most continued to deliver strong growth and LinkedIn and QLIK Technology.
Microsoft surprised some margin improvement despite ongoing Wall Street with its US$26bn offer for LinkedIn.
This was in stark contrast Salesforce.
com agreed to buy Demandware for $3bn to the fortunes of a number of legacy incumbents on the at a 71% premium to its prior close while QLIK wrong side of cloud and mobile technology trends.
While Technologies was acquired by private equity firm twenty consecutive quarters of year over year negative Thoma Bravo.
Tesla also announced the acquisition of growth make plain the challenge facing IBM, each of SolarCity for $5.7bn in a move that was strategically Cisco, Intel and Oracle also experienced their own questioned by both analysts and shareholders.
travails during the year, likely due to accelerating cloud Relative sector strength persisted through July and adoption.
The surprise Presidential election outcome August, supported by a strong second quarter earnings resulted in a painful for us rotation from growth to season and heightened M&A activity.
Many of the most value within our sector but thankfully this proved impressive Q2 results were delivered by Internet short-lived allowing the contrasting fortunes of bellwethers: Facebook delivered 94% y y earnings technology winners and losers to be more fully growth while Alphabet surpassed expectations with reflected in share prices.
While the so-called FANG revenue growth accelerating to a remarkable 25% y y stocks remain a core focus for investors in constant currency terms.
Elsewhere next-generation understandably so given that they capture the zeitgeist fundamentals were in rude health with each of Criteo, of the current cycle technology strength permeated Hubspot, Medidata, Proofpoint and Zendesk delivering beyond the Internet and software subsectors.
strong Q2 reports, in stark contrast to faltering fortunes Smartphone-related assets performed surprisingly well at a number of incumbents.
M&A activity remained at with Apple 77% and Samsung 108% leading the elevated levels with Softbank making an audacious charge albeit for different reasons.
Expectations of an $32bn bid for ARM Holdings, Oracle agreeing to acquire iPhone 8 super-cycle with significantly more content next-generation rival Netsuite for $9.3bn while Linear per device helped both Apple and its supply chain.
Technology was acquired by long-time rival Analog Semiconductor stocks were also buttressed by Devices.
July was also the month where Pokmon Go favourable memory pricing, rising capital intensity and was unleashed on the world, the smartphone-based a tumult of interest in new areas including autonomous augmented reality game becoming a global vehicles, machine learning and the Internet of Things.
Gaming remained in focus during August Technology stocks began the year strongly with a as both Electronic Arts and Activision beat expectations, number of next-generation companies delivering the latter driven by its newest franchise Overwatch.
strong first-quarter earnings, augmented by the return AMD shares were also strong following the formal of strategic M&A.
 leader launch of its Zen chipset.
On the negative side, both Salesforce.
com surprised to the upside with 31% y y Salesforce.
com and Palo Alto Networks reported billings growth while Splunk delivered 41% licence lacklustre results reflecting deal slippage and an growth.
AMD guided positively, ahead of its new GPU evolving IT security environment respectively.
Apple architecture release and Universal Display benefited also made the news when it was ordered by the from speculation that Apple will adopt OLED display European Commission to pay up to $14.5bn for illegal technology in late 2017.
In addition, M&A activity picked tax benefits in Ireland.
Although both the company and up significantly with a shift in focus from value toward the Irish government announced they would appeal, the more strategic transactions as buyers took advantage decision raised the question around the sustainability of of the earlier hiatus in next-generation valuations.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 13 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview Strategic Report Section MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED The surprise election victory of Donald Trump led to pronounced technology underperformance during the final months of 2016, exacerbated by a mixed conclusion to third-quarter earnings season.
The final two months of our first half saw the technology additionally impacted by uncertainty around issues such sector extend its leadership, aided by supportive as immigration and global trade.
Style headwinds were off-quarter reports from Adobe, Accenture and Red exacerbated by outperformance of legacy value Hat.
Apple released the iPhone 7 with early demand companies within the technology subsector despite better than feared given the incremental nature of the Cisco guiding to negative year over year growth due to product.
cloud-related pressure saw Oracle report UK European weakness.
A weak quarter from security another mixed quarter, while a positive prehigh-flyer Palo Alto Networks did little to lift the announcement from Intel buoyed semiconductor stocks fortunes of next-generation technology stocks.
While including Qualcomm which also rallied on speculation Internet stocks were among the weakest relative that it might bid for NXP Semiconductor.
Third-quarter performers, Thanksgiving weekend e-commerce sales earnings season provided an additional boost with each increased c. 18% y y to $5.3bn.
Amazon released a video of Alphabet, Facebook and Microsoft making all-time of Amazon Go, a new grocery store format that highs in October.
Another upbeat quarter from Alphabet leverages machine learning, computer vision and was accompanied by a new $7bn buyback programme artificial intelligence AI to further disrupt retail.
while Microsoft benefited from strong Azure revenue Tencent also revealed that its WeChat app boasted over growth 121% y y and a 40% y y increase in Office365 750m daily active users DAU with half of its users commercial monthly active users.
Gross margin engaging with the app for at least 90 minutes per day.
guidance took the shine off a reasonable quarter from A meeting between Donald Trump and a group of US Apple with iPhone unit sales -5.3% y y in-line with technology leaders in mid-December soothed nerves expectations, although some may have hoped for upside as the new President adopted a more conciliatory tone following Samsungs decision to discontinue its Galaxy before appointing both the Tesla and Uber CEOs to his Note 7 following a series of issues with batteries Strategic and Policy Forum.
Next-generation results were generally Following the adverse post-Trump rotation, the positive, with ServiceNow billings 46% y y and technology sector ended up outperforming the broader Proofpoint 40% revenue growth both delivering market every month during the final third of our year.
In contrast, earnings season once Once again, earnings season proved a positive catalyst again revealed the challenges facing legacy technology with Internet companies demonstrating the strength and companies epitomised by IBM whose revenues durability of the key structural trends underpinning their contracted y y for the eighteenth consecutive quarter.
business models e-commerce, digital advertising and While Twitter shares fell sharply as various potential cloud computing.
Alibaba posted revenue growth ahead acquirers ruled out buying the company, M&A ended the of expectations 54% y y while Alphabet saw an period on a high note as AT&T agreed to acquire Time acceleration of paid click growth to 43% y y, Warner Inc. for $85bn while Qualcomm bought NXP remarkable given the scale of the business.
Although Semiconductor for $47bn in the largest semiconductor Facebook confounded its critics with revenue growth of deal yet.
51% y y, Amazon delivered a relatively moribund report The surprise election victory of Donald Trump led to despite its cloud business AWS still growing 47% y y. pronounced technology underperformance during the Next-generation stocks largely delivered ahead of final months of 2016, exacerbated by a mixed conclusion expectations, while software names received an to third-quarter earnings season.
The so-called Trump additional boost during January following news that trade or reflation trade saw investors embrace Cisco would acquire AppDynamics for $3.7bn, one of the perceived beneficiaries of the new President and his most expensive deals in recent history at 17.3x trailing agenda of less regulation, lower taxes and domestic EV sales.
Apple stock also performed well ahead of the renewal Make America Great Again.
This saw upcoming iPhone 8 cycle, a dynamic that intensified financials, industrials, small-caps and value outperform during February as investors began to speculate on its at the expense of large-cap growth, with technology new features which might include a glass aluminium Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 14 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 New all-time highs at Alphabet, Apple, Amazon, Facebook and Microsoft drove the NASDAQ Composite index to a new high of its own in April.
chassis, OLED screen, wireless rapid charging and 3D Technology M&A continued apace with Intel announcing sensing and the potential for a so-called super-cycle.
the $15.3bn acquisition of Mobileye, a leader in Facebook rival Snapchat came public on a lofty multiple computer vision for autonomous driving.
New all-time during the month: while the $2.6bn raised represented highs at Alphabet, Apple, Amazon, Facebook and the largest IPO transaction since Alibaba in 2014, it was Microsoft drove the NASDAQ Composite index to a new dwarfed by news that Softbank had almost closed its high of its own in April.
However, a positive first- $100bn new tech fund.
quarter earnings season masked continued divergence in fortunes with IBM delivering its 20th consecutive Strong-off quarter reports from Tencent, Adobe and Red quarter of negative y y revenue declines.
In contrast, Hat propelled the technology sector higher in March each of the Internet behemoths continued to deliver while growing mobile dominance of worldwide Internet strong growth: both Alphabet and Amazon posted 24% usage saw Android overtake Microsoft Windows as the y y constant currency c c revenue growth while Internets most frequently used operating system.
The Facebook grew sales at a remarkable 49% in c c terms.
hotly anticipated launch of the Nintendo Switch console Next-generation software stocks also delivered strong also took place in early March with initial sales results while semiconductor stocks underperformed exceeding all previous Nintendo launches.
Supporting following another disappointing quarter from Intel and our view of a strengthening economic backdrop, even a material escalation in the royalty dispute between Oracle and Accenture reported solid quarters while Qualcomm and Apple.
memory chipmaker Micron surpassed expectations driven by strong demand and tight supply.
In 2014 15 Google and Facebook controlled 57.6% of the digital ad market, and their slices of the pie are only growing.
DIGITAL AD REVENUE GROWTH Other SHARE OF DIGITAL AD MARKET Google Facebook Other 16% 59% 13% $30b $25b $20b $15b Facebook 16.6% LinkedIn 1.0% $10b Google 41.0% Amazon 1.3% Other 27.4% Verizon 1.8% $5b Snapchat 0.5% Twitter 1.9% Yelp 0.8% Yahoo!
com Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 15 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview Strategic Report Section MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Our total return performance came in ahead of our Benchmark, our own net asset value per share rising 56.1% during the year versus a 53.4% gain in the Sterling adjusted Benchmark.
PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE ECONOMIC OUTLOOK Our total return performance came in ahead of our While economic growth disappointed once again last Benchmark, our own net asset value per share rising year, current forecasts are looking for reacceleration 56.1% during the year versus a 53.4% gain in the Sterling this year and next, with global GDP pegged at 3.4% adjusted Benchmark.
In the US, the most significant and 3.6% for 2017 and 2018 respectively.
Indeed, the positive contributor to performance was Advanced Micro International Monetary Fund IMF upwardly revised Devices AMD, which advanced a remarkable 323% as its projection for global GDP growth in 2017, its first the company unveiled and subsequently released its new upward revision to near-term growth since 2011 After Zen CPU product.
In addition, the portfolio benefited a disappointing 2016 and a subdued start to 2017 US from its off-Benchmark exposure to computer gaming growth is forecast to accelerate to 2.3% 2016: 1.7% companies such as Electronic Arts 73% and Ubisoft even as the economy approaches full employment due to 85% that continued to benefit from downloadable the reversal of oil-related weakness which has cost 2% content and in-game monetisation.
Nintendo 106% of GDP growth over the prior two years, inventory was particularly strong following the spectacular debut rebuild and less restrictive fiscal policy which has taken of Pokmon Go and a favourable reception to Switch, its 6.4% off GDP since 2011.
With unemployment at 4.3%, new gaming platform.
A resurgent Nintendo lifted wage growth should support consumption, while mobile game partner DeNa which we sold on strength.
recession risk appears significantly diminished this year.
Stock selection was positive across all geographies and Although Abenomics has thus far failed to shake the particularly strong in Asia Japan and across all economy from its deflationary full employment  tiers.
Relative performance was slumber, growth in Japan is also expected to accelerate also positively impacted by underweight zero positions this year to 1.2% 2016: 1% driven by Yen weakness in a number of large index constituents including IBM, stronger exports.
Infosys, Nokia, Oracle and Qualcomm that delivered Although progress in the Euro area is likely to remain disappointing returns during the year.
uneven, current forecasts for 1.6% growth 2016: 1.7% M&A also contributed materially to performance are ahead of the 1.1% rate averaged between 20102016 with nine of our holdings Arcam, ARM Holdings, and appear to capture some Brexit-related uncertainty Demandware, Linear Technology, LinkedIn, Netsuite, given stronger domestic demand, underlying labour Mobileye, Nimble Storage, and QLIK Technologies market improvement and Euro weakness.
Although UK acquired during the period at premiums that ranged economic activity was relatively unaffected last year between 26%71%.
The Trusts underweight position following the EU referendum, the significantly weaker in Apple proved the largest negative detractor during Pound is likely to squeeze household incomes, putting the year as the stock materially re-rated ahead of the current forecasts of 2% growth 2016: 1.8% at risk.
Performance was also Moreover, with Brexit negotiations about to commence, hindered by underweight positions in a number of the degree of uncertainty around economic forecasts is positive index contributors such as memory virtually without precedent.
After a difficult 2016, chipmaker Micron and graphics processor leader developing economies are expected to reaccelerate to Nvidia, together with a number of next-generation 4.5% this year 2016: 4.1% driven by better performance holdings that disappointed including Athenahealth, from commodity-sensitive countries and steady progress Palo Alto Networks and TripAdvisor.
Our decision to in China with growth forecast to be 6.6% 2016: 6.7%.
hold a modest amount of liquidity also detracted from However, rising US interest rates and the spectre of performance, exacerbated by the precipitous move protectionism represent material risks to this view.
in Sterling, our base currency.
While India remains an economic bright-spot, growth expectations have been revised lower to c. 7.2% 2016: 6.8% due to the reversal in energy prices andweaker consumption following its currency exchangeinitiative.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 16 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Investors should be cognisant of the risk that reflation represents to the bedrock of this bull market the unusual alignment of interest between policymakers and investors that has existed since the financial crisis.
With growth finally poised to accelerate this year, we are opposite.
If so, policymakers are likely to remain hopeful that economic improvement remains insufficient behind the curve with US rates increasing steadily to spoil the current goldilocks investment backdrop towards 3% by 2019 while Polar estimates short-term with global growth just about right enough to keep rates are forecast to remain negative in the euro area earnings estimates moving higher but insufficient to through 2018 and for the foreseeable future in Japan.
accelerate the pace of rate tightening and or take the Although we expect accommodative policy to persist, we lustre off those companies able to deliver well above must also acknowledge the upside risk to growth and average growth.
As such, investors should be cognisant rates represented by President Trump and the of the risk that reflation represents to the bedrock of Republican clean sweep of Congress.
As discussed in this bull market the unusual alignment of interest our Interim report when the Trump-trade was in full between policymakers and investors that has existed swing the Trump victory has raised the likelihood and since the financial crisis.
Clearly much economic magnitude of fiscal stimulus which together with progress has been made, most apparent from corporate tax reform and deregulation is likely to prove unemployment rates in both the US and UK that are at or pro-growth.
However, much of the hope for immediate below 2007-8 lows while Euro-area unemployment has change from Washington has dissipated as the new fallen to 9.5% in March, the lowest rate recorded since President delivered very little apart from Executive April 2009.
Headline inflation both PPI and CPI has Orders during his first hundred days in office.
The also picked up as energy and other commodity prices failure to repeal and replace ACA Obamacare was stabilise and or rebound from their 2016 lows.
As such, particularly telling while it is difficult to estimate the we expect US policy tightening that began in October damage to the Presidents authority from the ongoing 2014 with the end of QE to continue with one more rate federal investigation into his Russian ties and more hike possible this year.
recently whether he attempted to pervert the course of While mindful of the historic relationship between the justice.
As such it seems likely that infrastructure spending previously estimated at between $300500bn unemployment rate and wage inflation particularly over five years, equivalent to 0.3%0.5% to annual GDP now that US unemployment has fallen below some will be pushed into 2018.
Likewise, tax cuts may now be estimates of the non-accelerating inflation rate of tied to healthcare reform but $2tr of tax cuts over ten unemployment we continue to believe that US years could still raise the budget deficit by as much as monetary policy remains both accommodative and 1% of GDP.
While the timeline and likelihood of these data dependent.
This reflects the fact that persistently potential programmes is unclear, the new President still soft wage growth suggests that the labour market is represents upside to both growth just as Reagan somewhat looser than the headline unemployment data delivered 0.6% more annual GDP on average than might indicate and a suspicion that technology has Carter, budget deficits and interest rates.
forever changed the labour capital relationship for instance, a human welder earns $25 hour compared to As ever, there are myriad risks that threaten our the operating cost of a robot of c. $8.
Many of these relate to political core inflation remains completely becalmed with US developments that threaten the market friendly status core PCE registering 1.5% in April, well below the Feds quo, most of which can be linked to so-called 2% inflation target.
The picture is similar across other populism.
As we have previously discussed, the advanced economies with core inflation about half a uneven recovery has been an important driver of this percent below the 2% rate that central banks desire.
political phenomenon with rampant asset inflation in Inflation expectations also remain subdued with 5 year stark contrast to US median real personal incomes that 5 year forward inflation expectations at just 1.8%.
Sub-par growth has also As such and given the limited monetary firepower made it harder to absorb record levels of net migration, available in the event of another deflationary shock, we intensified by the fallout from the so-called Arab continue to believe that central bankers will be much Spring, the Syrian civil war and terror threats.
more willing to tolerate a growth overshoot than the Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 17 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview Strategic Report Section MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED China should be able to avoid a financial shock due the self-funded nature of its growth, its current account net foreign asset surpluses and plenty of fiscal firepower.
Political correctness has also played a part, the attempt Trump might also represent a significant downside risk to corral political debate has created the conditions to growth should he deliver on protectionism beyond for insurgent figures such as Nigel Farage and Donald rhetoric and restricting H1B visas.
These outsiders are able to champion causes has also committed to renegotiating long-standing trade beyond the pale of incumbents the establishment.
agreements such as NAFTA which he called one of the While some think we may be on the brink of a 1930s worst deals ever, a threat that looks more substantive re-run, we believe the late 1970s early 1980s is a more following his recent decision to withdraw from the Paris useful parallel when mainstream parties were able to climate pact.
He could also use duties and tariffs to neuter the rise of neo-fascism by absorbing some of the discourage the outsourcing of US jobs or accede to the policies of local populist movements.
While this may Republican House Border Adjustment Tax BAT involve some railing against globalization the proposal.
Any of these measures could potentially accelerated pace of which has left societies increasingly trigger a trade dislocation, a risk magnified by Trumps polarized into winners and losers as the distribution direct and acerbic approach.
As ever, we expect worstof Brexit votes attests this should prove a manageable case scenarios to be avoided but uncertainty is likely risk.
If so the Trump victory should prove the high to persist until actual policy becomes clearer.
watermark for populism, a view so far supported by the In addition to those outlined above, there are a number outcome of recent French and Dutch elections that saw of additional risks that investors should consider, mainstream parties prevail.
However, continued failure particularly with equity valuations at new highs.
These by political establishments to listen to voters will make include potential growth scares the most likely cause a 1930s re-run significantly more likely.
Moreover, of equity market setbacks until focus shifts from Europe is likely to remain a key focal point given high deflation to inflation with China, Europe and oilyouth unemployment and rapid demographic social sensitive countries likely focal points.
The Feds recent change with Brexit negotiations potentially playing an decision to begin unwinding its balance sheet is also ongoing destabilizing role.
worthy of mention given that it has expanded from While we share the consensus pro-growth view on c. $800bn in assets before the financial crisis to c. $4.5tr Donald Trump, there are a number of unique risks today.
While we cannot know how much of an impact this associated with the new President which could remight have, QE programmes in Europe, Japan and now materialise if he is able to harness Republican control of the UK should keep aggregate monetary accommodation Congress.
The first relates to upside risk which results at record highs for now.
Chinas One Belt, one Road in sharply higher interest rates inflation expectations policy also represents an unprecedented wave of forcing policymakers to bring forward the timeline of Chinese liquidity and a rarely discussed countervailing rate normalization.
This would likely take its toll on force.
China itself represents a key source of risk equity valuations, bond proxies and emerging market although more recently hard landing fears have currencies external financing conditions.
Reflation receded with improved economic activity.
However, might also increase the risk of policy error due to these can easily resurface given questions about the increased uncertainty and an upward skew to neutral sustainability of debt-driven growth with debt having interest rates which may hinder the Feds ability to feel risen from 147% of GDP in 2007 to 279% in 2016.
As we its way back to neutral.
Although we believe that have consistently argued, China should be able to avoid a long-term interest rates have seen their nadir, upside financial shock due the self-funded nature of its growth, risk looks containable for now.
Furthermore, while its current account net foreign asset surpluses and higher rates could presage another style rotation we plenty of fiscal firepower.
Other risks include Brexit believe long-term Treasury yields would need to breach where the divorce from Europe could take the best part 4% in order to end the positive relationship between of a decade and the challenge to nation states posed by bond and equity markets.
An untrammelled President Islamic extremism and rogue dictators.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 18 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 With traditional measures of value above long-term averages, equities are likely to become increasingly dependent on underlying earnings and dividend growth.
trading at yields below zero.
Equities should also MARKET OUTLOOK continue to enjoy strong support from US balance sheets Although equity markets have enjoyed a strong start to that boast c. $1.5tr of corporate cash augmented by debt 2017, we remain hopeful that they can add to their gains issuance of just over $6.6tr in 2016, a new annual record.
during the remainder of our financial year.
Equity While a large portion of corporate cash remains valuations have continued to trend higher, ameliorated trapped overseas, it is widely expected that any tax by much improved earnings progress, the forward PE on reform will involve a repatriation window which could the S&P 500 trading at 17.9x today, up from 17.3x twelve allow c. $1tr to return to the US at a low tax rate.
This compares unfavourably to five and 2004 the last repatriation holiday a large portion of this ten-year averages of 15.3x and 14.0x respectively.
cash is likely to be deployed on buybacks and dividends.
International valuations have also rebounded from last Buybacks are also becoming more supportive beyond years brief reversion to mean with most markets the US too, with Japanese stock repurchases expected currently trading at above historic averages.
That said, to total 7.8tr for fiscal 2017.
Although we expect a more we remain unconvinced by the relevance of longer-term normal IPO market after a turgid 2016 the number of averages that fail to capture the uniqueness of the new issues and capital raised declining 16% and 33% current investment backdrop.
Instead, we prefer to y y respectively, this should be more than offset by consider valuation against recent history and more heightened M&A activity following a record year that importantly, the prevailing inflation rate which is broadly saw S&P 500 companies spend nearly $400bn of cash supportive of current equity valuations with potential on M&A and more than 368 deals $1bn, the highest for further upside should inflation rise into the 2%3% number since at least 1996. sweet-spot.
Nevertheless, with traditional measures of value above long-term averages, equities are likely We always expect our constructive view to be tested, but to become increasingly dependent on underlying particularly when valuations and duration of this bull earnings and dividend growth.
Fortunately, the US is market already exceed long-term averages.
We are also experiencing its fastest pace of earnings growth in five mindful of the slowing pace of share buybacks, given years with S&P 500 earnings forecast to increase 10% their contributions to earnings growth.
While this may this year 7% ex-energy with potentially more to come in just be a lull ahead of cash repatriation, it could also 2018 if the new Administration delivers on its tax reform reflect caution regarding current prices, greater pledge.
Should a new 20% rate prevail, it could add corporate leverage and increased M&A activity.
between 7%12% to S&P earnings and substantially Although sub-trend recoveries tend to persist the more to small and mid-caps due to their limited current bull market is now over eight years old, more overseas exposure c. 35% and c. 19% respectively.
than twice the length of the median bull market since 1877.
Other risks include the potential for higher interest Stocks also continue to look compelling against both costs that as they have declined are said to have been cash and bonds with the Fed Model which compares responsible for one quarter of US margin improvement earnings and bond yields suggesting that equities since 2012.
According to CSFB, a c. 200bp increase in remain significantly undervalued.
However, the postBaa yields would wipe out all the uplift associated with Trump move in bond yields even allowing for their a 20% corporate tax rate.
Higher interest rates may recent partial unwind means that the S&P 500 dividend also make buybacks less attractive and could lead to yield 1.9% is no longer in excess of ten-year Treasuries additional US$ strength where every 2% increase in 2.3%.
Given the relative move in US yields, equities the trade-weighted Dollar equates to negative S&P 500 appear more compelling internationally, with most earnings revisions of c. 1%.
major markets boasting dividends above long-term sovereign yields with $9.5tr of global sovereign debt Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 19 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview Strategic Report Section MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED That said, we feel there is commensurate upside risk in line with our long-held view that bull markets tend to go out with a bang, not a whimper.
Then there are additional offsets that we can only 500 traded at 29x trailing earnings at a time when UST speculate about today such as ending the tax yields were 6%7%.
Bubble asset classes have traded deductibility of interest payments and a so-called border significantly higher still, with the Nifty Fifty peaking at adjustment tax, both of which would substantially dilute 42x earnings in 1972 and TMT at 60x in 2000.
In contrast, any benefit associated with lower headline taxes.
While the S&P today trades on 18x forward estimates with these remain tail-risks at present, they are useful bond yields at just 2.3%.
While investor sentiment has reminders that any future tax reform could result in improved, it does not look extreme enough to suggest the elimination of many deductions and loopholes, a bull-market peak and our preferred measure the just as it did under President Reagan.
The same appears true of equity ownership where the post 2009 recovery remains That said, we feel there is commensurate upside risk in modest relative to the 1990s.
Furthermore, looking at line with our long-held view that bull markets tend to go the most popular open-ended funds last year perfectly out with a bang, not a whimper.
After all, peaks in equity capture the zeitgeist of this reluctant bull market with markets have been previously marked by some kind of long-only equity products accounting for only three of excess fads, sentiment, valuation or use of leverage.
the top ten selling funds in the UK.
Catalysts that might In terms of valuation, the post 2009 revaluation process ignite the animal spirits include repatriation of overseas has been meandering and punctuated by setbacks cash or tax reform just as it did in 1986 when the S&P leaving PEs after an eight-year bull-market at above 500 rallied 40% in nine months following Reagans cuts.
average but far from euphoric levels.
com 20 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Once again, IT spending is expected to trail global GDP, consistent with our deflation new cycle view.
Limited budget growth remains entirely incompatible with an unprecedented rate of change.
We should also consider the self-reinforcing nature of should prove modest now that challenged incumbents late-stage bull markets as equities prove a classic have managed to attract a new Shareholder base, Veblen good.
Finally, there is the potential for a Great expensive strategic deals such as Cisco Rotation from bonds to equities because if we really AppDynamics, Intel Mobileye and Oracle Netsuite are on the cusp of economic acceleration and reflation, may begin to test the resolve of value investors drawn then this could mark the end of the most remarkable to the so-called free cash flow generation of legacy bond bull market ever.
In a world that remains companies.
For all but the largest incumbents, we positioned for deflation, rather than reflation, a return expect struggling or recalcitrant companies to continue to more normal economic conditions could at least attracting private equity interest given the continued for a while make the myopic focus on what is the right availability of cheap debt and large fund launches from price to pay for equities look completely wide of the mark the likes of Vista $11bn, Silver Lake $15bn and of given the potential for significant value destruction course, Softbank $100bn.
in bond markets in the years ahead.
At the heart of enterprise IT disruption lies public cloud computing which as we have previously discussed TECHNOLOGY OUTLOOK went mainstream in 2015 as companies such as GE Worldwide IT spending is expected to reach $3.5tr in began to evangelise the cloud when it outlined its plan to 2017 1.4% y y in US$ terms an improvement from the migrate 60% of its workloads by 2020.
Having addressed zero-growth registered last year.
In constant currency key barriers to adoption such as security and vendor terms, the recovery is forecast to be 3.3% as compared lock-in, the Infrastructure as a Service IaaS market is to c. 2% achieved during 2016.
Once again, IT spending today worth $25bn and is expected to nearly triple over is expected to trail global GDP, consistent with our the next five years, driven by enterprise cloud adoption deflation new cycle view.
Limited budget growth for non-critical workloads.
This is reflected in recent remains entirely incompatible with an unprecedented CIO surveys that reveal cloud as a key priority for 2017. rate of change, driving a reallocation of spending While Amazon Web Services AWS continues to towards new areas such as business intelligence dominate the market today with millions of active analytics, cloud and digitalisation digital marketing the customers, c. 51% market share and c. $15bn revenue top three IT priorities for 2017, according to Gartner at run-rate both Microsoft Azure and Google cloud have the expense of legacy ones.
While the US Dollar remains made progress as 80% of enterprises prepare to adopt a a wildcard 50% of sales coming from overseas, stable multi-vendor approach by 2019 as compared to 10% in operating margins and buybacks should support the 2015.
Software as a Service SaaS has also continued to 8.8% earnings growth expected from the technology thrive exceeding $40bn and growing more than 40% y y. sector this year.
As with the broader market, estimates According to Pacific Crest, the second decade of SaaS remain largely unaffected by potential tax reform.
While could see the market more than triple just as the second the sectors effective tax rate is below average ranging decade of client-server computing saw Oracle and between 19%28% depending on sub-sector, we expect Microsoft increase their revenues by ten and twenty-fold significant variation between winners, losers and respectively.
The nascent Platform as a Service PaaS loss-making non-participants.
market worth less than $3bn today is also expected to grow rapidly beyond 2018.
As per the broader market, the technology sector has materially re-rated over the past year leaving it trading After years of coexistence, we believe that the public at a forward PE of 17.8x as compared to 15.2x at prior cloud-enabled cycle has entered a more pernicious year-end.
This represents the highest level since 2008, phase now that 20% of workloads units of compute and a modest premium to the broader market ignoring have migrated beyond the enterprise.
Per the S-curve, the sectors relative balance sheet strength.
As in cloud adoption is likely to accelerate from here: by 2022, previous years, we do not expect the sector to Gartner believe that on-premise compute will account materially re-rate versus the market over the coming for just c. 20% of workloads from c. 80% today.
year given lacklustre IT spending growth and ongoing cloud disruption.
While relative valuation downside Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 21 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview Strategic Report Section MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED The combination of smartphone proliferation and cloud computing has allowed our industry to mirror the earlier experience of electricity by enabling widespread reinvention beyond traditional technology boundaries.
This is the beginning of the end for traditional IT and As regular readers of our Annual Reports will know, its practitioners know it, this years AWS re:Invent we have leant on a plethora of different historical conference attracted more than 30,000 attendees, up parallels to help us convey the magnitude of change we 68% y y.
As such we anticipate significantly greater anticipated as our industry embraced a mass production disruption than we have witnessed thus far with over utility model more familiar to George Eastman and $1tr in IT spending shifting to new areas by 2020 as the Henry Ford than to most enterprise technology cloud captures virtually every incremental workload.
As we hoped, the combination of This is likely to prove highly deflationary as every $1 smartphone proliferation and cloud computing has spent at Amazon Web Services AWS is said to be allowed our industry to mirror the earlier experience of equivalent to $4 lost to traditional IT.
This impact has electricity by enabling widespread reinvention beyond already been felt within hardware where the total cost of traditional technology boundaries.
Aided and abetted by ownership TCO of compute and storage are c. 60% and millennials that engage with smartphones more than 70% lower in the cloud than on-premise.
As a result, the humans, todays technology winners are not peddlers $21bn storage market has been contracting since 2014 of productivity dreams.
They are the buyers, the mass despite annual data growth in excess of 35% while producers of IT with which they deliver products and overall server growth has been anaemic with cloud services that change user behaviour and expectations.
strength has been offset by weak enterprise demand.
Massive scale and R&D budgets create formidable entry Indeed, cloud substitution likely explains the apparent barriers and future growth opportunities that are breakdown of the relationship between ISM new orders unavailable to embattled incumbents.
At the same and hardware revenue growth.
time and following the experience of 19th century electricity utility computing has eliminated many of the We expect this disruption to permeate well beyond adoption barriers that previously disadvantaged smaller storage hardware fuelled by continuous innovation at companies.
Today, SMEs have access to the same cheap the likes of Amazon winner of FastCompanys most compute and best of breed software while being able to innovative company of 2017 akin to the experience of bypass traditional channels dominated by incumbents client-server computing in the late 1980s early 1990s, by engaging directly with their customers thanks to the last major application re-platforming cycle which smartphones and Internet advertising.
Having levelled ended the dominance of the mainframe.
Already apparent the playing field, it should be no surprise that the in packaged software, where SaaS accounted for c. 22% of Internet-fuelled disruption promised in the 1990s total enterprise application software spending in 2015 has finally arrived.
and is expected to outgrow overall software spending by 2x between 20162020 we expect further disruption in Unfortunately for incumbents, these new opportunities infrastructure software as cloud vendors move up the have little to do with them while cloud coexistence stack and open-source alternatives gain further traction.
appears to be becoming increasingly problematic.
This dynamic has already impacted data warehousing This view was supported by a revealing first-quarter DW with inexpensive Hadoop-based clusters replacing earnings season which saw a number of legacy and or augmenting expensive Teradata solutions.
At companies struggle to meet expectations and or issue some point, we would also expect similar fragmentation weak guidance in contrast with mostly positive results of the $40bn database market currently dominated by from next generation winners.
Despite this, many of Oracle, IBM, Microsoft and SAP with NoSQL leading the these incumbents have enjoyed multiple expansion over open-source charge.
Likewise, we expect lightweight the past year with the likes of Cisco, HP and Oracle each cheap apps, shorter implementation times and less adding 13 multiple points to their PEs.
Even IBM bespoke computing to catch up with the $800bn IT a company where revenues have now declined y y for services industry which at c. 50% of overall spending 20consecutive quarters, despite spending $5.5bn on looks .
17M&A deals during 2016 saw its forward PE expand modestly during 2016.
While an increased focus on profit Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 22 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 With new cycle deflation likely to intensify from here, technology incumbents know they must reinvent themselves which is why they talk up their relevance while simultaneously embarking on ever greater M&A.
rather than revenue maximisation probably warranted we are encouraged that the new Administrations prosome revaluation, our sense is that it largely reflects growth platform has likely reduced the odds of a US the rising tide of equity valuations during this long bull recession.
Improved new business creation should also market, which has lifted all boats apparently with be beneficial for our SME-exposed software and payment limited regard for their long-term seaworthiness.
companies while a healthier financial sector is positive as It also reflects the odd reinvention success story with it represents c. 24% of total IT spending.
As the only S&P Microsofts pivot to the cloud acting as a rallying cry sector with net cash, technology balance sheets should for many a cheap incumbent.
also insulate the sector against the rising cost of debt service while repatriation represents another potential With new cycle deflation likely to intensify from here, benefit given the sectors disproportionate share of technology incumbents know they must reinvent offshore cash.
The two other risks worthy of mention themselves which is why they talk up their relevance relate to accounting, the trend away from the use of while simultaneously embarking on ever greater M&A non-GAAP metrics which will make technology making a mockery of free cash flow-based valuation, in companies optically appear more expensive and ASC our opinion.
After a record 2016, most observers believe 606, a new FASB IASB standard due to be implemented that the recovery in valuations and a hardening of in January 2018 which may disproportionately impact attitude at CFIUS committee on foreign investment in the software sector.
the US regarding Chinese inbound M&A will result in a quieter 2017.
However, we expect activity to remain at After a sustained period of sector outperformance, it is elevated levels reflecting massive sector cash balances, understandable why some people have given in to the new buyers private equity alone is said to have $120bn temptation to make a comparison between today and of buying power and accelerating cloud disruption.
We the late 1990s technology bubble.
This follows strong may also see larger transactions should the likes of performance of five mega-caps Facebook, Apple, Cisco, Microsoft and Oracle repatriate their offshore Amazon, Microsoft and Alphabet which account for cash.
Both Apple and Alphabet represent M&A c. 13% of the S&P 500 but recently explained c. 40% of wildcards as both could look to large deals to accelerate its year-to-date returns.
Furthermore, technology their capability in content and cloud respectively.
High companies now account for eight of the top 20 global quality assets are likely to continue to command full companies by market cap, up from four in 2001.
Quite premiums, evident from Intels $15bn purchase of aside from the fact that bubbles tend to be Mobileye and Ciscos acquisition of AppDynamics at accompanied by euphoria, rather than healthy 17.3x trailing EV Sales.
scepticism, this time our sectors progress has been primarily driven by earnings rather than eyeballs, There are a number of risks specific to the technology hope and late-cycle experimental business models.
sector that should be considered.
One of the most Our largest holding Alphabet is perhaps the best important relates to the sectors perception as a loser example of this as its earnings per share has increased from the Trump Administration, evidenced by its poor 23-fold from $1.46 in FY2004 to an estimated $33.90 relative post-election performance.
While the so-called this year while its stock has increased 12-fold since its Trump trade has recently reversed, sentiment could IPO.
As such we see limited similarities between today change again should the President look more able to and the late 1990s when the forward PE of the deliver wholesale change.
While we acknowledge the technology sector peaked at 48x in March 2000 more risks associated with tail outcomes such as a border than twice the market multiple whereas today the adjustment tax or regulatory change, we do not regard sector trades at c. 18x, a very small premium ignoring the technology sector as a loser under the new President.
Likewise, technology shares Instead we see other sectors more directly benefiting accounted for c. one-quarter of the ACWI market cap in from potentially lower tax rates and greater 2000, more than 10% higher than any other sectors infrastructure spending while reflation may reduce our percentage.
Today it is c. 17%, lower than financials and sectors lustre as growth becomes less scarce.
However, only 5% higher than consumer discretionary.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 23 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview Strategic Report Section MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Internet platforms have been the greatest beneficiaries of smartphone ubiquity and cheap, plentiful bandwidth with more than 3.4bn people worldwide accessing the Internet today, c. 46% of the worlds population.
Finally, estimates of technologys long-term earnings resilient and we expect ongoing market share gains growth LTEG are today less than half of where they from offline traditional media, with global online peaked in 2000 12.7% vs. 28.9% respectively.
advertising forecast at $185bn in 2016, 18% y y and expected to surpass TV advertising within the next six However, Amazons recently announced acquisition of months.
The US continues its domination of Internet Whole Foods an upmarket US grocery chain is perhaps advertising spending with online accounting for c. 38% of the best example of why we believe the 1990s parallel is the total in 2016 with Facebook and Google accounting too easy and ultimately fallacious.
At the height of the for c. 84% of incremental spending, a welcome reminder Dotcom bubble, America Online AOL then the worlds of Metcalfs Law.
Penetration continues to grow in China leading Internet Service Provider ISP acquired the too with online advertising growing 30% y y to $40bn, venerable Time Warner for $182bn creating an equivalent to 15% of total spend last year.
Social media unparalleled powerhouse of online and offline assets in is growing its share of advertising Dollars and time a deal that everyone will have to follow.
At the time AOL spent online with Facebook the undisputed global leader boasted revenues of $4.8bn, 20m mostly narrowband with 1.9bn monthly active users MAU and 1.2bn daily subscribers and a market capitalisation of $163bn.
Chat apps remain the fastest While the market cap of Amazon $480bn and the growing product within social media and Facebook once $13.7bn purchase of a bricks and mortar company by again dominates via its ownership of Whatsapp and an online leader may rhyme with the late 1990s, Amazon Facebook Messenger which boast 1.2bn and 1.0bn MAUs today has 28x more revenues and 15x the user base than respectively.
In China, Tencents WeChat remains the AOL at its peak.
Amazons Prime membership alone is market leader in China with 846m MAU with half of said to be four times greater than AOL in 2000.
Most users spending more than 90 minutes a day in the app.
telling is that AOL used stock to fund its deal which subsequently fell almost 90% over the coming years as Trends within e-commerce remain equally strong with the Internet bubble burst and AOLs business model online spending likely to account for 8.7% of worldwide imploded.
In contrast, and in a sign of how far the retail sales this year.
Despite being already worth $1.9tr, Internet has come since the late 1990s, Amazon is e-commerce penetration is accelerating its share of paying cash.
overall retail spending, driven by mobile commerce m-commerce as smartphones and tablets become THEMATIC UPDATE integral parts of the shopping experience.
This helped US e-commerce growth reaccelerate to 15% y y in 2016 In addition to cloud computing the kernel of our new adding to the woes of traditional retailers with store cycle thesis and already covered in some detail there closures this year expected to exceed those during the are a number of other core themes that are captured Great Recession.
As incremental improvements take within the portfolio.
As we have previously articulated, place in both payment and delivery methods the friction Internet platforms have been the greatest beneficiaries and barriers to purchasing online only recede further, of smartphone ubiquity and cheap, plentiful bandwidth Cowen predicting that e-commerce will achieve 12% with more than 3.4bn people worldwide accessing the penetration by 2020.
Amazons proposed acquisition of Internet today, c. 46% of the worlds population.
2016 saw retailer Whole Foods reflects a pragmatic approach more balanced returns across different market designed to accelerate the penetration of large capitalisations while both Facebook and Alphabet underserved categories such as grocery and home experienced multiple compression despite delivering furnishings.
While many of the early horizontal impressive operational performance.
For many largemarketplace innovators are seeing their businesses cap Internet stocks, investors worried about the disrupted by larger platforms, vertical and lead sustainability of growth and the law of large numbers.
generation marketplaces strengthened their positions As such many of the Internet giants continue to look during 2016 epitomised by Uber transportation, attractively valued relative to their positioning and AirBnB travel, Grubhub Just Eat food delivery prospects.
The outlook for online advertising remains Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 24 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 We remain relatively constructive on Apple as we have long believed it is best understood as a mass-affluent luxury goods company whose brand which allows it to capture 90%103% of industry profits with just 14% smartphone unit share.
and HomeAdvisor, part of IAC home services.
However, smartphone e-commerce continues to grow at a significantly faster stocks fared better than expected due to positive rate with gross merchandise value GMV reaching demand 4G upgrade cycle robust iPhone 7 sales and $681bn last year 24% with mobile accounting for aggressive US carrier promotions.
While the strongest 71% of overall spending.
performance was reserved for companies with increased content in the iPhone 7, Apple itself registered Subscription models also continue to prove a popular three negative quarters of year over year unit growth but and successful method for monetising media content still managed to grow its installed base by c. 100m and as demonstrated by pioneers Netflix and Spotify.
end the calendar year with ASPs at $695 despite the Within music streaming, Spotify crossed 40m paying iPhone 7 having virtually no major external design subscribers during 2016 accounting for a remarkable changes.
With smartphone penetration at c. 66% globally 20% of global music industry revenues while Netflix and at 88% and 81% in the US and UK respectively unit has exceeded 90m video subscribers and is truly global growth is likely to remain sluggish and back-end loaded with availability in more than 200 countries.
Amazons as consumers await the iPhone 8 upgrade expected in own subscription service Prime is now believed to September.
Chinese competition is intensifying with have amassed 80m subscribers.
What began in 2005 as local vendors accounting for c. 25% of global units while free two-day shipping has expanded into online video, Samsung and Apple continue to dominate the high end e-books and music alongside free next-day shipping on $400 devices, said to account for 54% of industry prime eligible items and is today one of the most revenues and most if not all of the industry profits.
As powerful membership clubs loyalty schemes such, the overall smartphone market remains extremely currently in existence.
New platforms and content are challenging HTC, Lenovo and LG all make losses while changing behaviour with one in every four hours spent Blackberry and Nokia Microsoft both exited the market watching digital video content as the disruption of during 2016.
With industry ex-Apple Samsung profits traditional linear TV continues, particularly among under severe pressure, adverse IPR trends have younger people.
More than 1bn hours of video is worsened with Apple now challenging the basis of consumed on YouTube per day, a ten-fold increase Qualcomms royalty.
This trend is unlikely to improve as since 2012 while Netflix has increased its monthly industry sales continue to gravitate towards Chinese minutes delivered by 669% since 2011.
In contrast, vendors and OEMs with their own intellectual property.
the top five US TV networks have seen their aggregate monthly minutes delivered fall 10% over the same Despite this increasingly challenging backdrop, we timeframe.
We also remain excited about online remain relatively constructive on Apple as we have long payments where over time we expect the believed it is best understood as a mass-affluent luxury goods company whose brand which allows it to smartphone to replace the physical wallet, epitomised capture 90%103% of industry profits with just 14% by Uber where payment is subsumed into its app.
The value of this c. 600m 1bn remains at the forefront of this theme with $4.4tr of device installed base has seen Apple become the second mobile payments made in 2016 almost 50x more than largest global watch company by revenues behind in the US while WeChat users sent a record 46bn Rolex within two years.
Over time we expect Apples digital red packets over Chinese New Year 43% y y. valuation to tend towards other leading consumer While micro transactions have been most embraced companies such as Coca-Cola that also boast by the gaming sector, beyond Asia it has been the App durability and pricing power, aided by an ongoing shift stores that have benefited from in-app gaming towards recurring revenue services $28bn gross, transactions, Apples App Store generating more 24% y y.
However, recent stock strength has less to than $28bn revenues in 2016. do with our long-term bull case and more to do with As we expected, 2016 proved another year of growing excitement ahead of the iPhone 8 launch.
smartphone deceleration with unit growth just 3% y y to 1.5bn while prices continued to erode as mix shifted Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 25 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview Strategic Report Section MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Software remains a large and critical part of our portfolio as it continues to grow its share of IT budgets while the Software as a Service SaaS delivery model is expanding the total addressable market by lowering barriers to adoption.
Marking the ten-year anniversary of the first iPhone, the opportunities in cloud, automotive and artificial 8 or potentially X is likely to be completely redesigned intelligence AI machine learning ML.
While we edge to edge curved OLED display, glass and aluminium continue to favour SPE stocks, our largest over-weights casing and include a host of new features including are reserved for faster growers with unique enhanced touch, wireless fast charging, 3D sensing for technologies such as AMD potential for significant facial recognition and gesture control.
A new form share gains in CPU and GPU due to new design factor, together with an ageing installed base 31% of the architecture and Xilinx datacentre acceleration.
Apple installed base will be 2 years old, compared to We also hold meaningful positions in Samsung, SK Hynix 23% into iPhone 6 increase the likelihood of a so-called and SK Materials as beneficiaries of a strong memory super cycle with c. 250m iPhone units 15% y y forecast market that may persist longer than investors expect.
Although the stock has re-rated materially In contrast, software stocks endured a difficult year over the past year, we have been adding to our holding as many of our favoured next-generation stocks ahead of what we hope will prove an exciting product experienced multiple compression.
However, our large but underweight position remains a large and critical part of our portfolio as it reflects our view that beyond the iPhone 8, stock returns continues to grow its share of IT budgets while the will likely be driven by private equity expansion rather Software as a Service SaaS delivery model is than earnings growth that will be hampered by expanding the total addressable market by lowering developed market smartphone penetration, extending barriers to adoption.
In addition, two sub-themes replacement cycles and the slower pace of innovation.
The first is machine learning AI Although industry growth proved modestly disappointing and its potential to enrich software, allowing it to in 2016, semiconductor stocks delivered stellar provide far more value to customers.
Companies with performance 39% driven by a further sector re-rating.
vertical domain expertise, access to proprietary Investor perception continued to improve as a number of databases and cloud delivery appear in poll position.
Bill industry participants demonstrated pricing power and Gates summarised the overall opportunity when he said reduced earnings volatility despite sluggish end a breakthrough in machine learning could be worth 10 markets.
Elevated M&A activity provided additional Microsofts.
Secondly, the imperative for enterprise support, although activity shifted from cheap second digitization continues: a recent Gartner survey showed tier vendors to high-quality companies with vertical digitization will capture 28% of IT budget spend in 2018, expertise such as NXP and Linear Technology as up from 18% today.
This budget reallocation plays well incumbents looked to bulk up in preferred areas e. g. into the strengths of next-generation software vendors automotive.
Non-semi companies also increased their and increasingly disqualifies legacy players from new interest in the rapidly consolidating industry, epitomised investment decisions.
Although investors struggled with by Softbanks $31bn acquisition of ARM.
Semiconductor the valuation instability during 2016, acquirers steppedequipment vendors also delivered strong returns as the up to fill the void with more than thirty $1bn software Wafer Fab Equipment WFE market grew 8% in 2016 to acquisitions and over $100bn in deal volume.
We look $34bn, mainly driven by 3D NAND spending.
Given low forward to another bumper M&A harvest in 2017 and a penetration of SSD 27% of total drives, 3D NAND reopening of the IPO market which will help us refresh spending growth is expected to continue during 2017. our pipeline of emerging winners.
For now, we continue Moreover, as a result of higher capital intensity in every to invest in what we believe are winning platforms migration slowing overall wafer capacity additions we e. g. Salesforce.
com, ServiceNow, key enablers e. g. expect the WFE market to continue to see diminished Pegasystems, Red Hat, Splunk strong product cycles volatility that should greatly support valuations.
2017 e. g. Hubspot, Zendesk rising SaaS penetration e. g. should see semiconductor industry growth accelerate to New Relic and or market share gainers.
over 7% due to memory demand pricing and growing Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 26 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Number of Transactions Cybersecurity remains a core investment theme, driven by the ever-expanding attack surface and an active, evolving threat landscape.
Cybersecurity stocks also endured a difficult 2016, security, privileged account management, vulnerability reflecting a moderation in spending after an exceptional management and security incident and event 2014 15.
We continue to believe that cybersecurity management SIEM.
While the cloud may represent remains a core investment theme, driven by the everalonger-term risk as more security features are expanding attack surface and an active, evolving threat subsumed into IaaS offerings this risk feels balanced landscape.
This view was supported by the recent today by undemanding valuations and potential WannaCry cyberattack which captured headlines M&Aactivity.
globally, causing widespread panic and infecting We also continue to favour videogame companies as rare computers in more than 150 countries.
The NHS in the content beneficiaries of digital distribution made possible UK, FedEx and Telefonica were high profile victims of the by the Internet.
The gaming industry has also seen ransomware exploiting a vulnerability in the Windows structural improvement, with market consolidation the operating system OS that Microsoft had released a big 4 Western publishers estimated to have had 50% critical patch for back in March.
Although the overall market share on console in 2016 and strategic focus on cybersecurity market is expected to grow at a modest creating fewer high end AAA franchises, which provide c. 6%, high profile breaches such as these have the greater scale and profitability together with reduced risk.
potential to drive additional spending while the More importantly, next-generation consoles have spurred upcoming European General Data Protection Regulation the adoption of full game digital downloads and additional GDPR and potential for a US Cybersecurity Executive digital content, increasing ARPU and expanding margins.
Order may serve as further catalysts.
Our own exposure is to faster growth subsectors such as cloud email GLOBAL TECHNOLOGY M&A DEALS, 20102016 $400 500 $350 $300 400 $250 300 $200 200 $150 $100 100 $50 0 $0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Source: Mary Meeker, General Partner, Kleiner Perkins M&A Volume Number of Transactions Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 27 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 M&A Volume $bn Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview Strategic Report Section MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED The arrival of human-robot collaboration is radically changing the way factories operate, making highly versatile production lines possible.
While full game downloads boost margins significantly, precise, paving the way for manufacturers to achieve the real story is selling additional digital content DLC zero down time ZDT and avoid expensive unplanned and micro-transactions which accounted for c. 52% of work stoppages which are said cost on average 5% of PC Console sales for the big 4 in 2016E with greater total output value.
The vision is real-time information than 90% incremental gross margin.
In addition, sharing across connected machines and cooperation smartphone and tablet gaming worth $37bn in 2016 between cyber-physical systems and humans.
However, is expanding, rather than cannibalising the overall this will require a fundamental overhaul of how factories opportunity worth c. $100bn.
eSports competitive are built in order to enable real-time data collection, gaming as a spectator sport represents an additional monitoring and analysis.
The replacement opportunity is future growth avenue: in 2016 there were 148m eSports enormous with c. 60m machines in factories globally of enthusiasts and a further 144m occasional viewers which 70% are more than fifteen years old and only 10% tuning in for big events.
To put that into context c. 31m are currently connected.
Furthermore, the layering in of people watched the NBA finals in 2016, versus c. 36m artificial intelligence that enables predictive analytics who watched the League of Legends world finals in and autonomous decision making will be game-changing 2015.
We are also excited about the longer-term and its impact far reaching.
As such we have been opportunities associated with augmented reality AR adding to our overall exposure, primarily via key following the Pokmon Go phenomenon that saw 45m component suppliers such as Keyence sensors, people use smartphones to capture virtual monsters.
Harmonic Drive Systems reduction gears and Cognex Virtual reality VR also has significant promise and is machine vision.
being fostered by a number of technology giants today.
After years in the wilderness it is becoming While gaming has been the primary application thus far, increasingly clear that Artificial Intelligence AI and the technology could ultimately disrupt a number of Machine Learning ML are emerging as the next great existing markets including live events, real estate technology platforms.
This back-end infrastructure and education.
designed to garner insight from Big Data has captured We are fascinated by the potential for automation and the imagination of Silicon Valley and Wall Street alike robotics as the evolution of advanced components such following high profile AI successes such as Googles as machine vision, sensors and reduction gears have AlphaGo which in 2016 beat the worlds best Go made highly accurate and repeatable movement players and Liberatus, AI created at Carnegie Mellon possible.
This is driving a significant market expansion University that beat four human professional players at as industrial robots traditionally used for tasks poker.
AI is not a new concept having been around unsuitable for humans to perform over sustained since the 1950s and gaining popularity in the 1980s for periods such as welding, painting and loading tasks pattern recognition mainly used in weather can today address consumer electronics assembly, forecasting before achieving notoriety in the field of healthcare, logistics and many other sectors.
The chess following the defeat of Gary Kasparov by IBMs robotics opportunity has also been advanced by Deep Blue in 1997.
However, recent attention is mainly e-commerce which is forcing a rethink of the whole driven by vast data sets necessary to feed neural supply chain while cobots robots with enhanced safety networks, the core framework of AI that is modelled control functions are now able to operate alongside loosely on the network of neurons in the human brain, humans in a production line without a safety barrier.
and cheap parallel computing enabled by high The arrival of human-robot collaboration is radically performance GPU and storage.
AI is therefore all about changing the way factories operate, making highly trying to identify relationships from vast datasets, versatile production lines possible.
Advances in control which is why early adopters are largely data companies system and sensor technologies are also allowing search engine, social networks.
predictive maintenance to be both affordable and Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 28 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Like cloud computing, AI appears to have the potential to both transcend and transform the technology landscape over the coming years.
Today, the main AI applications are still relatively simple tasks such as identifying faces in photos, recognising voice text queries and improving search engine results.
However, breakthrough consumer applications such as Amazons Echo which deliver voice as a computing interface demonstrate the early promise of artificial intelligence.
Moreover, AI has broad applicability where large datasets are easily obtained and well defined.
Within healthcare, virtual screening conducting millions of tests and simulations on compounds to see which combination of molecules can have a particular effect is being increasingly adopted to reduce the time and cost of drug discovery, Goldman Sachs estimating that AI might deliver $26bn of annual savings to the pharmaceutical industry alone by 2025.
Like cloud computing, AI appears to have the potential to both transcend and transform the technology landscape over the coming years.
Ben Rogoff 10 July 2017 Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 29 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview
