Governance DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Directors Report including All the other Directors are also retiring and standing for the Report on Corporate Governance together with the re-election at the AGM with the exception of Michael Moule Audited Financial Statements for the Company prepared who is retiring.
The fees paid to the Directors are set out in under International Financial Reporting Standards as the Remuneration Report.
adopted by the European Union IFRS for the year ended 30 April 2017.
4 requires the Company to include certain INTRODUCTION AND STATUS information in a single identifiable section of the Annual The Company is incorporated in England and Wales as Report or a cross reference table indicating where the a public limited company and domiciled in the United information is set out.
The Directors confirm there are no Kingdom.
It is an investment company as defined in Section disclosures to be made pursuant to this rule other than the 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and its ordinary shares are waiver of Directors fees by Brian Ashford-Russell in respect listed and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
of the financial year ended 30 April 2017 and his intention to waive his fees for the financial year to 30 April 2018.
The close company provisions do not apply.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Company seeks to operate as an investment trust in The Report on Corporate Governance on pages 57 to 64 accordance with sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation form part of this Directors Report.
Taxes Act 2010 as amended by section 42 2 of the Finance Act 2011.
This qualification permits the accumulation of CAPITAL STRUCTURE capital gains within the portfolio without liability to UK Capital Gains Tax.
The Company has received confirmation Issued from HM Revenue & Customs that on the basis of the The Companys share capital is divided into ordinary information supplied, the Company is an approved shares of 25p each.
At the year end there were investment trust.
The Directors, under advice, expect the 132,487,000 ordinary shares in issue 2016: 132,336,159 affairs of the Company to continue to satisfy the conditions.
At the date of this report there were 132,762,000 ordinary shares in issue.
The Company has registered as a Foreign Financial Institution with the US IRS and been allocated a Global Changes during the year Intermediary Identification Number GIIN of J29SBF- 150,841 ordinary shares issued in the year ended 30 April 99999-SL-826.
The Company has also been allocated the 2017.
Since the year end a further 225,000 shares have Legal Entity Identifier of 549300TN1O5392UC4K19.
No shares have been purchased for cancellation or to be held in treasury.
The Company is an investment trust and as such its ordinary shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions Voting rights which apply to non-mainstream investment products.
The Ordinary shares carry voting rights which are exercised Company conducts its affairs and intends to do so for the on a show of hands at a meeting, or on a poll, where each foreseeable future so that the exclusion continues to apply.
Details for the lodging of proxy votes The attention of Shareholders is drawn to the Strategic are given when a notice of meeting is given.
Report Section Chairmans Statement, the Managers Transferability Report and the Strategic Report which provide further Any shares in the Company may be held in uncertificated commentary on the activities and outlook for the form and, subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated Company, including future developments and dividends.
shares may be transferred by means of a relevant system.
DIRECTORS Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or The current Directors of the Company are listed on pages any of his certificated shares by an instrument of transfer 50 and 51.
All the Directors held office throughout the year in any usual form or in any other form which the Board under review with the exception of Tim Cruttenden who was may approve.
The instrument of transfer must be appointed on 23 March 2017 and Rupert Montagu who executed by or on behalf of the transferor and in the retired as a Director at the AGM in September 2016.
Tim case of a partly-paid share the transferee.
Cruttenden will seek election at the AGM on 7 September 2017 in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 54 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without giving Powers to issue ordinary shares and make any reason, decline to register any transfer of any share market purchases of ordinary shares which is not a fully paid share.
The Board may also decline The Board was granted by Shareholders at the AGM in to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the 2016 the power to allot equity securities up to a nominal instrument of transfer: i is duly stamped or certified or value of 3,308,403 and to issue those shares for cash otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be without offering those shares to Shareholders in exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant accordance with their statutory pre-emption rights.
These share certificate and such other evidence of the right to powers will expire at the AGM in 2017 and renewal of transfer as the Board may reasonably require: ii is in the authorities will be sought at the AGM in 2017.
New respect of only one class of share: and iii if joint transferees, ordinary shares will not be allotted and issued at below are in favour of not more than four such transferees.
The Board may decline to register a transfer of any of the The Board also obtained Shareholder authority at the AGM Companys certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% in 2016 to make market purchases of up to 19,837,190 interest as defined in the Articles if such a person has ordinary shares of the Company for cancellation in been served with a restriction notice as defined in the accordance with the terms and conditions set out in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with resolution.
This authority expires at the AGM in 2017 and information concerning interests in those shares required renewal of the authority to make market purchases of to be provided under the Companies Act 2006, unless the ordinary shares will be sought at the AGM in 2017. transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms length sale as defined in the Articles.
The level of the ordinary share price discount or premium to the Net Asset Value together with internal guidelines for The Company is not aware of arrangements to restrict the repurchase or issuance of new ordinary shares are kept the votes or transferability of its shares.
under regular review by the Board.
The Board considers that discount volatility is unattractive to Shareholders but as a specialist investment fund market sentiment can create sustained discount pressure.
With this in mind the Board has a pragmatic approach to share buy backs.
Major interests in ordinary shares Declarations of interests in the voting rights of the Company at 30 April 2017 are set out below.
Number of Percentage of ordinary shares voting rights Rathbone Brothers plc 10,653,445 8.02% indirect Brewin Dolphin Limited 9,946,829 7.49% indirect Old Mutual plc 7,811,334 5.88% direct Investec Wealth and Investment Limited 6,712,073 5.06% indirect The above percentages are calculated by applying the shareholdings as notified to the issued ordinary share capital at 18 July 2017 of 132,762,000 ordinary shares.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 55 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview Governance DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED LIFE OF THE COMPANY The Articles of Association of the Company provide that a vote on whether the Company should continue will be proposed as an ordinary resolution at every fifth Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Such a resolution was proposed at the AGM on 9September 2015 and passed with 99.9% of the votes cast in favour of continuing for a further five years.
The next continuation vote will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting in 2020.
2017 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting will be held on 7 September 2017 at 2.30pm at Trinity House, Tower Hill, London EC3N 4DH.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM as it provides an opportunity for them to hear a presentation from the Investment Manager and meet the Directors and Investment team members.
The separate Notice of Meeting contains the usual resolutions to receive the Financial Statements, approve the Directors Remuneration Policy and the Implementation Report, re-elect retiring Directors, appoint the Auditors and empower the Directors to set their fees.
As in previous years the Directors are also seeking powers to allot shares for cash and to buy back shares for cancellation or to be held in treasury.
The full text of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM and an explanation of each resolution are contained in the separate Notice of Meeting.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS The Company is an investment trust, with neither employees nor premises, nor has it any financial or operational control over the assets which it owns, Consequently, it has no GHG emissions to report from its operations nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions.
By order of the Board Neil Taylor Polar Capital Secretarial Services Limited Company Secretary 18 July 2017 Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 56 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017
