STRATEGIC REPORT The Strategic Report Section of this Annual Report The Board has appointed Polar Capital LLP as its comprises the Chairmans Statement, the Investment Investment Manager and AIFM.
Managers Report including information on the portfolio Polar Capital LLP also provides or assists in and this Strategic Report.
It has been prepared to provide providing Company Secretarial services and general information to Shareholders on the Companys strategies administration including liaison with directly appointed and potential for those strategies to succeed, including third party suppliers.
a fair review of the strategy and performance of the Company during the year ended 30 April 2017, the position INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE AND POLICY of the Company at the year end and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties.
The Strategic Report Shareholders should be aware that the portfolio is Section contains certain forward looking statements, actively managed and is not designed to track any made by the Directors in good faith based on the particular benchmark, indices or market.
The information available to them at the time of their approval performance of the portfolio can vary from the of this report.
Such statements should be treated with Benchmark performance, at times considerably.
caution due to inherent uncertainties, including both Objective economic and business risk factors underlying any The Companys investment objective has been since such forward-looking information.
formation, and will continue to be, to maximise longterm capital growth by investing in a diversified portfolio INTRODUCTION AND BUSINESS MODEL of technology companies around the world.
The Companys business model follows that of an externally managed investment trust and the investment Policy objective is to provide Shareholders with access to an At the Annual General Meeting in 2012 the current actively managed portfolio of technology shares investment policy was approved.
The portfolio has been selected on a worldwide basis with the investment managed in accordance with the policy and restrictions objective to maximise long-term capital growth.
Over the last four decades the technology industry Asset Allocation has been one of the most vibrant, dynamic and rapidly Technology may be defined as the application of growing segments of the global economy.
Technology scientific knowledge for practical purposes and companies offer the potential for substantially faster technology companies are defined accordingly.
While earnings growth than the broad market.
this offers a very broad and dynamic investing universe and covers many different companies, the portfolio of Investments are selected for their potential the Company the Portfolio is focused on technology shareholder returns, not on the basis of technology companies which use technology or which develop and for its own sake.
The Investment Manager believes supply technological solutions as a core part of their in rigorous fundamental analysis and focuses on: business models.
This includes areas as diverse as management quality: information, media, communications, environmental, healthcare, finance and renewable energy, as well as the the identification of new growth markets: more obvious applications such as computing and the globalisation of major technology trends: and associated industries.
exploiting international valuation anomalies and sector volatility.
Further information on the operation of the business is set out in the Directors Report on pages 54 to 56.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 37 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview Strategic Report Section STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED The Portfolio is constructed without specific reference comply with the current Listing Rules, the Company will to any individual market, index or Benchmark and the not invest more than 10% of its total assets at the time Directors discuss asset allocation regularly.
The Board of acquisition in other listed closed ended investment has agreed a set of parameters which provide a range funds, whether managed by the Investment Manager which guides the Investment Manager depending on or not.
This restriction does not apply to investments in market conditions and future expectations.
The Board closed ended investment funds which themselves have believes that this provides the necessary flexibility for published investment policies to invest no more than the Investment Manager to pursue the investment 15% of their total assets in other listed closed ended objective, given the dynamic and rapid changes in investment funds.
However, the Company will not in any the field of technology, while maintaining a spread case invest more than 15% of its total assets in other of investments.
The Company must not conduct any trading activity which is significant in the Risk Diversification context of its group as a whole.
The Company will at all times invest and manage its assets in a manner that is consistent with spreading Borrowing, Cash and Derivatives investment risk and invests in a Portfolio comprised The Company may borrow money to invest in the primarily of international quoted equities which is Portfolio over both the long and short-term.
Any diversified across both regions and sectors.
commitment to borrow funds is agreed by the Board and the AIFM.
The Company will satisfy the following investment restrictions: The Companys Articles of Association permit borrowings up to the amount of its paid up share The Companys interest in any one company will not capital plus capital and revenue reserves but any exceed 10% of the gross assets of the Company from net borrowings in excess of 15% of the Companys time to time, save where the Benchmark weighting of net assets at the time of drawdown will only be made any investee company in the Companys portfolio with the approval of the Board.
exceeds this level, in which case the Company will be permitted to increase its exposure to such investee The Investment Manager may also use from time to time company up to the Benchmark neutral weighting derivative instruments as approved by the Board such of that company or, if lower, 20% of the Companys as financial futures, options,  grossassets.
These are used for the purpose of efficient portfolio management.
Any such use The Company will have a maximum exposure to of derivatives will be made in accordance with the companies listed on emerging markets as defined Companys policies on spreading investment risk as by the MSCI Emerging Markets Index of 25% of its set out in this investment policy and any leverage gross assets from time to time.
resulting from the use of such derivatives will be The Company may invest in unquoted companies subject to the restrictions on borrowings set out above.
from time to time, subject to prior Board approval.
Investments in unquoted companies in aggregate will Changes to investment policy not exceed 10% of the gross assets of the Company Any material change to the investment policy will measured at the time of acquisition of the relevant require the approval of the Shareholders by way of an investment and whenever the Company increases ordinary resolution at a general meeting.
The Company the relevant holding.
will promptly issue an announcement to inform Shareholders and the public of any change of its In addition to the restrictions set out above, the investment policy.
Company is subject to Chapter 15 of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules which apply to closed ended investment companies with a premium listing on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange.
In order to Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 38 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 INVESTMENT STRATEGY GUIDELINES Gearing AND BOARD LIMITS The Board monitors the level of gearing available to the Investment Manager and agrees, in conjunction with the The Board has within the Investment Policy established AIFM, all bank facilities.
Deployment of such facilities in guidelines for the Investment Manager in pursuing the excess of 15% of the net asset value of the Company at Investment Policy.
The Board uses these guidelines the time of draw down requires Boardagreement.
to monitor the portfolios exposure to different geographical markets, sub-sectors within technology During the year the Company had loan facilities with ING and the spread of investments across different Bank NV for two three-year facilities with ING Bank NV: .
One for US Dollars 23,000,000 of which was drawn down on 2 October 2015 at a fixed rate of 2.21%pa and one for These guidelines are kept under review as cyclical Japanese Yen 2,800,000,000 at a fixed rate of 0.995%pa.
changes in markets and new technologies will bring These loans fall due for repayment on 2 October 2018. certain sub-sectors or companies of a particular size or market capitalisation into or out of favour.
Details of the loans are set out in Note 17 to the Financial Statements.
Market parameters Notwithstanding the ability to invest up to 100% of FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS the portfolio in any one market, with current and The Board remains positive on the longer-term outlook foreseeable investment conditions the Portfolio will for technology and the Company will continue to pursue be invested in accordance with the objective across its investment objective.
The outlook for future worldwide markets within the following geographical performance is dependent to a significant degree on the and market parameters: worlds financial markets and their reactions to economic North America up to 85% of the Portfolio events and other geo-political forces.
The Chairmans Statement and the Investment Managers Report Europe up to 40% of the Portfolio comment on the outlook.
Japan and Asia up to 55% of the Portfolio Rest of the world up to 10% of the Portfolio PERFORMANCE The Board has set specific upper exposure limits At 30 April 2017 the total net assets of the Company for certain countries where they believe there may amounted to 1,252,525,000 2016: 801,307,000.
The Net be an elevated risk.
Asset Value per share rose by 56.1% from 605.51p to 945.39p.
As at 30 April 2017 the portfolio comprised of 120 Cash 2016: 129 investments.
The top investments each being From time to time the Company may hold cash over 1% of the portfolio at 30 April 2017 are described on or near cash equivalents if the Investment Manager pages 33 to 36 and a full listing of all investments in the feels that these will at a particular time or over a portfolio can be found on the Companys website.
period enhance the performance of the Portfolio.
The portfolio has been analysed on pages 30 to 32 to The Board has agreed that management of cash disclose details on the distribution of investments by may be achieved through the purchase of appropriate market capitalisation and by the different sectors in the government bonds, money market funds or bank different principal geographies.
deposits depending on the Investment Managers view .
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 39 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview Strategic Report Section STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED The changes in the share price, net asset value and There have been no material changes other than Benchmark over the financial year are shown on those reflected in these Financial Statements to this page4.
Any information requiring immediate disclosure pursuant to the AIFMD A review and commentary are given in the Chairmans will be disclosed to the London Stock Exchange through Statement on pages 8 and 9 and the Investment a primary information provider.
Managers Report on pages 10 to 29.
Statements from the Depositary and the AIFM can be The ongoing charges ratio shown on page 4 has been found on the Companys website.
calculated in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC and constitutes the management fee in Note 8 and The Company seeks to manage its portfolio in such a the other administrative expenses Note 9 as a way as to meet the tests set down in Section 1158 and percentage of average daily net assets over the year.
1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 as amended by Section 49 2 of the Finance Act 2011 and continue to DIVIDENDS qualify as an investment trust.
This qualification permits the accumulation of capital within the portfolio without The Companys revenue varies from year to year and the any liability to UK Capital Gains Tax.
Further information Board considers the dividend position in each year in is provided in the Directors Report.
order to maintain the Companys status as an investment company.
The revenue reserve remains in deficit and The Company has no employees or premises and the historically the Company has not paid dividends given Board is comprised of Non-executive Directors.
The its focus on capital growth.
The Directors do not day to day operations and functions of the Company recommend the payment of a dividend.
have been delegated to third parties.
REGULATORY ARRANGEMENTS SERVICE PROVIDERS The Company is designated an Alternative Investment Polar Capital LLP has been appointed to act as the Fund AIF under the Alternative Investment Fund Investment Manager and AIFM as well as to provide Management Directive AIFMD and as required by the or procure company secretarial services and Directive has contracted with Polar Capital LLP to act administrative services, including accounting, portfolio as the Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM valuation and trade settlement which it has arranged and HSBC Bank Plc to act as the Depositary.
to deliver through HSBC Securities Services.
Both the AIFM and the Depositary have responsibilities The Company also contracts directly with a number under AIFMD for ensuring that the assets of the of third parties for the provision of regularly Company are managed in accordance with investment requiredservices: policy and are held in safe custody.
The Board remains responsible for setting the investment strategy and Cenkos Securities plc as corporate broker: operational guidelines as well as meeting the Equiniti Limited as the share registrars: requirements of the FCA Listing Rules and the  LLP as independent Companies Act.
Auditors to be replaced by KPMG PLC with effect from the conclusion of the 2017 audit : The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available to investors in AIFs before they invest and Camarco as PR advisors: requires that material changes to this information be Emperor as website designers, internet hosting disclosed in the Annual Report of each AIF.
Investor services and designers and printers for Shareholder Disclosure Documents, which set out information on the communications: and Companys investment strategy and policies, leverage, Alliance Trust Savings for the provision of investor risk, liquidity, administration, management, fees, information and to facilitate investors through the conflicts of interest and other Shareholder information Alliance Trust Savings arrangements to cast proxy are available on the Companys website.
votes and attend the Companys AGM.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 40 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Board appraises the performance of the Company and the Investment Manager as the key supplier of services to the Company against Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
The objectives comprise both specific financial and Shareholder related measures.
KPI Control process Outcome The provision of The Board reviews at each meeting The Companys NAV has, over the year to 30 April investment returns to the performance of the portfolio in 2017, outperformed the Benchmark.
The NAV per ordinary Shareholders detail and hears the views of the share rose by 56.1% while the Benchmark rose measured by long-term Investment Manager.
53.4% in Sterling terms over the same period.
NAV growth and relative The reasons are explained in the Chairmans performance against Statement and the Investment Managers Report.
Over the longer-term, as shown by the historic performance data shown on page 5, growth in the NAV has exceeded the Benchmark.
Monitoring and reacting The Board receives regular The discount premium of the ordinary share to issues created by the information on the composition of the price to NAV per ordinary share diluted when discount or premium of share register including trading appropriate has been as follows: the ordinary share price patterns and discount premium levels Financial year to 30 April 2017 to the NAV per ordinary of the Companys ordinary shares.
share with the aim of Maximum premium over year: 2.5% The Board is aware of the reduced discount vulnerability of a sector specialist Maximum discount over year: -13.8% volatility for Trust to a change in investor Shareholders.
Average discount over year: -3.3% sentiment to that sector.
While there is no formal discount policy the Board The Company has not bought back any shares in discusses the market factors giving the year to 30 April 2017 and has issued 150,841 rise to any discount or premium, the shares when the issue was NAV enhancing to long or short-term nature of those existing Shareholders.
Since the year end a further factors and the overall benefit to 275,000 shares have been issued.
The Over previous 5 financial years ended 30 April 2017 market liquidity is also considered when authorising the issue or buy Maximum premium over period: 5.0% back of shares when appropriate Maximum discount over period: -13.8% market conditions prevail.
Average discount over period: -2.5% A daily NAV per share, diluted when appropriate, calculated in accordance Over 5 years the Company has not bought back any with the AIC guidelines, is issued to shares and has issued 850,841 as the result of the London Stock Exchange.
market demand and 3,428,136 from the conversion of subscription shares.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 41 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview Strategic Report Section STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED KPI Control process Outcome To qualify and continue The Board receives regular financial This has been achieved for every year since to meet the information which discloses the launch in 1996. requirements for current and projected financial HMRC has approved investment trust status Sections 1158 and 1159 position of the Company against each subject to the Company continuing to meet the of the Corporation Tax of the tests set out in Sections 1158 relevant eligibility conditions and ongoing Act 2010 investment and 1159. requirements.
The Directors believe that the tests have been met in the financial year ended 30 April 2017 and will continue to be met.
Efficient operation of The Board considers annually the The Board has received and considered the Company with services provided by the Investment satisfactory the internal controls report of the appropriate investment Manager, both investment and Investment Manager and other key suppliers management administration and reviews on a cycle including contingency arrangements to facilitate resources and services the provision of services from third the ongoing operations of the Company in the from third party parties including the costs of their event of withdrawal or failure of services.
The ongoing charges of the Company for the stable and risk The annual operating expenses are year ended 30 April 2017 were 1.01% of net controlled reviewed and any non-recurring asset 2016: 1.10%.
PRINCIPAL BUSINESS RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Board is responsible for the management of risks faced by the Company in delivering long-term returns to Shareholders.
The identification, monitoring and appraisal of the risks, any mitigation factors and control systems is crucial.
The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks with the assistance of the Investment Manager through the use of a Risk Map which seeks to record risks in four main risk categories: Business, Portfolio Management, Infrastructure and External.
The Risk Map is constructed by identifying and assessing various risks as to their likelihood and their severity of impact, then considering, both internal and external controls and factors that could provide mitigation to arrive at a post mitigation risk impact.
The Risk Map therefore provides a structure for robustly reviewing the risks and controls as well a method to report and monitor changes and developments.
The investment objective is to invest the Companys funds in a portfolio of technology companies worldwide and as such the portfolio will be exposed to market and currency fluctuations with only limited ability to mitigate the consequences through the holding of cash in the portfolio and the use of foreign exchange rate contracts.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 42 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Changes in overall assessment of the risks over the Principal Business Risks and Uncertainties Management of risks through Mitigation & Controls financial year Business Unchanged The appropriateness of the investment The Board seeks to mitigate the impact of such risks through the mandate and the execution of the investment regular reporting and monitoring of the investment performance strategy may be out of favour or poorly against its peer group, other closed ended and open ended funds delivered which may lead to poor and Exchange Traded Funds ETFs.
performance against the Benchmark and A day a year is set aside to conduct an annual review of the peer group leading to a depressed share investment strategy and investment markets which is used as a price, unacceptably large and persistent framework to assess portfolio construction and performance discount as investors seek alternative across the remainder of the year.
The Board when considering the investments or lower risk strategies.
investment strategy has regard to the degree of risk which the The ordinary shares of the Company are Investment Manager incurs in order to generate investment listed on the London Stock Exchange and returns.
the share price is determined by supply and For months when the Board is not scheduled to meet they receive demand.
The shares may trade at a discount a monthly report containing financial information on the Company or at a premium to the Companys underlying including gearing and cash balances.
They also receive a monthly NAV and this discount or premium may commentary from the Investment Manager in the factsheet.
A continuation vote is held every five years to provide Shareholders with an opportunity to wind up the Company.
In consultation with its advisors, including the corporate stock broker the Board regularly considers the level of premium and discount of the share price to the NAV and the Board reviews ways to enhance Shareholder value including share issuance and buy backs.
The Board is committed to a clear communication program to insure Shareholders understand the investment strategy.
This is maintained through the use of monthly factsheets, an informative and relevant website as well as annual and half year reports.
External Elevated There is significant exposure to the The Board regularly discusses the geo-political issues and The effects of economic cycles of the markets in which general economic conditions and developments.
Other Investment the political the underlying investments conduct their teams from the Investment Manager present their views to the changes in the business operations as well as the economic Board on stock markets and sectors.
US, Europe impact on investment markets where such andUK have Note 28 describes the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The fluctuations of increased exchange rates can also have a material uncertainty The consequences of the Brexit decision were considered at the impact on Shareholder returns.
and increased time and are monitored on an ongoing basis through existing volatility in control systems with particular attention focused on advanced The exit of the UK from the European Union financial indicators of potential problems.
The Board does not believe that markets there is any direct impact on the operation of the Company from this decision but fluctuations in exchange rates can impact investor returns.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 43 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview Strategic Report Section STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED Changes in overall assessment of the risks over the Principal Business Risks and Uncertainties Management of risks through Mitigation & Controls financial year Portfolio Management Unchanged While the portfolio is diversified across a The Board has set appropriate investment guidelines and monitors number of stock markets worldwide, the the position of the portfolio against such guidelines which includes investment mandate is focused on technology guidelines on exposures to certain investment markets and sectors.
and thus the portfolio will be more sensitive to The Board discusses with the Investment Manager at each Board investor sentiment and the commercial meeting developments in technology and its commercial acceptance of technological developments than applications and adoption.
At each Board meeting the composition and diversification of the Technology stocks also have greater relative portfolio by regions, sectors and capitalisations are considered price volatility and are subject to the risks of along with sales and purchases of investments.
Individual developing technologies, competitive pressures investments are discussed with the Investment Manager as well as and other factors including the acceptance of the Investment Managers general views on the various investment new technologies and rapid obsolescence.
markets and the technology sector in particular.
Many companies in the portfolio are relatively Analytical performance data and attribution analysis is presented smaller companies in the technology sector and by the Investment Manager.
are therefore subject to the risks attendant on The policies for managing the risks posed by exposure to market investing in smaller capitalisation businesses.
prices, interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit and As the Companys assets comprise mainly listed liquidity are set out in Note 28 to the Financial Statements.
equities the portfolio is exposed to risks such as The active share and statistics on the variance between the market price, credit, liquidity, foreign currency composition of the Benchmark and the portfolio are presented at and interest rates.
each Board meeting and discussed.
The portfolio is actively managed.
The Investment Managers style focuses primarily on the investment opportunity of individual stocks and, accordingly, may not follow the makeup of the Benchmark.
This may result in returns which are not in line with the Benchmark.
The degree of risk which the Investment Manager incurs in order to generate the investment returns and the effect of gearing on the portfolio by borrowed funds can magnify the portfolio returns per share positively or negatively.
Gearing, either through bank debt or the use of The overall levels of gearing are agreed with the AIFM.
The derivatives may be utilised from time to time.
arrangement of bank facilities and drawing of funds under such Whilst the use of gearing is intended to enhance arrangements are controlled by the Board.
Derivatives are the NAV total return, it will have the opposite considered as being a form of gearing and their use is agreed by effect when the return on the Companys the Board.
The deployment of borrowed funds is based on the investment portfolio is negative.
Investment Managers assessment of risk and reward.
A very small element of the investment portfolio Any investment in unquoted companies or funds is approved is invested into unlisted securities.
These by the Board before the investment is made.
investments are made where they offer At the year-end such investments amounted to less than 0.1% specialist management or investment of NAV.
opportunities which would otherwise not beavailable.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 44 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Changes in overall assessment of the risks over the Principal Business Risks and Uncertainties Management of risks through Mitigation & Controls financial year Infrastructure Elevated There are risks from the failure of, or resulting At each Board meeting there is an administration report which The number from cyber-attack disruption to, operational provides details on corporate matters including legislative and and severity and accounting systems and processes regulatory developments and changes, substantial changes in and success of provided by the Investment Manager including: shareholdings and the share register, and share price performance.
cyber-attacks any subcontractors to which the Investment have increased There is an annual review of internal control reports from Manager has delegated a task as well as over the year.
suppliers which includes the disaster recovery procedures directly appointed suppliers.
The impact of The Mis-valuation of investments or the loss MiFID II and the Regular reporting from the Depositary on the safe custody of the of assets from the custodian or sub custodians disruption to Companys assets and the operation of control systems related to which affect the NAV per share or lead to a loss the workings of the portfolio reconciliation are monitored.
the European Asset Specialist advice is sought on taxation issues as and when There is taxation risk that the Company may fail Management required.
The Audit Committee has oversight of such work.
to continue as an investment trust and suffer industry could Capital Gains tax, or recover as fully as Information and guidance on legal and regulatory risks is be significant.
possible, withholding taxes on overseas managed by using the Investment Manager or professional advisers investments.
where necessary and the submission of reports to the Board for discussion and, if required, any remedial action or changes The legal and regulatory risks include failure considered necessary.
to comply with the FCAs Prospectus Rules, Listing Rules and Transparency and Disclosure In addition, as an investment company, the Company is dependent Rules: not meeting the provisions of the on a framework of tax laws, regulation both UK and EU and Companies Act 2006 and other UK, European Company law.
and overseas legislation affecting UK The Board monitors new developments and changes in the companies MiFID II and not complying with regulatory environment and seeks to ensure that their impact on accounting standards.
Further risks arise from the Company is understood and complied with although the Board not keeping abreast of changes in legislation has no control over such legislative changes and such changes may and regulations which have in recent years be intended to affect us, or we may suffer unintended consequences been substantial.
from changes designed to affect others.
MANAGEMENT COMPANY AND Investment team MANAGEMENT OF THE PORTFOLIO The Investment Manager is Polar Capital LLP Polar Capital, which is authorised and regulated by the As the Company is an investment vehicle for Financial Conduct Authority.
Shareholders the Directors have sought to ensure that the business of the Company is managed by a leading Under the terms of the investment management specialist investment management team and that the agreement Polar Capital provides investment investment strategy remains attractive to Shareholders.
management, and provides and procures accounting, company secretarial and administrative services.
The Directors believe that a strong working relationship with the investment management team will achieve the Polar Capital provides a team of technology specialists optimum return for Shareholders and value the led by Ben Rogoff.
Each member focuses on specific inclusion on the Board of Brian Ashford-Russell.
areas while Ben has overall responsibility for the portfolio.
Polar Capital also has other specialist and geographically focused investment teams which may contribute to idea generation.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 45 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview Strategic Report Section STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED High water mark the performance fee will only be Termination arrangements payable if, and to the extent that, the Adjusted NAV The investment management agreement may be per share exceeds the highest of: terminated by either party by giving 12 months notice, but under certain circumstances the Company may be the NAV per share on the last day of the previous required to pay up to one years management charges performance period: if immediate notice is given and compensation will be the Adjusted NAV per share on the last day of a on a sliding scale if less than 12 months notice is given.
performance period in respect of which a performance fee was last paid: Fee arrangements Any performance fee accrual will be included in the Management fee Net Asset Value calculated in accordance with the The base fee is 1% on the Net Asset Value per share AIC guidelines.
multiplied by the arithmetic mean of the number of The performance fee which can be paid by the shares up to 800m and above 800m the base fee Company in any one performance period is capped reduces to 0.85%.
The fee is payable quarterly in at 2% of net assets.
arrears based on the Net Asset Value at the end of each quarter.
Any investments in funds managed by Polar In the event of a termination of the investment Capital are wholly excluded from the base management management agreement, the date the agreement is fee calculation.
terminated will be deemed to be the end of the relevant performance period and any performance fee payable Performance fee shall be calculated as at that date.
Performance periods will coincide with the Companys accounting periods.
No performance Annual performance fee equal to 15% of the amount fee has been earned for the year to 30 April 2017 by which the increase in the adjusted Net Asset Value 2016:nil.
per share exceeds the total return on the Dow Jones World Technology Index total return, Sterling CONTINUED APPOINTMENT OF adjusted with relevant withholding taxes removed INVESTMENT MANAGER multiplied by the time weighted average of the number of shares in issue during that period, The Board, through the Management Engagement subject to a high water mark.
Committee, has reviewed the performance of the Investment Manager in managing the portfolio over the The Net Asset Value per share Adjusted NAV longer-term.
The review also considered the quality of per share is adjusted for the purposes of the the other services provided by the Investment Manager, performance fee calculation by adding back any including the strength of the investment team, the depth accruals for unpaid performance fees, any dividends of the other services provided by the Investment paid or payable by reference to the performance Manager and their resources available to provide such period and the removal of any benefit of share services, which includes the organisation on the issuance or buy backs.
Companys behalf of third party suppliers, and the quality of the Shareholder communications.
The Board, on the recommendation of the Management Engagement Committee, has concluded that on the basis of longer-term performance it is in the best interests of Shareholders as a whole that the appointment of Polar Capital LLP as Investment Manager is continued on the existing terms.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 46 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Diversity, gender reporting and human rights policy Socially responsible investing and exercise The Company has no employees and the Board is of voting powers comprised of two female and four male Non-executive The Board has instructed the Investment Manager to Directors.
take into account the published corporate governance of the companies in which it invests.
If any new appointments are made to the Board, the Board will continue to have regard to the benefits of The Company has also considered the Investment diversity, including gender, when seeking to make any Managers Stewardship Code and Proxy Voting Policy.
The Voting Policy is for the Investment Manager to vote at all general meetings of companies in favour of resolutions The Company has not adopted a policy on human proposed by the management where it believes that the rights as it has no employees or operational control proposals are in the interests of Shareholders.
in exceptional cases, where it believes that a resolution could be detrimental to the interests of Shareholders or The Company does not believe that it is within scope of the financial performance of the Company, appropriate the Modern Slavery Act 2015 because it has no turnover notification will be given and abstentions or a vote against and a limited supply chain typically of professional will be lodged.
Although its Investment Manager provides the majority of its services it does contract directly The Investment Manager has voted at 126 meetings with some suppliers.
The Investment Manager has during the year under review in each case supporting been in touch with all of its suppliers and on behalf of the recommendations of the management.
the Company those suppliers that contract directly with the Company to confirm that they are aware of the The Investment Manager reports to the Board, when requirements of the Modern Slavery Act 2015 and that requested, on the application of the Stewardship Code they are in compliance.
There have been no matters and Voting Policy.
The Investment Managers brought to the Boards attention from this exercise.
Stewardship Code and Voting Policy can be found on the Investment Managers website in the Corporate Governance section www.
Approved by the Board on 18 July 2017 Environment By order of the Board The Companys core activities are undertaken by its Investment Manager which seeks to limit the use of non-renewable resources and reduce waste wherepossible.
Neil Taylor Polar Capital Secretarial Services Limited The Company falls outside the scope of The Energy Company Secretary Savings Opportunity Scheme Regulations.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 47 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview Governance GOVERNANCE 50 Directors 52 Investment Team 54 Directors Report 57 Report on Corporate Governance 65 Audit Committee Report 69 Directors Remuneration Report 73 Statement of Directors Responsibilities Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 48 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE After years in the wilderness, Artificial Intelligence AI identify relationships from vast datasets.
and Machine Learning ML are emerging as the next Breakthrough consumer applications such as great technology platform.
This back-end Amazons Echo which delivers voice as a computing infrastructure designed to garner insight from Big interface demonstrate the early promise of artificial Data has captured the imagination following high intelligence.
Moreover, AI has broad applicability profile AI successes such as Googles AlphaGo which where large datasets are easily obtained and well in 2016 beat the worlds best Go players and defined.
For example, within healthcare virtual Liberatus, an AI created at Carnegie Mellon University screening conducting millions of tests and simulations that beat four human professional poker players.
on compounds is being adopted to reduce the time and While AI is not a new concept, recent attention has cost of drug discovery, Goldman Sachs estimating that been driven by vast data sets Big Data necessary to AI might deliver $26bn of annual savings to the feed neural networks, the core framework of AI that is pharmaceutical industry alone by 2025.
Like cloud modelled loosely on the network of neurons in the computing, AI appears to have the potential to both human brain, and cheap parallel computing.
While the transcend and transform the technology landscape main applications today are still relatively simple tasks over the coming years.
such as identifying faces in photos, AI is about trying to Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 49 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview
