Governance INVESTMENT TEAM BEN ROGOFF NICK EVANS FATIMA IU Director, Technology Senior Fund Manager Fund Manager The portfolio is managed by Ben.
Nick joined Polar Capital in Fatima joined Polar Capital in April He has been a technology specialist September 2007 and has 19 years 2007 after working as an analyst with for 20 years having begun his career experience as a technology specialist.
Citigroup Asset Management for in fund management at CMI, as a He has been lead manager of the 18 months.
She focuses on European global technology analyst.
He moved Polar Capital Global Technology Fund technology, global medical to Aberdeen Fund Managers in 1998 since January 2008.
Prior to joining technology, cybersecurity and where he spent four years as a senior Polar he was Head of Technology at networking sub-sectors.
Fatima technology manager prior to joining AXA Framlington.
He also spent three graduated from Imperial College Polar Capital in May 2003.
He is also years as a Pan European investment London in 2002 with a degree in joint manager of Polar Capital Global manager and Technology Analyst at Chemistry with Medicinal Chemistry.
Ben graduated Hill Samuel Asset Management.
Nick from St Catherines College, Oxford graduated from Hull University with a with a degree in Modern History degree in Economics.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 52 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 XUESONG ZHAO PAUL JOHNSON BRADLEY REYNOLDS Fund Manager Investment Analyst Investment Analyst Xuesong joined Polar Capital in May Paul joined Polar Capital in March Brad joined Polar Capital in October 2012, having spent most of the 2012 as an Investment Analyst on 2011 as an Analyst and Trader previous four years working as an the Polar Capital Technology team.
working as part of the European investment analyst within the Prior to joining Polar Capital, Paul Market Neutral team with a focus Emerging Markets & Asia team at helped manage a private investment on media and internet.
In 2014, he Aviva Investors, where he was fund between 2010 and 2012.
Paul joined the Technology team as an responsible for the Technology, Media holds a BA in History and Politics Investment Analyst.
Prior to joining and Telecom sectors.
Prior to that, he and a Masters in History from Polar Capital, Brad worked at Ratio worked as a quantitative analyst and KeeleUniversity.
Asset Management as an analyst and risk manager at Pictet Asset trader, and from 2007 to 2011 he Management.
He started his career worked at F&C as a hedge fund as a Financial Engineer at analyst.
Brad started his career in Algorithmics, an IBM company, in 2001 at Gartmore Investment 2005.
He holds an MSc in Finance Management working within the from Imperial College Science hedge fund team.
Brad graduated & Technology and a BA in Economics from the University of Hertfordshire from Peking University.
with a degree in Business Studies.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 53 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview
