Governance DIRECTORS M N A M N R MICHAEL MOULE BRIAN ASHFORDRUSSELL SARAH BATES Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board in 2007 and Appointed to the Board in 1996.
Appointed to the Board in 2011, Sarah elected Chairman in August 2011. will become Chairman of the Board, Skills and experience He is also Chairman of the and the Management Engagement Brian is a Director and founder Management Engagement and and Nomination Committees at the ofPolar Capital.
conclusion of the Annual General theCompany from launch until Michael is not seeking re-election Meeting on 7 September 2017.
He was previously at the Annual General Meeting.
head of the technology team at Skills and experience Skills and experience Henderson Global Investors.
Sarah is a past Chairman of the Michael was a Director of investment Association of Investment Companies Other Appointments trusts at Henderson Global and has been involved in the UK He is a Non-executive Director Investors.
Prior to his retirement savings and investment industry in of Polar Capital Holdings plc.
in 2003, he was the investment different roles for over 30 years.
manager for The Bankers Investment Brian is connected to the investment Other Appointments Trust plc and Law Debenture manager and as such is not Sarah is Non-executive Chairman Corporation plc.
of St. Jamess Place plc and is a Other Appointments Director of Worldwide Health Trust Michael is a Director of The European plc.
and JP Morgan American Investment Trust plc, a member Investment Trust plc.
She is a of the investment committee of member of the USS Investment the British Heart Foundation and Committee as well as being a a member of the investment member of a number of other committee of The Open University.
Committee Membership up to 30 April 2017 A Member of Audit Committee N Member of Nomination Committee M Member of Management Engagement Committee R Member of Remuneration Committee It was agreed that with effect from 1 May 2017 all the independent Directors will sit on each Board committee with the exception of the Chairman of the Board who attends but is not part of the Audit Committee.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 50 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 A M N R A M N R A M N R CHARLOTTA GINMAN PETER HAMES TIM CRUTTENDEN Independent Independent Independent Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board and to the Appointed to the Board in 2011 Appointed to the Board in March 2017 chair of the Audit Committee in 2015. and as Senior Independent Director and a member of all the Board from 2016.
Skills and experience Charlotta qualified as a Chartered Skills and experience Skills and experience Accountant at Ernst & Young before Peter spent 18 years of his investment Tim is currently Chief Executive spending a career in investment career in Singapore, where in 1992 Officer of VenCap International plc banking and commercial he co-founded Aberdeen Asset having been with that company in organisations, principally in Managements Asian operation and various positions since 1994.
as Director of Asian Equities he invests in venture capital funds in the She held senior roles with oversaw regional fund management US, Asia and Europe, with a primary JP Morgan, Deutsche Bank, teams responsible for running a focus on early stage technology UBS and the NokiaCorporation.
number of top-rated and award companies.
Other Appointments Other Appointments Charlotta is a Non-executive Director Other Appointments None.
and chairs the audit committees of He is a Director of MMIP Investment Pacific Assets Trust plc, Motif Bio plc Management Limited, Syncona and is a Non-executive Director of Limited and an independent member Consort Medical plc and Unicorn AIM of the Operating Committee of VCT plc.
Genesis Asset Managers LLP as well as serving on a number of Genesis fund boards.
Directors Independence and Board Committees The Board considers that the Board is independent as all of the Directors with the exception of Mr Ashford-Russell are independent in character and there were no relationships or circumstances which were likely to affect or could appear to affect their judgement.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 51 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2017 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report Section Overview
