KEY REPORTS 210 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1120 ADDITIONAL REPORTS 2133 AGM 3436 19653 PAT Annual Report:Layout 1 07 06 2017 14:18 Page 3 INVESTMENT ADVISERS REPORT Over the past three years Personal Assets Trusts net asset value per share NAV has made steady, if unspectacular, progress.
During this years strong market our NAV rose by 8.6% while the FTSE All-Share Index our comparator or the index was up by 15.8%.
In the weaker market conditions of the two years to 30 April 2016 our NAV also rose, gaining 4.8% and 5.0% respectively compared to the 3.9% gain and 9.0% loss by our comparator.
This demonstrates yet again how the distribution of our investments, which differs widely from that of the index, so often makes the comparison whether on the upside or the downside less than helpful.
Our priority is to preserve and grow capital, in that order, and Personal Assets has never invested with reference to the index.
Last years NAV return was generated at a time when, for reasons of caution, we had materially less than 50% of shareholders funds invested in equities.
Until we are more fully invested, our returns are likely to continue to differ markedly from those of the stock market.
In the past year, much has changed from a political standpoint such as Britains decision to leave the EU and the election of Donald Trump but little has changed from an economic standpoint and nothing has changed regarding our main concern the valuations of asset classes.
These are more stretched than ever, particularly after the Brexit boom in UK share prices, and it all feels very late cycle.
While at 96 months the US stock market has enjoyed the second longest bull market since 1945 according to Fortune, it doesnt feel like a bubble.
Todays mood music is elevator musak rather than heavy metal.
Most investors we talk to are not thinking bullishly, but are acting bullishly.
The disappearance of income from traditional safe-haven assets such as cash and government bonds has led income-conscious investors to chase yield in the manner of a relay race, when, after each lap, savers and investors have to change to the outside lane and reach out further across the risk asset class spectrum.
Traditional measures of valuation insist that equities, led by US indices, are expensive by historical standards.
The US markets cyclically adjusted price earnings CAPE ratio is currently 29.2x compared to its long term average of 16.8x, a level only bettered by the levels at the end of the Roaring Twenties and on the eve of the 2000 implosion of technology stocks.
Amid the dearth of attractive opportunities, portfolio turnover last year was minimal.
We added to American Express, Berkshire Hathaway and A. G. Barr and added a new holding in Franco-Nevada while reducing British American Tobacco after years of very strong performance.
A. G. Barrs share price had been the victim of a confluence of negative issues.
Some of these will prove temporary it will not always rain in Glasgow while others, such as the introduction of the proposed sugar levy in the UK, should prove manageable.
We bought the shares at a much lower valuation than that which prevailed just a few years ago.
Franco-Nevada is a precious metals royalty company, so receives payment from other companies mine production.
The companys entrepreneurial management team has an excellent track record in investing counter-cyclically and prides itself on maintaining a fortress balance sheet.
Valuation as an indicator of future return is important to us because it is one of the few inputs we dont have to predict.
When virtually all asset classes are overvalued, only high levels of liquidity will help us avoid the coming falls.
This is because, with both conventional bonds and equities looking expensive, traditional diversification may not protect to the extent that it did in the past while paying for protection through options is still expensive, and once options expire the capital has gone.
Our preference is to hold our portfolio insurance in the form of gold.
This should act as a long duration hedge, protecting us from the currently unanticipated risk of inflation or deflation.
Moreover, gold benefits from being no one elses liability, so there is no counterparty risk.
While other investors are ever more tempted to increase risk, our role as prudent asset allocators is to do the opposite.
The Companys allocation to risk assets is relatively low.
Our emphasis remains on quality in equities and on short duration index-linked bonds.
Waiting for the prospect of higher returns requires much discipline and patience.
As Jean-Jacques Rousseau, the eighteenth century Swiss polymath, wryly noted, Patience is bitter, but its fruit is sweet.
