Viability statement The context for the assessment Assessment of viability Although the strategic plan represents the directors best estimate of the The Groups business model and strategy are central to an future prospects of the business, they have also tested the potential impact on understanding of its prospects, and details can be found on the Group of a number of scenarios over and above those included in the plan, pages 3 to 10. by quantifying their financial impact and overlaying this on the detailed financial forecasts in the plan.
These scenarios included various severe but plausible The Groups current overall strategy has been in place for several years circumstances that the Group could experience, including: and there are no planned changes to this strategy.
The Group delivered an Underlying Adjusted EBITDA of $640.9m in the year and management Lower revenue growth in the SUSE Product Portfolio: and staff are incentivized to grow this in future years.
Higher revenue decline in the Micro Focus Product Portfolio: and The board continues to take a conservative approach to the Groups strategy where the focus is about stabilization of revenues in FY18 and a small revenue Lower EBITDA growth.
growth thereafter coupled with a focus on cost control.
Decisions relating to major new projects and investments are made with a low appetite for risk and The results of this stress testing showed that, due to the stability of the core are subject to escalating system of approvals, including short payback periods.
business, the Group would be able to withstand the impact of these scenarios Acquisitions will be considered but they need to meet the Groups stringent occurring over the next three years by making adjustments to its operating return on investment criteria.
plans within the normal course of business.
In performing the below analysis, the Directors have made certain assumptions The Group also considered a number of scenarios that would represent serious around the availability of future funding options including the ability to raise threats to its liquidity.
None of these were considered to be plausible.
Furthermore, the analysis was based on the existing Micro Focus International plc before the proposed merger with HPE Software.
This viability assessment takes into account all the committed expenditure of In preparation for the proposed merger with HPE Software we have completed the Group together with corporate transaction costs securing the Completion a due diligence process including a review of the strategy, risks and cash ows of the proposed merger with HPE Software.
As noted above, it does not of the business and do not consider that the proposed merger, including its include the financial results, position and prospects of HPE entities subject of funding, will have an impact on the overall viability of the Group.
the merger nor the New Facilities as mentioned on pages 18 and 19 that have been arranged in connection with the proposed merger.
However, as noted The assessment process and key assumptions above, in preparation for the proposed merger with HPE Software we have The Groups prospects are assessed primarily through its strategic plan and completed a due diligence process including a review of the strategy, risks and annual budget process.
This process includes an annual review of the ongoing cash ows of the business and do not consider that the proposed merger, plan, led by the executive directors and all relevant functions are involved, including its funding, will have an impact on the overall viability of the Group.
including GTM, Product Group, Marketing, Finance, IT, Human Resources, Legal, Treasury and Risk.
The board participates fully in the annual process Viability statement by means of discussion at the September, February and April board meetings, Based on their assessments of prospects and viability above, the directors with the September meeting being a two day event.
Part of the boards role confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able is to consider whether the plan continues to take appropriate account of the to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next external environment including macroeconomic and technological changes.
three year period ending 30 April 2020.
The output of the annual review process produces an annual budget for next Going concern year and financial forecasts for the subsequent two years assuming no further The directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the financial acquisitions.
The latest updates to the strategic plan were nalized in April statements on the going concern basis, as explained in the accounting 2017 following this years review and as part of the debt renancing and fund policies in the financial statements.
This considered the Groups current position and development of the business as a whole over the next three years.
As a result of this focus, financial forecasts were prepared for a three year period and these were discussed at the board meeting in April 2017.
The first year of the financial forecasts forms the Groups operating budget and is subject to a re-forecast at the end of every quarter.
The key assumptions in the financial forecasts, reecting the overall strategy include: Continued significant revenue growth in the SUSE Product Portfolio with continued cost investment: Continued revenue decline in the Micro Focus Product Portfolio with cost savings being achieved each year: and Successful Completion of the debt renancing.
In assessing the Groups viability the board has considered the principal risks as set out on pages 36 to 43.
44 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
