MARKETPLACE An overview of the size of the LCV market in each of the Groups three territories is as follows: LCVs LCVs LCVs LCVs 4.2m 3.6m 0.3m 8.1m UK Spain Ireland Group No.
Market defined as LCVs only.
25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four The key characteristics of each major segment are outlined below: CHARACTERISTICS TYPICAL COMPETITORS Long term commitment requiring availability of up-front capital or financing.
Operators bear the full risk of operating Franchised dealers.
Acquisition the vehicle and funding running costs.
new The purchaser takes the risk of the residual value of the vehicle.
Can be the cheapest headline cost, but overall holding cost can be higher if vehicles are not utilised or vehicle failure leads to a significant cost of business interruption.
Long term contractual commitment typically a minimum of 36 months.
Large companies often backed by financial Contract hire institutions.
Penalties for early return of vehicles and excess mileage usage.
Varying levels of operational support offered at additional cost.
No contractual or capital commitment coupled with operational flexibility and fleet management support.
Some national companies but predominantly Flexible rental small regional operators.
Vehicles are usually supplied fully inclusive of maintenance and without penalty for excess mileage.
Flexible, satisfying short term requirements at short notice, normally the highest headline cost as a result.
A combination of large multinationals down to Daily rental small local operators.
Typically sold directly to owner managed businesses who may have capital constraints.
Franchised dealers and some national retailers Acquisition down to small local operators and individual secondary traders.
market Auction houses selling directly to the trade.
The annual growth rate AGR of the market over the last three years has been as follows: We have no individual sector focus our customer portfolio broadly mirrors the wider economy excluding professional services.
UK Spain Ireland % % % Owned new 4 1 4 Owned used 2 1 4 Contract hired 9 4 4 Rental 6 1 11 Northgate 5 3 20 # GDP growth 2.4 2.9 5.8 SOURCE: Based on research conducted by OC&C using data from MSI, BVRLA, DFT, SIMI.
# Calendar year 2013 to 2016 other than for Ireland which compares calendar year 2013 to calendar year 2015 due to availability of data.
08 STRATEGIC Northgate plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 April 2017 REVIEW 09 REPORT 25361.02 13-6-17 Proof Four
