01 STRATEGIC REPORT 03 FINANCIALS 02 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS N R N A SIR JOHN ARMITT ADRIAN LI ALISON NIMMO VERONICA WADLEY GLYN BARKER ANDY MYERS DIANA BRIGHTMOREA A R A R N MA CANTAB, MBA, LPC CBE BSC HONS FCA BEng, ACA ARMOUR FCCA, MCT Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-executive Independent Director Director Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Director Director Director Director Director Date of appointment Date of appointment to the Board: to the Board: Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment Date of appointment 1 October 2007 and as Deputy to the Board: to the Board: 3 January 2012 to the Board: to the Board: to the Board: Chairman on 5 September 2012 2 September 2013 5 September 2011 3 January 2012 6 December 2013 1 May 2014 Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Member of the Audit and Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Member of the Nomination and Nomination Committees None Member of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Chairman of the Audit Nomination Committee Remuneration Committees Skills and experience: Committee and a member of the Committee and a member of the Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Veronica is a Journalist by Adrian is Executive Director Alison is a Chartered Surveyor Diana is a Fellow of the Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Sir John is currently Chairman profession: she was Editor of the and Deputy Chief Executive of and Town Planner by training Chartered Certied Accountants of National Express Group PLC Evening Standard from 2002 The Bank of East Asia, where and is currently Chief Executive Glyn is a Chartered Accountant Andy qualied as a Chartered and a Fellow of the Association and the City & Guilds Group and to 2009 and previously Deputy he assists the Chief Executive of The Crown Estate.
Prior to and has extensive experience as Accountant with KPMG in of Corporate Treasurers.
She is Deputy Chairman of the National Editor of the Daily Mail and The with the overall management of joining The Crown Estate, she a business leader and trusted 1990.
He has extensive finance currently the Chief Executive Infrastructure Commission.
He holds a Master of led the design and delivery of adviser to FTSE 100 companies.
and commercial skills and has Officer, UK & Europe of The an Independent Non-executive Adviser to the Mayor of London Management degree from the the London 2012 Olympic and He has a deep understanding been Chief Financial Officer Australia and New Zealand Director of Expo 2020.
Sir John from 2012 to 2016 during which Kellogg School of Management Paralympic venues as Director of of accounting and regulatory at McLaren Technology Group Banking Group Ltd where she was President of the Institution time Veronica oversaw the and an MA in Law from the Regeneration and Design at the issues along with extensive since 2004 where he has is responsible for oversight of Civil Engineers 2015 - 2016, delivery of youth volunteering University of Cambridge.
Olympic Delivery Authority and understanding of transactional responsibility for Finance, IT and of the day-to-day activities Chairman of the Olympic Delivery and employment programmes was the lead on sustainability and financial services.
of the branch, including the Adrian brings banking Authority 2007 - 2014 and and developed new strategy and legacy for the Olympic Park.
local execution of the Groups experience to the Board and Glyn was appointed as a NonPrior to joining McLaren, Andy Chairman of the Engineering and for business relationships and Her previous roles have included strategy, promoting a culture provides valuable insight into the executive Director of Berkeley held senior finance roles at Rolls Physical Science Research Council sponsorship for the Greater Chief Executive of Sheffield of compliance and ensuring Far East property and finance following a 35 year career with Royce plc and at the BMW 2007 - 2012.
One and Project Director of appropriate standards of markets as well as global  LLP Rover Group.
He joined Rolls he was Chief Executive of Network Manchester Millennium Ltd. Other appointments: conduct and governance.
PwC, where he held a number Royce Plc as Finance Director of Rail and its predecessor, Railtrack was previously CEO, Corporate Alison has significant of senior posts including UK Vice the Combustion Business Unit in Independent Director, Times Other appointments: and prior to that was Chairman of Banking at Lloyds Banking experience of leadership and Chairman, UK Managing Partner 2000 and was promoted to CFO Newspapers Holdings Ltd Executive Director and Deputy John Laing plcs international and Group 2004-2012 and spent Government relations.
She was and UK Head of Assurance.
He of the Energy Sector, based in Chair of the Arts Council London Chief Executive of The Bank of civil engineering divisions.
her early career at The Coca awarded a CBE in 2004 for also established and ran PwCs Washington DC two years later.
East Asia, Ltd. National Council member of Arts Sir John is the Senior Independent Cola Company.
services to urban regeneration Transactions Services business.
Other appointments: Council England Independent Non-executive Director.
He has amassed and is a Fellow of the Institute Diana has 30 years international Other appointments: Chief Financial Officer Director of three listed extensive operational, commercial of Civil Engineers, an Honorary experience in banking, corporate Senior Independent Nonat McLaren Technology companies under the Sino Group and technical experience Fellow of the Royal Institute finance, financial management, executive Director, Aviva plc Group Limited Sino Land Company Ltd. Tsim throughout his career and, as of British Architects and has treasury and audit.
She is a strong Sha Tsui Properties Ltd. and Sino Independent Non-executive a long-standing Non-executive an honorary degree from supporter of talent development Hotels Holdings Ltd. Director, Transocean Limited Director, is able to use the Sheffield Hallam University.
Independent Non-executive Chairman, Irwin Mitchell experience he has gained to 2014, Alison was awarded the Other appointments: Director, China State Holdings Limited bring continual challenge to prestigious Royal Town Planning Chief Executive Officer, UK & Construction International Chairman, Interserve plc.
Sir John received Institute Gold Medal for Europe of The Australia and New Holdings Ltd. a knighthood in 2012 for services recognition of her services to Senior Advisory Partner, Zealand Banking Group Ltd Independent Non-executive to engineering and construction town planning and sustainability Novalpina Capital Director, COSCO SHIPPING and was awarded the CBE in throughout her career.
Ports Ltd. 1996 for his contribution to the Other appointments: COMPANY SECRETARY rail industry.
Chief Executive, G E M PARSONS FCIS Other appointments: The Crown Estate Chairman, National Express Member of Imperial Colleges Group PLC Council and Chair of its White Chairman, the City & City Syndicate Board Guilds Group Trustee of the UK Green KEY Deputy Chairman, National Building Council Infrastructure Commission Chair of the CBIs Economic N Nomination Committee Growth Board Independent Non-executive A Audit Committee Director, Expo 2020 R Remuneration Committee 80 81 01 STRATEGIC REPORT 03 FINANCIALS 02 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Company is committed to maintaining EFFECTIVENESS anything unforeseen arise in connection programme.
This covers an overview of The review concluded that the clearly dened Terms of Reference a high standard of corporate governance.
with Berkeley which may demand more of the Groups operations and its policies, performance of the Board and Board pursuant to the provisions of the Code.
The Composition and Independence This section, including the Audit Committee his time.
corporate responsibility and corporate Committees remains effective and that all Terms of Reference can be downloaded At the date of this report the Board Report, Directors Remuneration Report affairs issues, legal matters, and the the Directors continue to be committed from the section dealing with Investor comprises twelve Directors: the Chairman, The Executive Directors do not hold any and the Nomination Committee Report, opportunity to meet with Directors and key to the business and its future prospects.
Relations on the Berkeley website www.
four Executive Directors and seven Non-executive Director appointments or details how the Company has applied the staff and to visit the Groups sites.
Recommendations from the previous years berkeleygroup.
Copies are also independent Non-executive Directors.
The commitments required to be disclosed main principles and provisions of the UK Board Evaluation either had been, or were available to shareholders on application to biographies of these directors are set out under the Code.
Ongoing training is available to all Corporate Governance Code 2014 the being, implemented.
Directors to meet their individual needs.
Code : Chairman and Chief Executive Board members also receive guidance The Board has a pivotal role in preserving The responsibilities of the key Board The Board has put in place the succession The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Leadership on regulatory matters and the corporate the organisations culture and ultimately Committees are described below.
planning that all successful organisations are separately held and there are clear governance framework that the Group its success.
In line with all successful require and, as explained in the Nomination Effectiveness written guidelines to support the division of Executive Committee operates under for example, during this organisations, succession planning and Committee Report on page 88, the responsibility between them.
The Chairman The Executive Committee meets monthly Accountability year Directors received training on the talent management are seen as key composition of the Board continues to is responsible for the effective operation and reviews the financial and operating Market Abuse Regulations.
success factors for the business and the be reviewed on a regular basis to ensure Remuneration of the Board and shareholder general performance of all Group divisions and Board continues to focus on this area.
The that an appropriate balance of skills and meetings, for overseeing strategy and for Members of the Audit and Remuneration companies.
The Chief Executive, Relations with shareholders autonomous structure of the Group also experience is maintained.
ensuring that each Director contributes Committees received briengs from R C Perrins, chairs this Committee and provides strength in depth which further The Companys business model is to effective decision-making.
The Chief our auditors and remuneration advisers other members comprise, A W Pidgley The Board reviews the independence of mitigates this risk.
explained in the Strategic Report.
It is Executive has day-to-day executive respectively to ensure they remain up CBE, R J Stearn, K Whiteman and S Ellis Non-executive Directors on an annual the Boards view that it has been fully responsibility for the running of the Groups to date with current regulations and The report and recommendations from the alongside other senior management basis taking into account each individuals compliant with the Code throughout the businesses.
His role is to develop and developments.
2016 17 Evaluation will be discussed by the employees.
G J Fry was a member of professional characteristics, behaviour 2016 17 financial year.
A copy of the Code deliver the strategy to enable the Group Board with a view to agreeing actions to the Committee until his retirement on and their contribution to unbiased and All Directors have access to advice from is available on the Financial Reporting to meet its objectives and to develop the be implemented over the coming year as 31 December 2016. independent debate.
The Non-executive the Company Secretary and independent Councils website www.
Directors, led by the Senior Independent professional advisers, at the Companys Audit Committee Director Sir John Armitt, have the skills, Meetings expense, where specic expertise is Conicts of interest The Audit Committee is responsible for LEADERSHIP experience, independence and knowledge The Board met formally four times during required in the course of their duties.
In accordance with the Companies monitoring and reviewing the financial The Board has a collective responsibility of the Company to enable them to the year to 30 April 2017 and there were no Act 2006, the Companys Articles of reporting and accounting policies of for promoting the long-term success of the Board evaluation discharge their respective duties and absences.
Association allow the Board to authorise the Company, reviewing the adequacy Company in a safe and sustainable manner The Code requires that the Board responsibilities effectively.
Each Nonpotential conicts of interest that may arise of internal controls and the activities of in order to create shareholder value.
The In addition to the above formal meetings undertakes an annual evaluation of its own executive Director is prepared to question and to impose such limits or conditions the Groups internal audit function and Board provides leadership and sets the of the whole Board, the Non-executive performance and that of its committees and to challenge management.
All of the as it thinks t. The decision to authorise a overseeing the relationship with the Companys strategic long-term objectives.
Directors meet with the Chairman.
The and individual directors with an externally Non-executive Directors are considered conict of interest can only be made by external auditor.
The Audit Committee Chief Executive and Finance Director are facilitated evaluation conducted at to have been independent throughout the Its duties are set out in a formal schedule non-conicted Directors those who have comprises four independent Non-executive invited to attend these meetings in part, least every three years.
of matters specifically reserved for decision no interest in the matter being considered Directors.
The Committee is chaired by to provide an update on the business Board evaluation for 2017 was externally by the Board, which include: and in making such a decision the Directors A Myers and the other members at The Board recognises that Sir John Armitt activities of the Group.
The Non-executive facilitated by Claire Howard Consultancies, must act in a way they consider in good 30 April 2017 were A Nimmo CBE, G Barker reached a tenure of nine years as an Overall management of the Group, its Directors meet at least annually without the who have no other connection with the faith will be most likely to promote the and V Wadley.
independent Non-executive Director during strategy and long-term objectives: Chairman present, chaired by the Senior Company.
Following planning sessions Companys success.
the year which may lead some investors Independent Director.
with the Chairman, Group Solicitor and A Myers and G Barker are both considered Approval of corporate plans: to question his independence.
The Company Secretary and having reviewed The Company has established a procedure to have recent and relevant experience.
Board papers and agendas are sent out Board considered this issue and agreed Approval of all material corporate relevant documents, condential face to whereby actual and potential conicts of A Myers is qualied as a chartered in the week prior to each meeting, thus that Sir John continues to maintain and transactions: face meetings were held with each of the interest of current and proposed roles to be accountant and is currently Chief Financial allowing sufficient time for detailed review contribute an independent view in all Board Main Board Directors, the Group Solicitor undertaken by Directors of the Board with Officer at McLaren Technology Group Changes to the Groups capital structure: and consideration of the documents deliberations.
In addition, his knowledge and the Company Secretary.
The Board other organisations are regularly reviewed Limited and G Barker is also qualied as a beforehand.
In addition, the Board is of Berkeley and his deep and broad Approval of the Groups treasury policy: evaluation meetings were free-owing and in respect of both the nature of those chartered accountant, having previously supplied with comprehensive management construction expertise and experience covered, inter alia, the following areas: roles, and their time commitment, and for held a number of senior posts within PwC Approval of the Groups interim and information on a regular basis.
continues to be of value to the Board.
proper authorisation to be sought prior to including UK Managing Partner and Head annual results, dividend policy and Strategic direction, medium-to-long Election and re-election of Directors the appointment of any new director.
Comments have been made regarding the shareholder distributions: term strategy and the role of the Board The Articles of Association of the Company Board consider these procedures to be number of directorships Adrian Li holds and its Committees in this context The Committee met formally on three Reviewing the Groups risks and system include the requirement for Directors to working effectively.
and whether this may impact his ability to occasions during the year to 30 April 2017 of internal control: submit themselves to shareholders for Board and Board Committee full his duties as an Independent NonInsurance with no absences.
In addition, composition, dynamics and culture executive Director of Berkeley.
Adrian Changes to the Board and other senior The Company had in place at 30 April all Directors are subject to election by An explanation of the role and activities attends all Board meetings in person and executive roles: The evolution of certain central functions 2017 an appropriate policy which insures shareholders at the first opportunity of the Audit Committee during the year is plays an active role in Board discussions.
As and the impact on the operation of the Directors against certain liabilities, including Corporate Governance arrangements after their appointment and thereafter at contained in the Audit Committee report noted in his biography on page 80, three of Board and its Committees and vice legal costs, which they may incur in and the Board evaluation: and intervals of no more than three years.
Adrians directorships are linked under the versa carrying out their duties.
This remains in Sino Group which is a common corporate Approval of policies in key areas In accordance with the requirements of the place.
Remuneration Committee Future-proong the Business and structure in South East Asia.
There have including Sustainability, Health & Safety, Code, all Directors offer themselves for reThe Remuneration Committee is the role working of the Board and its Board Committees been no changes to these commitments Business Ethics, Modern Slavery and election at the Annual General Meeting to responsible for determining the Companys Committees in this context The Board has delegated certain matters since he joined the Board in 2015 and the Share Dealing.
be held on 6 September 2017. policy for Executive remuneration and to individual Executives and to the Board remains content that not only does Conduct and outcome of last years the precise terms of employment and Induction and development specic Committees of the Board: audit, Adrian have sufficient time to dedicate to Board evaluation and how to get the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
On appointment, Non-executive Directors remuneration and nomination.
The main the Group he also has capacity should best out of this and future reviews.
are provided with a detailed induction three Board Committees operate within 82 83 01 STRATEGIC REPORT 03 FINANCIALS 02 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED At 30 April 2017, the Committee comprised Report and Accounts were approved and operating units are reported monthly and REMUNERATION In accordance with the Code, the Company G Barker, Sir J Armitt and A Myers who are accord with Principles C. 2.1 and C. 2.3 of the compared to budget and forecast.
arranges for the Annual Report and The principles and details of Directors all independent Non-executive Directors.
Code and with the FRCs Guidance on Risk Accounts and related papers to be posted remuneration are contained in the There is a consolidation process in place The Committee was chaired by G Barker.
Management, Internal Control and Related to shareholders so as to allow at least 20 Directors Remuneration Report on pages which ensures that there is an audit trail Business Reporting.
working days for consideration prior to the 89 to 107.
The Committee met formally on three between the Groups financial reporting AGM.
occasions during the year to 30 April 2017 The processes are regularly reviewed by system and the Groups statutory financial RELATIONS WITH with no absences.
the Board and include an annual review statements.
The Company complies with the provisions SHAREHOLDERS by the Directors of the operation and of the Code relating to the disclosure of No Director is involved in deciding his Investment and contracting controls The Company encourages active effectiveness of the system of internal proxy votes, which, including abstentions, or her remuneration.
The Executive The Group has clearly dened guidelines dialogue with its current and prospective control as part of its year end procedures.
are declared at the AGM after each Directors decide the remuneration of for the purchase and sale of land within shareholders through ongoing meetings or The key features of the system of internal resolution has been dealt with on a show the Non-executive Directors and the the Group, which include detailed calls with institutional investors.
In addition control include: of hands and are announced to the Stock Committee takes into consideration the environmental, planning and financial shareholders have the opportunity to Exchange shortly after the close of the recommendations of the Chief Executive Clear organisational structure appraisal and are subject to executive meet all Directors after the Annual General meeting.
The Company also complies with and Finance Director regarding the The Group operates through autonomous authorisation.
Rigorous procedures are also Meeting.
the requirements of the Code regarding remuneration of their Executive colleagues.
divisions and operating companies, each followed for the selection of consultants the separation of resolutions and the Shareholders are also kept up to date with its own board.
The review and The principles and details of Directors attendance of the Chairmen of the Board with the Companys activities through boards meet on a weekly basis and monitoring of all build programmes and remuneration are contained in the Committees.
the Annual Reports, Interim Results divisional boards on a monthly basis, and budgets are a fundamental element of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages announcements and Trading Updates.
In comprehensive information is prepared for Companys financial reporting cycle.
The terms and conditions of appointment 89 to 107. addition, the corporate website provides such meetings on a standardised basis to for the Non-executive Directors, which Policies and procedures information on the Group and latest news, Nomination Committee cover all aspects of the business.
Formal set out their expected time commitment, Policies and procedures, including including regulatory announcements.
The Nomination Committee ensures reporting lines and delegated levels of in addition to the service contracts for operating and financial controls, are The presentations made after the that the membership and composition authority exist within this structure and the the Executive Directors, are available for detailed in policies and procedures announcement of the preliminary and of the Board, including the balance of review of risk and performance occurs at inspection at the AGM and during normal manuals that are refreshed and improved interim results are also available in the skills, is appropriate, as well as giving full multiple levels throughout the operating business hours at the Companys registered as appropriate.
Training to staff is given Investor Relations section of the website.
consideration to succession planning on a companies, divisions and at a Group level.
The Board is kept informed of the views Risk assessment Central functions of the shareholders through periodic The Committee is chaired by the Risk reporting is embedded within ongoing Strong central functions, including Legal, reports from the Companys broker, UBS.
Chairman, A W Pidgley CBE, and at 30 management reporting throughout Health & Safety and Company Secretarial, Additionally, the Non-executive Directors April 2017 included Sir J Armitt, V Wadley the Group.
At operating company and provide support and consistency to the have the opportunity to attend the biand D Brightmore-Armour who are all divisional level, Board meeting agendas rest of the Group.
In addition, the principal annual analyst presentations.
and information packs are structured treasury-related risks, decisions and control around the key risks facing the businesses.
The Senior Independent Director is The Committee met formally on two processes are managed by the Group These risks include health and safety, sales, available to shareholders if they have occasions during the year to 30 April 2017 Finance function, under the direction of the production build cost and programme, concerns where contact through the with no absences.
land and planning, retaining people, normal channels has failed or when such An explanation of the role and activities of economic and political outlook, regulatory Internal audit contact is inappropriate.
the Nomination Committee during the year and site specic matters.
Internal auditors are in place at Group During the year, G Barker, Chairman is contained in the Nomination Committee level and divisional level as appropriate, to In addition, there is a formalised process of the Remuneration Committee, led a report on page 88. provide assurance on the operation of the whereby each division produces quarterly shareholder consultation programme in Groups control framework.
risk and control reports that identify risks, ACCOUNTABILITY connection with the 2017 Remuneration the potential impact and the actions Whistleblowing Policy which was approved by shareholders Internal control and risk management being taken to mitigate the risks.
These The Group has a whistleblowing policy at the Extraordinary General Meeting held The Board acknowledges that it has overall risk reports are reviewed and updated which has been communicated to all on 23 February 2017.
Shareholders were responsibility for ensuring that the Groups quarterly.
employees, where Directors, management, supportive of the changes and 97.18% of system of internal control complies with the employees and external stakeholders proxy votes lodged prior to the meeting Code and for reviewing its effectiveness, at A Group Risk Management Report is can report in confidence any concerns were in favour of the new policy.
presented at each Group Main Board they may have of malpractice, financial information is provided in the Directors Meeting, which overlays wider strategic Internal control procedures are designed irregularity, breaches of any Group Remuneration Report.
risks than those covered by the operations.
to manage rather than eliminate the risk procedures, or other matters.
The policy is This sets out the annual changes in the Annual General Meeting of failure to achieve business objectives, available to view on the Groups website.
risk prole of the Group, the impact and All shareholders are invited to participate and can only provide reasonable and mitigation of these risks.
Bribery Act and Anti-Money Laundering in the Annual General Meeting AGM not absolute assurance against material Regulations on 6 September 2017 at 11:00am where misstatement or loss.
Financial reporting The Board has responsibility for complying the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the A comprehensive budgeting and real-time There are ongoing processes and with the requirements of the Bribery Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and forecasting system, covering both profit procedures for identifying, evaluating and Act 2010 and The Money Laundering Nomination Committees will be available to and cash, operates within the Group.
This managing the significant risks faced by the Regulations 2007 and is charged answer questions and will also be available enables executive management to view Group.
These processes and procedures with overseeing the development and for discussions with shareholders both key financial and operating data on a daily were in place from the start of the financial implementation of the Groups policies prior to and after the meeting.
On a weekly and monthly basis year to the date on which the 2017 Annual and procedures and monitoring ongoing more formal reporting up to the Group compliance.
The results of all 84 85 01 STRATEGIC REPORT 03 FINANCIALS 02 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Board of Directors presents its Audit review incorporated consideration of the Revenue recognition Companys Audit Committee and the EXTERNAL AUDIT i it is proprietary to them: Committee Report for the year ended 30 appropriateness of the relevant accounting The Committee recognises that Groups external auditors.
Following KPMG LLP KPMG was appointed as the ii they have pre-existing knowledge and April 2017 which has been prepared on the policies and financial reporting estimates the Groups accounting policy for the conclusion of the FRCs review we Companys auditor in the year ended 30 experience that precludes the use of recommendation of the Audit Committee and judgements adopted therein.
revenue recognition, namely that have agreed to improve the clarity of April 2014 by way of a competitive tender.
properties are treated as sold and certain disclosures in this years financial The Committees review of the Annual Approach profits are recognised when contracts statements.
We note that the FRC letters iii the nature of the transaction is such The report has been prepared in Report concentrated on whether, KPMG presented its audit strategy to are exchanged and building work is provide no assurance that our report that the Groups auditors are the only accordance with the requirements of the taken as a whole, it was fair, balanced the Audit Committee during the year.
physically complete and the level of and accounts are correct in all material practical appointment.
UK Corporate Governance Code, Schedule and understandable and provided the The strategy document identied its risk that a purchaser may be unable respects: the FRCs role is not to verify 8 of the Large & Medium-Sized Companies information necessary for users of the Non-audit work carried out by all assessment of the risks and other areas to complete the purchase, involves an the information provided but to consider and Groups Accounts and Reports Annual Report to assess the Groups accounting rms, including the auditors, is of focus for the purpose of the audit, the element of judgement in determining compliance with reporting requirements.
Regulations 2008, and the Listing Rules of business strategy and performance.
formally reported to the Audit Committee scope of the audit work and updated the the point at which building work is the Financial Conduct Authority.
There is open dialogue RISK MANAGEMENT AND Committee on regulatory changes for the The views of the Groups external auditor, physically complete.
The Committee between KPMG and the Companys senior INTERNAL CONTROL current year.
Details of the composition, experience and which was in attendance at each meeting reviewed the quantum of properties finance team to monitor any proposed new the number of meetings of the Committee of the Committee during the year, not yet legally completed at each The Committee undertook its annual KPMG reported to the Committee at the instructions.
are reported on page 83 of the Corporate were taken into account in reaching its balance sheet date, in conjunction with review of the Groups Internal Control year end, prior to the public announcement Governance Report.
the review undertaken by the Groups Framework during the year.
This review The Committee has concluded that the of the Companys results, in which it set external auditor and concluded that the focused on the system of risk management auditors are independent.
out its assessment of the Companys The significant matters considered by the ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF judgements were appropriate.
and internal control in place which is accounting judgements and estimates Committee during the 2016 17 financial Appointment of KPMG THE AUDIT COMMITTEE explained in more detail on page 84 of in respect of these risks and any other year included: Compliance with laws and regulations On completion of the audit, the The Committee has formal Terms of the Corporate Governance Report, and findings arising from its work.
The Committee recognises that the Committee reviewed the performance Reference which set out its role and the Carrying value of inventories and covered: Company is subject to laws and and effectiveness of KPMG with feedback The external auditors have open recourse authority delegated to it by the Board.
The margin recognition regulations across a number of areas the assessment of the principal risks from senior management.
The Committee to the Non-executive Directors should key responsibilities of the Committee are Inventories comprise land not under including, but not limited to, antifacing the Group: has resolved to propose KPMGs rethey consider it necessary.
There is private as follows: development, work in progress and bribery, anti-money laundering and appointment at the 2017 Annual General dialogue between the Chairman of the completed units, which are held in the the key elements of the Groups control Financial Reporting sanctions checking.
Audit Committee and the external auditors balance sheet at the lower of cost and processes to mitigate these risks: Monitoring the integrity of the financial considered the Groups adherence to prior to each Audit Committee meeting net realisable value.
This requires a The Committee remains mindful of reporting of the Company and reviewing relevant regulations and approach to the operations and effectiveness of and, after each meeting, the opportunity periodic assessment by management of evolving best practice under the UK significant financial reporting matters reviewing and updating its policies with internal audit.
for the Committee to meet with the each of Berkeleys sites which is sensitive Corporate Governance Code 2014 and 2016 and accounting policies: respect to compliance with laws and external auditors without the Executive to assumptions in terms of future sales A paper was also presented to the and is subject to the new requirements of regulations.
In performing this review, it Directors and management present.
Risk Management and Internal Control prices and construction costs and Committee which summarised the Groups the Financial Reporting Council and the considered in conjunction with external Reviewing the adequacy and recognises the inherently cyclical nature consideration, controls and monitoring of European Union in determining its future Independence of the external auditors legal advisors, all relevant and open legal effectiveness of the Groups risk of the property market and the risks fraud risk across its activities.
approach to re-tendering the external audit As part of its audit strategy presentation, matters, including those brought by the management and internal control of delivery.
These assumptions are also appointment.
KPMG identied the safeguards in former Finance Director Mr Simpkin.
The The Committee also considered any systems and monitoring the relevant to the determination of profit place within its internal processes and Committee was satisfied that there were internal control recommendations raised by effectiveness of the Groups internal recognised on properties sold.
The procedures to protect, in respect of its no material instances of non-compliance the Groups auditors during the course of audit function: and conclusions of this assessment were A Myers own role, the independence of its audit.
the external audit and the Groups response reported by exception to the Committee Chairman, Audit Committee The FRCs 2016 Revised Ethical Standard External Audit to dealing with such recommendations.
in a financial overview paper prior to Other matters considered by the 21 June 2017 introduced further restrictions on the Overseeing the relationship with the release of the Groups annual results.
Committee included managements A report summarising the recent provision of non-audit services.
This new external auditor, including appointment, assessment of the going concern status activities of the Internal Audit function standard applied to the Group from June removal and fees, and ensuring the Provisions of the Group at the balance sheet date, was presented to each of the Committee 2016 and actions were taken with KPMG auditors independence and the The Committee recognises that and the Boards assessment of the meetings during the year.
These reports to ensure that any ongoing services effectiveness of the audit process.
accounting for provisions relies on viability statement.
The Committee covered: prohibited by the new Standard had been management judgement in estimating This report considers each of these concurred with the approach adopted discontinued as required by the Standard.
the quantum and timing of outows of a summary of the key findings arising responsibilities in turn, and how the on all of these matters.
resources to settle any associated legal from the most recent internal audits In order to safeguard auditor Committee has discharged them during or constructive obligations.
The Group Since the year end, the Committee has undertaken: independence, the Committee has a policy the year.
holds provisions for post-completion completed its review of the 2017 Annual on the provision of non-audit services by management responses to any control development obligations, onerous Report and has confirmed to the Board FINANCIAL REPORTING the external auditors.
In accordance with weaknesses identied, the closure of any leases, estate liabilities and litigation.
The that it considers it to be fair, balanced that policy the ratio of audit fees to nonAt each of the Audit Committee meetings, open items and any recurring themes: basis for determining these provisions and understandable.
audit fees should be no greater than 1:1 and the Finance Director presented, and the was presented to the Committee for the outcome of other operational review the ratio for the year ended 30 April 2017 Committee debated, the results and During the year, the Financial Reporting their consideration.
The Committee work undertaken by the internal audit was within this limit.
Audit and non-audit business plan of the Group and any Councils Corporate Reporting Review reviewed the relevant papers and function: fee disclosures are set out in note 4 of the significant financial reporting judgements team CRR reviewed our Annual discussed the assumptions underlying Consolidated Financial Statements.
Report and Accounts for the year ended the internal audit plan for the coming this determination with management 30 April 2016.
Following their review, year, for debate with and the approval of Any departure from this ratio will only The Committee reviewed, prior to their and the Groups external auditor, and the CRR entered into correspondence the Committee.
be as a consequence of transactional publication, the financial disclosures in the concluded that it was satisfied that the with the Group, seeking clarification work, where the Committee considers it Groups Annual Report and Accounts, Half assumptions adopted were appropriate.
The Committee was satisfied that the on how we had complied with relevant is right for the auditors to undertake such Year and Year end Results Announcements A table of movements in provisions over scope, extent and effectiveness of the financial reporting requirements in certain work where the reasons for doing so are and the contents of Trading Updates issued the period is included in note 16 to the Internal Audit function are appropriate for areas.
All correspondence received and compelling, such as where: during the year.
our responses were discussed with the 86 87
