Directors report The directors of Micro Focus International plc the Company present their Dividends report and the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company for The board has a dividend policy to award a level of full year dividend covered the year ended 30 April 2017. approximately two times by Adjusted after tax earnings of the Group.
For the year ended 30 April 2017 the directors have recommended a second Strategic report interim dividend of 58.33 cents per share, which, taken together with the The Group is required by the Companies Act 2006 to present a fair review interim dividend of 29.73 cents per share paid in January 2017, gives a total of the business during the year ended 30 April 2017 and of the position of the dividend in respect of the 2017 financial year of 88.06 cents per share.
This Group at the end of the financial year along with a description of the principal second interim dividend is 17.3% higher than the final dividend paid last year.
risks and uncertainties faced by the Group.
In addition, the Group is also required The second interim dividend will be paid on 25 August 2017 to shareholders to present the future developments of the Company.
The information that fulls on the register on 4 August 2017. these requirements can be found on pages 3 to 49 of the Strategic Report.
Dividends will be paid in sterling based on an exchange rate of 1 $1.29, Corporate governance equivalent to approximately 45.22 pence per share, being the rate applicable The Group is required to produce a corporate governance statement pursuant on 11 July 2017, the date on which the board resolved to propose to pay the to the Financial Conduct Authority FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The information that fulls this requirement can be found in this Directors report and in the Corporate governance section on pages 54 to 59 which is Interests in share capital incorporated into this Directors report by reference.
Directors and their interests Under listing rule 9.8.
R the Company is required to make the following The following individuals were directors of the Company for the year reported disclosures: on and up to the date of signing this report unless otherwise stated: Location of details in the Annual Report Areas for disclosure and Accounts Executive Interest capitalized Not applicable Kevin Loosemore Executive Chairman Publication of unaudited financial Financial Review, CEO Review Mike Phillips Chief Financial Officer information Micro Focus Product Portfolio, Stephen Murdoch Chief Executive Officer of Micro Focus CEO Review SUSE Product Nils Brauckmann Chief Executive Officer of SUSE Portfolio Detail of any long-term incentive Non-executive schemes Directors Remuneration report Karen Slatford Senior independent non-executive director Waiver of emoluments by a Tom Virden Independent non-executive director director Not applicable resigned 25 April 2017 Waiver of future emoluments Richard Atkins Independent non-executive director by a director Not applicable Steve Schuckenbrock Independent non-executive director Non pre-emptive issues of Note 29 to the Groups resigned 25 April 2017 equity for cash consolidated financial statements Amanda Brown Independent non-executive director Non pre-emptive issues of equity appointed 1 July 2016 for cash by any unlisted major subsidiary undertaking Not applicable Darren Roos Independent non-executive director appointed 15 May 2017 Parent company participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable Silke Scheiber Independent non-executive director appointed 15 May 2017 Contracts of significance to which the Company is a party and in which a director is materially interested Not applicable Details of the interests of the directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company are given in the Directors Remuneration report on page 89.
Contracts of significance between a Company and a controlling None of the directors had a material interest in any contract of signicance shareholder Not applicable to which the Company or a subsidiary was a party during the financial year, Provision of services by a as disclosed in note 36 Related party transactions.
controlling shareholder Not applicable Shareholder waiver of dividends Not applicable Shareholder waiver of future dividends Not applicable Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable 92 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Directors insurance and indemnity provisions Employee involvement The Company maintains insurance cover for all directors and ofcers of Group The Group believes it is important that employees are aware of the Groups companies against liabilities which may be incurred by them while acting as business strategy and the objectives which are in place to assist them to directors and ofcers of any Group company.
focus on working towards these goals.
Communications at the time of key announcements, including presentations by directors to all employees, together During the financial year reported on, and as at the date of this report, with briengs throughout the year, are part of the communication and qualifying third party indemnities are in force under which the Company has consultation programme.
The programme is designed to provide employees agreed to indemnify the directors, to the extent permitted by law and by the with awareness of the financial and economic factors affecting the Groups Articles of Association of the Company the Articles, against liabilities they performance and also to provide employees with information on employment may incur in the execution of their duties as directors of the Company.
A copy related matters which may be of interest.
of the Articles is available for review at the registered ofce of the Company.
In addition, regular meetings are held with staff and managers, both to raise issues and to assist with the two-way ow of information.
The Group also Substantial shareholding has an online process which enables employees to express views and At 30 April 2017 the following percentage interests in the ordinary share suggest improvements.
capital of the Company, required to be disclosed under the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, have been notied to the Company: Further education and training Continuing education, training and development are important to ensure the Ordinary shares of % Percentage of future success of the Group.
The Group supports individuals who wish to Name of holder 10 pence each issued capital obtain relevant and appropriate further education qualications and reimburses FMR LLC 22,559,483 9.82 tuition fees up to a specified level.
Training needs of all employees are also analyzed during the annual and half yearly appraisal process, at which time Old Mutual plc 15,786,879 6.87 a training plan is agreed as part of each individuals on-going development.
Artemis Investment Management LLP 8,117,983 3.53 At appropriate times throughout the course of a year, the directors are briefed on recent changes to legislation, regulations and codes of practice which are relevant to their duties and the operations of the Groups business.
Where Employment policy appropriate, the directors are provided with copies of the underlying The Group endeavours to appoint employees with appropriate skills, knowledge documentation and or written summaries of the principal changes.
and experience for the roles they undertake.
The Group has a range of policies which are aimed at retaining and providing incentives for key staff.
Objectives The board has undertaken a formal and rigorous process for the evaluation are set for departments and employees derived from the Groups business of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
Performance is formally measured against these objectives twice Further information with regard to the evaluation can be found in the corporate each year.
The Group has a clear and well-understood organizational structure governance report on pages 54 to 59. and each employee knows his or her line of accountability.
Share option schemes Equal opportunities The directors remain committed to the principle that selected employees The Group operates an equal opportunities policy.
Full consideration is given should be able to participate in the Groups progress through share based to all job applicants, irrespective of gender, age, marital status, disability, compensation schemes.
Details of the Groups share based compensation sexuality, race, colour, religion, ethnic or national origin or any other conditions schemes are given in note 33. not relevant to the performance of the job, who can demonstrate that they have the necessary skills and abilities.
Statutory and other disclosures Greenhouse Gas emissions All employees accept the commitment within this policy that the Group will All disclosures concerning the Groups greenhouse gas emissions as required not allow discrimination or harassment by employees or others acting on the to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Groups behalf, in respect of sex, age, marital status, race, colour, nationality, Directors report Regulations 2013 are contained in the corporate social disability or religious or political beliefs.
responsibility report on pages 45 to 49.
Disabled employees Financial instruments With regard to existing employees and those who may become disabled, the The exposure of the Group to financial risks, including the use of financial Groups policy is to examine ways and means to provide continuing employment instruments and policies for hedging and the exposure to price, credit, cash under its existing terms and conditions and to provide training and career ow and liquidity risk, can be found in note 27 to the financial statements.
development, including promotion, wherever appropriate.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 93 Directors report continued Research and development Dividends and distributions All expenditure on research is expensed as incurred.
The Group capitalizes Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may, by development expenditure from the point that all the relevant criteria are met.
ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to members but no dividend The capitalized cost is then amortized over the useful life of the software.
shall exceed the amount recommended by the board.
The board may pay During the year to 30 April 2017, $173.3m was charged to the consolidated interim dividends and any xed rate dividend whenever the profits of the statement of comprehensive income 2016: $259.4m in the research and Company, in the opinion of the board, justifies its payment.
All dividends shall be development expenses category.
This charge is after capitalization of internal apportioned and paid pro-rata according to the amounts paid up on the shares.
Within the cost of sales category $22.4m of amortization of development costs Transfer of shares 2016:$19.5m and $69.1m of amortization of purchased intangibles Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his or her technology 2016: $75.3m were charged to the consolidated statement certicated shares in writing by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or of comprehensive income.
in any other form which the board may approve.
The board may, in its absolute discretion and without giving any reasons, decline to register any instrument Political donations of transfer of a certicated share which is not a fully paid share provided that, The Groups policy is to make no donations or contributions to political parties where any such shares are admitted to the Ofcial List maintained by the UK 2016: $nil.
Listing Authority, such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The board may decline to recognize any instrument of transfer Budgetary process relating to shares in certicated form unless it is in respect of only one class A comprehensive budgeting system allows managers to submit detailed of share and is lodged duly stamped if required at the Transfer Ofce as budgets which are reviewed and amended by executive directors prior to dened in the Articles accompanied by the relevant share certicate s and submission to the board for approval.
such other evidence as the board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is executed Insurance by some other person on his behalf, the authority of that person to do so.
The Group keeps under review, with its insurance brokers, its portfolio of In the case of a transfer of shares in certicated form by a recognized clearing insurance policies to ensure that the policies are appropriate to the Groups house or a nominee of a recognized clearing house or of a recognized activities and exposure.
investment exchange the lodgment of share certicates will only be necessary if and to the extent that certicates have been issued in respect of the shares Share capital in question.
The directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary of shares whether fully-paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
During the year 968,269 ordinary shares were Subject to the Articles and the CREST Rules as dened in the Uncerticated issued and 29,924 ordinary shares were transferred out of treasury to satisfy Securities Regulations, as amended, and apart from any class of wholly obligations under employee share plans.
The Company no longer holds any dematerialized security, the board may permit any class of shares in the ordinary shares in treasury.
As at 30 April 2017 the total number of voting Company to be held in uncerticated form and, subject to the Articles, title rights in the Company was 229,674,479. to uncerticated shares to be transferred by means of a relevant system.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares Repurchase of shares Voting The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last AGM held on At a General Meeting of the Company: 22 September 2016 to buy back up to 14.99% of its issued share capital.
At that time this amounted to 34,346,931 ordinary shares, and the authority On a show of hands, every member present in person and every proxy duly remains outstanding until the conclusion of the next AGM on 4 September appointed by a member shall have one vote: and 2017.
The minimum price which must be paid for such shares is 10 pence per ordinary share and the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have share shall not be more than the maximum price exclusive of expenses one vote for every share of which he or she is the holder.
stipulated by the Listing Rules from time to time in force published by the Financial Conduct Authority.
No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of shares held by him or her if any call or other sum then payable by Amendment to the Articles him or her in respect of that share remains unpaid.
Currently, all issued shares Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with the are fully paid.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution.
Deadlines for voting rights Full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting the AGM to be held on 4 September 2017 are set out in the Notice of Meeting which accompanies this report.
94 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information In relation to the existing senior secured term loans issued by MA FinanceCo, Appointment and replacement of directors LLC the lenders in the term loan C of $412m due November 2019 were Directors shall be no less than three and no more than 11 in number.
Directors offered a cashless roll of their investment into the existing term loan B-2 may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the board.
due November 2021 and this loan will be re-priced to LIBOR plus 2.50% A director appointed by the board holds ofce only until the next AGM and is subject to a LIBOR oor of 0.00% and as a result of the cashless rollover then eligible for election or re-election by the shareholders annually thereafter.
increased in size from $1,102.7m to $1,515.2m, effective from 28 April 2017.
The board may from time to time appoint one or more directors to hold Facilities not drawn as at 30 April 2017 were as follows: employment or executive ofce for such period subject to the Companies Act 2006 and on such terms as they may determine and may revoke or terminate any such employment.
HPE Software facilities The new $2,600.0m senior secured seven year term loan B issued by The Company by ordinary resolution, of which special notice has been given Seattle SpinCo, Inc. is priced at LIBOR plus 2.75% subject to a LIBOR and the board, by unanimous decision, may remove any director before the oor of 0.00% with an original issue discount of 0.25%: expiration of his or her term of ofce and the Company may elect or the board may appoint another person in place of a director so removed from ofce.
Micro Focus facilities The new $385.0m senior secured seven year term loan B issued by MA The ofce of director shall be vacated if: FinanceCo LLC is also priced at LIBOR plus 2.75% subject to a LIBOR i He or she in writing resigns or offers to resign and the directors accept oor of 0.00% with an original issue discount of 0.25%: and such offer: ii An order is made by any court claiming that he or she is or may be suffering The new Euro 470m equivalent to $500.0 million senior secured seven from a mental disorder: year term loan B issued by MA FinanceCo LLC is priced at EURIBOR plus iii He or she is absent without permission of the board from meetings for 3.00% subject to a EURIBOR oor of 0.00% with an original issue six months and the board resolves that his or her ofce is vacated: discount of 0.25%.
iv He or she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors generally: The above new facilities are a modication only of the existing facilities and v He or she is prohibited by law from being a director: or the unamortized prepaid facility arrangement fees and original issue discounts vi He or she is removed from ofce pursuant to the Articles.
have not been accelerated as a result.
The remaining unamortized prepaid facility arrangement fees and original issue discounts will be recognized over Powers of the directors in relation to share capital the life of the new debt.
The business of the Company will be managed by the board who may exercise all the powers of the Company, including the power to authorize the issue and The New Facilities will be used to: or market purchase of the Companys shares subject to the provisions of the i Fund the pre-Completion cash payment by Seattle SpinCo, Inc. to HPE of Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any resolution of the Company.
There $2,500.0m subject to certain adjustments in limited circumstances, was one occasion in the year under review when shareholders delegated ii Fund the Return of Value to Micro Focus existing Shareholders of powers to the Directors in relation to share capital: $500.0m and iii Pay transaction costs.
The balance will be used for general corporate and At the AGM held on 22 September 2016 the directors were granted the working capital purposes.
powers to allot equity securities with a nominal value of up to 15,275,486 provided that any amount in excess of 7,637,743 was applied to fully Micro Focus is already benefitting from the reduced interest rate margin pre-emptive rights issues only and to make market purchases of the and repayment terms on the existing term loans.
The only financial covenant Companys shares.
attaching to these facilities relates to the Revolving Facility, which is subject to an aggregate net leverage covenant only in circumstances where more than 35% of the Revolving Facility is outstanding at a scal quarter end.
Shares held in the Employee benefit Trust Where the trustee of the Micro Focus Employee benefit Trust the Trust As 30 April 2017, $80.0m of the Revolving Facility of $375.0m was drawn, holds shares in the Company and the beneficial interest in those shares has representing 21.3%.
The facility was less than 35% drawn at 30 April 2017 not been transferred to a beneciary of the Trust, the trustee may not vote in and therefore no covenant test is applicable.
relation to those shares at any meeting of shareholders of the Company.
The strategic report does not contain any information about persons with significant agreements whom the Company has contractual or other arrangements which are essential The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the to the business of the Company as, in the view of the directors, there are no counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change such arrangements.
of control of the Company: Branches The Company announced on 21 April 2017 the successful syndication of the The Group continues to operate overseas branches or representative ofces new credit facilities the New Facilities on behalf of both MA FinanceCo, in Chile, Denmark, Finland, Hong Kong, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Portugal, South LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Micro Focus, and Seattle SpinCo, Inc. a Korea, Sweden, Switzerland and the Peoples Republic of China.
wholly owned subsidiary of HPE that will hold HPE Software and be merged with a wholly owned subsidiary of Micro Focus in the Transaction.
Annual General Meeting The New Facilities comprise a $500.0m Revolving Credit Facility at LIBOR The notice convening the AGM of the Company together with the explanatory plus 3.50% subject to a LIBOR oor of 0.00% placed with a number of notes on the resolutions proposed at the AGM accompanies this report.
financial institutions and $5,000.0m of term loans.
The new term loans are The meeting will be held at the Companys Headquarters at The Lawn, priced as follows: 22-30 Old Bath Road, Newbury, Berkshire, RG14 1QN on 4 September 2017 at 9am UK time.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 95 Directors report continued The directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group Independent auditors and disclosure of information and company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and to auditors detection of fraud and other irregularities.
So far as they are aware, the directors at the date of this report confirm that there is no relevant audit information that is, information needed by the The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the Companys auditors are unaware and that the directors have taken all preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from reasonable steps that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make legislation in other jurisdictions.
themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary Following the Audit Tender process KPMG LLC have indicated their for shareholders to assess the group and companys performance, business willingness to become the Auditors of the Group and a resolution regarding model and strategy.
their appointment will be proposed at the AGM.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the board of Going concern directors section confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: The directors, having made enquiries and produced a Viability Statement page 44, consider that the Company and the Group have adequate The company financial statements, which have been prepared in resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and therefore it is appropriate to maintain the going concern basis in United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The preparing the financial statements.
Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, Post balance sheet events financial position and profit of the company: Post balance sheet events have been reported in note 38 in this Annual Report and Accounts.
The group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the Statement of directors responsibilities International Accounting Standards Board IASB and in conformity with The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial IFRS as adopted by the European Union collectively IFRS, give a true statements in accordance with applicable law and regulation.
and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the group: and Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the group financial The Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards performance of the business and the position of the group and company, as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and in together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
conformity with IFRS as adopted by the European Union collectively IFRS and company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom In the case of each director in ofce at the date the Directors Report is approved: Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of in the UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law.
Under company law the which the group and companys auditors are unaware: and directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and They have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in Company and of the profit or loss of the group and company for that period.
order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to In preparing the financial statements, the directors are required to: establish that the group and companys auditors are aware of that information.
Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
State whether applicable International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and By order of the board, in conformity with IFRS as adopted by the European Union collectively IFRS have been followed for the group financial statements and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102, have been followed for the company financial statements, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: Jane Smithard Make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and Company Secretary prudent: and 17 July 2017 Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is Micro Focus International plc inappropriate to presume that the group and company will continue in business.
Registered ofce: The Lawn, 22-30 Old Bath Road The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that Newbury are sufficient to show and explain the group and companys transactions and Berkshire RG14 1QN disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Registered in England group and company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements Company number: 5134647 and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
96 Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
