Governance Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Board of Directors Paul Walker Andrew Williams Kevin Thompson Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Appointment Appointment Appointment 12 April 2013 13 July 2004 22 April 1998 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Paul was appointed non-executive Andrew was appointed Chief Executive Kevin was appointed to the Halma plc Chairman of Halma plc in July 2013, of Halma plc in February 2005.
He is Board in 1998, having been appointed having been appointed to the Board aChartered Engineer and joined the as Finance Director in 1997.
He was Chief Executive Group in 1994 as Manufacturing qualified as a Chartered Accountant Officer at the Sage Group plc from Director of Reten Acoustics now with Price Waterhouse and joined 1994 to 2010 and qualified as a HWM-Water, becoming Managing Halma in the role of Group Financial Chartered Accountant with Ernst & Director in 1997.
Paul is non-executive Chairman member of the Halma Executive Board member of theExecutive Board in of Perform Group Limited and a in 2002 as Divisional Chief Executive 1995.
Hehas functional responsibility non-executive director of Experian plc and was promoted to the Halma plc for finance, tax & treasury, risk & and Sophos Group plc, having Board in July 2004.
Andrew is a internal auditand health & safety.
previously served on the boards of non-executive director of Capita plc.
Diageo plc and MyTravel Group plc.
Carole Cran Jo Harlow Tony Rice Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Senior Non-executive Director Appointment Appointment Appointment 1 January 2016 3 October 2016 8 August 2014 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Carole was appointed a non-executive Jo was appointed a non-executive Tony was appointed a non-executive Director of Halma plc in January 2016.
Director of Halma plc in October 2016.
Director of Halma plc in August 2014.
She is Chief Financial Officer at She is a non-executive director at He is non-executive chairman of Dechra Aggreko plc, having held a number InterContinental Hotels Group.
Pharmaceuticals PLC and was formerly ofsenior financial roles since joining Johasheld international positions, the senior independent director and Aggreko in 2004.
Carole qualified as mostrecently at Microsoft and remuneration committee chairman of aChartered Accountant with KPMG previously at Nokia.
Before her Spirit Pub Company plc.
Earlier in his and worked for seven years at BAE moveinto consumer electronics, career, Tony was chief executive officer Systems plc in a range of senior Joworked on strategic marketing of Cable & Wireless Communications financial positions, including four atReebok and Procter & Gamble.
plc, CEO of Tunstall Plc and held a yearsin Australia.
number of senior roles in BAE Systems plc including British Aerospace.
70 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Remuneration Nomination Audit Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Adam Meyers Jennifer Ward Daniela Barone Soares Sector Chief Executive, Medical Group Talent and Communications Director Non-executive Director Appointment Appointment Appointment 3 April 2008 27 September 2016 10 November 2011 Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Adam was appointed to the Halma plc Jennifer was appointed to the Halma Daniela was appointed a non-executive Board in 2008.
He became a member plc Board in September 2016.
She Director of Halma plc in November of the Halma Executive Board in 2003, became a member of the Halma 2011.
She was previously Chief in the position of Divisional Chief Executive Board in March 2014.
Prior Executive of Impetus the Private Executive.
Previously Adam was to joining Halma as Group Talent Equity Foundation and she has held Assistant Divisional Chief Executive Director, Jennifer spent over 15 years senior roles at Save the Children, and he joined Halma in 1996 as leading HR, Talent and Organisational BancBoston Capital, Goldman Sachs President of Bio-Chem Valve.
Adam Development for divisions of PayPal, and Citibank.
Daniela is a non-executive isresponsible for all companies within Bank of America and Honeywell.
Director of vora S. A. a company listed Halma's Medical sector and for Jennifer has global responsibility on the Sao Paolo Exchange which delivering organic and acquisition fortalent development and operates businesses in manufacturing growth in that sector.
communications across the Group, and forestry.
with a strong focus on Halma's senior management and the boards ofits subsidiary businesses.
Committee membership Paul Walker Andrew Williams Roy Twite Carol Chesney Kevin Thompson Non-executive Director Company Secretary Adam Meyers Appointment Appointment 24 July 2014 22 April 1998 Jennifer Ward Skills and experience Skills and experience Daniela Barone Soares Roy was appointed a non-executive Carol was appointed Company Director of Halma plc in July 2014.
Secretary of Halma plc in 1998.
She Carole Cran Heis an executive director at IMI plc, joined Halma in 1995 as Group Finance having been appointed to the plc Manager having spent three years Jo Harlow board in February 2007.
During his with English China Clays plc.
She career with IMI, Roy has led all of the qualified as a Chartered Accountant Tony Rice divisions including Severe Service with Arthur Andersen.
Carol is a 2011, Fluid Power 2009, Beverage non-executive director of Renishaw plc Roy Twite and Merchandising 2007 and Indoor where she chairs the Audit Committee.
