Governance Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Executive Board Andrew Williams Kevin Thompson Adam Meyers Jennifer Ward Chief Executive Finance Director Sector Chief Executive, Group Talent and Medical Communications Director Location: UK Location: UK Location: USA Location: UK The biographies of Andrew Williams, Kevin Thompson, Adam Meyers and Jennifer Ward are on pages 70 and 71.
Chuck Dubois Philippe Felten Paul Simmons Sector Chief Executive, Sector Chief Executive, Sector Chief Executive, Environmental & Analysis ProcessSafety Infrastructure Safety Location: USA Location: Belgium Location: UK Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Chuck was appointed to the Executive Philippe was appointed to the Paul was appointed to the Executive Board in April 2008.
He joined the Executive Board in April 2012.
He joined Halma in Group in 1999 as Vice President of the Group as Sales Director of BEA April 2010 and ledbusinesses including Perma Pure LLC and was previously Europe when that company was Avire and Apollo before becoming President of Diba Industries.
Chuck is acquired in 2002 and was later Chief Sector Vice President.
Prior to joining responsible for all companies within Executive of BEA Group.
Philippe is Halma, Paul spent 13 years at 3M Halma's Environmental & Analysis responsible for Halma's Process Safety where he held a number of sector and for delivering organic and sector and for delivering organic and international assignments.
Paul is acquisition growth in that sector.
acquisition growth in that sector.
responsible for Halma's Infrastructure Safety sector and for delivering organic and acquisition growth in that sector.
72 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Key highlights and The role of the board A summary of the business carried achievementsof the year The ultimate role of the Board is to outby the Board during the year, the promote the long-term success of the standing Board agenda items and Developing and recruiting Company by delivering sustainable asummary of the matters that quality talent at a senior shareholder value.
In order to fulfil areformally reserved for the Board level, including dedicated itsduty, the Board must ensure that as set out in writing are summarised the Group operates within a clearly on pages 76 and 77. sector M&A resource defined operating structure which fitswithin a robust governance and Corporate governance framework Improving the operation of control framework.
Halma companies benefit from a highly the sector boards and their decentralised organisational structure interaction with the Executive The Board has ultimate responsibility which delivers sustainable competitive for the management, direction and advantage while maintaining the Board and management performance of the Group, and benefit of being part of a larger group setsthe strategic goals which the through collaboration with other Further enhancements to our Companys businesses implement Group companies and central risk andcontrol processes through their business plans.
The investment in areas such as talent whichare underpinned by Board is also responsible for ensuring development, innovation and appropriate resources are in place international expansion.
A robust arobust framework toachieve its strategy and deliver corporate governance framework is Recommending the sustainable performance.
essential in a decentralised group in order to maintain good oversight appointment of The Boards powers are derived from andcontrol over: financial and  the Companys Articles of Association management reporting: compliance asAuditor, following the but certain decisions and oversight roles and regulatory matters: risk have been delegated to its committees.
management: and the approval conclusion of a competitive The Board has established a formal ofsignificant decisions such as audit tender process schedule of matters reserved for its acquisitions, disposals or material decision and has approved terms of agreements.
The operation of reference where it has delegated theBoard and the committees is responsibilities to its committees.
described in this Report and further information on each committee is The chairman of each committee detailed within the separate reports to the Board on the activities committee Reports.
Committee minutes are approved by the committee and then reviewed by the Board.
Division of responsibilities Chairmans Governance responsibilities promoting high standards of corporate governance: leading, chairing and managing the Board: ensuring all Board committees are properly structured and operate with appropriate terms of reference: regularly considering the composition and succession planning of the Board and its committees: ensuring that the Board and its committees performances areevaluated on a regular basis: ensuring adequate time is available for all agenda items and that the Board receives accurate, clearandtimely information: and ensuring that there is effective communication with shareholders.
Strategy leading the Board in developing the strategy of the business and setting its objectives: promoting open and constructive debate in Board meetings: ensuring effective implementation of Board decisions with the support of the Chief Executive: ensuring that the Board manages risk effectively: and consulting, where appropriate, with the Senior Independent Director on Board matters.
People chairing the Nomination Committee: identifying and meeting the induction and development needs of the Board and its committees: developing a strong working relationship with the Chief Executive: ensuring a strong working relationship between executive and non-executive Directors: setting clear expectations concerning the Companys culture, values and behaviours: and ensuring effective relationships are maintained with all major stakeholders in the business.
