Strategic Report Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Business Review Medical Our Medical sector is dedicated to enhancing quality oflife and improving the quality of care.
Adam Meyers Sector Chief Executive, Medical The areas in which we operate Revenue % of Group Profit % of sector total Patient care Ophthalmology Surgical instruments and diagnostic devices to assess eye health and assist with eyesurgery.
27% 31% Patient Assessment Diagnostic devices for everyday and specialised healthcare, including blood pressure monitoring.
Provider solutions Performance Group Diagnostics KPIs 2017 target Pumps, probes, valves and 1 Revenue growth 31.1% connectors used by OEMs and 1 Organic revenue growth constant currency 4.3% 5% laboratories for demanding 1 fluid handling applications.
Profit growth 29.0% 1 Organic profit growth constant currency 6.0% 5% Sensors 2 Return on Sales 25.6% 18% Real time location monitoring systems to improve quality of 3 R&D % of Revenue 4.3% 4% care, safety and operational efficiency in hospitals and Contribution to Group healthcare facilities.
m 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Revenue 261 199 169 163 136 Profit 67 52 45 42 36 4 1 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared to the equivalent prior yearfigures.
4 2 Return on Sales is defined as adjusted sector profit before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
3 Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
4 Adjusted to remove the amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets and acquisition items see note 1 to theAccounts.
42 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Sector progress summary Market trends and growth drivers Currently, one in every three US The Medical sector delivered record The Medical sector growth driver of adultshas high blood pressure and revenue and profit on both an as increasing demand for healthcare is only half of these individuals have their reported and organic constant underpinned by: condition under control.
Revenue grew in all third have prehypertension which ourmajor geographies.
worldwide population ageing and means they should continue to have increasing life expectancy their blood pressure monitored by the Including recent acquisitions and increasing prevalence of diabetes, type of products made by our patient currency movement, the sector obesity and hypertension assessment companies.
achieved 31% revenue growth and 29% increasing healthcare access in profit growth.
Medical has averaged developing economies Cataract surgery is one of the most greater than 15% growth inboth new medical diagnostic technologies frequent surgical operations carried revenue and profit since it began new or improved surgical and out worldwide at more than 25 million reporting as a sector in 2013. pharmaceutical therapies annually.
Continued growth in the number of cataract surgeries and an On an organic constant currency Global healthcare spending is forecast ongoing shift towards disposable basis, revenue grew 4% and profit to rise over 4% per year through to instrumentation will drive global wasahead 6%.
2020 with higher rates in Asia Pacific.
spending on ophthalmic surgical instrumentation over 5% per year R&D spending increased again by The world population is expected to through to 2022. more than 2m, with continued increase by 1 billion by 2025 with 300 investment in our core businesses million of that increase predicted to In addition to the prevalence of andinvestment in recent acquisitions come from people over 65.
Because eyedisease with ageing, demand adding new capabilities to our eyesight problems and high blood isincreasing for improved visual research teams.
pressure are both age-related, outcomes and premium procedures population ageing is a key driver for our due to peoples lifestyles.
By 2020, We continued to focus on talent businesses, especially in ophthalmology premium cataract procedures are development, investing in our key and hypertension management.
expected to account for 34% of total peopleboth at the sector level cataract surgery revenue as wealthier andthroughout our subsidiaries.
With the continued growth of the and younger patients are demanding middle class in developing economies, perfect vision at every stage in life.
Return on Sales remained flat at 26% it is forecast that 65% of the global This market for high-revenue, personal andReturn on Capital Employedand population will be middle class by payment premium procedures is cash production continueto be strong.
Coupled with increased ofincreasing importance to our urbanisation, rising affluence is likely ophthalmic companies which focus The performance of our recent to lead to more sedentary lifestyles onimproved patient outcomes.
acquisitions improved in the second which increases obesity and half and we continued to focuson hypertension-related illness and acquiring new businesses.
43 Strategic Report Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Globally regulated markets continue Business Review PwCs review into to shift as increased medical product changing demographics and procedure approvals delay Medical product launches, especially in continued geographies such as China and Brazil, and more recently Europe.
Recent 1 bn changes suggest India is introducing tighter regulation too.
Overall, our expected increase in the world's Hospitals remain under pressure to strong channels and regulatory population by 2025 improve patient outcomes, reduce experience position us well to navigate costs, improve throughput and ensure this environment and provide barriers safety of staff and patients.
The to entry for new entrants.
global market for the real time location systems that we recently Geographic trends added to our portfolio, is forecast to There continues to be considerable grow at 24% per year between 2016 geographic variation in the global and 2022. medical device market dueto local economic conditions, government The increasing prevalence of lifestylespending programmes andcurrency connected and chronic disease, including fluctuations.
Our growth strategies alongwith a growing acceptance of willcontinue to vary by region.
molecular diagnostics in personalised medicine, is driving growth in the in The global medical device market is 300m vitro diagnostics and laboratory expected to continue to grow at 5% markets served by our diagnostic increase in people aged 65 or more through to 2021.
This market is projected to remain the largest market for medical grow at 5.5% through to 2021.
Source: PwC device technologies, growing at 4%.
Inthe Asia Pacific market growth We are starting to see other macro isforecast to continue above 7%, The Chinese ophthalmology market trends around healthcare delivery withEurope recovering at 5% could double by 2021 and we continue impacting our markets and offering throughto 2021. toexpand our engineering, sales growth opportunities.
Telemedicine is andmarketing staff to drive the growing at almost 19% annually as it US healthcare expenditure continues to development and commercialisation of offers dramatically different ways have the highest spending per capita, local products.
Changing government todeliver healthcare by sharing but we may see significant change restrictions from pricing controls to information and data across a wide under the new political administration.
regulatory tightening continue to range of service providers.
One of our Hospitals are seeing relief from makethis a dynamic market.
ophthalmology companies is using covering the uninsured as more remote diagnosis via telecoms to help Americans benefit from health The Latin American market continues prevent blindness in diabetic patients.
insurance through the Affordable Care to experience volatility although Act, allowing them to invest in new should continue to grow on average Trends like increasing global healthcare technologies, although, this may acrossthe region.
The in vitro costs are putting pressure on product change.
We expect continued growth diagnostic business, a focus ofour pricing and government expenditure, for our single-use surgical devices in the diagnostic companies in the region, is increasing market volatility in some USA and growing demand in Europe.
forecast to grow 7% annually to 2020. geographies.
Case study Chronic Disease is Growing Worldwide Chronic diseases, such as heart disease, stroke, cancer, respiratory diseases and diabetes, are growing worldwide due to ageing populations and lifestyle changes.
The steady global rise in middle class affluence, combined with urbanisation, means that people are living more sedentary lifestyles which raises obesity and diseases like diabetes.
The World Health Organization expects chronic disease prevalence to rise by 57% by 2020, with emerging markets hit hardest by increased demand on healthcare systems due to their faster population growth.
Medical technology has a key role to play in mitigating the impact of chronic disease.
Advances in detection and diagnosis will improve patient outcomes and minimise the cost of chronic condition treatment.
Source: PwC 44 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategy The Medical sector is focused on Case study enhancing the quality of life for patients and improving the quality Telemedicine Prevents Baby Blindness ofcare delivered by providers.
Louise Allen, Consultant Paediatric We serve niche applications in Ophthalmologist for Addenbrookes globalmarkets.
By investing in our Hospital in Cambridge, uses our current portfolio, and acquiring digital ophthalmoscopes, from additional companies, we aim to Keeler, to diagnose babies eye continue to deliver growth rates at, conditions remotely.
In the past at-risk babies would have We organise our medical businesses to be transferred to Addenbrookes, into two segments: Patient care sometimes over long distances, to be andProvider solutions.
Patient care examined in person.
Addenbrookes includes businesses that develop and Charitable Trust has now provided market devices to monitor and improve our indirect ophthalmoscopes to the health of patients.
Current focus other hospitals throughout the areas include ophthalmology and region.
Now staff at local hospitals patient assessment.
can take high-quality digital images of the insides of babies eyes and Provider solutions features products sendthem instantly to a specialist, sold to diagnostic equipment such as Louise.
Current focus areas include With innovative use of technology critical fluidic components for like this, patients can receive better, instruments such as blood analysers, faster care and hospitals can avoid finished devices for laboratories, and unnecessary disruption and the sensor technologies that track assets critical expertise of specialists like in healthcare facilities and support Dr. Allen can reach those who need patient and staff safety.
Key sector strategic initiatives to increase growth organically and viaacquisition include: This is a 27% increase over last year Growth outside the UK, the USA and 68% higher than two years ago.
andEurope was 29%, contributing improving talent and increasing The increase has come throughout 25%ofsector revenue.
diversity ourcore businesses as well as new increasing collaboration to drive acquisitions.
The sector continues to deliver high geographic expansion and returns.
Return on Sales remained high productdevelopment Our R&D focuses on components at 25.6% 2016: 26.0%.
Return on increasing R&D investment to andinstruments that will be readily Capital Employed and cashgeneration adapt to quickly changing market accepted by our existing customer remained strong.
needs and respond to baseas well astechnologies that will consumerisation of healthcare advance patient care, reduce cost and We did not complete any acquisitions globally improve outcomes.
Efforts continue in in 2016 17, but continued the empowering regional leaders to emerging markets to better satisfy integration ofthe three businesses expand geographic penetration local customer needs including acquired in theprior year.
These andincrease local manufacturing expanding local resources and businesses delivered strong second and R&D increasing local R&D and half performances and will continue acquisitions in both core and manufacturing capability.
tocontribute to sector growth in the adjacent market niches year ahead.
During 2017 we will expand our We continue to seek and develop higher collaborative efforts in China, Outlook calibre talent.
We have increased our jointlymarketing a wider range of In the medium term, we expect our gender and international diversity to ophthalmic and diagnostic products.
Patient care and Provider solutions drive innovation, collaboration and segments to outperform the market better meet market needs.
Performance with rising revenue driven by export The Medical sector grew revenue by 31% growth, new products, increased Collaboration between our Medical to 261m 2016: 199m and profit by penetration in existing markets sector businesses continues to 29% to 67m 2016: 52m.
increase with shared R&D projects a favourable currency impact of 14%.
reaching commercialisation and sales Organic constant currency revenue We will continue to build our and marketing projects like shared growth and organic constant currency acquisition targets pipeline within service technicians in Brazil.
profit growth were 4% 2016: 10% existing and adjacent niches, and and6% 2016: 9% respectively.
expect continued growth from R&D spending increased by 2.4m to thebusinesses acquired in 2015 16.
4.3% of revenue, which isabove Group We delivered revenue growth in all target.
major regions with the USA ahead 43%, Europe up 13%, the UK 13% higher and Asia Pacific ahead 36%.
45 Global insight Water demand worldwide ispredicted to increase significantly due to increasing usage by agriculture, manufacturing, domestic consumption and energy production.
Outdoor air pollution is a majorhealth risk in both the developed and the developing world.
There is increasing demand for environmental protection, safer food and water, and improved health and sanitation.
Key trends: increasing demand for life-critical resourcessuch as energy and water increasing governmental policies andenvironmental regulations technological and scientific advances transferring into new industries worldwide population ageing and increasingstandards of living Our strategy Our growth strategy centres on marketled new product development, geographic expansion and collaboration to increase market reach.
R&D is focused on applications with long-term drivers anddefensible positions.
We are increasingly exploring new ways to capture, manage, manipulate and utilisedata.
We continue to target acquisitions that tie in with our existing technologies and or market knowledge.
Business Review: Environmental & Analysis Local agility HWMs PermaNET is the next stage in water Raising the bar on water leak detection and conservation and leak detection logging and a step towards data-driven smart water networks Water leaks are a problem for all water networks, with billions of litresof drinking water lost globally every day.
With demand for water predicted to increase significantly, detecting leaks quickly is becoming more andmore important.
Working closely with customer Affinity Water, HWM used their in-depth knowledge of the market to develop PermaNET.
The next stage in water leak detection and logging, it is also a step towardsdata-driven smart water networks.
Located entirely below ground, datagenerated by the logger is automatically sentto the user, removing theneed to visit sites to carry out data collection.
It identifies leaks more quickly than traditional methods, significantly reducing both water loss and the cost of identifying leaks.
PermaNET recently was awardedthe QueensAward forEnterprise: Innovation.
