Governance Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Going concern industries and no one customer The Groups business activities, accounts for more than 2% of Group Accountability together with the main trends and turnover.
As a consequence, the factors likely to affect its future Directors believe that the Group is development, performance and wellplaced to manage its business position, and the financial position risks successfully.
ofthe Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities, After conducting a formal review Internal control statement areset out in the Strategic Report.
oftheGroups financial resources, The Boards responsibilities Inaddition, note 26 to the financial theDirectors have a reasonable The Board has overall responsibility statements includes the Groups expectation that the Company and tothe shareholders for the Groups objectives, policies and processes theGroup have adequate resources system of internal control and risk formanaging its capital, its financial tocontinue in operational existence for management, and the review of the risk management objectives, details the foreseeable future.
For this reason, systems effectiveness is carried out ofits financial instruments and they continue to adopt the going with the assistance of the Audit hedging activities, and its exposures concern basis of accounting in preparing Committee.
Whilst not providing tocurrency and liquidity risks.
the Annual Report and Accounts.
absolute assurance against material misstatements or loss, this system Having issued the US Private Longer-term viability isdesigned to identify and manage Placement in 2015, and renegotiated In accordance with the UK Corporate those risks that could adversely its 550m five-year Revolving Credit Governance Code, the Board impact the achievement of the Facility in November 2016, of which hasconsidered the Companys Groups objectives.
The Groups risk 469m remains undrawn at the longer-termviability and sets management structure and process dateof this report, the Group has out its Viability Statement below.
isdetailed on pages 20 and 21. considerable financial resources.
The TheGroups principal risks Group contracts with a diverse range anduncertainties are detailed of customers and suppliers across onpages22to27.
different geographic areas and The Board confirms that there is anongoing process for identifying, VIABILITY STATEMENT evaluating and managing the During the year, the Board carried out a robust assessment of the principal significant risks faced by the Group risks affecting the Company, including those that would threaten its business and for determining the nature and model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The principal risks and extent of the significant risks it is uncertainties, including an analysis of the potential impact and mitigating willing to take in achieving its strategic actions, are set outon pages 22 to 27 of the StrategicReport.
TheBoard, advised by the Audit Committee, regularly reviews The Board has assessed the viability of the Company over a three-year the process, which has been in place period, taking into account the Groups current position and the potential for the year under review and up to impact of the principal risks and uncertainties.
Whilst the Board has no the date of approval of the Annual reason to believe that the Group will not be viable over a longer period, Report and Accounts.
This process is ithasdetermined that three years is an appropriate period.
In drawing its inaccordance with the Guidance on conclusion, the Board has aligned the period of viability assessment with Risk Management, Internal Control theGroups strategic planning process a three-year period.
The Board and Related Financial and Business believes that this approach provides greater certainty over forecasting and, Reporting.
The Board has continued therefore, increases reliability in the modelling and stress testing of the toimprove and embed controls Companys viability.
In addition, a three-year horizon is typically the period throughout the Group and will over which we review our external bank facilities, and is also the performance continue to keep the systems under period over which awards granted under Halmas share-based incentive plan review toensure that the internal are measured.
control and risk management framework remains fit forpurpose.
In reviewing the Companys viability, theBoard has identified the following factors which they believe support theirassessment: the Group operates in Review of internal diverse but relatively non-cyclical markets: controleffectiveness The Board regularly reviews the there is considerable financial capacity under current facilities and the effectiveness of the Groups risk ability toraise further funds: management and internalcontrol the decentralised nature of our Group ensures that risk is spread across systems, including financial, our businesses and sectors, with limited exposure to any particular operational and compliance controls.
industry ormarket: The review is principally based on there is a strong culture of local responsibility and accountability within reviewing reports from management arobust governance and control framework: and to consider whether significant risks an ethical approach to business is set from the top and flows throughout have been identified, evaluated, our business.
In making their assessment, the Board carried out a comprehensive exercise The Groups external Auditor, of financial modelling and stress-tested the model with various scenarios DeloitteLLP, has audited the based on the principal risks identified in the Groups annual risk assessment financialstatements and has process.
In eachscenario, the effect on the Groups KPIs and borrowing reviewedthe financial control covenants was considered, along with any mitigating factors.
Based on this systemsto the extent considered assessment, theBoard confirms that they have a reasonable expectation necessary to support the audit report.
that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period to 31 March 2020.
