Strategic Report Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our Business Model and Strategy Inputs How we increase value We have a portfolio of market-leading companies within our Financial foursectors: Process Safety, Infrastructure Safety, Medical, Our operations are inherently cash andEnvironmental & Analysis.
generative and the Group has access tocompetitively priced finance, which We place our operational resources close to ourcustomers through providesgood liquidity and support autonomous locally managed businesses.
We have central resources forthegrowth ambitions of Halma.
to increase innovation, international expansion and leadership talent.
Each business builds strong application knowledge and Read more p60 technology by focusing on its specific market niche where there areoften barriers to entry.
We re-invest cash into acquiring high Product innovation performance businesses in, orclose to, our existing markets.
Investing in new product development andmaking complementary acquisitions enable Halma to develop therange and Competitive strengths quality of its products.
Read more p9 Human capital Developing talent and diversity across Agile & close ourbusinesses gives us a competitive to customers advantage and ensures thatwe have motivated leaders to deliver our goals Valuable inaninnovative and collaborative way.
Proven M&A application capabilities knowledge & Read more p52 technology Intellectual assets Long-term Empowering our businesses to invest in market newproducts and work collaboratively growth witheach other to share knowledge drivers andexperience creates a culture where innovation can flourish.
Global Strategy-led expansion talent Read more p9 expertise management Relationships Innovation Interacting with our customers, through suppliersandother strategic partners collaboration iskeyto developing market-leading positionsin each of our businesses.
Read more p9 Sustainability Halma is committed topromoting Read more: sustainable business practicesand Market Review p11 workstoimprove the Groups .
Principal Risks and Uncertainties p22 Sector Reviews p30 to 51 Read more p56 Financial Review p60 4 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our strategic model is to double every five years.
We aim to achieve this through a mix of acquisitions and organic growth.
We ensure that cash generation is strong enough to sustain investment for growth and increase dividends without the need for high levels of external funding.
The value created The value shared We create value for our stakeholders and We manage our resources to deliver a profitable, sustainable ourbusiness by carefully managing the and responsible business.
We create value which isretained in our useofandreturn on inputs.
business, making it stronger, andshared with our stakeholders.
Revenue Communities Our products protect life and improve quality of life for people worldwide.
We manage our business activitiesin a sustainable way, minimising the environmental impact of our operations.
961.7m Customers Return on Sales Our businesses focus on market segments where our technical know-how and inter-company collaboration can deliver innovative solutions forour customers.
20.2% Shareholders Return on Total Invested Capital By effectively leveraging the inputs to our business, we create profits that benefit shareholders through increasing dividend returns and capital appreciation.
15.3% Employees Global direct employment We develop and reward our people both financially and through personal and professional development.
Suppliers 5,811 As we grow our revenue and develop new products, we support Adjusted Operating Cash Flow other businesses and their stakeholders.
Governments Through payment of taxes worldwide, we share our value 175.5m creation with the countries in which our businesses operate.
How we maximise value through our strategy Our strategy To acquire and grow businesses in relatively Our values Achievement non-cyclical, specialised global niche markets.
Grow Thetechnology and application know-how Innovation Empowerment ineachcompany delivers strong competitive advantage tosustain growth and high returns.
Customer satisfaction How we reward our value creation Our investment priorities Innovation Our Remuneration Policy creates a strong Sustainable Innovate Acquire growth alignment between the creation of value International expansion Talent development andmanagements financial rewards.
