Governance Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration Policy This section of the report details the remuneration policy for executive and non-executive Directors which shareholders approved at the 2015 annual general meeting.
This policy formally came into effect from 23 July 2015, being the date of the 2015 AGM, and is effective for up to three years.
Compliance statement This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and Regulation 11and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles relating to directors remuneration in the UK CorporateGovernance Code.
As required by the Act, a resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration willbeproposed at the AGM of the Company at which the financial statements will be approved.
In line with the Regulations, the following parts of the Annual Report on Remuneration are audited: the single figure fortotal remuneration for each Director, including annual bonus and performance share plan outcomes for the financialyear ending 1 April 2017: plan interests awarded during the year: pension entitlements: payments to past Directors and payments for loss of office: and Directors shareholdings and share interests.
All other parts of the Annual Report on Remuneration are unaudited.
Element and objective Operation and process Opportunity Performance measures Executive Directors Salary Reviewed annually or following a material change in responsibilities.
Base salary increases will be applied in line with the outcome of annual reviews normally Not applicable A fair, fixed remuneration reflecting Salary is benchmarked periodically against appropriate comparators with effect from 1 April.
Salaries for the financial year under review and the following year thesize and scope of the executives ofa similar size and operating in a similar sector, and is linked to are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
responsibilities which attracts and individual performance and contribution.
retainshigh calibre talent necessary Salary increases for executive Directors will not normally exceed the average of the wider forthe delivery of the Groups strategy.
Salary is the only element of remuneration that is pensionable.
employee population other than in exceptional circumstances.
Where increases are awarded in excess of the wider employee population, forexample where there is a material change inthe responsibility, size or complexity of the role, the Committee willprovide the rationale in the relevantyears Annual Report onRemuneration.
Benefits Benefits are appropriate to the location of the executive and typically Benefits may vary by role, and the level is determined to be appropriate for the role and Not applicable To provide benefits that are competitive comprise but are not limited to a company car, life insurance, circumstances of each individual executive Director.
The maximum value will equate to within the relevant market.
permanent disability insurance, private medical insurance, relocation thereasonable market cost of such benefits.
andtax advice for international assignments.
It is not anticipated that the current cost of benefits as set out in the Annual Report onRemuneration would increase materially over the period for which this policy applies.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in exceptional circumstances e. g. relocation expenses or an expatriation allowance on recruitment, etc.
or in circumstances where factors outside the Companys control have changed materially e. g. market increases in insurance costs.
The rationale behind the exercise of such discretion will be provided in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension Executive Directors participate in either a Group Defined Contribution Defined Contribution: maximum contribution of 20% of pensionable salary which is capped Not applicable To provide competitive post-retirement pensionplan or the US 401k money purchase arrangement.
The cap increases annually relative to CPI.
The maximum benefits, or the cash allowance equivalent, contribution rate for executives joining prior to 2014 15 was 27.5%.
to provide the opportunity for executives Cash supplements in lieu of Company pension contributions may be to save for their retirement.
made tosome individuals at a level dependent upon seniority and length Cash supplement: Halma contributes up to 26% of full salary if the executive Director is of service.
Cash supplements may be reduced to reflect the additional aformer active member of the defined benefit pension plan.
Defined Contribution members employer social costs thereon.
whose contributions exceed the local tax allowance are paid the excess contributions, on the capped pensionable salary, as a cashsupplement, net of employer social costs.
To the extent the pension contributions exceed the local tax allowance, thecontributions may be paid to the executive, subject to taxes and 401k: contributions of 3% of salary with a discretionary 2% profit share component subject socialcharges.
Some executives are deferred members of the Group defined benefit Defined benefit: now closed to future accrual, but provides a maximum pension equivalent pensionplan which closed to future accrual in December 2014. to two thirds of final pensionable salary, up to a CPI-indexed cap: 155,528 for 2016 17 and 157,083 for 2017 18.
90 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration Policy The remuneration policy is designed to promote the long-term interests of the Company by securing the high calibre executives needed to manage the Group successfully, and to align their interests with those of our shareholders by rewarding them for enhancing shareholder value.
The policy also seeks to reward achievement of stretching performance targets without driving unacceptable behaviours or encouraging excessive risk-taking.
The Committee carried out a comprehensive review of remuneration during the 2014 15 year coincident with the expiry ofthe life of the 2005 Performance Share Plan.
It noted that there were aspects of the previous policy that work well and were therefore retained.
However, it also noted that both the Company and market practice have moved on in the10years since the last formal review.
Accordingly, it introduced changes to the policy to reinforce the link between executive remuneration and the Companys long-term performance enhancing the executives alignment with the long-term interests of shareholders.
There are six elements of the remuneration policy for executive Directors, which are summarised in the table below.
91 Governance Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration Policy continued Element and objective Operation and process Opportunity Performance measures Executive Directors Annual Incentive The structure of the Annual Incentive is reviewed at the start of the Maximum opportunity: 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director The bonus is based To incentivise and focus management on yearto ensure that the performance measures and their weightings and 125% of base salary for other Directors.
100% on the the achievement of an objective annual remain appropriately aligned with the Groups strategy and are achievement of target which is set to support the shortsufficiently challenging.
financial performance to medium-term strategy of the Group.
The primary Performance targets are calibrated and set at the start of the year, with Bonus payable at threshold: 0% of salary.
measure used to reference to a range of relevant reference points including the annual determine bonus budget agreed by the Board.
At the end of the year, the Committee In exceptional circumstances, the Committee has the ability to exercise discretion to outcomes is EVA, determines the extent to which these targets have been achieved.
override the formulaic bonus outcome within the limits of the scheme where it believes the although the outcome is not truly reflective of performance and to ensure fairness to both shareholders Committee may, Payment of one third of any bonus is in the form of an award of shares that and participants.
atitsdiscretion and is deferred for two years, with vesting normally subject to continued service.
from time to time, supplement EVA with Dividend equivalents accrue over the vesting period.
Dividend additional financial equivalentsare paid in cash or shares at the end of the vesting period.
measures that reflect Halmas strategic Deferral into shares provides a link to the long-term strategy of the priorities for the year, Group and enhances the retentiveness of the policy.
provided any such additional measure A recovery and withholding provision enables the Company to recoup accounts for no more overpayments in the event of misstatement, error or misconduct, either than 30% of the overall through withholding future remuneration or requiring the executive to bonus opportunity.
Executive Share Plan ESP Executive Directors are granted annual awards over Halma plc shares Maximum opportunity: Up to 200% of salary.
Vesting of performance To incentivise executives to achieve ora cash equivalent where required by regulations as determined by share awards is superior returns to shareholders over theCommittee: awards vest after a period of at least three years In exceptional circumstances, such as to facilitate the recruitment of an external candidate, subjectto continued athree-year period rewarding them basedon Group performance.
the Committee may, in its absolute discretion, exceed thismaximum annual opportunity, employment and forsustained performance against subject to a limit of 250% of salary.
theCompanys challenging long-term targets: to retain Dividend equivalents accrue over the vesting period.
Dividend equivalents performance over key individuals and align interests with are paid in cash or shares at the end of the vesting period, and only on Threshold performance will result in the vesting of 25% of the maximumaward.
athree-year shareholders, reflecting the sustainability those shares which vest.
performance of the business model over the long term period.
Tothe and the creation of shareholder value.
A recovery and withholding provision enables the Company to recoup extentperformance overpayments in the event of misstatement, error or misconduct, either conditions are not met, through withholding future remuneration or requiring the executive to awards will lapse.
Share Incentive Plan SIP The SIP is an HMRC-approved arrangement.
It entitles all UKParticipation limits are in line with those set by HMRC from time totime.
Not applicable To encourage share ownership across basedemployees to receive Halma shares in a potentially taxallUK-based employees  manner.
Chairman and non-executive Directorfees Non-executive Director fees are determined by the Board and may Fees are normally reviewed annually in April, but typically only reset triennially.
Increases Not applicable To attract individuals with the requisite comprise a base fee, committee chairmanship fee and Senior areeffective from 1 April.
skills, experience andknowledge to Independent Director fee.
The fee paid to the Chairman is determined by the Committee, and fees to NEDs are The Chairmans fee is determined by the Committee.
The fees are calculated by reference tomarket levels and take account of the time commitment and the responsibilities of the NEDs.
Notes to the Policy Table Payments from Existing Awards The Committee will honour any commitment entered into, and executive Directors will be eligible to receive payment from any award made, prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy on 23 July 2015.
Details of these awards are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Selection of Performance Measures The performance measures used in Halmas executive incentives have been selected to ensure incentives are challenging and reinforce the Groups strategy and align executive interests closely withthose of our shareholders.
In the annual bonus, the use of EVA, in summary, profit less a charge for capital employed definition is provided on page 100 reinforces the Groups business objective to double every five years through a mix of acquisitions and organic growth.
Profit is a function of the extent to which the Company has achieved both its organic growth target and its success in identifying appropriate acquisition targets in current and past years.
Ensuring that the cost of funding acquisitions is reflected in the bonus model means that executives share the benefit of an acquisition that outperforms expectations, but equally bear the cost of overpaying for an acquisition.
Good or poor management of working capital is also reflected in the calculation of EVA.
In the ESP, EPS provides a disciplined focus on increasing profitability and thereby provides close shareholder alignment through incentivising shareholder value creation, and ROTIC reinforces the focus oncapital efficiency and delivery of strong returns, thereby further strengthening the alignment of remuneration with theGroup strategy.
Performance targets are set to be stretching yet achievable, taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and the economic environment in which it operates.
Targets are calibrated taking intoaccount a range of reference points, but are based primarily on the Groups strategic plan.
92 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Element and objective Operation and process Opportunity Performance measures Executive Directors Annual Incentive The structure of the Annual Incentive is reviewed at the start of the Maximum opportunity: 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director The bonus is based To incentivise and focus management on yearto ensure that the performance measures and their weightings and 125% of base salary for other Directors.
Remuneration Policy for Other Employees Our approach to salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the level of responsibility, experience, individual performance, market levels and the Companys ability to pay.
TheCommittee considers remuneration surveys to establish market rates, as appropriate, but uses such data carefully so as to avoid an upward ratchet.
93 Governance Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration Policy continued External appointments In the case of appointing a new executive Director, the Committee may make use of any of the existing elements of remuneration, as follows: Component Approach Salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant market data, experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities and the current salary of any incumbent in the same role.
Where a new appointee has an initial base salary set below market, the Committee may make phased increases over a period of several years to achieve the desired position, subject to the individuals development and performance in the role.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line with the current policy, as well as expatriation allowances and any necessary expenses relating to an executives relocation on appointment.
Pension New appointees will be eligible to participate in the Companys Defined Contribution pension plan, receive a cash supplement or local equivalent.
Annual bonus The scheme as described in the policy table will apply to new appointees with the relevant maximum being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the year employed.
ESP New appointees will be granted performance awards under the ESP on the same terms as other executives, as described in the policy table.
SIP New appointees in the UK will be eligible to participate on identical terms to other employees.
In addition to the elements of remuneration set out in the policy table, inexceptional circumstances the Committee may consider it appropriate togrant an incentive award under a different structure in order to facilitate the recruitment of anindividual or to replace incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In making such awards, the Committee will look to replicate the arrangements being forfeited as closely as possible and in doing so consider relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the payment mechanism, expected value and the remaining vesting period of these awards.
Internal Appointments Remuneration for new executive Directors appointed by way of internal promotion will similarly be determined in line with the policy forexternal appointees, as detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to the Board, the Company willcontinue to honour those commitments.
Incentive opportunities for below-Board level employees are generally no higher than for executive Directors, and incentive measures vary to ensure they are appropriate.
Share Ownership Guidelines To ensure alignment between the interests of executive Directors and those of shareholders, the Company requires executive Directors to progressively build up and maintain a beneficial holding of Halma plc shares equivalent to a minimum of 200% of salary 2014 15: 100%.
Untilsuch time as this threshold is achieved, executive Directors are required to retain no less than 50% of the net of tax value of any vestedperformance share award or deferred bonus share award.
94 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Executive Director service contracts and exit payment policies It is the Companys policy that executive Directors should have contracts with an indefinite term providing for a maximum of one years notice.
The details of the Directors contracts are summarised in the table below.
Contracts will be available for inspection at the AGM and throughout the year at the Companys registered office.
Executive Director Date of service contract Date of service contract Andrew Williams April 2003 One year Kevin Thompson April 2003 One year Adam Meyers July 2008 One year Jennifer Ward January 2014 One year The Companys policy is to limit payments on cessation to pre-established contractual arrangements.
In the event thatthe employment of an executive Director is terminated, any amount payable will be determined in accordance with the terms of the service contract between the Company and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans.
Nopredetermined amount is provided for in the Directors contracts.
The UK executive Director contracts enable the Company to pay up to one years salary in lieu of notice, with no contractual entitlement to any other benefits, and, under the rules, the Remuneration Committee may determine theindividuals leaving status for share plan vesting purposes.
If the financial year end has passed, any bonus earned ispayable to the individual.
Adam Meyers service contract permits him to remain an employee for the entire period ofnotice enjoying any benefits related to employment.
The share plan and bonus provisions are identical to the UK.
Bothcontracts contain appropriate non-compete restrictions for a suitable period post-employment.
When considering termination payments under incentive schemes, the Committee reviews all potential incentive outcomes to ensure they are fair to both shareholders and participants.
The table below summarises how the awards under the annual bonus and share plans are treated in specific circumstances under the rules of the relevant plan and theextent to which the Committee has discretion: Reason for leaving Timing of payment vesting Calculation of payment vesting Death, injury or disability, After the end of the financial Performance against targets will Annual bonus redundancy, retirement, year, although the Committee be assessed at the end of the or any other reasons the has discretion to accelerate year in the normal way and any Committee may determine e. g. in relation to death resulting bonus normally will be pro-rated for time served during the year All other reasons No bonus is payable Death, injury or disability, On the second anniversary Awards vest in full Deferred bonus redundancy, retirement, of the award or any other reasons the Committee may determine All other reasons Awards lapse Injury or disability, redundancy, or On the third anniversary Awards will normally be pro-rated Share Plans any other reason the Committee of the award for time to the date of cessation may, at its discretion, determine of employment and performance metrics assessed asat the third anniversary Death Immediately unless otherwise Any outstanding awards normally determined by the Committee will be pro-rated for time and at its discretion performance up to the point ofdeath All other reasons Awards lapse 95 Governance Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Remuneration Policy continued Pay-for-performance The following charts provide an estimate of the potential future rewards for executive Directors, and the potential split between different elements of pay, under three different performance scenarios: Fixed, On-target and Maximum.
Potential reward opportunities are based on Halmas remuneration policy, applied to salaries as at 1 April 2017.
In the case of the Chief Executive, Finance Director and other executive Directors this assumes a performance share award level of 200%, 175% and 150% of salary respectively which is the basis on which the policy will be applied in 2017 18.
Theprojected values exclude the impact of any share price movements and dividend equivalents.
The Fixed scenario shows base salary, pension and benefits only.
The On-target scenario shows fixed remuneration as above, plus a target level of 60% of the maximum under the annual bonus and vesting of 50% of a single years award under the ESP.
The Maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus maximum level of annual bonus and ESP awards.
Andrew Williams, Chief Executive Percentages amounts 000 Fixed 100% 820 On-target 41% 28% 31% 2,007 Maximum 29% 33% 38% 3,007 Kevin Thompson, Finance Director Percentages amounts 000 Fixed 506 100% On-target 42% 29% 29% 1,198 Maximum 29% 33% 38% 1,773 Adam Meyers, Sector Chief Executive Medical Percentages amounts $000 Fixed 100% 522 On-target 42% 29% 29% 1,257 Maximum 28% 33% 39% 1,870 Fixed Annual incentive ESP Jennifer Ward, Group Talent and Communications Director Percentages amounts 000 Fixed 100% 352 On-target 44% 28% 28% 812 Maximum 30% 32% 38% 1,194 Fixed Annual incentive ESP 96 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Non-executive Directors Unless otherwise indicated, all non-executive Directors NEDs have a specific three-year term of engagement, subject toannual re-election at the AGM, which may be renewed for up to two further three-year terms if both the Director andthe Board agree.
The remuneration of the Chairman and the NEDs is determined by the Committee and the Board respectively, inaccordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders.
The contract in respect of the Chairmans services provides for termination, by either party, by giving not less than sixmonths notice.
The non-executive Directors have contracts in respect of their services, which can be terminated, by either party, bygiving not less than three months notice.
Contracts are available for inspection at the AGM and throughout the yearat the Companys registered office.
Summary details of terms and notice periods for NEDs are included below.
Non-executive Director Date of appointment Notice period Paul Walker April 2013 6 months Daniela Barone Soares November 2011 3 months Roy Twite July 2014 3 months Tony Rice August 2014 3 months Carole Cran January 2016 3 months Jo Harlow October 2016 3 months NEDs do not receive benefits from the Company and they are not eligible to join the Companys pension plan or participate in any incentive schemes.
Any reasonable expenses that they incur in performing their duties are reimbursed by the Company.
Paul Walkers personal assistant is an employee of the Company.
Details of the policy on NED fees are set out in the table on pages 92 and 93.
NED recruitment In recruiting a new Chairman or NED, the Committee will use the policy as set out in the table on pages 92 and 93.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group The Committee considers the remuneration and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group when determining remuneration for executive Directors.
However, the Committee does not currently consult specifically with employees onthe executive remuneration policy.
Consideration of shareholder views When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account the views of our shareholders and best practice guidelines set by shareholder representative bodies.
As part of their consideration of the new remuneration policy, theCommittee consulted widely with the Companys major institutional shareholders and their representative bodies.
The Committee always welcomes feedback from shareholders on the Companys remuneration policy.
Detail on the votes received on the remuneration policy and Annual Report on Remuneration at the previous annual general meeting is provided on page 98.
External directorships The Committee acknowledges that executive Directors may be invited to become independent non-executive directors ofother listed companies which have no business relationship with the Company and that these roles can broaden their experience and knowledge to Halmas benefit.
Executive Directors are permitted to accept one such appointment with the prior approval of the Chairman.
Approval willonly be given where the appointment does not present a conflict of interest with the Groups activities and the widerexposure gained will be beneficial to the development of the individual.
Where fees are payable in respect of suchappointments, these are retained by the executive Director.
Andrew Williams is a non-executive director of Capita plc.
Fees paid to him during the period to 1 April 2017 were 64,500 2016: 64,000.
