Strategic Report Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Business Review Process Safety Our Process Safety sector makes products which protect assets and people at work.
Philippe Felten Sector Chief Executive, Process Safety The areas in which we operate Revenue % of Group Profit % of sector total Gas detection Instruments and systems that detect flammable Gas detection andhazardous gases.
Safety interlocks Specialised Interlocks which prevent accidents and ensure 17% 19% Safety interlocks that critical processes operate safely.
Pressure relief Explosion protection devices Safety interlocksPressure relief to protect pressurised Performance vesselsand pipework in Group process industries.
KPIs 2017 target 1 Revenue growth 7.4% Pipeline management Valve interlocking and pipeline 1 Organic revenue growth constant currency 0.8% 5% corrosion monitoring systems Pressure relief Pipeline management 1 Profit growth 1.7% that safeguard processes 1 Organic profit growth constant currency 4.3% 5% andpersonnel.
2 Return on Sales 24.1% 18% 3 R&D % of Revenue 3.6% 4% Contribution to Group m 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Revenue 167 155 159 127 126 Profit 40 40 45 35 32 4 1 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared to the equivalent prior yearfigures.
4 2 Return on Sales is defined as adjusted sector profit before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
3 Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
4 Adjusted to remove the amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets and acquisition items see note 1 to theAccounts.
30 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Sector progress summary The companies in Halmas Process Governments continue to support The sector has delivered both Safety sector have a deep increased health and safety revenueand profit growth in understanding of our customers regulations to protect people and difficultmarket conditions.
This drives the innovativeand reliable products demand for our products at rates In the first half of the year our major andtechnology that reduce accidents thatare higher than general economic market, energy, was still impacted by and enhance theefficiency of growth.
In a challenging oil and gas low oil prices.
The second half saw industrial processes by isolating, environment, the Process Safety improvements with acombination detecting or removing hazards.
sector delivered performance in ofstabilised oil prices and positive 2016 17 that demonstrated the progress in our diversification strategy.
Our end markets are diverse and robustness of our growth drivers.
ourproducts can be found in energy These factors and investment made mainly oil and gas, chemical, Oil prices fell from a high in 2014 due during the year havepositioned the pharmaceutical, food and beverage, to oversupply and reduced demand sector to continue to grow in 2017 18. automotive, transport and logistics aseconomic growth slowed.
The installations across the globe.
reduction in capital expenditure by Market trends and growth drivers theoil majors was significant in the Population growth and economic The underlying long term drivers in upstream segment, and to a lesser development drive demand for ourProcess Safety markets remain extent in the midstream segment.
The industrial relatively unchanged, despite some Thesector started to see the processes supporting this sectors, such as oil and gas, having impactof this in mid-2015.
development are at risk from faced economic challenges over the Chemicalsand petrochemicals accidents caused by explosions, last 18 months.
processing benefitedfrom the radiation, fire, corrosion and other lowoilprice and, in those markets, hazards.
Workers and assets Our main drivers are: wesawmore resilient demand.
increasing health, safety and environmental regulations In the first half of 2016 17, market Every year, industrial accidents have industrialisation and population conditions did not change significantly.
significant human, environmental growth, stimulating rising Oil price stability offered some andeconomic consequences.
These energydemand comfort, but overall, capital accidents have many causes, including increasing development, expenditure in upstream and component failure, human error or complexityand geographic midstream markets remained subdued.
The consequences spreadof energy resources and vary in severity from minor such as loss their safety requirements of production to major serious injury, automation and digitalisation, death, closure of business.
requiring connected safety controlssystems 31 Strategic Report Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategy Our acquisition strategy is to focus Business Review Our strategy of investing in new onbusinesses that will reinforce our products in order to diversify our diversification, accelerate our digital Process Safety endmarkets and meet specific local transformation, and contribute to continued requirements has delivered improving ourgeographic expansion.
We reduced costs in some of our oil andgas-exposed businesses Performance and wereable to focus our activities Sector revenues grew by 7% to 167m In the second half of 2016 17 the oil onnew application niches in non-oil and profit grew by 2% to 40m.
and gas market was more active, and gas markets.
Atconstant currency, organic revenue withoil price stability, cost-efficiency was up by 1% and profit down4%.
efforts, and non-conventional oil At the start of the year we combined Return on Sales was 24.1%.
extraction in the US creating a slightly some of our businesses in order to more positive environment for our raise operating efficiency and The first half of the year was businesses.
This strategy challenging, while the second half capitalexpenditure remained tightly has led tofaster product innovation, sawsome positive signs in the noncontrolled, the need to upgrade and increased geographic market reach conventional oil market.
This welcome maintain safety products led to higher and improved customer service.
increase inactivity, combined with activity levels.
These improvements Combining these businesses also ourrestructuring efforts aimed at were, however, modest relative to allowed us to offer customers an increasing diversification, delivered levels seen a couple of years earlier.
revenue and profit growth through thesecond half of the year.
In these challenging and complex Investment in innovation and market conditions, we adapted our application engineering capabilities Our machine automation, sequential strategy by diversifying into non-oil and was increased, providing local markets safety and gassafety companies gas end markets.
This demonstrated with quick product adaptation for enjoyed good levels of demand our flexibility and deep understanding of specific requirements.
forexisting safety products, while the applications in which our products offering innovative solutions in can be used.
This ability to use our Our companies embrace globalisation, new, specific niche applications.
technologies for new applications diversification and the need to develop andnew end markets has been a key connected technology.
We are The newly combined sequential factor in our improved performance.
upgrading and developing talent safetybusinesses delivered excellent across our businesses.
performance thanks to strong Geographic trends regionalactivity and centrally-located Revenue increased in most major Greater emphasis has been placed innovation.
The US revenue grew by onstrategic marketing, with our business continues to perform well, 12%helpedby the gradual increase companies researching new with good progress in North America innon-conventional oil extraction marketopportunities.
The gas detection business inthe second half of the year.
also made good progress in China.
Europe revenue rose as we diversified our explosion protection business intochemical and pharmaceutical U. S. Energy Information Administrations research into world energy use applications, while our safety quadrillion British thermal units BTU interlocks businesses saw good momentum in the automotive, food, beverage and transport logistics 1000 markets.
UK market activities were flat compared to last year, with continuing low activity in the 750 NorthSea.
In China, our business grew by 500 18%with good progress in the gas detection and machine automation sequential safety sub sectors.
Strictersafety regulations continue 250 tobe enforced, creating growing demand for our products in China.
Source: U. S. Energy Information Administration In South America, economic conditions were still depressed.
Supported by our Brazil sector hub, we were able to achieve some growth, mainly in the explosion protection market.
We saw good growth in India particularly in our pipeline management sub-sector.
32 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our pressure management companies Non-conventional US oil extraction is performed better in the second half, set torebound in 2017 and we will Case study due to efforts in chemical and benefit from this increased activity.
pharmaceutical markets and a slight The chemical market will continue to Castell, Kirk and STI recovery in the US oil industry.
develop furthermainly in the USA.
Our pipeline management businesses The evolution of smart factories had mixed results.
The corrosion usingthe internet of things and monitoring business delivered flat cloudcomputing will continue to profit while our valve interlock drivethe demand for safety products.
businesses faced difficult market We see the possibility to offer conditions, as their products come late extended capabilities as we move in the cycle whencapital expenditures todigitalise our products.
Efforts to grasp new At the beginning of last year, three opportunities with valve drive units We will continue to push on our of our sequential safety businesses, and valve monitoring solutions have diversification strategy, constantly Castell, Kirk and STI, began started to improve results.
looking at specific niche applications.
collaborating as a single business group, creating a global market New products not older than three The combination of market leader in trapped key interlocks and years accounted for 29% of sector diversification, our newly-combined other sequential safety products.
R&D spend has remained at businesses, and a slow improvement in All three companies were already good levels, providing newproducts and the oil and gas industry will enable us market leaders and so well known innovations to support our growth to make further progress in the that, in some industries and ambitions.
geographies, safety interlocks are commonly known as Castell Locks Outlook or Kirk Locks.
Overall industrial production is expected to increase on the three Each business unit now offers major continents, with China and products from all three companies theUS leading this growth.
In parallel, and operates in a specific the food and beverage, automotive, geographic region.
Kirk covers the and transport and logistics industries Americas, STI manages Western will continue to be attractive markets Europe, the Middle East and Africa, for the sector.
and Castell covers the UK, Asia and the rest of the world, ensuring the companies are closer to their client base and can be responsive to local International Labour Organizations study into safety and health at work needs.
This has improved the business agility, impacting sales, engineering and technical support to provide a better quality of service for customers.
Importantly each business can focus their resources on their specific zone.
In addition, there is now tight Every 15 seconds Every 15 seconds collaboration across the companies, with capabilities being shared, enabling co-ordinated and one 153 accelerated new common product developments and market worker dies from a work related workers have a work diversification.
The collaboration accident or disease.
of products and resources has That is more than enabled higher levels of innovation in smart technologies advancing the progress to industry 4.0.
Sequential safety products such 2.3m 317m astrapped-key interlocks ensure deaths per year.
accidents occur on the job annually.
human error is removed from a potentially dangerous sequence of events, protecting people and Source: International Labour Organization assets.
They ensure that the next step in a sequence can only be carried out once the previous step has been completed.
For example, the key to access a dangerous area can only be released once the power to the area has been turned off.
They are used in many different industries including all types of manufacturing, logistics, power, chemical processing and railways.
33 Global insight Population growth, urbanisation and increasing health and safety regulation inboth developed and developing regions are theprimary drivers in our Infrastructure Safety sector.
Key trends: continuing global trends of population growthand increasing urbanisation economic growth in the developing worldleading to increased investment ininfrastructure and modernisation the need for increased efficiency in buildingsand people movement increasing desire for connectivity ofdevicesand systems, enabling automationinsmart buildings Our strategy application of our core technology into abroader range of markets such as transport and security meet customers needs by expanding oursolutions along the digital value chain new product innovation to create additionalvalue for customers in existingandnew applications acquire companies to strengthen our coretechnologies and take us into adjacentniche markets Business Review: Infrastructure Safety Local agility A huge advance in automaticswing door safety Conventional automatic swing door safety sensors can be subject to false detection and activation due to environmental factors such asbunched carpets, stray leaves or snow.
They donot protect against the potential offingers beingtrapped in the hinge area, meaning hinge areas often need to be covered with physical protection, especially inbuildings such as BEAs LZR Flatscan nurseries, schools, hospitals and care homes.
Thiscan often bedifficult to keep free of bacteria.
swing door sensor usesa laser for BEA has developed the LZR Flatscan, an detection rather than extremely small, thin door sensor that uses a conventional infra-red laser for detection rather than conventional and scans the whole infra-red.
It automatically adapts to any door area, including doorwidth, scans the whole door area, is notsubject to environmental interference the hinge area andhas extra measurement points that coverthe hinge area to detect small objects likefingers.
It was awarded Best Product at Halmas internal Innovation Awards this year.
