Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Market Review Understanding and responding to changes in market trends Macro-economic, regulatory andcompetitive environment Halmas strategy is to develop market positions primed for growth over 10years or more.
Our operating companies have growth strategies with three to five year horizons.
Our focus is on supplying safety, health and environmental products that protect life and improve the quality of life worldwide.
We position our businesses in relatively resilient markets.
Our chosen markets benefit from resistance to cyclical economic downturn, high barriers to entry and long-term growth driven by: increasing health and safetyregulation increasing demand for healthcare increasing demand for  Most of our markets are underpinned by regulation.
This drives sustained demand throughout economic cycles and often makes customer spending non-discretionary.
Our companies strong market positions deliver upgrade and replacement sales opportunities as customers seek tomaintain regulatory compliance andconform with best practice.
Our competitive environment is ourexpertise in this area enables factors affect our businesses influenced by global, regional and ustorespond quickly and build competitive environment very national product approvals and competitive advantage.
differently depending on their market technical validations.
Compliance segment and geographic exposure.
withnew and updated product Halma is exposed to a very diverse regulations is a steadily increasing range of carefully selected niche Our operating companies develop and cost and technical challenge, but markets, each with its own unique execute their own growth strategies drivers.
As a result, macro-economic and respond to changes in their specific markets.
Sector management teams provide strategic support and Global total, urban and Total population Urban Rural oversight for wider-reaching and rural population longer-term market dynamics.
More 10 detail about our market segments and competitive environment is given in 8 the sector reviews on pages 30 to 51.
Our strategy of focusing on 6 non-cyclical niche markets with growth underpinned by resilient regulatory 4 drivers and product approvals provides our businesses with genuine stability: 2 resilience in challenging economic conditions and organic growth aboveprevailing market rates.
0 Thisunderlying intrinsic strength enables us to plan and to invest for 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 thelonger-term with confidence.
Source: United Nations 11 Population: billions Strategic Report Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Market Review continued In 2017 global economic growth is Increasing health and safety regulation indeveloping economies.
These factors forecast to rise moderately to 3.4%.
Most of the worlds work-related drive demand for our Process Safety Inthe advanced economies growth deaths, injuries and illnesses are and Infrastructure Safety products.
preventable and employers must Growth in our largest market, the USA, comply with increasingly strict Every year more than 2.3 million is forecast at 2.5% but government government laws and regulations workers die from occupational fiscal stimulus could raise growth to protect their workers, the accidents or work-related disease: higher.
Steady growth is anticipated environment and their assets adeath every 15 seconds.
317 million inboth Europe and Central Asia during fromworkplace hazards.
non-fatal work accidents occur 2017 with a forecast of 2.4%.
Workplace fatalities, injuries strongest economic growth in 2017 is Each year more countries give higher and illness are a serious human and expected inemerging markets and priority to occupational safety and financial problem for workers and developing economies, where it should health, and the prevention of accidents their families and a social and rise to 4.5%.
The fast-growing Chinese and work-related illness.
Governments economic burden for businesses, and Indian economies are predicted and employers increasingly recognise communities and national economies.
togrow by 6.5% and 7.2% respectively the major impact that workplace during 2017. accidents and disease have on There is a global trend for governments productivity, competitiveness and and employers to recognise the Growth trends in the global economy business reputation, as well as on significant social and economic impact for 2017 18, in both developed and thehealth and livelihoods of workers of poor occupational safety and developing economies, are broadly and their families.
In addition to the favourable for our businesses.
We effects of work accidents and illness expect developing socio-economic Alongside increasing regional, on individuals, the resulting absence, conditions in Asia and South America country and industry-specific laws disability benefits, compensation, to drive rising demand for our and regulations, globalisation has interruption of production and medical products used to make workplaces encouraged many multinational expenses are a financial burden.
safer, provide healthcare, improve employers to extend workplace health infrastructure safety and manage and safety practice across their The macro-economic cost of life-critical resources.
worldwide operations, particularly occupational injuries, illness, disability and incapacity is estimated to average Global health expenditure trillion US$ 10 8 6 4 2 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Western Europe Asia Pacific North America Rest of the World Source: The Economist Intelligence Unit 12 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 4% of global GDP.
In countries with less developed occupational health and safety, a far higher proportion of GDP is spent on work-related injury and illness, reducing capital resources for productive economic investment.
The International Labor Organization estimates that work-related illness and accidents cost up to 10% of GDP in Latin America, compared with under4% in the EU.
In the USA, workerillness and injury now costs employers US$225 billion each year.
Safety and health at work standards and practices vary considerably between countries, economic sectors and social groups.
However, they are generally improving and becoming more closely aligned.
Deaths and injuries take a particularly heavy toll indeveloping countries, where a large part of the population may work inhazardous conditions.
However, greater investment and advances in occupational safety are reducing the number of fatal accidents at work.
Governments around the world are prompted by deaths and injuries caused by accidents to introduce newand tougher regulations to protect people from harm in commercial buildings and public places.
The continuous introduction over 10% of the worlds population will Global healthcare spending about ofnew, mandatory building codes be over 65.
In the USA, the worlds 10% of global GDP is forecast to affecting fire protection, building largest healthcare market, increasing grow faster than the global economy security, automated doors and life expectancy is predicted to double over the next few years, rising from elevators drives demand for our thenumber of people over 65 by 2050.
US$7trillion in 2015 to US$8.8 trillion Infrastructure Safety products.
While the global healthcare Although developed countries have market is still dominated by the Increasing demand for healthcare theoldest population profiles about developed world, government The continuous rise in healthcare 20% of people in Japan, Germany spending as a proportion of GDP demand and spending worldwide is andItaly are aged 65 or over, the isprojected to rise at the fastest driven by a combination of factors: large majority of older people, and rateinthe developing economies.
growth and ageing of the thefastest rates of population ageing, Advanced economies such as the USA, globalpopulation are in the less developed economies.
Europe and Japan spend about 12% rising life expectancy About 9% of Chinas population ofGDP on healthcare: developing increasing chronic disease iscurrently aged over 65, but the economies average about 6% of GDP.
medical innovations proportion is expected to rise to Almost two thirds of the worlds total rising incomes around 12% in 2020.
By that time healthcare expenditure occurs in the increasing patient expectations health services for the elderly will developed economies, with the USA account for nearly 23% of Chinas alone responsible for 40% of the Population ageing, together with a total healthcare spending.
rising prevalence of age-related thirds of the worlds older peoplewill chronic disease, is affecting all regions live in Asia by 2050.
In addition to the powerful of the world in both the developed demographic healthcare demand anddeveloping economies.
These As fertility rates fall globally, the pace drivers of global population ageing and demographic changes combine to of population growth is slowing in population growth, rising affluence is form a strong long-term driver almost every region except Africa.
also a strong driver in the developing forhealthcare services and products In2015 the global population reached world.
Healthcare spending in inour Medical and Environmental & 7.3 billion, almost three times higher emerging nations is forecast to rise Analysis sectors.
Despite the falling rate dramatically.
The strongest growth in medical technology and therapies of growth, world population is still forecast of 15% is India, with annual stimulate demand for new equipment.
projected to rise to 8.5 billion by 2030. growth in China estimated at over Almost 40% of growth in the global 12% supported by government Driven by a global trend of declining population during 2015 to 2030 is investment and initiatives to improve fertility and rising longevity, the expected in Africa.
the accessibility and quality of number of people aged over 65 is healthcare.
forecast to more than triple between 2010 and 2050.
Life expectancy isexpected to rise from 72.7 years in 2013 to 73.7 years by 2018.
As a result, 13 Strategic Report Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Market Review continued The incidence rates of cancer, heart Rising energy consumption and water The problem with access to fresh disease, stroke, respiratory disease, usage is driven by four key trends: water is not its finite volume but diabetes and hypertension have risen inadequate distribution which population growth sharply in the past decade, particularly islargely dependent on economic economic growth in developing regions.
Affluent countries manage rising living standards diseases are the leading cause of water resources to meet demand, dietary and agricultural changes mortality worldwide due to population butdeveloping economies often lack ageing, more sedentary lifestyles, basic infrastructure to deliver clean, th During the 20 century water changing diets and rising obesity.
consumption grew twice as fast as Halmas focus on ophthalmology and theworld population.
Water scarcity advanced blood pressure monitoring Over 4 billion people about two thirds isnow highlighted by the World products directly relates to the of the global population currently Economic Forum as the most diagnosis and treatment of these livewith severe water scarcity for at seriousrisk that our planet faces.
Half a billion people live in regions where water Water consumption is driven by Increasing demand for consumption from underground long-term trends: growing populations,  aquifers is continuously depleted rising affluence, industrialisation and Continuous growth in demand for because abstraction is double the urbanisation in emerging markets, life-critical resources is the result volume of water replenished by andoutdated water infrastructure ofsocial and economic development.
These same According to the United Nations, people are predicted to face trends have led to the pollution of almost 3 billion people in 48 countries absolutewater scarcity.
water resources, further reducing will be facing water shortages within thecapacity of the natural water 10 years that could cause conflict and Climate change and global warming cycle to meet the worlds growing political destabilisation.
By 2030 there also raise pressure on the worlds water demand.
will be a global freshwater deficit of freshwater resources.
Global electricity demand is temperatures in agricultural areas forecast to double by 2060. increase the rate of water evaporation from soil and crop transpiration, raisingirrigation demand.
Higher temperatures also raise energy consumption through increasing useofair conditioning.
Current water consumption patterns are unsustainable.
By 2050, the United Nations expects global agriculture to produce 60% more food 100% more in developing countries, but the current growth rate of agricultural water consumption cannot be sustained.
Industrial demand for water is predicted to riseby 400% between 2000 to 2050, with the highest increases in emerging economies.
Competition for water resources isforecast to increase between industries and economic sectors, and between countries in both developed and developing regions.
The rising value of finite water resources drives demand for our water conservation, treatment and testing products.
14 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Rising affluence in developing economies lets people change their diet from starch-based foods to meat and dairy, which significantly raises agricultural water consumption.
Producing onekilo of rice uses 3,500 litres of water but it takes 15,000 litres toproduce a kilo of beef.
Dietarychange has been the primary driver of global water consumption over the past 30years, a trend which is expected tocontinue well into the st middle ofthe 21 century.
Rising demand for energy and water isstrongly linked.
Power generation, fossil fuel extraction, transport and processing, and biofuel crop irrigation all consume large volumes of water.
Water used in energy production can also degrade freshwater resources by reducing the downstream volume and quality.
Energy is vital to provide fresh water, powering the systems that collect, transport, distribute and treat it.
After agriculture, energy production is the second largest water consumer worldwide.
Energy uses about 15% ofthe worlds total water withdrawal, but this is expected to rise by 20% by2035.
In recent years water shortages have shut down thermal power plants in India, affected energy production The oil and gas segment of the energy We expect several of our businesses inUS power plants and threatened market consists of three sectors: will see a continued fall in revenue hydropower electricity generation in upstream exploration and production, from upstream oil and gas projects.
many countries, including Sri Lanka, midstream storage, processing However, a combination of long-term China and Brazil.
anddistribution, and downstream growth in energy demand, rising oilrefining and raw gas processing.
capital expenditure in refining, The World Energy Council reports that Although industry analysts predict petrochemicals and pipelines in the energy demand growth is slowing and that oil prices will rise gradually during oiland gas midstream downstream that per capita energy demand will the next few years, the impact of the sectors, and in alternative energy peak before 2030.
New technology, heavy price downturn in 2014 is markets like wind farm power government policies and reduced continuing to limit capital investment generation, will offer growth and expectations of economic growth will by the oil majors in most regions.
diversification opportunities for our significantly affect the energy sector in During 2016 capital investment in businesses affected by the short-term coming decades.
Despite a levelling of upstream projects remained under oil price fall.
the per capita energy demand, global extreme pressure.
The deepest energy consumption will continue to upstream spending cuts have been As global demand for water resources rise due to population growth, rising inthe USA, but capital investment is becomes unsustainable, the value of affluence and urbanisation.
largely unchanged in Saudi Arabia conservation, improving efficiency andmost of the Middle East.
While global GDP is forecast to Investment continues in midstream and Several of our Environmental & double over the next 20 years, total downstream oil and gas storage and Analysis sector businesses operate energy demand is predicted to rise refinery projects where our Process inmarkets driven by the global trends byonly 30% due to technological Safety products have most exposure.
of rising demand for life-critical improvements in energy use and resources such as energy and water.
The large The oil price downturn is expected to Rising energy demand, and continued majority of the extra energy will be have a long-term effect on capital global investment in the key sectors of consumed in fast-growing emerging investment in the oil and gas sector traditional and unconventional energy economies: energy use within and the recent capital allocation trend sources, also drives demand for our developed economies is predicted has shifted towards shorter-cycle Process Safety products.
It is estimated that around US$620 billion of projects through to 2020 have been deferred or cancelled.
