Strategic Report Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Business Review Infrastructure Safety Our Infrastructure Safety sector improves the safety & mobility of people and protects infrastructure.
Paul Simmons Sector Chief Executive, Infrastructure Safety The areas in which we operate Revenue % of Group Profit % of sector total Fire detection Fire and smoke detectors, control panels, audible & visual warning devices, networked fire detectionsystems.
Fire suppression 33% 30% Systems to automatically extinguish fires.
Elevator safety Elevator lift door safety sensors, emergency Performance communication devices, Group displays and control panels KPIs 2017 target for elevators.
1 Revenue growth 19.0% People and vehicle flow 1 Organic revenue growth constant currency 6.9% 5% Sensors used on automatic 1 Profit growth 17.2% doors in public, commercial 1 Organic profit growth constant currency 7.2% 5% and industrial buildings andtransportation.
2 Return on Sales 20.7% 18% 3 R&D % of Revenue 5.7% 4% Security sensors Security sensors, motion devices and control panels Contribution to Group usedto protect commercial, residential and public buildings.
m 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Revenue 315 265 234 220 205 Profit 65 56 50 44 42 4 1 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared to the equivalent prior yearfigures.
4 2 Return on Sales is defined as adjusted sector profit before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
3 Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
4 Adjusted to remove the amortisation and impairment of acquired intangible assets and acquisition items see note 1 to theAccounts.
36 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Sector progress summary These growth drivers provide the panels expected to grow beyond The Infrastructure Safety sector potential for each of our sub-sectors thegeneral market growth rate.
delivered strong organic revenue and to grow at a faster rate than their Increased regulation continues to profit growth with revenue growth wider markets.
be important in the fire market.
across all geographic regions and most Forexample, Chinas fire regulator sub-sectors.
Record results in the Fire Technology trends across all sector CCCF will introduce more detection and People and vehicleflow businesses include the increasing stringent standards in the next few sub-sectors more than compensated inter-connectivity of devices and years.
A change to Underwriter for a more challenging year for the Fire systems, wireless technology and an Laboratories UL fire regulation suppression sub-sector.
increase in the use of cloud based requirements to deal with new applications to share data and types of fire and to eliminate Return on Sales and Return on Capital facilitate data analysis.
nuisance alarms will increase Employed remained comfortably detector specifications in 40% of above the Groups targets with good The combined effect of the market the global market by 2020.
Investment in R&D in growth drivers and technology trends global fire suppression market is absolute terms and as a percentage are reflected in each sub-sectors expected to grow at 5% per year ofsales continued to increase.
New market growth rates: the core of our People and vehicle sensing technologies, increased flow sub-sector is pedestrian product functionality and interthe global elevator market is sensing.
Our strategy of connectivity were the predominant expected to grow at around 6% per diversification into other themes in building the sectors new year.
The elevator refurbishment applications such as vehicle sensing product pipeline.
market is forecast to grow above and people counting is reducing that due to an ever-increasing ourdependence on the 4% growth Market trends and growth drivers installed base.
Due to the high cost global door market and providing The long-term growth drivers of global of fixed telephone lines, mobile higher growth opportunities population growth, urbanisation and telecommunications technology increasingly home owners are increasing health and safety regulation isincreasingly being utilised to looking to integrate their home worldwide remain central to our connect elevator cars to call centres security systems with the strategy.
We are also increasingly for emergency communications automation of other functions focusing on two additional drivers: andto facilitate data transmission ofproperty management, all for applications such as predictive controlled and monitored from the need for increased efficiency maintenance smart phones.
These connected inbuildings and people movement the fire detection market is systems are poised to deliver the need for protection from forecast to grow at over 5% annual growth of 9% as part of increasing threats to security annually with premium products thetotal security market growth such as multi-function sensors, of5% annually wireless detectors and networked 37 Strategic Report Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategy Geographic expansion remains a Business Review The Infrastructure Safety sector is priority.
We continue to strengthen focused on improving the safety and our teams and our product offerings Infrastructure Safety mobility of people and protecting inChina, India and South East Asia.
continued commercially and publicly owned These geographies are particularly infrastructure worldwide.
We target attractive due to their higher growth high return, niche markets that have rates and the support that the Halma low cyclicality and have high barriers hub infrastructure can provide.
Webuild our business globally While all sub-sectors enjoy positive by developing productsand services Our key strategic objectives to drive market growth worldwide, there are within our sector companies or by growth include: regional variations.
These are driven acquiring companies that are already byspecific local opportunities for acquiring companies to leaders intargeted, adjacent markets.
example vehicle inspection in China, strengthenour core technologies local changes in regulations for acquiring companies in The trend towards the interconnectivity example fire regulations changes adjacentniche markets of devices to form more intelligent orregional economic growth rates.
launching new products to systems is playing an increasingly Forexample, the fire detection createadditional value in important part in the sectors strategic marketis due to grow 12% per year existingand newapplications actions, with the opportunity to offer inIndia, 7% in China and below 5% developing new products to customers broader solutions than inthe USA and Europe.
expandour offerings along the simply detecting hazards.
Many sector digital value chain companies are well placed to generate The sectors regional companies can establishing R&D capabilities data and data analysis through their see changes within a geographic closeto our customers sensor technologies.
For example, the Chinese developing top talent and hiring driving increased collaboration elevator OEM supply market is very acapable and diverse team to betweenour companies asthey large but highly competitive.
The meetthe changing challenges in co-operate on joint development elevator service andrefurbishment ourmarkets programmes.
market in China ismuch less mature operational excellence and the and offers both higher margin and sharing of best practice to sustain higher growth opportunities.
Another growth in existing product areas example is theopportunity created for andmarket segments people flow technologies created by Chinas significant investment in its high-speed rail network.
Case study Natural History Museum The Natural History Museum in London is protected by our fire panels, installed at the heart of itsfire system.
Established in 1881, and comprising seven blocks, the museum is the third most popular in the United Kingdom.
Its irreplaceable 80 million strong collection of life and earth specimens is of global importance.
Due to their performance, quality and ease-of-use, and the fact that they were backward-compatible with parts of the system that were already installed, a network of 24fire panels from Advanced Electronics were used to help protect the building, itscontents and visitors.
38 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Case study London Underground There are up to 5 million passenger There are almost 200 lifts on the ofwhen it is safe to enter and leave journeys on London Underground network and the majority of them are thelift.
The edges keep passengers perday and over 1.3 billion a year.
now fitted with our edges, produced by safe, help meet the Equality Act by Avire.
The edges infra-red protection assisting partially-sighted users, and Our lift door safety edges help keep system protects passengers as they the visual indictor helps deter people London moving safely and efficiently.
They also flash green from the path of the doors, ensuring when opening and red when closing, efficiency of lift flight times and giving passengers a visual indication passenger service.
Performance Our recent acquisitions made Outlook Revenue grew by 19% to 315m asignificant impact on the sectors The strategic growth drivers of 2016:265m and profit by 17% to results.
Advanced Electronics population growth, urbanisation and 65m 2016: 56m.
Organic constant Firedetection, acquired in 2014, increasing regulation remain key to the currency revenue and organic constant performed above expectations.
Our new product pipeline is currency profit growth were both 7%.
In2015 we acquired Firetrace, our strong, with significant products specialist Fire suppression company.
dueto belaunched across multiple All geographic regions contributed The companys performance was sub-sectors in the next year.
As strongly to revenue growth.
Mainland below expectations and we made devices are becoming increasingly Europe grew by 29%, the US grew by senior management changes to interconnected, new opportunities 16% and the UK increased by 11%.
position the business for growth.
arebeing created which we are Growth outside these established positioned to exploit.
Consequently, markets was particularly encouraging Return on Capital Employed remained inthe medium-term we expect all at 20%.
high and well ahead of the Halma sub-sectors to grow at, or better than, minimum target of 45%.
There was market rates through the increased The Fire detection and People and significant investment in capitalised penetration ofcore markets and vehicle flow sub-sectors performed R&D programmes and substantial geographic expansion.
The Security and Elevator spend on targeted automation sub-sectors delivered a solid ofourmanufacturing processes.
The level of acquisition activity has performance, while the Fire Thebenefits of the investment in increased.
We expect acquisitions to suppression sub-sector declined.
automation contributed immediately both enhance ourtechnology offering in increased capacity and increased in our core markets and accelerate our New products played an important labour efficiency.
regional growth in core sub-sectors.
role in driving revenue growth.
A new Acquisitions also provide an generation laser product achieved Gross margins were maintained opportunity to build platforms rapid success in the People and vehicle andReturn on Sales was 20.7%, inadjacent sub-sectors.
The sector flow sub-sector and a new Fire afterincreased investment in R&D.
ispositioned to make further detection platform, consisting of Cash generation was strong.
multiple products complete with a new operating protocol, was launched.
39 Global insight A steady rise in the proportion of the global population aged over 60 drives demand for healthcare, in both developed and developing countries.
Population ageing is a key driver for our ophthalmology and hypertension managementbusinesses.
Key trends: worldwide population ageing and increasinglife expectancy increasing prevalence of diabetes,  increasing healthcare access in developingeconomies new medical diagnostic technologies new or improved surgical and  Our strategy We are focusing on enhancing the quality of life for patients and improving the quality of care delivered by providers.
Weserve niche applications in global markets.
By investing in our current portfolio, and through acquiring additional companies, we aim to deliver growth rates above Group KPI targets.
Business Review: Medical Local agility Reducing preventable blindness by enabling ophthalmology anywhere Volk Opticals Pictor Plus is a handheld digital imaging device that enables convenient Diabetic retinopathy is the most common cause and portable of sight loss for people with diabetes and is the ophthalmology to be leading cause of vision impairment and blindness used in any setting among adults of working age.
Early diagnosis is vital to successful treatment of the condition.
Volk Opticals Pictor Plus is a handheld digitalimaging device that enables convenient, portable ophthalmology in any setting.
It was developed to enable high resolution images of theretina and anterior segment, the front third ofthe eye, to be taken by General Practitioners, inoff-site clinics or during field work.
Significantly, its portability and ease-of-use means it can be used to diagnose conditions such as diabetic retinopathy earlierthan can often be the case.
