Governance Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 set out on page 77 and biographical outside the formal meeting.
This forum details of each Director are set out has proven useful for a number of years.
The Chairman and non-executive Directors also meet after each Board Independence Induction of new Directors meeting without executive Directors The Board has reviewed the Newly appointed non-executive present to ensure there is an independence of the Chairman and Directors follow a tailored induction opportunity to discuss potentially each non-executive Director and programme, which includes dedicated sensitive matters.
The Chief Executive considers the Chairman and all of time with Group executives and visits will join for part of these meetings at thenon-executive Directors to be to companies within each of the four least once per annum.
independent of management and free sectors.
from business or other relationships The Senior Independent Director that could interfere with the exercise Jo Harlow met with the Company meetswith the non-executive Directors ofindependent judgement.
The Board Secretary to review the tailored without the Chairman present, at least believes that any shares in the Company induction materials, which provide a annually, to evaluate the Chairmans held by the Chairman andnon-executive comprehensive overview of: the Group performance.
The Executives are Directors serve toaligntheir interests and the legal and organisational alsogiven the opportunity to meet with those oftheshareholders.
structure: the governance framework: with the Chairman and or the Senior TonyRice wasappointed as Senior the role of non-executive Director: key Independent Director separately.
Independent Director in July 2015. business contacts at Group, sector and Theoutcome of these meetings is fed operating company level: and details back to individuals by the Chairman, Time allocation ofthe external advisers.
In addition to Senior Independent Director or The Board benefits from the wide the latest Annual Report and Company ChiefExecutive, as appropriate.
variety of skills, experience and announcements, further materials such knowledge that each Director has.
as recent broker coverage, the last Re-election of Directors However, being available and Board evaluation and CEO conference All of the current Directors will stand committing sufficient time to the presentations were also provided.
for re-election, and in the case of Jo Company is essential and therefore Jomet the Chairman, Chief Executive Harlow and Jennifer Ward, election, the number of external directorships andFinance Director on a one-to-one atthe forthcoming AGM.
Following that a non-executive Director holds basis on her appointment and has the annual evaluation of the Board isan important consideration when subsequently met the other members and its Committees, all Directors recruiting and when performing the ofthe Board and Executive Board standing for election or re-election annual evaluation of non-executive alongwith senior managers from atthe AGM continue to be effective, Directors effectiveness.
HeadOffice functions and the sectors.
hold recent and relevant experience A varied programme of site visits to and continue to demonstrate Executive Directors are permitted to operating companies across the commitment to the role.
Biographical accept one external appointment, sectorswas arranged.
details of each Director standing for subject to the prior approval of the election or re-election are set out in Chairman.
Approval will only be given The Chairman reviews training and the Notice of Meeting.
where the appointment does not development needs of the Board, present a conflict of interest with the andeach individual Director, at least Liability insurance Groups activities and where the role annually.
Briefings and presentations Each Director is covered by isconsidered to be beneficial to the from subject specialists form part appropriate directors and officers development of the individual, which ofthe ongoing training needs for liability insurance, at the Companys will also benefit the Company.
In addition, there are Deeds of Indemnity in place, which provide an In addition to the scheduled Board Performance evaluation indemnity from the Company to the meetings six per year, non-executive The Board undertakes a formal Director in respect of any proceedings Directors are expected to attend the evaluation of its performance, and brought by third parties against AGM, the annual strategy meeting ofeach Director, on an annual basis.
Directors personally in their capacity and certain other Company events The principal Committees of the as Directors of the Company.
The and site visits throughout the year.
Board undertake an annual evaluation indemnity does not extend to certain Atime commitment of around of their effectiveness, in accordance areas, including: any liability to pay 20daysper annum is the anticipated with their terms of reference.
afine levied in criminal proceedings: requirement for each non-executive defending criminal proceedings where Director.
Confirmation is obtained on As in prior years, the Board met in the Director is convicted and such appointment from each non-executive January 2017 before its scheduled conviction is final: defending any civil Director that they can allocate meeting to provide a forum for proceedings brought by the Company sufficient time to the role.
Details of discussion of the Board evaluation or an associated company: or in any Board attendance during the year are proceedings for disqualification of theDirector.
Composition of the Board Board diversity 2 2 1 1 1 Non-executive Directors 60% 1 Men 60% 2 Executive Directors 40% 2 Women 40% 78 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance: Stakeholder engagement in action Operating companies Acquisition prospects The executive members of the Board andbusinesspartners have frequent contact with our Our M&A teams are in frequent companies and make regular visits dialogue with numerous businesses across all of the sectors.
The nonthat could be potential acquisition executive members of the Board carry prospects or business partners in out company visits as part of their the future.
The Executive Board induction and routinely thereafter.
take a strategic lead in driving the TheBoard members also engage with acquisition pipeline.
Our Executives Acquisition Operating our current and future business leaders act as the primary contact in M&A prospects and companies bytheir personal contributions to our discussions promoting the benefits business partners development programmes and their of working with Halma to business attendance at the annual Leadership owners and evaluating the cultural Conference and biennial HITEx event.
and strategic fit with our Group.
This regular interaction between the Board and the businesses provides avital channel of communication Engaging with andforum for open dialogue, which our stakeholders encourages the sharing of knowledge and experience.
Employees Shareholders Good communication with employees We regularly engage with our isa key requirement to support an shareholders through a variety Shareholders Employees agileapproach to business and ofevents and media.
Being part of during the year include: investor theHalma group means that all of results presentations and ourbusinesses benefit from grouproadshows, the Annual General widecommunications, policies and Meeting, investor & analyst site visit, initiatives, and participation in our investor conferences and institutional annual global engagement survey.
Inaddition to TheBoard engage with employees regulatory news announcements, through a wide range of development weprovide updates to shareholders programmes and regular site visits.
via our website, blog, press releases, Werecognise that our people are a social media, YouTube channel and valuable asset and talent development ourAnnual and Half Year Reports.
is a key driverof our financial success.
Strategy in action: Investor & analyst site visit to Apollo Fire Detectors In September 2016, Andrew Williams hosted a site visit for institutional investors and analysts at Apollo Fire Detectors in Havant, UK.
The objective of the day was to give investors anin-depth view of both Halma's largest sector Infrastructure Safety and its largest company.
Apollo is one of the world's largest manufacturers of smoke detectors, modules andnotification devices.
Throughout the day, investors were given an insight into how our businesses have continued to deliver growth and strong returns in competitive global markets and how this has been underpinned by its investment in innovation, talent and international expansion.
A summary of the presentation, including the slides and a video of the investor day, is available on our website: www.
com investors We keep our stakeholders updated through our website, blog, press releases, social media and YouTube channel: www.
