AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 04 OUR GLOBAL FOOTPRINT AVEVA OPERATES IN 30 COUNTRIES, ENABLING US TO SUPPORT CUSTOMERS LOCALLY ACROSS ALL OF THE WORLDS MAJOR ECONOMIES.
OUR MARKETS Our products are most applicable in industries where scale and complexity are the greatest challenge.
These include: Oil & Gas, EMEA Marine, Power, Petrochemical & Chemical, and other markets such as AEC Fabrication, Paper & Pulp, Mining and Pharmaceuticals.
106.6M Key Oil & Gas ASIA PACIFIC Marine AMERICAS Power 76.3M 32.9M Petrochemical & Chemical Other Oil & Gas Marine Power Oil & Gas accounts for around Marine accounts for Power accounts for some 4045% of revenue.
Our customers include nine out of Our customers include nine customers include many ten of the worlds leading Oil & out of ten of the worlds leading EPCs and power Gas EPCs and the majority of largest shipyards.
the largest Oil & Gas companies.
STRATEGIC REPORT 05 CUSTOMER PROPOSITION Our products are most applicable in industries where scale and complexity are the greatest challenge.
Our success has been built on strong, long-term relationships with our customers, often spanning several decades.
These relationships enable us to fully understand the industries we serve and ensure that our technology development strategy meets and anticipates our customers developing needs.
Engineering & Design Our software enables effective collaboration, increased confidence in engineering decisions, and the ability to manage change fast.
For example, all collaborators can access and update one integrated system, change is managed quickly to avoid unnecessary iterations, and zero-clash modelling can be achieved by including laser data directly within the design.
Procure EMEA Our customers can keep information consistent across global engineering, design, materials management and procurement teams.
For example, 106.6M it is possible to define and control materials efficiently to avoid reworks, as well as the ability to share procurement contract management details within a centralised system to avoid disputes.
Build Customers can increase the transparency of ASIA PACIFIC their construction processes with integration AMERICAS at all levels of the workforce.
Our tools give managers better control through integrated 76.3M workforce planning, enabling the right resources 32.9M and the materials to be in place to maximise time, and accommodating changes easily.
Revamp and refit Our tools make planning and implementing modifications quicker and easier, increasing efficiency and minimising downtime.
The immersive 3D environment and real-time, integrated laser scanning capabilities allow asset and project information to be integrated, so revamps can be planned and deployed confidently.
Operate Customers can minimise operational risk, improve change management and increase asset intelligence using one easily accessible contextual digital information source.
Change is managed effectively, as the physical asset is synchronised with its digital equivalent.
This gives engineers a clear picture of full information context for all decisions in both normal and critical situations.
Handover Petrochemical & Chemical Other markets Our customers can save time during familiarisation Petrochemical & Chemical Other markets account for and streamline project handover from the EPCaccount for approximately 10% approximately 10% of revenue.
managed phase to commissioning and startof revenue.
Our customers In these markets AVEVAs up.
For example, information is contextualised include many of the worlds products drive efficiencies in within the 3D world, saving valuable time during leading chemical companies.
complex and more technically familiarisation and the cost of information sophisticated projects.
handover management is reduced to near zero.
AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 06 50 YEARS OF INNOVATION TH The Companys original mission, to develop computer-aided AVEVA IS NOW INTO ITS 50 YEAR, HAVING design techniques for use by British industry, has been BEEN FOUNDED IN 1967 AS A GOVERNMENTachieved and indeed greatly exceeded.
The Group now FUNDED RESEARCH INSTITUTE CREATED BY operates in 30 countries across the globe and provides THE THEN UK MINISTRY OF TECHNOLOGY the design technology that has created countless AT CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY.
2001 Worlds first plant design system for concurrent global project execution PDMS Global.
2001 CADCentre changes its name to AVEVA.
2002 AVEVA introduces 1976 3D streaming technology Worlds first 3D Plant to view plant models.
Design and Management System PDMS with 2004 object-based engineering AVEVA acquires Tribon Solutions, database.
the leading marine design software and services provider.
1979 Worlds first intelligent P&ID system PEGS A model of a process plant being interactively designed in PDMS.
The ground-breaking REVIEW system 1983 provided real-time interactive 3D graphics, CADCentre becomes a enabling project teams to quickly become private company.
1988 Worlds first plant walk-through visualisation system.
Installed at CADCentre in 1967, the Atlas 2 computer represented the state-of-the-art 1992 in processing power both in British and in Worlds first interactive worldwide computing.
full colour shaded plant design system.
1996 CADCentre Group plc listed on London Stock Exchange.
1997 Worlds first Internet-based HyperPlant pioneered the use of Internet collaborative plant design technology to provide remote online solution HyperPlant.
access to plant models created in PDMS.
1967-1979 1980-1999 2000-2005 STRATEGIC REPORT 07 2010 AVEVA acquires Logimatic MARS and ADB Systemer AS.
2011 AVEVA acquires Z F UK Ltd LFM Software, adding next-generation laser-scanning capability to our product suite.
2012 AVEVA acquires Bocad, adding advanced structural AVEVA pioneered the development of laser detailing software to AVEVAs scanning technology.
AVEVA Everything3D is the Companys next- 2012 generation process plant design system.
AVEVA acquires the classleading 3D visualisation technology of Global Majic Software Inc. CADCentre changed its name to AVEVA in 2001.
2013 AVEVA Everything3D AVEVA E3D launched, the next generation of plant design software.
2014 2006 AVEVA launches AVEVA AVEVA enters the FTSE 250 on E3D Insight, the worlds the London Stock Exchange.
first tablet app for project review and approval.
2006 AVEVA Engage utilises a uniquely simple touch- 2015 AVEVA launches Laser Model driven interface to provide unrivalled decision AVEVA acquires 8over8, Interface, providing the support through the life of an industrial asset.
provider of contractual risk worlds first direct interaction management solutions for with laser-scanned 3D organisations that design, plant models.
build and operate high 2008 value assets.
AVEVA announces worlds first open standards-based 2015 integration of P&ID and AVEVA acquires FabTrol, 3D design modelling.
a provider of fabrication management software for 2009 structural steel fabricators.
AVEVA combines its information management solutions into the 2015 single brand AVEVA NET.
AVEVA releases AVEVA Engage, a ground- 2009 breaking new class of AVEVA acquires decision support solution.
iDesignOffice Pty Ltd. 2016 AVEVA announces AVEVA Connect, its delivery platform for the Digital Asset in the Cloud.
AVEVA E3D Insight was the worlds first Windows 8.1 touchscreen app for project review and approval of AVEVA design models.
