AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 08 STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK NOTWITHSTANDING THE CYCLICAL HEADWINDS IN END MARKETS THAT AVEVA HAS EXPERIENCED IN THE RECENT PAST, WE EXPECT OUR STRATEGY TO DELIVER SOLID ORGANIC GROWTH INTO THE LONG TERM.
Strategic priority What we said What we did AVEVAs core sales are in the area of 3D Plant We see a major market We grew MT3D sales strongly during the year with 1 MT3D and Marine design.
We aim to grow sales of opportunity in leveraging our an increase of 2.1% on a constant currency basis.
26% other design tools such as AVEVA Electrical, customer base by selling Sales of our wider product suite have been a feature More than 3D Revenues from AVEVA Engineering and information additional engineering software of this years key customer wins, with, for example, MT3D in 2017 management tools such as AVEVA NET to tools, outside of AVEVAs core the AVEVA NET and AVEVA Engage information address the whole life cycle of industrial assets.
management tools helping to strengthen our offer to OOs.
OOs such as energy and power generation A significant market opportunity AVEVAs sales to OOs also grew strongly during the Our strategy is to increase 2 OWNER companies currently account for only 16% is developing as OOs increasingly year, increasing 5.4% on a constant currency basis.
revenues by expanding the 16% of our revenue.
adopt Digital Assets to help them addressable market as the We won some impressive new customer logos OPERATORS manage their physical assets Revenues from concept of the Digital Asset from our competitors during the year, which throughout their life cycles.
Owner Operators is more widely adopted, demonstrates the strength of our technology in 2017 to sell a wider range of offering for OOs.
products, and to grow in industry and geographic verticals where the Groups market share is underweight, versus the strength of its AVEVA generates almost 50% of its revenue We intend to grow our AVEVA performed well in our target growth markets 3 GROWTH product offering.
This largely reflects our heritage revenues in key markets such during the year.
We enjoyed success in North 18.9% as a UK-based company and indicates an as the USA, the Middle East and America, where our local strategy of leading with MARKETS Constant currency This strategy is organised opportunity to take a larger share of the China, using the competitive sales to OOs and of MT3D products is working well revenue growth in around the pillars shown global market.
advantages that our products and resulted in key new customer wins, including North America opposite of More than 3D, offer.
Southern Company and one of the worlds leading Owner Operators, Growth industrial conglomerates.
Although we continue to Markets, Broadening Market see growth potential in China, our business there Exposure and Software as a performed less well during the year, while achieving Service SaaS and the Cloud.
a solid performance in the Middle East.
Link to KPIs AVEVAs core heritage is Oil & Gas and We aim to grow our market share We achieved key new customer wins in the 4 Our success in executing our BROADENING particularly upstream, offshore.
However, our in industries beyond our core Oil Power market.
strategy ultimately feeds into 10.0% technology is well suited to a wide range of & Gas and Marine markets.
We grew revenues from Fabrication strongly.
our KPIs see page 21 which MARKET Constant currency industries, offering exciting growth track our long-term aim of increase in steel opportunities.
EXPOSURE delivering sustainable, fabrication revenue profitable growth.
in 2017 James Kidd Chief Executive Officer We intend to unify all of our applications onto a While AVEVAs business model We launched our first public Cloud products 5 SAAS AND common Cloud platform to enhance ease of already has the high level of AVEVA Connect and AVEVA NET Connect at 77% customer adoption and address a wider recurring subscription revenues the AVEVA World Summit in October 2016.
THE CLOUD AVEVAs recurring customer base.
typically associated with Cloud We will soon be launching our Information revenues in 2017 delivery, we aim to be Standards Management ISM software in technologically ready to offer our the Cloud.
products on a SaaS model in response to customer demand.
STRATEGIC REPORT 09 Strategic priority What we said What we did AVEVAs core sales are in the area of 3D Plant We see a major market We grew MT3D sales strongly during the year with 1 MT3D and Marine design.
OOs such as energy and power generation A significant market opportunity AVEVAs sales to OOs also grew strongly during the 2 OWNER companies currently account for only 16% is developing as OOs increasingly year, increasing 5.4% on a constant currency basis.
adopt Digital Assets to help them We won some impressive new customer logos OPERATORS manage their physical assets Revenues from from our competitors during the year, which throughout their life cycles.
Owner Operators demonstrates the strength of our technology in 2017 offering for OOs.
AVEVA generates almost 50% of its revenue We intend to grow our AVEVA performed well in our target growth markets 3 GROWTH from EMEA.
We enjoyed success in North 18.9% as a UK-based company and indicates an as the USA, the Middle East and America, where our local strategy of leading with MARKETS Constant currency opportunity to take a larger share of the China, using the competitive sales to OOs and of MT3D products is working well revenue growth in global market.
advantages that our products and resulted in key new customer wins, including North America offer.
Southern Company and one of the worlds leading industrial conglomerates.
Although we continue to see growth potential in China, our business there performed less well during the year, while achieving a solid performance in the Middle East.
AVEVAs core heritage is Oil & Gas and We aim to grow our market share We achieved key new customer wins in the 4 BROADENING particularly upstream, offshore.
10.0% technology is well suited to a wide range of & Gas and Marine markets.
MARKET Constant currency industries, offering exciting growth increase in steel opportunities.
EXPOSURE fabrication revenue in 2017 We intend to unify all of our applications onto a While AVEVAs business model We launched our first public Cloud products 5 SAAS AND common Cloud platform to enhance ease of already has the high level of AVEVA Connect and AVEVA NET Connect at 77% customer adoption and address a wider recurring subscription revenues the AVEVA World Summit in October 2016.
