58 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS' REPORT: GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION POLICY FIGURE 1: EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE TO BE APPROVED ON 11 JULY This report sets out the Companys policy Base salary Bene ts on remuneration for executive and non-executive directors, to be approved ELEMENT by shareholders at the AGM on 1 1 July 2017, PURPOSE To attract, retain and motivate To provide market-competitive benets from which date the policy will apply.
The AND LINK TO high calibre executives needed which drive employee engagement policy remains largely unchanged from STRATEGY to deliver our strategy and drive and commitment in our business.
that approved by shareholders in 2014: business performance.
for transparency, where amendments have been made these are highlighted.
Once approved, this policy may operate for up to three years.
Directors are eligible to receive As previously, the Committee has built in a benets in line with our policies Reviewed annually by the degree of exibility to ensure the practical which may include: Committee considering a number application of the policy over this period.
A car or cash allowance: of factors, including: A driver: and Where such discretion is reserved, the extent Salary increases awarded to other Life assurance.
to which it may be applied is described.
employees in the wider workforce which are typically reviewed Where appropriate, our Global The Companys policy remains to attract, annually on a similar basis: and Domestic Mobility Policy may apply.
retain and motivate its leaders and ensure Comparable salaries in This may include, but not be limited they are focused on delivering business appropriate comparator groups.
to, travel, relocation and tax equalisation allowances.
priorities within a framework designed to Salaries reect the experience, promote the long-term success of M&S, responsibility and contribution of the Directors are off ered a number of aligned with shareholder interests.
individual and role within the Group.
other benets in line with all other employees, such as employee CHANGE FOR 2017 Further information regarding the discount and salary sacrifice Appropriate comparator groups implementation of the previous remuneration schemes such as Cycle2Work.
may include major retailers and policy is set out on pages 66 to 77. similarly-sized listed companies Directors may participate in a Save which may be ranked outside of As You Earn Scheme and a Share the FTSE 25-75.
Incentive Plan and any other KEY CHANGES TO THE POLICY all-employee share schemes on the same terms as other employees.
Base salaries will be Base salary compared against major retailers and appropriately-sized listed companies which MAXIMUM may be outside of those While there is no set maximum, While there is no set maximum, any OPPORTUNITY ranked FTSE 25-75. any increases are normally in line bene ts will be provided at a rate Previously, the peer with those in the wider workforce.
group comprised FTSE Individual adjustments in excess Maximum participation in 25-75 ranked companies.
of this may be made outside of this all-employee share schemes is This change re ects cycle at the discretion of the in line with local statutory limits.
Such circumstances can include: Maximum cash Where the role scope has changed: Pension payments will be limited Where comparable salaries in the bene ts to 25% for all current external market have changed: or executive directors and To apply salary progression for to 20% for all future newly appointed directors.
This reduction better re ects pension arrangements PERFORMANCE in the wider workforce.
N A N A CONDITIONS To further support Performance shareholder alignment, a Share Plan two-year holding period post vesting will apply to any awards granted to executive directors after the 2017 AGM.
Performance conditions may now include quanti able nonfinancial or strategic measures.
Previously, performance conditions were limited to financial measures only.
This change will ensure strategic alignment of the PSP.
59 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 Pension bene ts Annual Bonus Scheme including Performance Share Plan PSP Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP To attract and retain high calibre To drive annual profitability, strategic change and Measured against the key financial drivers executives through a commitment to individual performance in line with the business plan.
of the business plan to deliver sustainable responsible, secure retirement funding value creation.
To recognise and reward individual contributions to in line with our Company values.
To encourage long-term shareholding to retain directors, and provide greater alignment The deferral into shares provides alignment with shareholders with shareholders interests.
long-term interests following the successful delivery of short-term targets.
Current directors may participate Directors are eligible to participate in this The Companys principal long-term incentive in the Your M&S Pension Saving non-contractual, discretionary scheme.
scheme, approved by shareholders in 2015.
Plan a dened contribution Payments are made subject to the satisfaction Directors are eligible to participate in this arrangement or an alternative of predetermined targets set at the start of the non-contractual, discretionary plan.
pension saving vehicle that the year, as approved by the Committee.
Company may off er, on the same Directors may receive an annual award terms as all other employees or Not less than 50% of any bonus earned is paid in deferred which vests after three years subject to receive a cash supplement in lieu shares under the DSBP, with the remainder payable in cash.
of pension contributions into Deferred shares vest after a period of three years subject to Clawback and malus rules apply to awards this scheme.
continued service, but no further performance conditions.
Clawback and malus rules apply to cash and DSBP Good leaver and change of control provisions awards respectively, see explanatory notes page 60 apply see explanatory notes.
The value of any dividends during the vesting Good leaver and change of control provisions apply period will be payable.
see explanatory notes to the deferred shares see explanatory notes.
CHANGE FOR 2017 Awards granted after 11 July 2017 will be The value of any dividends during the deferred period subject to a further two-year holding period will be payable see explanatory notes.
Directors may sell The Committee retains the right to exercise discretion, suffi cient shares to satisfy the tax liability both upwards and downwards, to ensure that the level on exercise but must retain the net number of award payable is appropriate and fair in the context of of shares until the end of this two-year period.
the directors individual performance and the Companys overall performance.
Where exercised, the rationale for this discretion will be fully disclosed to shareholders in the subsequent Annual Report.
A maximum cash payment of 25% of A maximum annual potential of up to 200% of salary.
The maximum value of shares at grant which salary for current executive directors.
can be made under an award to an individual in respect of a financial year is 300% of salary.
A maximum employer contribution of 12% of salary where the employee contributes 6% of salary.
CHANGE FOR 2017 The cash alternative provided to current executive directors will be limited to 25% of salary for all directors.
For directors appointed to the Board after 11 July 2017, the cash alternative will be up to a maximum of 20% of salary for all directors.
N A Quanti able one-year performance measures and Performance is measured over a three-year targets are set by the Committee around financial period against a balanced scorecard of and individual objectives linked with the sustainable appropriate measures as determined by the delivery of the business plan.
This currently includes EPS and ROCE chosen as those measures which Financial performance measures comprise at least support and drive top-line and bottom-line 50% of awards and may include, but not be limited performance in line with business strategy, to Group PBT after adjusted items.
as well as Total Shareholder Return TSR.
Typically, no payment for individual objectives can The threshold level of vesting is 20% of be earned unless a threshold level of Group PBT after the maximum.
adjusted items has been achieved.
This threshold level is set by the Committee taking into account the previous For performance between threshold and years performance and the business operating plan maximum, awards vest on a straight-line basis.
CHANGE FOR 2017 Awards may be measured against For threshold performance, up to 40% currently 30% appropriate financial, nonfinancial and or of maximum bonus potential may be payable for the strategic measures.
Financial measures achievement of individual objectives.
comprise at least 50% of awards.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 60 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS' REPORT: GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED FIGURE 2: POLICY TABLE Executive directors may be in receipt of awards under share plans outside of the current remuneration framework detailed on pages 58 and 59: these may have been awarded upon recruitment or prior to their appointment as an executive director.
While awards under these plans do not form part of a forward-looking policy, for transparency, details of the plans are set out in the table below: PURPOSE AND MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE ELEMENT LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY CONDITIONS To enable the recruitment Restricted awards may be granted While there is no The Committee may Restricted of key directors who are for the recruitment of directors.
maximum set in the choose to apply no Share Plan necessary to the delivery rules, the Committee formal performance Awards vest after a restricted period, which RSP of business strategy.
considers the scale conditions save for can vary by award but is typically between and structure continued service.
of awards on an Malus provisions, good leaver and change of individual basis.
control provisions apply see pages 60 and 63.
The value of any dividends during the restricted period will be payable see explanatory notes below.
Measured against the key Approved by shareholders and HMRC in 2015, Awards are capped Awards vest subject Executive drivers of our business the Committee may choose to award share at 250% of salary in to at least three-year Share Option plan to deliver sustainable options to directors if appropriate.
respect of any predetermined Scheme ESOS value creation.
financial year of performance Malus provisions, good leaver and change of the Company conditions.
To encourage long-term control provisions apply see pages 60 and 63. but in recruitment shareholding to retain circumstances awards Options are normally exercised between the third directors, and provide may be granted up and tenth anniversaries of grant, subject to the greater alignment with to a higher limit of achievement of any performance conditions shareholders' interests.
EXPLANATORY NOTES The Committee reserves the right to In the event of a variation of the Company's allow the Committee, in its absolute make any remuneration payments share capital or a demerger, special dividend discretion, to determine at any time prior notwithstanding that they are not in line or other event which in the Committee's to the vesting of an award to reduce the with the Policy set out above, where the opinion may aff ect the price of shares, the number of shares, cancel an award or terms of the payment were agreed at Committee may alter the terms of awards impose further conditions on an award in a time when the relevant individual was and the number of shares subject to them.
circumstances for which the Committee not a director of the Company and, in the The terms of awards may be amended in considers such action to be appropriate.
opinion of the Committee, the payment accordance with the relevant plan rules Such circumstances may include, but not was not in consideration of the individual which were approved by shareholders be limited to, a material misstatement of becoming a director of the Company.
on 7 July 2015. the Companys audited results.
For these purposes, payments include the Any performance conditions applicable In addition, clawback provisions were Committee satisfying awards of variable to PSP and ESOS awards may be amended introduced in 2015 and apply to cash remuneration and, in relation to an award by the Committee if an event occurs payments made under the Annual Bonus over shares, the terms of the payment are which causes it to consider that the Scheme.
Awards made under any of the agreed at the time the award is granted.
performance condition would not achieve Companys other executive share schemes its original purpose and the amended including the Performance Share Plan in Awards granted under the PSP, DSBP, and performance condition is, in the opinion 2015 and onwards will similarly be subject to RSP can be made in the form of conditional of the Committee, no less diffi cult to clawback provisions.
These provisions share awards, forfeitable shares, options satisfy but for the event in question.
enable the Committee, in its absolute or rights with the same economic eff ect.
discretion, to reclaim awards paid to In addition, awards may be settled in cash.
CLAWBACK AND MALUS individuals for up to three years after the Awards may incorporate the right to receive respective vesting or payment date or up M&S is committed to ensuring its in cash and shares the value of dividends, to two years in the case of PSP awards remuneration arrangements motivate including any dividend tax credit where where speci ed events occur.
The speci ed participants to strive for exceptional applicable, between grant and vesting on events include gross misconduct or where performance while also protecting the shares that vest.
This amount may be a material misstatement of the Companys shareholder value from the Company calculated on a cumulative basis, assuming financial statements has occurred.
As such, clawback the reinvestment of dividends into shares.
Clawback may be eff ected, among other and malus provisions apply to the executive means, by requiring the transfer of shares, directors incentive arrangements.
All share payment of cash or reduction of awards.
awards granted from 2013 onwards are subject to malus provisions.
These provisions 61 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 EXPLANATORY NOTES CONTINUED PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS AND REMUNERATION FRAMEWORK FOR The HR Director consults on all executive TARGET SETTING THE REST OF THE ORGANISATION director bonus objectives and advises the Committee on how, and the extent to which, The Committee reviews annually the M&Ss philosophy is to provide a fair and these may be cascaded throughout the measures, weightings and targets for the consistent approach to pay.
In approving the budget for the incentive arrangements for the executive is determined by level and is broadly aligned annual bonus, the Committee reviews all directors.
In doing so, the Committee with those of the executive directors.
bonus costs for the Company against the considers a number of factors which assist Base salaries are reviewed annually and operating plan.
The Committee also reviews in forming a view.
These include, but are not re ect the local labour market.
and approves any PSP awards made to limited to, the strategic priorities for M&S executive directors and directors below over the shortto long-term, shareholder All UK employees are eligible to participate the Board prior to their grant.
feedback, the risk pro le of the business in the Your M&S Pension Saving Plan on and the macro-economic climate.
the same terms as the executive directors.
The Committee also receives updates on a In addition, all UK employees are provided variety of employee engagement initiatives The Annual Bonus Scheme is measured with life insurance and employee discount, which form part of our normal employee against a balance of pro tability and and may choose to participate in the engagement practices.
Employees were not the delivery of key strategic areas of Companys all-employee share schemes consulted on the development of the policy.
The and salary sacri ce arrangements.
The annual Your Say employee survey pro tability measure used is Group PBT asks employees about the fairness and before adjusted items as this is used All employees are eligible to be considered reasonableness of employee pay and internally to report and assess business to participate in an annual bonus scheme benets.
Any comments made through performance by the Board and Operating which for the majority will be a cash-based this survey or through our network of Committee.
Refer to the glossary on pages payment partially determined by Group elected employee representatives via 133 to 134 for the fide nition of Group PBT PBT performance.
For M&Ss most senior our Business Involvement Groups are before adjusted items, and to Note 1 of the executives, part of the bonus is deferred considered.
The Head of Performance & financial statements for a description of into shares for three years.
Reward annually provides these employee adjusted items.
Around the top 120 of M&Ss senior representatives with an explanation of the The PSP is assessed against a balance of executives may be invited to participate Companys reward principles and director measures identi ed as those most relevant in the PSP, measured against the same pay arrangements during the year, and is to driving both sustainable top-line and performance conditions as executive available to answer questions at this time.
bottom-line business performance, as directors.
Award levels granted are well as providing value for shareholders.
determined to be aligned with market CONSIDERATION OF This is re ected in the EPS and ROCE practice and re ect an individuals level SHAREHOLDER VIEWS measures which focus on a balance of of seniority as well as their performance The Committee is committed to an pro tability, cost control and the effi cient and potential within the business.
open and transparent dialogue with its use of capital investment.
shareholders on the issue of executive CONSIDERATION OF WIDER For 2017 18, relative TSR will be introduced remuneration.
Where appropriate, WORKFORCE PAY to ensure focus on the value delivered to the Committee will actively engage The Committee monitors and reviews the shareholders.
This is measured against a with shareholders and shareholder eff ectiveness of the senior remuneration bespoke group of retail companies which representative bodies, seeking views policy and has regard to its impact and are believed to provide a balanced portfolio which may be considered when making compatibility with remuneration policies of those most likely to be alternative any decisions about changes to the in the wider workforce.
The Committee is provided throughout Targets are set against the respective annual The Committee seeks the views of the the year with information detailing pay in and long-term operating plans taking into largest shareholders individually and the wider workforce which gives additional account analysts forecasts, M&Ss strategic others through shareholder representative context for the Committee to make plans, prior year performance, estimated bodies when considering making any informed decisions.
The HR Director advises vesting levels and the aff ordability of pay significant changes to the Remuneration the Committee of the approach which will arrangements.
Targets are set to provide Policy: this may be done annually or on an be adopted with the forthcoming UK pay a sustainable balance of risk and reward ad hoc basis, dependent upon the issue.
review and the Committee then considers to ensure that, while being motivational The Committee annually engages in a the executive directors pay in line with for participants, maximum payments are process of investor consultation, which these arrangements.
only made for exceptional performance.
is typically in written format, but may be through face-to-face meetings etc.
The Committee Chairman is available to answer questions at the AGM and the answers to specic questions are posted on our website.
As part of our socially responsible reporting strategy, an annual shareholder meeting is normally held and the consideration of views on a variety of topics, including executive pay, is taken into account.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 62 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS' REPORT: GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED RECRUITMENT POLICY The table below sets out the Companys In addition, the Committee in exceptional The rationale for any such component policy on the recruitment of new executive circumstances has discretion to include any would be appropriately disclosed.
Similar considerations may also other remuneration component or award For example, for internal promotional apply where a director is promoted within which it feels is appropriate, considering appointments to the Board, the Committee the Board.
the specic circumstances of the would honour any pre-existing contractual individual, subject to the limit on remuneration arrangements: these variable remuneration set out below.
arrangements may be outside of the policy detailed on pages 58 to 65.
FIGURE 3: RECRUITMENT POLICY ELEMENT RECRUITMENT POLICY The Committee will take into consideration a number of factors, including the current pay for other executive directors, Salary external market forces, skills and current level of pay at the previous employer, in determining the pay on recruitment.
For new appointments to the Board, the Committee may set the rate of pay at the lower end of the rate for other directors and or other comparable roles within the market with the intention of applying staged increases.
The Committee will off er a package which is set in line with our policy to appropriately reect the circumstances of the individual.
Bene ts Maximum contribution in line with our policy for future executive directors up to 20% of salary.
Pension bene ts Annual Eligible to take part in the Annual Bonus Scheme with a maximum bonus of 200% of salary in line with our policy for executive directors.
Bonus Scheme PSP An award of up to 300% of salary in line with our policy for executive directors.
Where an individual forfeits outstanding variable pay opportunities or contractual rights at a previous employer as a result of Buy-out appointment, the Committee may off er compensatory payments or buy-out awards, dependent on the individual circumstances awards of recruitment, determined on a case-by-case basis.
The Committee in its judgement normally intends that any such payments are made on a like-for-like basis and considers issues such as the plan type, time horizons and valuation of the forfeited awards.
The Committees intention would be to ensure that the expected value awarded will be no greater than the expected value forfeited by the individual.
Where appropriate, the Committee may choose to apply performance conditions to any of these awards.
SERVICE CONTRACTS It is the Companys policy that all executive directors have rolling service contracts that can be terminated by the Company giving 12 months notice and the employee giving six months notice.
The directors service contracts are available for shareholder inspection at the Companys registered ofce.
63 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 TERMINATION POLICY TERMINATION POLICY or may choose to place the individual on determined on an individual basis and are garden leave.
Such a decision would be in the best interests of the Company and The Company may terminate the contract made to ensure the protection of the shareholders at that time, and reect the of any executive director summarily in Companys and shareholders interests directors contractual and other legal rights.
accordance with the terms of their service where the individual has had access to agreement, on payment in lieu of notice of commercially sensitive information.
CORPORATE EVENTS a sum equal to salary, benets and pension as per their contractual notice entitlement In the event of a change of control or The table below sets out key provisions see page 75. winding-up of the Company, unvested share for directors leaving the Company under awards will normally vest on the date that their service contracts and the incentive The Company can make a series of phased the Board noties participants of such an plan rules.
payments which are paid in monthly event.
The number of shares which may instalments, subject to mitigation.
This The Companys policy towards exit payments vest under awards in these circumstances mechanism allows for the amount of any allows for a variety of circumstances will be subject to any relevant performance phased payments to be reduced by the whereby a director may leave the business.
conditions and, in the case of PSP awards, income from any alternative position In some cases, where deemed suitable, the unless the Committee determines secured by the former director during Committee reserves the right to determine otherwise, time pro-rating.
exit payments, where the director leaves by In the event of a demerger, special dividend mutual agreement.
In all circumstances, Service agreements may be terminated or other event which, in the opinion of the the Committee does not intend to reward without notice and without any payments Committee aff ects the price of shares, failure and will make decisions based on the in certain circumstances, such as gross the Committee may allow some or all of individual circumstances.
The Company may require the an award to vest.
objective is that any such agreements are individual to work during their notice period, FIGURE 4: KEY PROVISIONS UPON CONTRACT TERMINATION ELEMENT TERMINATION POLICY Payment will be made up to the termination date in line with relevant contractual notice periods.
Salary, bene ts and pension bene ts There is no contractual entitlement to payments under the Annual Bonus Scheme.
Should a director be under notice or not in active Annual service at either the relevant year end or on the date of payment, there will be no entitlement to any bonus payment, either in cash Bonus or shares.
The Committee may use its discretion as described below to make a bonus award, which is normally pro-rated for time Scheme worked during the relevant financial year and based on performance assessed at the end of the bonus period.
Where a director ceases to be an officer or employee of the Group before the end of the relevant vesting period, the treatment Long-term of outstanding awards is determined in accordance with the plan rules.
incentive In some circumstances, where a director leaves due to retirement, injury, ill-health, death or the sale of the directors employing awards company or business out of the Group, or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee and in accordance with the plan rules, DSBP awards normally vest in full on cessation: PSP and ESOS awards which have been held for at least 12 months normally vest when the level of performance has been assessed and agreed at the end of the three-year performance period.
The Committee may determine these awards vest upon cessation as permitted in the plan rules.
In either circumstance, any relevant performance conditions would still apply to the PSP and ESOS awards and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, would be time pro-rated and subject to the two-year holding period post vesting.
Where a director has been recruited either to the Company or the Board from overseas, the Company may pay for repatriation.
Repatriation The Company may reimburse for reasonable legal fees in the event a director leaves by mutual consent.
It may also pay for Legal professional outplacement services in these circumstances.
expenses and outplacement FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 64 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS' REPORT: GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION POLICY The table below sets out our policy for the operation of non-executive directors' fees and benets at the Company.
FIGURE 5: NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS' REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE Chairmans Non-executive Additional Bene ts fees director basic fee fees ELEMENT PURPOSE To provide a fair fee at a level To provide a fair basic fee To provide compensation To facilitate the execution AND LINK TO that attracts and retains at a rate that attracts and to non-executive directors of responsibilities and duties STRATEGY a high-calibre Chairman.
retains high-calibre taking on additional Board required by the role.
OPERATION Total fee comprised of Fees are paid in equal Additional fees are paid In addition to the annual the non-executive director monthly instalments for extra responsibilities fee, the Chairman may be basic fee and the additional and may be made in cash undertaken by entitled to the use of a car fee for undertaking the role.
for the role of Board Paid in equal monthly Fees are determined by In line with other Chairman, a committee instalments: may be made the Chairman and employees, the Chairman chairman or the Senior in cash and or shares.
and non-executive Independent Director role.
directors receive employee Fees are determined by the The fee level recognises the product discount.
scope of the role and time benets are provided.
Fees reect the time The Chairman and commitment, demands and Reviewed annually taking non-executive directors responsibility of the role.
into account market do not participate in practice in appropriate pension or performanceReviewed annually, taking comparator groups related schemes.
into account market e. g. major retailers, practice in appropriate appropriately-sized comparator groups, listed companies, etc.. e. g. major retailers, appropriately-sized listed The maximum aggregate companies, etc.
non-executive director basic fees, including the CHANGE FOR 2017 Chairman, is 750,000 p. a.
Appropriate comparator as set out in the Companys groups may include major Articles of Association.
retailers and similarlysized listed companies CHANGE FOR 2017 which may be ranked Appropriate comparator outside of the FTSE 25-75. groups may include major retailers and similarlysized listed companies which may be ranked outside of the FTSE 25-75.
FIGURE 6: RECRUITMENT POLICY The table below sets out the recruitment policy for non-executive directors.
ELEMENT RECRUITMENT POLICY The Committee takes into account a number of factors when determining an appropriate fee level for the Chairman.
The CEO Fees and executive directors determine appropriate fee levels for the non-executive directors.
This consideration includes the time commitment and responsibility of the individual role and market practice in appropriate comparator groups.
The Company may off er bene ts to the Chairman and non-executive directors as detailed in the non-executive director policy Bene ts table above.
AGREEMENTS FOR SERVICE All non-executive directors, including the Chairman, have an agreement for service for an initial three-year term: these are available for shareholder inspection at the Companys registered ofce.
The Chairman has an agreement for service which requires six months notice by either party.
Non-executive directors service agreements may be terminated by either party giving three months notice.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all non-executive directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at our AGM.
KEY CHANGES TO THE POLICY Fees will be compared against major retailers and Fees similarly-sized listed companies which may be ranked outside of the FTSE 25-75 detailed in the previous policy.
65 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY FIGURE 7: SUMMARY OF REMUNERATION POLICY TO BE APPROVED ON 11 JULY 2017 See KPIs on p18-21 The diagram below illustrates the balance of pay and time period of each element of the proposed remuneration policy for executive directors which, if approved, will take eff ect after the 2017 AGM.
The Committee believes this mixture of shortand long-term incentives xed to performance-related pay is appropriate for M&S's strategy and risk pro le.
Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Base salary Fixed pay Bene ts Pension bene ts Up to 100% salary Up to 100% salary Annual Bonus 3-year deferral period 1-year performance Scheme No further performance conditions Clawback provisions apply Malus provisions apply Awarded typically 250% salary 2-year holding period post vesting PSP 3-year performance No further performance conditions Malus provisions apply Clawback provisions apply APPLICATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY The charts below provide an illustration of what could be received by each of the executive directors in 2017 18.
These charts are illustrative as the actual value which will ultimately be received will depend on business performance in the year 2017 18 for the cash element of the Annual Bonus Scheme and in the three-year period to 2019 20 for the PSP, as well as share price performance to the date of the vesting of the share element of the Annual Bonus Scheme and PSP awards in 2020.
No vesting under the ABS and PSP.
Includes all elements of xed remuneration: Base salary eff ective 1 July 2017, as shown in the table on page 67 : Target Includes the following assumptions Pension bene ts using the cash supplement policy on pages 58 to 59 : and for the vesting of the incentive components of the package: Bene ts using the value for 2016 17 included in the single gure table on page 66.
ABS: 50% of maximum: and PSP: 20% of maximum.
Annual Bonus Scheme ABS Represents the potential value of the annual bonus for 2017 18.
Half of any bonus Maximum Includes the following assumptions would be deferred into shares for three years and this is included in the value shown.
for the vesting of the incentive No share price growth is assumed.
components of the package: ABS: 100% of maximum: and PSP PSP: 100% of maximum.
PSP represents the potential value of the PSP to be awarded in 2017, which would vest in 2020 subject to the performance against the targets disclosed on page 71.
Awards would then be held for a further two years.
No share price growth is assumed.
Total pay FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
