GOVERNANCE REPORT 67 OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Results and dividends Financial instruments Conflict of interest The Group made a profit for the The Groups financial risk Throughout the year the Company year after taxation of 38.1 million management objectives and policies has operated effective procedures to 2016 20.5 million.
Revenue was are discussed in note 23 to the deal with potential or actual conflicts 215.8 million 2016 201.5 million consolidated financial statements.
During the year no and comprised software licences, conflict arose requiring the Board to software maintenance and services.
Directors and their interests exercise its authority or discretion.
The current Directors are shown, The Directors recommend the together with brief biographical Share capital payment of a final dividend of 27.0 details, on pages 42 and 43.
Details of the issued share capital can pence per ordinary share 2016 30.0 Resolutions will be submitted to be found in note 27 to the consolidated pence, bringing the total dividend for the Annual General Meeting for the financial statements.
The rights the year to 40.0 pence 2016 36.0 re-election of all current Directors.
attaching to the Companys shares are pence.
If approved at the forthcoming set out in its Articles of Association.
Annual General Meeting, the final The interests all of which are dividend will be paid on 4 August beneficial in the shares of the Subject to any restrictions referred to in 2017 to shareholders on the register Company of Directors who held the next section, members may attend at close of business on 7 July 2017. office at 31 March 2017 in respect any general meeting of the Company.
of transactions notifiable under Business review and future Disclosure and Transparency Rule There are no restrictions on the transfer developments 3.1.
2 that have been disclosed to of ordinary shares in the Company A review of the Groups operations the Company are as follows: other than: certain restrictions which during the year and its plans for the may from time to time be imposed At 31 March At 31 March future are given in the Chairmans by laws and regulations for example, 2017 ordinary 2016 ordinary shares shares statement, the Chief Executives insider trading laws : and pursuant strategic review and the Finance review.
to the Listing Rules of the Financial Philip Aiken 1,537 1,537 Philip Dayer 7,696 7,696 Conduct Authority whereby Directors Jennifer Allerton 6,000 3,000 The Key Performance Indicators and certain employees of the Company Chris Humphrey 3,000 used by AVEVA to measure its own require the approval of the Company Ron Mobed performance at the Group level include to deal in the ordinary shares and James Kidd 17,468 15,563 total revenue, recurring revenue, pursuant to the Articles of Association David Ward 555 adjusted profit before tax, adjusted where there is default in supplying the earnings per share and headcount.
Company with information concerning The figures for the year ended No changes took place in the interests in the Companys shares.
31 March 2017 are set out on page 21, interests of Directors in the shares There are no special control rights in together with figures for the previous of the Company between relation to the Companys shares.
year, and a discussion of the principal 31 March 2017 and 23 May 2017. risks and uncertainties facing the Voting rights Group is included on pages 30 to 31.
Directors share options are disclosed Subject to any restrictions below, on in the Remuneration Committee a show of hands every member who Research & Development report on pages 47 to 66. is present in person or by proxy at The Group has an active programme a general meeting has one vote on of Research & Development which No Director had a material each resolution and, on a poll, every covers the updating of, and extension interest in any significant contract, member who is present in person or by to, the Groups range of products.
other than a service contract or proxy has one vote on each resolution contract for services, with the for every share of which he she is the Intellectual property Company or any of its subsidiaries registered member.
A proxy will have The Group owns intellectual property at any time during the year.
one vote for and one vote against both in its software tools and the a resolution on a show of hands in products derived from them.
The certain circumstances specified in the Directors consider such properties Articles of Association.
The Notice to be of significant value to the of Annual General Meeting specifies business and have a comprehensive deadlines for exercising rights.
AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 68 OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED A resolution put to the vote of a If the Company is wound up, the Powers of the Directors general meeting is decided on a show liquidator can, with the sanction of The business of the Company is of hands, unless before or on the the members by special resolution managed by the Directors, who may declaration of the result of the show and any other sanction required by exercise all powers of the Company, of hands, a poll is demanded by the law, divide among the members all or subject to the Companys Articles Chairman of the meeting.
The Articles any part of the assets of the Company of Association, relevant statutory of the Company also allow members, and he she can value any assets and law and to any direction that may in certain circumstances, to demand determine how the divisions shall be be given by the Company in general that a resolution is decided by a poll.
carried out as between the members meeting by special resolution.
Subject or different classes of members.
The to the Companies Act, shares may A member may vote personally or by liquidator can also transfer the whole be issued by Board resolution.
At proxy at a general meeting.
Any form or any part of the assets to trustees the Companys last Annual General of proxy must be delivered to the upon any trusts for the benefit of Meeting, powers were granted to the Company not less than 48 hours before the members.
No members can Directors subject to limits set out in the time appointed for holding the be compelled to accept any asset the resolutions to issue and to buy meeting or adjourned meeting at which which would give them any liability.
back its own shares: similar powers the person named in the appointment are proposed to be granted at the proposes to vote for this purpose, the There are no agreements between forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors may specify that no account holders of securities that are known The buy-back authority was limited shall be taken of any part of a day that to the Company which may result to 10% of the Companys issued is not a working day.
A corporation in restrictions on the transfer of share capital.
No shares have been which is a member of the Company securities or on voting rights, save bought back under this authority.
may authorise such persons as it thinks as described below in relation to fit to act as its representatives at any the Employee Benefit Trust.
Appointment of Directors general meeting of the Company.
The Articles of Association limit the Change of control number of Directors to not less than No member shall be entitled to attend All of the Companys share-based two and not more than ten save or vote, either personally or by proxy, plans contain provisions relating where members decide otherwise.
at a general meeting in respect of to change of control.
Outstanding Members may appoint Directors by any share if any call or other sum awards and options normally ordinary resolution and may remove presently payable to the Company in vest and become exercisable on any Director subject to the giving respect of such share remains unpaid a change of control, subject to of special notice and, if desired, or in certain other circumstances the satisfaction of any relevant replace such removed Director by specified in the Articles of Association performance conditions at that time.
New Directors where there is default in supplying the may be appointed by the Board but Company with information concerning There are no other significant are subject to election by members interests in the Companys shares.
agreements to which the Company at the first Annual General Meeting is a party that take effect, alter or after their appointment.
A Director Dividends, distributions terminate upon a change of control of may be removed from office if and liquidation the Company following a takeover bid.
requested by all other Directors.
Members can declare final dividends by passing an ordinary resolution but There are no agreements between The Companys Articles of Association the amount of the dividends cannot the Company and its Directors or require that at each AGM there shall exceed the amount recommended by employees providing for compensation retire from office and be subject the Board.
The Board can pay interim for loss of office or employment that to re-election by members any dividends provided the distributable occurs because of a takeover bid.
Director who shall have been a profits of the Company justify such Director at the preceding two Annual payment.
The Board may, if authorised Articles of Association General Meetings and who was not by an ordinary resolution of the Any amendments to the Articles appointed or re-appointed then or members, offer any member the right of Association of the Company subsequently.
However, in accordance to elect to receive new shares, which may be made in accordance with with the UK Corporate Governance will be credited as fully paid, instead the provisions of the Companies Code, the Company requires all of their cash dividend.
Any dividend Act by way of special resolution.
Directors who held office at 31 March which has not been claimed for 12 2017 to stand for re-election.
years after it became due for payment will be forfeited and will then revert to the Company.
Members may share in surplus assets on a liquidation.
GOVERNANCE REPORT 69 Substantial shareholdings The Company had been notified, formal and informal meetings, Interests in the ordinary share in accordance with Disclosure employee newsletters, the Group capital of the Company are and Transparency Rule 5, of the intranet and presentations from senior set out in the table below.
following interests in the ordinary management.
There is an employee share capital of the Company: representative committee which meets on a regular basis to discuss a wide As at 31 March 2017 As at 23 May 2017 range of matters affecting their current Percentage Percentage and future interests.
All employees Name of holder Number held % Number held % are entitled to receive an annual Aberdeen Asset Management 7,264,211 11.4 7,141,965 11.2 discretionary award related to the overall profitability of the Group subject MFS Investment Management 3,561,780 5.6 3,565,971 5.6 to the performance of the individual BlackRock 3,067,227 4.8 3,206,760 5.0 and the Group.
The Group conducts Columbia Threadneedle Investments 3,057,753 4.8 3,057,130 4.8 employee-wide surveys from time to Fidelity International 2,925,728 4.6 3,087,787 4.8 time to gauge the success or otherwise of its policies and uses this information Kames Capital 2,740,326 4.3 2,665,326 4.2 to improve matters as appropriate.
1818 Partners 2,572,943 4.0 2,572,943 4.0 Baillie Gifford 2,396,302 3.8 2,349,754 3.7 Directors indemnity The Company has granted an indemnity to its Directors against Listing Rules disclosures of ordinary shares in AVEVA Group liability in respect of proceedings For the purpose of LR9.8.
4C R, the plc held by the Trust except where brought by third parties, subject only applicable information required beneficial ownership of any such to the conditions set out in the to be disclosed in accordance with ordinary shares was passed to a Companies Act.
4 R can be found in the section beneficiary of the Trust.
In the same third party indemnity provision below titled Employee Benefit Trust.
way as other employees, the Executive remains in force as at the date of The information concerned is in Directors of the Company are potential approving the Directors report.
respect of shareholder waiver of beneficiaries under the Trust.
Greenhouse gas emissions reporting Disabled employees The Company is required to state Annual General Meeting The Group gives full consideration the annual quantity of emissions in The Annual General Meeting will to applications for employment tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent be held on 7 July 2017 at 1 Great from disabled persons where the from activities for which the George St, Westminster, London candidates particular aptitudes and Group is responsible, including the SW1P 3AA.
The Notice of the Annual abilities are consistent with adequately combustion of fuel, the operation General Meeting is being sent to meeting the requirements of the of any facility, and resulting from shareholders along with this Annual job.
Opportunities are available to the purchase of electricity, heat, Report, which contains details disabled employees for training, steam or cooling.
Details of our of the resolutions proposed.
emissions are set out within the Corporate Responsibility section of Employee Benefit Trust Where existing employees become the Strategic Report and form part of The AVEVA Group Employee Benefit disabled, it is the Groups policy to the Directors report disclosures.
Trust 2008 was established in 2008 provide continuing employment to facilitate satisfying the transfer of wherever practicable in the same Auditor shares to employees within the Group or an alternative position and to A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & on exercise of vested options under provide appropriate training to Young LLP as auditor for the ensuing the various share option and deferred achieve this aim as well as reasonable year will be put to the members bonus share plans of the Company.
The adjustments to the workplace and at the Annual General Meeting.
Trust holds a total of 10,857 ordinary other support mechanisms.
shares in AVEVA Group plc representing 0.02% 2016 22,077 shares Employee involvement representing 0.03% of the issued The Group places considerable value share capital at the date of this report.
on the involvement of its employees Under the terms of the Trust deed and has continued to keep them governing the Trust, the trustees are informed of matters affecting them required unless the Company directs as employees and on the various otherwise to waive all dividends factors affecting the performance of and abstain from voting in respect the Group.
This is achieved through AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 70 OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED Statement of Directors In preparing the parent company provides the information necessary responsibilities in relation to the financial statements, the Directors for shareholders to assess the financial statements are required to: Companys position and performance, The Directors are responsible for business model and strategy.
preparing the Annual Report and the select suitable accounting policies financial statements in accordance and then apply them consistently: Responsibility statement pursuant to with applicable law and regulations.
make judgements and accounting the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency estimates that are reasonable Rule 4 DTR 4 The Directors are required to prepare and prudent: Each Director of the Company consolidated financial statements state whether applicable UK whose names and functions appear for each financial year in accordance accounting standards have been on pages 42 and 43 confirms that with International Financial Reporting followed, subject to any material solely for the purpose of DTR 4 Standards IFRSs as adopted by departures disclosed and explained to the best of their knowledge: the European Union.
The Directors in the financial statements: and have elected to prepare the parent prepare the financial statements on the financial statements in this company financial statements in the going concern basis unless it is document, prepared in accordance accordance with United Kingdom inappropriate to presume that the with the applicable UK law and General Accepted Accounting Practice Company will continue in business.
applicable accounting standards, United Kingdom Accounting Standards give a true and fair view of the and applicable law including FRS 101 The Directors are responsible for assets, liabilities, financial position Reduced Disclosure Framework.
keeping adequate accounting records and profit of the Company and the Under company law the Directors which are sufficient to disclose with undertakings included in the must not approve the financial reasonable accuracy at any time the consolidation taken as a whole: and statements unless they are satisfied financial position of the Company the Strategic Report and the that they give a true and fair view of and enable them to ensure that the Directors report include a fair review the state of affairs of the Company financial statements comply with the of the development and and of the undertakings included in Companies Act 2006 and, as regards performance of the business and the the consolidation as a whole as at the the Group financial statements, position of the Company and the end of the financial year and the profit Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They undertakings included in the or loss of the undertakings included in are also responsible for safeguarding consolidation taken as a whole, the consolidation as a whole, so far as the assets of the Company and together with a description of the concerns members of the Company, hence for taking reasonable steps principal risks and uncertainties that for the financial year.
In preparing those for the prevention and detection they face.
Consolidated financial statements, of fraud and other irregularities.
the Directors are required to: On behalf of the Board Disclosure of information to auditor select and apply accounting policies The Directors who were members of in accordance with IAS 8: the Board at the time of approving the present information, including Directors report are listed on pages accounting policies, in a manner that 42 and 43.
Each of these Directors provides relevant, reliable, confirms that: James Kidd comparable and understandable Chief Executive information: and so far as he is aware, there is no 23 May 2017 provide additional disclosures when relevant audit information as compliance with the specific defined by Section 418 of the requirements in IFRSs is insufficient Companies Act 2006 of which the to enable users to understand the Companys auditor is unaware: and impact of particular transactions, he has taken all the steps he ought David Ward other events and conditions on the to have taken as a Director in order Chief Financial Officer entitys financial position and to make himself aware of any such 23 May 2017 financial performance.
relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor This Directors Report has been is aware of that information.
approved by the Board of Directors and is signed on its behalf by: Fair and balanced reporting Having taken advice from the Audit Committee, the Board considers the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced Claire Denton and understandable and that it Company Secretary 23 May 2017 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 71 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS Financial Statements 72 Independent Auditors Report 77 Consolidated Income Statement 78 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 79 Consolidated Balance Sheet 80 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity 81 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 82 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 107 Company Balance Sheet 108 Company Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity 109 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 112 Five Year Record 113 Statement of Group Accounting Policies 123 Company Information and Advisers
