AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 22 CTOS REVIEW AVEVAS SUCCESS IS DRIVEN BY THE STRENGTH OF OUR TECHNOLOGIES AND PEOPLE TO DELIVER  SOLUTIONS FOR THE MARKETS WE SERVE.
WE CONTINUED TO ENHANCE OUR EXISTING PRODUCTS AND TO DEVELOP NEW OFFERINGS DURING THE YEAR THROUGH OUR DEVELOPMENT CENTRES, AND CONTINUED TO EXPAND OUR PRESENCE IN HYDERABAD TO ACCESS AN EXCELLENT POOL OF TALENT.
Overview We believe that our products offer We are continually developing our 50 years of innovation have produced a strong advantage over competing technology to support this strategy industry-leading software that is used offerings.
This is due to their inherent and at the same time accommodating by our customers to create Digital integration based on our leading the needs of customers in what are Assets, that allow them to manage object-modelling technology, which inherently safety first industries for continual change as they design, reduces complexity and lowers application and data continuity.
build and operate some of the worlds the total cost of ownership for most complicated physical assets.
In an increasingly Our heritage is in 3D design, where connected world, openness to access our core products are AVEVA PDMS, As technology evolves, with everinformation sources, either thirdAVEVA Everything3D AVEVA E3D greater processing power, connectivity, party or customer owned, is proving and AVEVA Marine products.
AVEVA mobility of computing platforms and business-critical to our customers.
E3D is the latest-generation 3D the Industrial Internet of Things, our product which carries a price premium vision for the widespread adoption Supporting our strategy reflecting its higher productivity of constantly-evolving Digital Assets AVEVAs strategy is to increase and advanced feature set.
is becoming ever more compelling.
revenues by growing the addressable market as the concept of the Digital AVEVA E3D was launched in 2013 Asset is more widely adopted, to and is being developed further sell a wider range of products, and each year.
We are now seeing real to grow in industry and geographic traction in customer uptake.
Sales verticals where the Groups market grew strongly during the year as share is underweight versus the existing customers continued to strength of its product offering.
migrate towards it and new contracts were won.
AVEVA E3D contributed almost 13% of total revenue, up from just below 10% in the prior year.
300M More than 3D MT3D Research & Development Within MT3D, the largest product spend over the last decade sets are schematics applications such as P&ID, Instrumentation and Electrical applications and our unique multi-discipline AVEVA Engineering 36% solution: together with information Increase in AVEVA E3D management applications such as revenue in the last year AVEVA NET and AVEVA Engage.
Dave Wheeldon Chief Technology Officer and Deputy CEO STRATEGIC REPORT 23 We have continued our focus on Further to this, we recently completed While our R&D costs fell by 1.0% developing our MT3D products during the development of our SaaS-based on a constant currency basis during 2016 17, for example with continuous Information Standards Management 2016 17, this reflected efficiencies improvements to AVEVA Engage tools.
Throughout our history we achieved through expanding our and exciting developments around have partnered with our customers to presence in Hyderabad, India and our Instrumentation and Electrical develop new ways in which technology reducing costs in other locations.
AVEVA Engage in can deliver business benefits and Overall capabilities were not reduced.
particular started to gain real traction in in this case we are working with 2016 17.
When it was launched in 2015, several major Owner Operators Our development efforts are focused Engage created a new benchmark as early-adopter customers.
Both on extending the competitiveness in information accessibility through Asset Visualisation and Information of our existing products, developing combining ultra-high performance Standards Management provide our Cloud platform, enhancing visualisation with applicationentry points for our Owner Operator our MT3D product suite and on agnostic access to information via customers to access Digital Asset developing exciting new technologies large-format touch devices and it  solutions to support growth in the longer term.
has now become a feature of many flexibly and cost effectively.
An interesting example of this is our of our key new OO customer wins.
current development work around Looking to the future augmented and virtual reality, where SaaS and the Cloud We maintain our continued focus we are developing the capacity to let We launched our first public Cloud on delivering innovation, seeking customers feel the experience of products AVEVA Connect and AVEVA to transform how activities are being inside their models and data.
NET Connect at the AVEVA World undertaken or even by eliminating Summit in October 2016.
AVEVA entire steps in business processes.
We will continue to innovate and Connect is our SaaS ecosystem for Our goal is to enhance efficiency, drive work closely with our customers Engineering, Design and Information down costs and improving quality and in this coming year and I look Management products.
AVEVA NET business agility for our customers.
forward to reporting back to Connect is our new Information you with our progress.
Over the last decade AVEVA has spent nearly 300 million on Research & Dave Wheeldon AVEVA Connect will deliver new Development and we will continue Chief Technology Officer opportunities to drive down IT costs, our investments to remain at the and Deputy CEO improve flexibility to scale software leading edge of technology.
23 May 2017 usage to meet project demand, and increase focus on core business activities without compromising security or user experience.
With AVEVA NET Connect, the Digital Asset will have the capability to be rapidly deployed in the Cloud, allowing cross-disciplinary teams to collaborate and share information with complete clarity on the engineered status of the entire project or operating asset.
This will enable greater collaboration between all parties in the supply chain, and better decision making by asset operators.
VIRTUAL REALITY Some of our graduates using our HoloLens-compatible software
