79 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 OTHER DISCLOSURES DIRECTORS REPORT INFORMATION TO BE Board may pay interim dividends and DISCLOSED UNDER LR 9.8.
"4R also any xed rate dividend, whenever the Marks and Spencer Group plc the financial position of the Company, in the Page ""Company"" is the holding company of the Listing Rule Detail reference opinion of the Board, justi es its payment."
Marks & Spencer Group of companies the 9.8.
With our rich heritage, M&S is one The directors may from time to time 5-14 A B Not applicable N A of the most recognisable brands in the UK appoint one or more directors.
The Board retail sector and is regularly voted as one 9.8.
4R 4 56-65 may appoint any person to be a director of its most trusted.
Our business is driven Long-term and so long as the total number of directors by a desire to inspire and innovate, to act incentive schemes 69-71 does not exceed the limit prescribed in with integrity and to stay in touch with our the Articles.
Under the Articles, any such customers, shareholders and employees BOARD OF DIRECTORS director shall hold offi ce only until the alike.
These are our corporate values and next AGM and shall then be eligible for The membership of the Board and they underpin everything we do.
The current Articles also require biographical details of the directors what make the M&S diff erence across the that at each AGM at least one-third of the are given on pages 36 and 37 and are 55 territories in which we operate.
current directors should retire as directors incorporated into this report by reference.
by rotation: all those directors who have Changes to the directors during the year The Directors Report which is also the been in offi ce at the time of the two previous Management Report for the purpose of and up to the date of this report are set out AGMs and who did not retire at either of Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR below.
Details of directors bene cial and them must retire.
8R for the year ended 1 April 2017, non-bene cial interests in the shares of the at any AGM retire from offi ce and stand for Company are shown on pages 73 and 76. comprises pages 34 to 83 and pages 135 to re-election.
However, in line with the Code 136 of this report, together with the sections Options granted to directors under the and the Company's current practice, the of the Annual Report incorporated by Save As You Earn SAYE and Executive proposed new Articles will require all reference.
As permitted by legislation, Share Option Schemes are shown on directors to stand for annual election page 73.
Further information regarding some of the matters required to be included see resolution 24.
All current directors will in the Directors Report have instead been employee share option schemes is given stand for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
included in the Strategic Report on pages 2 in note 13 to the financial statements.
to 33, as the Board considers them to be of Eff ective date of DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST strategic importance.
Speci cally, these are: appointment Name Role retirement The Company has procedures in place for Future business developments Laura Executive managing con icts of interest.
Should a Retired throughout the Strategic Report.
WadeDirector, 12 September director become aware that they, or any Gery Multi-channel 2016 Research and development on p12-17.
of their connected parties, have an interest in an existing or proposed transaction Retiring Risk management on p30-33.
with Marks & Spencer, they should notify Robert 1 September Details of branches operated by the Board in writing or at the next Board Swannell Chairman 2017 the Company on p23-24.
Internal controls are in place to Retiring ensure that any related party transactions Miranda Non-Executive 1 February Information relating to financial instruments involving directors, or their connected Curtis Director 2018 can be found on pages 118 to 123. parties, are conducted on an arms length Proposed Appointment For information on our approach to social, basis.
Directors have a continuing duty to Eff ective environmental and ethical matters, please update any changes to these con icts.
Archie 1 September refer to our Plan A Report, available online Norman Chairman 2017 at marksandspencer.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES The Company maintains directors and Other information to be disclosed in the The appointment and replacement of offi cers liability insurance which gives Directors Report is given in this section.
"directors is governed by the Companys appropriate cover for legal action brought Articles of Association the ""Articles"", the UK Both the Strategic Report and the Directors against its directors."
"The Company has also Corporate Governance Code the ""Code"", Report have been drawn up and presented granted indemnities to each of its directors the Companies Act 2006 and related in accordance with and in reliance upon and the Group Secretary to the extent legislation."
The Articles may be amended by applicable English company law, and the permitted by law.
Qualifying third party a special resolution of the shareholders.
liabilities of the directors in connection indemnity provisions as fide ned by Section Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act with those reports shall be subject to the 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were in 2006 and any directions given by special limitations and restrictions provided by force during the year ended 1 April 2017 resolution, the business of the Company such law.
and remain in force in relation to certain will be managed by the Board who may losses and liabilities which the directors exercise all the powers of the Company.
or Group Secretary may incur to third The Company may, by ordinary resolution, parties in the course of acting as directors declare dividends not exceeding the or Group Secretary or employees of the amount recommended by the Board.
Company or of any associated company.
Subject to the Companies Act 2006, the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 80 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS' REPORT: GOVERNANCE OTHER DISCLOSURES CONTINUED Qualifying pension scheme indemnity RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS ATTACHING i up to a nominal amount of 135,394,136 provisions as fide ned by Section 235 of the TO SHARES and ii comprising equity securities up to Companies Act 2006 were in force during a nominal amount of 270,788,271 after Subject to the provisions of the Companies the course of the financial year ended 1 April deducting from such limit any relevant Act 2006, any resolution passed by the 2017 for the bene t of the Trustees of the securities allotted under i, in connection Company under the Companies Act 2006 Marks & Spencer Pension Scheme, both with an off er of a rights issue the Section and other shareholders rights, shares may in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
551 amount, such Section 551 amount to be issued with such rights and restrictions apply until the conclusion of the AGM to be as the Company may by ordinary resolution PROFIT AND DIVIDENDS held in 2018 or, if earlier, on 1 October 2018. decide, or if there is no such resolution The pro t for the financial year, after or so far as it does not make speci c A special resolution will also be proposed taxation, amounts to 115.7m last year provision as the Board as fide ned in to renew the directors powers to make 404.4m.
The directors have declared the Articles may decide.
Subject to the non pre-emptive issues for cash in dividends as follows: Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and connection with rights issues and otherwise other shareholders rights, unissued up to a nominal amount of 20,309,120.
Ordinary shares m shares are at the disposal of the Board.
A special resolution will also be proposed Special dividend to renew the directors authority to of 4.6p per share POWERS FOR THE COMPANY ISSUING repurchase the Companys ordinary shares Paid 15 July 2016 75m OR BUYING BACK ITS OWN SHARES in the market.
The authority will be limited Paid interim dividend to a maximum of 162 million ordinary shares The Company was authorised by of 6.8p per share and sets the minimum and maximum prices shareholders at the 2016 AGM to purchase last year 6.8p per share 110.3m in the market up to 10% of the Companys which will be paid.
Proposed final dividend issued share capital, as permitted under of 11.9p per share DEADLINES FOR EXERCISING the Companys Articles.
No shares were last year 11.9p per share 193.3m VOTING RIGHTS bought back under this authority during the year ended 1 April 2017.
Total dividend of Votes are exercisable at a general meeting 18.7p per share for 2016 17 of the Company in respect of which the This standard authority is renewable last year 18.7p per share 303.6m business being voted upon is being heard.
annually: the directors will seek to renew Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, this authority at the 2017 AGM.
It is the Subject to shareholder approval at this or, in relation to corporate members, by Companys present intention to cancel year's AGM, the final ordinary dividend corporate representatives.
The Articles any shares it buys back, rather than hold will be paid on 14 July 2017 to shareholders provide a deadline for submission of proxy them in treasury.
whose names were on the Register of forms of not less than 48 hours before the Members at the close of business on The directors were granted authority at the time appointed for the holding of the 2 June 2017.
2016 AGM to allot relevant securities up meeting or adjourned meeting.
However, to a nominal amount of 135,313,863.
This when calculating the 48-hour period, SHARE CAPITAL authority will apply until the conclusion the directors can, and have, decided not of the 2017 AGM.
At this years AGM, The Companys issued ordinary share to take account of any part of a day that is shareholders will be asked to grant an capital as at 1 April 2017 comprised a single not a working day.
authority to allot relevant securities class of ordinary share.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings INTERESTS IN VOTING RIGHTS of the Company.
During the period, 1,763,039 ordinary shares Information provided to the Company The information provided below was in the Company were issued under the pursuant to the Financial Conduct correct at the date of noti cation: however, terms of the United Kingdom Employees Authoritys FCA Disclosure and the date received may not have been Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme Transparency Rules DTRs is published within the current financial year.
It should at prices between 258p and 432p.
on a Regulatory Information Service and be noted that these holdings are likely Details of movements in the Companys on the Companys website.
As at 1 April to have changed since the Company was issued share capital can be found on page 2017, the following information has been noti ed.
However, noti cation of any 125 in note 24 to the financial statements.
received, in accordance with DTR 5, from change is not required until the next holders of noti able interests in the noti able threshold is crossed.
RESTRICTIONS ON Companys issued share capital.
TRANSFER OF SECURITIES Ordinary % of capital Noti able interests shares disclosed Nature of holding as per disclosure There are no speci c restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company, which Blackrock, Inc. 90,664,081 5.58 Indirect Interest 4.85%, is governed by its Articles of Association Securities lending 0.65% & and prevailing legislation.
The Company CFD 0.06% is not aware of any agreements between Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 82,524,463 5.079 Indirect Interest 5.054%, holders of securities that may result in and its group Direct 0.025% restrictions on the transfer of securities The Wellcome Trust 47,464,282 3.01 Direct Interest or that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Subsequent to year end, Majedie Asset Management Limited noti ed the Company in VARIATION OF RIGHTS accordance with DTR5 of an indirect holding of 81,569,767 ordinary shares, representing Subject to applicable statutes, rights 5.02% of the Company's issued share capital.
attached to any class of share may be varied with the written consent of the holders of at least three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or by a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the shareholders.
81 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS of the new controller of the Company.
Involvement Groups BIG to represent CHANGE OF CONTROL Where a third party arrangement is in colleagues in two-way communication and place for the supply of financial services consultation with the Company.
These There are a number of agreements to which products to existing customers of the representatives have continued to play a the Company is party that take eff ect, alter new controller, the Company is required key role in a number of business changes or terminate upon a change of control of the to procure the termination of such this year.
The National BIG Chair meets with Company following a takeover bid.
Details arrangement as soon as reasonably the Group Chairman and CEO regularly, as of the signi cant agreements of this kind practicable while not being required well as providing updates to and attending are as follows: to do anything that would breach Board meetings annually.
In addition, The 400m Medium Term Notes issued any contract in place in respect of directors and senior management regularly by the Company on 30 November 2009, such arrangement.
attend the National BIG meetings.
They also the 300m Medium Term Notes issued visit stores and discuss matters of interest Where a third party arrangement is so by the Company on 6 December 2011, and concern to both employees and the terminated, or does not exist, HSBC gains the 400m Medium Term Notes issued by business through meetings with local BIG certain exclusivity rights in respect of the the Company on 12 December 2012 and representatives, listening groups and sale of financial services products to the the 300m Medium Term Notes issued by informal discussions.
existing customers of the new controller.
the Company on 8 December 2016 to Where the Company undertakes a The 22nd meeting of the European Works various institutions MTN and under the re-branding exercise with the new controller Council EWC established in 1995 will Groups 3bn euro Medium Term Note following a change of control which take place in November 2017.
The EWC EMTN programme contain includes using any M&S brand in respect provides an additional forum for informing, an option such that, upon a change of of the new controllers business or vice consulting and involving employee control event, combined with a credit versa, HSBC gains certain termination representatives from the countries in the ratings downgrade to below subrights exercisable at its election in European Economic Area.
The EWC has the investment level, any holder of respect of the Relationship Agreement.
opportunity to be addressed by the Chief an MTN may require the Company to Executive, International Director and other prepay the principal amount of that MTN.
The Company does not have agreements senior members of the Company on issues with any director or employee that would The $500m US Notes issued by the that aff ect the European business.
provide compensation for loss of offi ce Company to various institutions on or employment resulting from a takeover Share schemes are a long-established and 6 December 2007 under Section 144a except that provisions of the Companys successful part of colleagues total reward of the US Securities Act contain an option share schemes and plans may cause packages, encouraging and supporting such that, upon a change of control options and awards granted to employees employee share ownership.
The Company event, combined with a credit ratings under such schemes and plans to vest operates both an all employee Save As downgrade to below sub-investment on a takeover.
You Earn Scheme and Share Incentive Plan.
level, any holder of such a US Note may Approximately 25,000 employees currently require the Company to prepay the EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT participate in ShareSave, the Companys principal amount of that US Note.
Full details of all We remain committed to employee The $300m US Notes issued by the schemes are given on pages 112 and 113. involvement throughout the business.
Company to various institutions on Employees are kept well informed of There are websites for both pension 6 December 2007 under Section 144a the performance and strategy of the schemes the fide ned contribution of the US Securities Act contain an option Group through personal brie ngs, regular Scheme Your M&S Pension Saving Plan such that, upon a change of control meetings, emails and broadcasts by the and the fide ned bene t scheme the M&S event, combined with a credit ratings Chief Executive and members of the Board.
Pension Scheme which are fully accessible downgrade to below sub-investment These take place at key points in the year to to employees and former employees level, any holder of such a US Note may all Head Offi ce, distribution centre and store who have retained bene ts in either require the Company to prepay the management employees.
Employees are updated as principal amount of that US Note.
colleagues can also hear business brie ngs needed with any pertinent information The amended and restated 1.1bn by telephone and there are quarterly CEO on their pension savings.
Credit Agreement dated 16 March 2016 CFO trading updates broadcast by Skype In April 2016, the business launched a originally dated 29 September 2011 to our store management teams.
These campaign which engaged all employees between the Company and various communications are supplemented by in putting forward their ideas for how banks contains a provision such that, various employee publications including M&S could drive down costs and reduce upon a change of control event, unless M&S World magazine, Plan A updates and ineffi ciency.
The Crunch Costs campaign new terms are agreed within 60 days, DVD presentations.
received an overwhelming response with the facility under this agreement will Our Making Every Moment Special colleagues submitting 1,300 ideas from be cancelled with all outstanding employee engagement programme was stores and offi ces.
So far, the implemented amounts becoming immediately launched last summer with two hours of ideas have generated savings of 20m, payable with interest.
training to empower store colleagues to which has enabled the business to add The amended and restated Relationship put customers at the heart of the business over 3,000 colleagues to our stores.
By Agreement dated 6 October 2014 and to make decisions based on customers recognising and celebrating employee ideas originally dated 9 November 2004 as speci c needs.
The programme engaged and contributions, the Company has driven amended on 1 March 2005, between with 70,000 employees through 75 regional high levels of engagement and motivation HSBC and the Company and relating to leadership events and 1,500 store events, from employees.
The most recent results of M&S Bank, contains certain provisions taking ideas from colleagues from across the Your Say employee survey show that the which address a change of control of the the business and has had tremendous employee engagement score has increased Company.
Upon a change of control the results.
by three percentage points on the previous existing rights and obligations of the year, and currently sits at 81%.
More than 3,500 employees from across parties in respect of M&S Bank continue every store, distribution centre and Head and HSBC gains certain limited additional Offi ce location are elected to our Business rights in respect of existing customers FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS 82 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS' REPORT: GOVERNANCE OTHER DISCLOSURES CONTINUED Over 1,500 employees took part in religion.
All decisions relating to employment employees in the workforce if they become Wellbeing Goals, a new initiative launched practices will be objective, free from bias and disabled during employment.
M&S will to inspire people to take a more holistic based solely upon work criteria and individual actively retrain and adjust employees look at their overall wellbeing and follow merit.
The Company is responsive to the environments where possible to allow simple steps each week to improve what needs of its employees, customers and the them to maximise their potential and will matters to them, whether from a physical, community at large.
M&S is an organisation continue to work with external organisations mental, social or financial perspective.
The which uses everyones talents and abilities to provide workplace opportunities through business has also taken steps to connect and where diversity is valued.
our innovative Marks & Start scheme and the two important agendas of Diversity by working closely with Jobcentre Plus.
M&S was one of the first major companies and Inclusion with Wellbeing in a bold The Marks & Start scheme was introduced to remove the default retirement age in two-week campaign inviting people to into the distribution centre at Castle 2001 and has continued to see an increase Be Yourself at work.
This was supported Donington in 2012 13, working with Remploy in employees wanting to work past the state by hosted events and colleague videos to support people with disabilities and retirement age.
Our oldest employee is on what it means to be yourself at work health conditions into work.
90 years old and joined the business at and how inclusivity at work positively age 80. impacts wellbeing.
GROCERIES SUPPLY CODE In April 2017, the Company once again OF PRACTICE The Company continued to promote its featured in The Times Top 50 Employers The Groceries Supply Chain Practices free service provided by a con dential for Women, highlighting how equal Market Investigation Order 2009 the Order team of mental wellbeing specialists, opportunities are available for all at M&S.
and The Groceries Supply Code of Practice LiveWellWorkWell, by distributing wallet GSCOP impose obligations on M&S cards with details of the service across all Employee-led diversity networks give a voice relating to relationships with its suppliers of stores and business areas.
The Company to under-represented groups, provide peergroceries.
Under the Order and GSCOP, M&S also invested in supporting the Buddy to-peer support and help to in uence the is required to submit an annual compliance Network, a peer-to-peer support group, Company to become more inclusive.
These report to the Audit Committee for approval to provide colleagues with a way networks cover gender, ethnicity, disability, and then to the Competition and Markets to share experiences and support each parents and sexual orientation gender Authority and Groceries Code Adjudicator.
other in managing physical or mental identity.
Each network has support from health conditions alongside work.
Throughout the year M&S submitted its report, covering the employees have been involved in celebrating period from 3 April 2016 to 1 April 2017, EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES International Womens Day, Pride, Black to the Audit Committee on 18 May 2017.
History Month and the International Day The Group is committed to an active equal In accordance with the Order, a summary of Persons with Disabilities.
opportunities policy from recruitment and of that compliance report is set out below: selection, through training and development, M&S believes that it has complied in full EMPLOYEES WITH DISABILITIES performance reviews and promotion with GSCOP and the Order during the to retirement.
The Companys policy is The Company is clear in its policy that relevant period.
No formal disputes have to promote an environment free from people with disabilities should have full arisen during the reporting period.
Two discrimination, harassment and victimisation, and fair consideration for all vacancies.
allegations regarding potential breaches where everyone will receive equal treatment M&S has continued to demonstrate its of GSCOP were raised by suppliers during regardless of gender, colour, ethnic or commitment to interviewing those people the relevant period.
Neither is being national origin, disability, age, marital or with disabilities who ful l the minimum pursued and both are considered closed civil partner status, sexual orientation or criteria, and endeavouring to retain by M&S.
TOTAL GLOBAL M&S GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2016 17 The disclosures required by law and additional information relating to the Groups greenhouse gas emissions are included in the table below.
For full details of calculations and performance against our 2006 07 voluntary baseline, see the 2017 Plan A Report.
2016 17 2013 14 % 000 tonnes 000 tonnes change Direct emissions scope 1 185 168 10 Indirect emissions from energy scope 2 293 340 -14 Total statutory emissions scope 1 and 2 478 508 -6 Transport, energy T&D, waste and travel emissions scope 3 48 59 -19 Total gross location-based emissions 526 567 -7 Carbon intensity measure per 1,000 sq ft of sales oor 26 30 -13 Green tariff s and bio-methane procured 305 302 1 Remaining market-based emissions 221 265 -17 Carbon off sets 221 265 -17 Total net operational emissions 00 Level Emissions are from operationally controlled activities in accordance with WRI WBCSD GHG Reporting Protocols Revised edition and 2014 Scope 2 Guidance using 2015 DEFRA DECC conversion factors.
2013 14 is the mandatory baseline year.
As these emissions account for less than 10% of M&Ss total carbon footprint, we also engage with suppliers and customers to address the most signi cant sources.
83 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 POLITICAL DONATIONS reviewing the final document at the end safeguarding the assets of the Group and of the preparation process.
The Board the Company and hence for taking The Company did not make any political ensured that its requirements were clearly reasonable steps for the prevention and donations or incur any political expenditure communicated from the outset to each of detection of fraud and other irregularities.
during the year ended 1 April 2017.
M&S has the departments involved in the production The directors are responsible for the a policy of not making donations to political of the Annual Report.
maintenance and integrity of the organisations or independent election Companys website.
Legislation in the candidates or incurring political expenditure The Board has advised that the narrative UK governing the preparation and anywhere in the world as fide ned in the reports should contain the key information dissemination of financial statements may Political Parties, Elections and Referendums needed by investors and other users of the diff er from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Act 2000. report and should avoid being promotional in nature.
Furthermore, the narrative reports Each of the current directors, whose names GOING CONCERN in the front and the accounting information and functions are listed on pages 36 and 37 In adopting the going concern basis for in the back of the report should be of the Annual Report, con rms that, to the consistent and the teams involved in its best of their knowledge: preparing the financial statements, the production work closely together to achieve directors have considered the business The Group financial statements, prepared this.
For an independent opinion, the Board activities as set out on pages 2 to 25 as in accordance with the applicable set of well as the Groups principal risks and also requested the Audit Committee review accounting standards, give a true and the Annual Report and provide feedback.
uncertainties as set out on pages 32 and 33. fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial The Committees opinion on whether the Based on the Groups cash ow forecasts position and pro t or loss of the Company report is fair, balanced and understandable and projections, the Board is satis ed that and the undertakings included in the the Group will be able to operate within is on page 50. consolidation taken as a whole.
the level of its facilities for the foreseeable The directors are also responsible for The Management Report includes future.
For this reason the Board considers preparing the Annual Report, the a fair review of the development it appropriate for the Group to adopt Remuneration Report and Policy and the the going concern basis in preparing its and performance of the business financial statements in accordance with and the position of the Company and the financial statements.
Company undertakings included in the See note 20 to the Financial Statements law requires the directors to prepare consolidation taken as a whole, together for more information on our Facilities financial statements for each financial year.
with a description of the principal risks Under that law, the directors have prepared and uncertainties that they face.
LONG-TERM VIABILITY STATEMENT the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with International The Annual Report, taken as a whole, The directors have assessed the prospects Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as is fair, balanced and understandable, of the Company over a three-year period adopted by the EU.
Under company law, the and provides the necessary information to 28 March 2020.
This has taken into directors must not approve the financial for shareholders to assess the Groups account the business model, strategic statements unless they are satis ed that position, performance, business model aims, risk appetite, and principal risks and they give a true and fair view of the state of and strategy.
uncertainties, along with the Companys aff airs of the Group and the Company and current financial position.
Based on this of the pro t or loss of the Group and the DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION assessment, the directors have a reasonable Company for that period.
In preparing these TO AUDITORS expectation that the Company will be financial statements, the directors are able to continue in operation and meet Each of the persons who are Directors at the required to: its liabilities as they fall due over the time when this Directors' Report is approved three-year period under review.
con rms that, so far as he she is aware, there Select suitable accounting policies is no relevant audit information of which the and then apply them consistently.
See our approach to assessing long-term Companys auditors are unaware and that viability on p31 Make judgements and accounting he she has taken all the steps that estimates that are reasonable he she ought to have taken as a director to AUDITOR and prudent.
make himself herself aware of any relevant Resolutions to reappoint Deloitte LLP as audit information and to establish that State whether applicable IFRSs auditor of the Company and to authorise the Companys auditors are aware of as adopted by the EU have been the Audit Committee to determine its that information.
followed, subject to any material remuneration will be proposed at the departures disclosed and explained 2017 AGM.
The Directors Report was approved by a in the financial statements.
duly authorised committee of the Board of Directors on 23 May 2017 and signed ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Prepare the financial statements on on its behalf by a going concern basis unless it is The AGM of Marks and Spencer Group plc inappropriate to presume that the will be held at Wembley Stadium, Wembley, Company will continue in business.
The Notice of Meeting is given, together with The directors are responsible for keeping explanatory notes, in the Performance adequate accounting records that are Overview booklet which accompanies suffi cient to show and explain the this report.
AMANDA MELLOR GROUP SECRETARY Companys transactions and disclose, London, 23 May 2017 at any time and with reasonable accuracy, DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES the financial position of the Company and The Board is of the view that the Annual the Group and to enable them to ensure Report should be truly representative of that the financial statements and the the year and provide shareholders with the Remuneration Report comply with the information necessary to assess the Groups Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the position, performance, business model and Group financial statements, Article 4 of the strategy.
This cannot be achieved by merely IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
