54 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC DIRECTORS' REPORT: GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION OVERVIEW Our remuneration framework is aligned with the strategic direction of M&S and the interests of our shareholders, with a clear focus on customer, simplicity and teamwork.
VINDI BANGA CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to meaningful long-term investment in long-term incentive awards made from present our 2017 Remuneration Report.
our business, and that their interests are 2017, to ensure greater alignment of our The Committee has sought to further closely aligned with our shareholders.
leaders' remuneration with long-term improve our disclosures once again this stakeholder interests.
The Committee spent a considerable year to provide not only the regulatory amount of time this year liaising with Furthermore, we will be reducing the cash information we are required to disclose while many of our shareholders and sharing supplement in lieu of pension contributions balancing against commercial sensitivities, a wide variety of views on remuneration for new executive director appointments.
but also the context surrounding pay generally, including the framework, The new threshold will be reduced from 30% arrangements.
Additional context has been structures, measures and targets.
It for the CEO and 25% for all other directors provided where we believe this will help to explored a number of options taking into to a maximum of 20% for all future executive present a complete picture of the structure account the various perspectives and directors, including the CEO.
Contractual and scale of the remuneration framework, views and considering these against the arrangements for current executive its alignment with the business strategy and current framework, the current economic directors will remain unchanged at 25%.
This the rest of the workforce, as well as the and market environment, the business removes any policy diff erential between the payments made as a result of business strategy and progress against the goals CEO and other executive directors.
As highlighted last year, and in line with KEY ELEMENTS OF 2017 18 As we explained in the Annual Report regulations, we are now seeking shareholder REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS last year, we delayed granting the 2016 support and approval for our Remuneration The Annual Bonus Scheme will continue to Performance Share Plan PSP awards until Policy at the 2017 AGM.
This years summary be based on corporate financial targets December 2016 to ensure the targets set Remuneration at a Glance highlights not currently 70% and individual objectives were appropriately aligned to the strategic only the key elements of the payments currently 30%.
The maximum opportunity review being undertaken by the new team made to directors this year, but also gives an will remain 200% of salary.
The financial following Steve Rowes appointment outline of the proposed amendments to the measure will continue to be Group PBT as CEO.
As the focus of the business plan Remuneration Policy which will govern pay before adjusted items Group PBT.
The announced in November 2016 remains arrangements in the next three years.
individual measures on page 69 highlight unchanged and the team has had less the importance of collective and customer As required, this report is split into two than one year to start to implement focused measures to support the one further distinct sections, the first covering much of this, the Committee considered team behaviours which have the customer our updated Remuneration Policy, and the that the structure of the current at the heart of the business, in line with second covering remuneration in action for remuneration framework continues the business strategy.
In to support this strategy.
accordance with regulations, shareholders The PSP will be maintained but will also will be requested to vote separately on PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO now include a two-year holding period these reports at our AGM in July 2017, with REMUNERATION POLICY post vesting as previously outlined.
TSR will this Remuneration Overview and the Annual Taking all of the above into account, the be introduced as a key measure to both Report on Remuneration being subject to Committee has therefore decided to reinforce alignment of executive interests an advisory vote.
maintain the principles of the framework with shareholders, as well as being a relative first introduced in 2010 and approved measure of value creation.
TSR will replace REMUNERATION FRAMEWORK by shareholders in 2014, but to make cash ow as a measure, and the financial CONSIDERATIONS some minor amendments to incentive measures of EPS and ROCE will be retained The Board is committed to ensuring that arrangements to ensure sharper and as measures of pro table and effi cient our remuneration framework supports our more relevant alignment between senior business performance.
strategy, and provides a balance between remuneration, the strategic direction Each of the three measures will have equal motivating and challenging our senior of the Company, and the interests of weightage: thus TSR will count for a third: leaders to deliver our business priorities, our shareholders.
ROCE will count for a third and up from as set out by our CEO, and strong The PSP will continue to be the primary the historical 20%: EPS will count for a third, performance while also driving the longlong-term incentive plan for executives.
As a We are maintaining the overall construct of result, a signi cant part of performance As in the past, the Committee will have the plan, with the typical award being 250% related reward is delivered through shares.
oversight into the quality of how the of salary.
However, we will be introducing a This ensures that our leaders have outcomes of EPS and ROCE are delivered two-year holding period post vesting for all 55 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 IN THIS SECTION EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE p56-57 STRATEGIC ALIGNMENT OF PAY p56 REMUNERATION POLICY p58-65 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION p66-77 Executive directors Total single gure remuneration p66 Performance Share Plan p70-71 remuneration policy p58 Salary and bene ts p67 Directors share interests p72-73 Recruitment policy p62 Annual Bonus Scheme p68-69 Non-executive directors remuneration p76 Termination policy p63 Remuneration Committee p77-78 Non-executive directors remuneration policy p64 and will exercise discretion as necessary.
Total at those levels set in July 2015, apart from While the Committee believes that payments are around 35% of the maximum Steve Rowe, whose salary changed on his introducing TSR at this stage provides an receivable, of both xed and variable pay appointment to CEO in April 2016. important measure of the success of the together, if all stretch targets had been new strategy for the executive team, the achieved.
This clearly demonstrates the BOARD CHANGES Committee also believes that certain philosophy of the executive directors In September 2016, we announced that strategic and nonfinancial measures may pay arrangements in action, including Laura Wade-Gery would not be returning become more signi cant to M&S to warrant the rigour of target setting: maximum to the business following her maternity consideration for PSP measurements in payments will only be payable for leave.
Lauras remuneration terms, disclosed future years.
at the time, were in line with the key provisions for contract termination as per Given the continued challenging economic As can been seen on page 56, there is a the shareholder approved Remuneration and market environment, consumer clear and demonstrable link between Policy.
In addition, details in relation to concerns over Brexit, and ongoing currency business strategy and payments for 2016 17 outstanding remuneration for Marc Bolland and in ationary headwinds, the Committee performance to the executive directors.
following his departure are also provided on has set the 2017 18 targets at what it The key business priorities are referenced on page 75. believes would represent stretching pages 8-11 of this report.
For EPS and ROCE, targets were aligned with these priorities STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT targets have been increased from those and achievement against the key financial set for the 2016 PSP award, which were priorities are shown on pages 18-21.
We are grateful to shareholders, shareholder rebased against the new financial plan.
representative bodies, regulatory bodies These increased targets re ect the plans ANNUAL BONUS OUTTURN and remuneration advisers for their for the business to return to growth in the engagement, feedback, challenge and As highlighted earlier, the year has been one next three years.
TSR performance will be view on remuneration matters over the of considerable change for M&S.
When measured against a bespoke group of past year.
The Company has been actively approving payments, the Committee comparator companies, broadly similar involved on the subject of executive considered the overall performance of to that adopted by other companies in remuneration and stakeholder the business and of the executive directors our sector.
In accordance with standard engagement, and earlier this year against this, as well as against their individual market practice, targets for threshold responded to the UK Governments Green targets.
Details of the bonus payments to and maximum vesting will be set at median Paper on Corporate Governance Reform.
each of the executive directors are outlined and upper quartile performance of the on page 68.
Bonus payments ranged from Stakeholder engagement, including input Group respectively.
Bonus from M&S's Business Involvement Groups payments made to directors re ected the are key to ensuring we continue to drive the REMUNERATION FOR 2016 17 large proportion of collective measures for transparency around our decisions relating As referenced earlier in the Annual Report, the year, in support of focusing on teamwork to executive pay, provide clarity and quality since his appointment as Chief Executive, and simplicity within the pay arrangements.
of our performance targets and associated Steve Rowe has set out clear and decisive disclosures, and ensure the relevance of our plans to accelerate the pace of change PSP VESTING long-term executive pay incentives and to return the business to growth.
A huge The PSP awards granted in 2014 were their alignment to the performance of the amount of work has already begun to measured for the three-year period up to business.
We are grateful for this ongoing implement and deliver this strategy, 1 April 2017 against EPS, ROCE and Revenue dialogue.
Together with the rest of the including the investment in Clothing & targets.
As the threshold targets were not Board, I look forward to hearing your views Home pricing and the reshaping of both achieved, all awards held by executive on our remuneration arrangements and the UK store estate and the International directors will lapse.
will be available to answer any questions business.
While these plans have laid the you may have at the AGM.
groundwork to M&Ss long-term recovery, SALARY REVIEW the necessary investment has meant that The Committee discussed the annual salary pro ts delivered this year are lower than review for all executive directors.
In line with last year, although above consensus the budget salary increases for the rest of expectations.
However, this was not the organisation, the Committee approved unexpected and our financial plan for a 2% increase for all executive directors.
However, as clearly disclosed in last years VINDI BANGA CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee is satis ed report the executive directors have, for the that incentive payments for the executive second year in succession, chosen to not directors re ect both the overall financial accept this increase.
Salaries for the performance of the business and the hard executive directors will therefore remain work undertaken by the team to achieve this FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
