16 16 ANNUAL REPOR MARKS A T A NN D SPENCER GROUP PL D FINANCIAL STATEMENT C S 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT VALUE CREATION IN ACTION: FOOD 1 LISTEN & RESPOND 2 STRATEGY & PLANNING 3 DEVELOP & DESIGN With a 4.5% market share in the on-theTaking the customer insight, market trend go lunchtime food market, we saw an data and inspiration from their trip, the opportunity for us to add to our Food on team developed a new range of Nourish the Move range by bringing these trends Bowls, featuring hearty, wholesome and to our customers.
We also noticed there fresh ingredients including edamame, was a gap in the market for vegan-friendly black rice, avocado and sweet potato.
Our product development They also developed our first ever vegan team went on a research trip to California, sandwiches and a range of vegetable wraps, the home of healthy eating, to get ideas and made with beetroot, pumpkin or spinach, inspiration.
The big trend in San Francisco was which all contain a portion of vegetables.
We have seen a big change in how our for nourish bowls colourful, wholesome customers shop for healthy food.
As salad bowls composed of vegetables, healthy interests have shifted away from dieting, grains and protein.
consumers are looking for ways to live healthier lifestyles every day and 81% of our customers tell us that health is their number one concern when buying food.
We have also seen an increase in interest in wheat-free and plant-based eating, with vegan products being one of the biggest product requests we receive from our customers.
This isnt just vegetarians and vegans industry data RESEARCH: suggests there is a growing number of SAN FRANCISCO, people in the UK who identify as exitarian in CALIFORNIA that they eat a largely plant-based diet with the occasional addition of meat and sh.
4 SOURCE & BUY 5 BRAND & SELL 6 SERVE & ENGAGE Our buying teams worked with our The January edition of our Adventures in suppliers to source unusual grains and Food customer newspaper was all about on-trend ingredients, such as buckwheat the new ranges, with information on some and cauli ower couscous, to bring of the more unusual ingredients, tips for something new and diff erent to our ways to eat more healthily and recipe customers.
The Avocado & Egg Nourish ideas for creating healthy meals at home.
Bowl is the first product on the UK high Communications went to all stores to street to use sorghum, a protein and bre educate colleagues on the new ranges and rich wholegrain similar to pearl barley, we hosted tasting events in 50 stores, giving while the Edamame & Black Rice and the customers the chance to try the Nourish Sweet Potato Nourish Bowls are our first Bowls and the new wraps and sandwiches.
vegan Food on the Move salads.
We launched the new range in January, when consumers are typically looking for new ways to eat healthily.
Our TV and print campaign, Adventures in Wonderfood, showcased products from the new ranges in a vibrant and exciting way, and this was supported by a coordinated campaign in our stores and editorial features on M&S.
With its range of new avours, we introduced the Nourish Bowls to customers as part of our lunch meal deal, and ran a special promotion for Sparks members with 10% off all Eat Well products, which included the new Food on the Move products.
17 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 VALUE CREATION IN ACTION: CLOTHING & HOME 1 LISTEN & RESPOND 2 STRATEGY & PLANNING 3 DEVELOP & DESIGN We have set out a clear strategy to focus Following the changes to the structure on style over fashion trends, and we know of our Womenswear team, our products our customers want a consistent t that are now designed and bought by category atters with good quality fabrics.
We also rather than by brand.
Our Outerwear design know we are at our best when we focus on team created a collection which took that what we are famous for.
In order to maximise classic shape and updated it with diff erent the opportunity, our Womenswear team set colours and interesting fabrics.
Using our out to create a collection of pea coats that sub-brands, the team created distinct used quality fabrics and styling to deliver a products for our customers.
This gave range suitable for our broad customer base.
the range a clear point of diff erence across M&S Collection and the sub-brands: from the coats length, fabric and colour to styling The pea coat is a consistently popular details such as pockets, trims or collar shape.
style and it has joined garments such At 55, our M&S Collection opening price as the trench and the camel coat as point pea coat gave customers a wardrobe a timeless classic.
Its also a style that is classic at a great price, while the per una consistently popular with our customers pea coat featured gold military buttons our Winter 15 collection featured a classic and a faux fur collar, as we know per una pea coat in two colours that was an instant customers like a touch of elegance.
hit and sold out early in the season.
As the market leader in coats, we know this is a style we need to get right.
4 SOURCE & BUY 5 BRAND & SELL 6 SERVE & ENGAGE With con dence in the style, we bought We know coats are one of the most our classic 55 pea coat in greater depth important product categories for our and more colours.
For the more trend-led customers when it comes to determining 99 version, we bought it in the two key their view of M&S.
Coats are quick to try colours of the season navy and khaki.
on during a shopping trip and customers Leveraging our direct sourcing capabilities, want to be able to easily compare the look we have consolidated some of our supply and feel of each item.
For Autumn Winter 16, base, which has enabled us to work more we made our coats easier to shop with a closely with our key suppliers to source Coats destination area at the front of our better quality fabrics and focus on styling stores.
The area featured an event zone and t. which showcased the key coats of the season, with unstructured coats in early The 99 M&S Collection wool-mix pea autumn switching to the warmer pea coats coat was the star of our Autumn Winter as the weather got colder.
marketing campaign, and was available to customers in all our stores.
In line with our pricing strategy to off er consistently good prices, from our 55 opening price point pea coat to the 199 100% lambswool version, we off ered great value and quality at every price point.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
