14 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS CONNECTED VALUE INPUTS CORE OBJECTIVES BUSINESS MODEL THE M&S DIFFERENCE Our resources and relationships How our activities deliver financial value Across our business, we depend Group financial upon key resources and Listen & Respond Source & Buy objectives relationships to create financial, We use comprehensive data to We capitalise on the strong, nonfinancial and strategic value.
understand what customers want long-term relationships we have with Grow Group revenue to buy and how they want to shop.
our suppliers to deliver effi ciencies, improve margins and drive Strategy & Planning Increase earnings pro tability without compromising and returns Robust financial management on the quality of our products.
ensures we are able to continue Brand & Sell Strong cash generation to invest in our business and deliver pro table growth for Our brand is at the heart of the M&S See KPIs p18 our shareholders.
diff erence and we create unique products that drive financial value.
Develop & Design Serve & Engage New ideas fuel future performance, which is why attracting and We build and maintain customer FINANCIAL developing talent is central to loyalty by prioritising customer the future of our business.
service and linking it to our employee bene ts.
H Ho ow w o our ur a ac ctivi tivit tie ies s d deliv elive er r non nonfinancial nanciall va valu lue e Nonfinancial Listen & Respond Source & Buy objectives OUR PRODUCTS Our customers trust in the M&S We are leading the way on sourcing brand is a key point of diff erence.
products with integrity to exceed & CHANNELS We retain this competitive advantage customers expectations on quality, Engage, serve and by doing things in the most safety and sustainable sourcing.
retain customers responsible way we do the work Brand & Sell so our customers dont have to.
Foster a skilled, We have built our brand on robust motivated and Strategy & Planning standards of responsibly sourced engaged team We improve effi ciency and reduce products and services.
OUR INTELLECTUAL waste across the business through Source products Serve & Engage CAPITAL the eff ective use of our resource with integrity and sourcing systems.
We bring our brand to life by driving engagement and participation Effi cient and Develop & Design in store, online and through responsible operations By cultivating talent and community support and encouraging diversity we have volunteering.
See KPIs p19 an engaged and autonomous OUR PEOPLE workforce empowered to put our customers first.
H Ho ow o w our ur a act ctiiv viit tiie es s d fide el liiv five er r str stra at te egi gic c c va valu lue e Strategic Listen & Respond Source & Buy objectives By analysing what our customers Our progress towards a more want, we ensure our growth plans exible and direct sourcing OUR are right for the future of M&S.
operation is bene ting our Drive growth STAKEHOLDERS Clothing & Home margins.
Strategy & Planning Reach customers Brand & Sell Our UK store estate programme will Improve pro tability drive sales growth by ensuring that We sell our products through our we have an estate that re ects how own branded channels, empowering See KPIs p20-21 our customers want to shop.
us with the ability to grow and develop them in the way that is right for Develop & Design NATURAL our customers.
By constantly improving product RESOURCES Serve & Engage quality and choice, we drive growth by making M&S more relevant to The rationale behind every strategic our customers more often.
decision starts with our customer we want a winning culture built around giving them great products and service.
15 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 We are committed to delivering sustainable value for stakeholders.
Here, we summarise how our business model drives value creation, how the process is managed, and how we measure the value created.
RELATED RISK FACTORS ACCOUNTABILITY OUTPUTS KEY OUTCOMES Financial performance risks Financial accountability Key financial measures Financial value created There are a number of risks related Group revenue BOARD to how we deliver financial value: Group pro t before tax and adjusted items Strong pro ts build 1.
Clothing & Home recovery OPERATING COMMITTEE strong cash position Adjusted earnings per share 8.
Margin Dividend per share Returns to shareholders See Governance p34-84 11.
Pro table growth Return on capital employed See Remuneration p66-78 Taxes to government 12.
Third party management Free cash ow pre-shareholder Increased investment returns See Risk p32-33 opportunities See KPIs p18 Employee rewards Non Nonn financial ancial per perfor formanc mance e ri risk sks s Non Nonfinancial financial a ac cc coun ountabil tabiliit ty y K Key ey non nonfinancial financial mea meas sure ures s Non Nonn financial ancial v value alue c created reated There are a number of risks Total Food customers and BOARD related to how we deliver average number of shops nonfinancial value: per customer Maintained and OPERATING COMMITTEE Total Clothing & Home customers improved reputation 1.
Clothing & Home recovery and average number of shops with consumers per customer 2.
Food safety and integrity ADVISORY PLAN A COMMITTEE Employee engagement score Better trained and fully 3.
Corporate responsibility committed employees Percentage of products with 4.
Information security A OPERATIONAL PLAN A COMMITTEE a Plan A quality including cyber Stronger relationships with Greenhouse gas emissions 6.
Customer proposition & suppliers and communities tonnes experience Culture where innovation Greenhouse gas emissions 7.
Talent & succession and agility thrive per sq ft 9.
Brand See Plan A Report See KPIs p19 See Risk p32-33 S Strate trateg gic ic p pe er rformance formance r risks isks St Strate rateg gi ic c ac acc co ou unta ntab bil iliit ty y K Ke ey s y st tr ra at te egic gic m me ea as su ur re es s S St trate rateg giic v c va alu lue e c cr reate eated d There are a number of risks related Food UK revenue BOARD to how we deliver strategic value: Food gross margin Growth in sales, product 1.
Clothing & Home recovery Food like-for-like revenue growth OPERATING COMMITTEE range and presence 5.
Technology UK space growth Food See Governance on p34-84 Supply chain effi ciency 8.
Margin Clothing & Home UK revenue See Remuneration p66-78 10.
UK store estate Clothing & Home gross margin Increased customer base with broadening appeal 11.
Pro table growth Clothing & Home UK like-for-like revenue growth A more dynamic, See Risk p32-33 International revenue exible and agile business International operating pro t International space growth M&S.
com weekly site visits See KPIs p20-21 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
