AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 12 MARKET REVIEW AVEVAS KEY END MARKETS ARE OIL & GAS, MARINE, POWER, AND PETROCHEMICAL & CHEMICAL.
OTHER MARKETS WE SERVE INCLUDE FABRICATION, PAPER & PULP, MINING, AND PHARMACEUTICALS.
OIL & GAS ACCOUNTS FOR APPROXIMATELY 4045% OF REVENUE, MARINE 20%, POWER 1520%, PETROCHEMICAL & CHEMICAL 10% AND THE REMAINDER 10%.
KEY MARKETS Oil & Gas Over time, the industries that we Oil & Gas Marine serve are growing, although Oil & Oil & Gas industry end-market demand The Marine market also experienced Gas and Marine have historically was weak, with global industry capital very weak demand during our 2017 seen substantial cyclical peaks expenditure falling by over 40% between financial year.
New ship orders were and troughs in capital spend.
calendar 2014 and calendar 2016. more than halved in calendar 2016 Sources: Barclays, Bank of America versus 2015 Source: Clarksons We aim to outperform the end-market Merrill Lynch.
Notwithstanding this, growth of the industries that we AVEVAs performance was resilient.
We serve as technology, particularly the This decline had a significant impact on have strong long-term relationships concept of the Digital Asset, is more the workloads of our EPC customers, with our customers, with nine out of widely adopted throughout the life with the more complex and therefore ten of the worlds leading shipyards cycles of physical assets.
In time this design-intensive upstream and offshore choosing AVEVA products.
These yards will grow the addressable market.
projects being impacted the most by have mostly maintained their software lower oil prices.
This, in turn, led to some licences during the cyclical downturn in consolidation in our customer base.
the expectation of a recovery in future years.
Clarksons Research forecasts a These developments impacted demand recovery in new ship orders globally, for our software.
EPC customers tend with strong annual growth off the low to favour a rental model for software, calendar year 2016 base out to 2020. meaning that their spend with AVEVA adjusts to market demand relatively quickly.
The oil price did, however, rise towards the end of calendar 2016, helping to underpin a view that industry capital expenditure might start to recover in calendar 2017.
Market drivers and opportunities Market drivers and opportunities Wider adoption of the Digital Asset A cyclical recovery in shipbuilding as throughout the life cycle of physical older ships are replaced by newer, assets beyond the design phase.
A cyclical recovery in industry-wide Strength in market sub-sectors, capital expenditure to maintain oil such as Naval and Cruise.
An increase in long-term global energy consumption.
STRATEGIC REPORT 13 Key Oil & Gas Marine Power Petrochemical & Chemical Other Power Petrochemical & Chemical Other markets We saw strength in the Power We saw stability in the Petrochemical & These markets include Fabrication, market with several significant Chemical markets during the year, with Paper & Pulp, Mining and new contract wins during the year.
AVEVA achieving some key customer Pharmaceutical.
Longer-term trends in Power are wins.
We expect to see moderate positive as the worlds emerging growth over the medium term.
We enjoyed good customer wins in economies invest in their powerthe Paper & Pulp, Pharmaceutical generation requirements and the We saw ongoing investment in the and Fabrication sectors.
ageing infrastructure of the developed sector during the year, particularly in world is maintained or replaced.
Asia, with stable market conditions on a global basis.
AVEVA enjoyed success In the shorter term, AVEVA has in winning new OO customers in Asia benefited from market share gains during the year in the refining sector.
and more demanding technology requirements from operators in the sector for both design and information management tools, as they seek to improve asset efficiency.
Market drivers and opportunities Market drivers and opportunities Market drivers and opportunities Growing demand for power in Wider adoption of the Digital Asset Wider adoption of the Digital Asset emerging economies.
throughout the life cycle of physical throughout the life cycle of physical Replacement of end-of-life power assets beyond the design phase.
assets beyond the design phase.
Growth in demand in emerging Greater adoption of the Digital Asset Wider adoption of the Digital Asset economies.
within industries such as throughout the life cycle of physical Long-term global GDP growth.
Architecture, Engineering and assets beyond the design phase.
Long-term global GDP growth and cyclical strength in industries such as Mining.
