06 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MARKET & CUSTOMER INSIGHTS Our actions are driven by listening to our customers and analysing the market to build a rich and robust picture of our customers shopping habits and outlooks.
Everything we do as a company is ltered through the lens of what we know about our customers and every decision starts with them.
UNDERSTANDING OUR CUSTOMERS In short, the information allows us to broadly level, we saw an improvement in do a better job for our most important ratings from our most frequent customers Our Customer Insight Unit CIU gathers stakeholders the people who shop with and in our larger stores, so we know feedback through a number of diff erent us so that we are more relevant, more customers are noticing the diff erence.
channels, including store exit surveys, often.
By understanding and knowing our Although our Clothing & Home business online surveys and reviews, till surveys, customers through careful and detailed is still recovering, customers can see we the Customer Contact Centre and focus data analysis, we can put customers right are doing the right things.
Customers nd groups, to build a comprehensive picture at the heart of everything we do.
com easy to navigate and customer of what our customers want from M&S.
This satisfaction has signi cantly improved year, we carried out over 700,000 customer WHAT CUSTOMERS ARE TELLING US over the last year.
interviews, either in person or through online surveys.
Within CIU, we have created a After holding up reasonably well over HOW WE USE OUR INSIGHTS centralised data analytics team to ensure we Christmas, consumer con dence in have a single accurate view of our customers.
general dipped in the early months of 2017.
The information we gather gives us Through anonymised data analysis, we can People started to feel a little less certain a crucial insight into the context in which better understand how our customers are about the wider economic outlook due were trading.
Our insights mean nothing shopping with us by examining purchasing to concern around issues such as rising unless we act on them.
We share the behaviours and patterns both in our stores in ation, the falling pound and uncertainty information with all our business units and online.
By understanding how our as a result of the UKs decision to leave and use the results to help us inform our customers choose to spend their money the European Union.
and time at M&S, we can ensure we are When asked about their future spending From product development and design, to always working to deliver the products intentions, all consumers rather than the content we put on our website, to our and shopping experience they want.
M&S customers in particular said they online delivery proposition they are all Our Consumer Barometer gives us a regular were likely to trim back their discretionary guided by what our customers tell us.
snapshot of how consumers are feeling spending in the months ahead due to these This year there were many examples of about their household nances and the economic concerns.
They also said they how we took insights from our CIU and used economy in general.
Every month we talk were more likely than before to put their them to improve our customers experience, to 70,000 M&S customers across our key money into experiences and events, such for example: customer groups, as well as those who as trips to the cinema, gym membership dont shop with us regularly, to take the or meals out, rather than into buying We changed the layout of our clothing nations pulse.
consumer goods on the high street.
departments because of customer Net optimism, a measure of how positive feedback that our stores were sometimes We overlay this insight with external market people are feeling, increased by 5% over confusing to shop in.
Until this year, we data, such as weather patterns, travel time the year.
In terms of their biggest concerns organised Womenswear by sub-brand, to our stores, local footfall data and the in the immediate future, people cited rising such as per una or Limited Edition.
But this competitor environment, to build a solid food prices, worries about the Brexit led to a fragmented shopping experience understanding of our customers and our negotiations and geopolitical uncertainty and product duplication where subposition in the overall retail landscape.
following the American presidential brands had similar garments.
Our stores But gathering this crucial data is only half election last November.
now have clear product departments, with of the equation its how we use it to put our the key products for the season brought But despite all this, consumer con dence is customers centre stage thats important.
together at the front of the store, leading still relatively high compared with the period By carefully analysing all the information that to a more intuitive shopping experience.
between 2008 and 2013, when it suff ered we have, we can ensure we are in touch with a prolonged slump due to the credit crisis.
We have used our insights to increase consumer attitudes and lifestyles.
The data levels of personalisation for our 5.6m allows us to identify patterns and groups of More of our food shoppers say that they Sparks members who now receive tailored customers.
By understanding these groups would recommend us to family and friends.
off ers based on their interests and shopping in detail, we can build our strategies from Our Net Promoter Score NPS, which habits.
We invite them to special Sparks the customer upwards rather than from measures customers willingness to events and experiences, such as wine the boardroom downwards.
recommend M&S, in Food is up four points.
tastings or fashion shows, depending on In Clothing & Home, while overall NPS was 07 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2017 M&S TODAY how many Sparks they have and what we know they are passionate about.
We are also being more targeted in our email communications by sending customers updates speci cally related to their local store and area so they only get the 32m information that is most relevant to them.
We used quantitative data from 7,000 NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS customers to guide our investment in improving service in our stores.
This research told us customers wanted to see more CLOTHING & HOME CUSTOMERS Customer Assistants in our stores.
We responded by putting over 3,000 more colleagues into the departments where our customers told us they value 8.3m service most, including Fitting Rooms, WEBSITE VISITS Bra Fit, Mens Suits and Footwear.
PER WEEK We showcase our clothing collections to the fashion press twice a year Autumn Winter in May and Spring Summer in 38% 62% November so our customers get to 40% see some of whats coming next season.
OF OUR CUSTOMERS OF OUR CUSTOMERS FOOD CUSTOMERS SHOP This year, we responded to feedback that ARE MALE ARE FEMALE FOR TONIGHT customers increasingly want to buy into new season trends as soon as they see them with See Now Buy Now capsule 40% 52% collections, enabling customers to shop key pieces from the new season OF CUSTOMERS SHOP OF ONLINE ORDERS ARE MADE FOR BOTH CLOTHING & THROUGH TABLET AND MOBILE straight away.
HOME AND FOOD The Clothing & Home research panel we use for product development has a customer interaction every five seconds 23% through our dedicated panel of around OF CUSTOMERS UNDER 35 231,000 customers.
With this we gain invaluable feedback on new products during design development, so we can UK FOOD MARKETPLACE increase the buys on customer favourites We face stiff competition across the UK food sector with rising in ation, recovery and eliminate products that score less among the main four supermarkets and the continued growth of the discounters.
well at the concept stage, ensuring we Food retailers and suppliers also face cost headwinds due to rising raw material prices are shaping collections that most and the depreciation of sterling.
However, through listening to our customers and resonate with our customers.
monitoring the market, we keep on top of changing shopping habits.
Consumers remain For this years Christmas campaign, we as savvy as ever and relish innovation.
They are also doing smaller convenience shops.
listened to thousands of customers These trends play to our strengths.
to understand what they want to see from M&S at Christmas.
The feedback UK CLOTHING MARKETPLACE we gathered said they wanted us to own The market remains highly competitive, with retailers facing cost pressures due to Christmas in the traditional sense, but in increasing commodity prices and the impact of the fall in sterling.
At the same time, a way that was surprising and diff erent.
households are managing their nances carefully due to fears of in ation and political So we created the Christmas with Love uncertainty.
Customers still love treating themselves, but consumer con dence dipped campaign starring the often unsung hero in the early months of 2017.
Spending on clothing is also coming under pressure as of Christmas, Mrs Claus, who epitomised consumers spend more on experiences and retailers are vying with cinemas and the huge eff orts our customers put in to restaurants for spend.
However, we believe we can attract consumers by focusing making the festive season special.
on off ering high quality, stylish products that are competitively priced.
This is just the beginning.
The next few years present exciting opportunities.
For example, CONSUMER CONFIDENCE INDEX since the launch of Sparks in 2015, nearly 10 1.5m people have downloaded our M&S app.
This combination of technology and loyalty 5 is powerful.
It brings us closer to our customers and will allow us to further enrich our 0 proposition.
It will allow us to increase customer engagement.
And it will allow -5 us to drive frequency of purchase across channels and categories.
-10 Smart use of data can boost sales and -15 therefore create value for everyone: our 2015 2016 2017 customers, our employees and, ultimately, N D J F M A M J J A S O N D J F M our shareholders.
Source: GfK FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE OUR PERFORMANCE OUR BUSINESS
