Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Business model and strategy How we create value Our business model Caledonias family backing, long term reputation, contact network and proprietary capital differentiates our investment proposition and underpins our ability to deliver long term capital growth and increasing annual dividends for shareholders.
Our resources and Identify and invest in assets that will meet relationships our return objectives The Caledonia team Invested through allocations of capital to four We aim to recruit and retain high quality investment executives to market pools, balanced to provide long term maintain deal flow and investment risk mitigated returns continuity, who understand and are able to execute Caledonias investment philosophy.
Quoted pool Income pool Invests in companies with Invests in liquid global Business network established business models, equities that produce a Essential to support our business, strong balance sheets, good reliable and increasing our reputation as a supportive and constructively involved long term returns on capital and strong income stream investor enables us to develop our cash flows network of business contacts.
They assist us to identify opportunities and carry out due diligence, as well as Target return: 10% Target return: 7% being invaluable to the management of our investee companies.
Strong balance sheet Our strong balance sheet, with 25% 11% 20.6% 17.0% no permanent corporate debt, of NAV of NAV allows us the flexibility to invest Return Return in both private equity and quoted opportunities over a longer ten year timeframe, significantly reducing the investment cycle risk.
Reputation Investment process Caledonias heritage can be traced Our investment process is tailored to the nature of each pool.
Investment back to the shipping empire opportunities are identified through our business network and company established by Sir Charles Cayzer research.
An initial review will identify opportunities with characteristics in 1878 and still benefits from which meet our strategic risk return appetite.
the backing of the Cayzer family.
Caledonia has been listed on the London Stock Exchange since 1960, has been an investment company since 1987 and an investment trust company since 2003.
10 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Our strategic objectives 1 Deliver FTSE All-Share outperformance over ten years and shorter term returns between RPI 3% and RPI 6% 2 Pay an increasing annual dividend 3 Manage investment risk consistent with long term wealth generation Develop our investment talent, research knowledge, Manage investment risk relationships and brand Strategic investment Invest in global quoted and unquoted equities allocation and private equity and quoted market funds Investment timing Investment volatility Unquoted pool Funds pool Invests in established private Invests in private equity and Liquidity companies with proven quoted market funds to management teams, seeking provide exposure to regions Geographical exposures long term capital growth and sectors where we are less able to invest directly Resources and relationships Target return: 14% Target return: 12.5% Reputation Investee leverage 30% 21% 20.8% 23.1% Regulation of NAV of NAV Return Return Extensive and ongoing business and financial due diligence is conducted, including using independent advisers, where appropriate, before a final investment decision is made.
Investments are subject to continuous performance monitoring and regular risk reviews.
Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 11 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017
