Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Responsibility statements The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements of the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and Company law requires the directors to prepare financial provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the directors the groups performance and position, business model and have prepared the group and parent company financial strategy.
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial Disclosure of information to auditors statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of fair view of the state of affairs of the group and the company this report confirms that: and of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing 1. so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant these financial statements, the directors are required to: information of which the companys auditor is unaware select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 2. the director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have consistently taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware make judgements and accounting estimates that are of any relevant audit information and to establish that the reasonable and prudent companys auditor is aware of that information.
state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union has This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted, in been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies and explained in the group and parent company financial Act 2006. statements respectively Responsibility statement under the Disclosure prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Guidance and Transparency Rules and the UK unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will Corporate Governance Code continue in business.
Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting pages 34 and 35 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time 1. the group financial statements, which have been prepared in the financial position of the company and the group and enable accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, of the group as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS 2. the strategic report contained on pages 2 to 33 includes a fair Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the review of the development and performance of the business assets of the company and the group and hence for taking and the position of the group, together with a description of reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Signed on behalf of the board by: Will Wyatt Stephen King Chief Executive Finance Director 25 May 2017 25 May 2017 68 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017
