Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Our operations Waste management Viridor is at the forefront of Key facts theresource sector in the UK, transforming waste into energy, high 8 300 quality recyclates and raw materials.
energy recovery facilities recycling, energy recovery and inoperation and four more waste management facilities duetobe operational by 2020 www.
co. uk waste 380,000 650 potential homes powered by waste collection vehicles energy produced by our portfolio securing materials for our network of assets 150 7.6 local authority and major million tonnes of waste corporate clients materialsinput each year 32,000 1.6 customers across the UK million tonnes of recyclate traded Phil Piddington Managing Director, Viridor Viridor has delivered a strong performance across its recycling and energy asset base.
Our ERF portfolio is performing well and we have started construction of a new facility in Avonmouth, for which we have already secured half of the inputs.
Our focus on self-help measures has reduced the risks in the recycling business and delivered significant financial benefit.
32 Material recycling facility Energy recovery facility 33 Strategic report Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strong momentum Customer experience Our operations Our energy recovery and waste recycling business During the year, we completed our first customer Waste management enjoyed strong momentum in 2016 17.
Through our service survey to seek the views of over 1,000 clients.
energy recovery facility ERF portfolio we are delivering Viridor will use the findings to strengthen customer continued on the Groups strategy to invest for growth.
relationships and support the Groups wider growth Our announcement of a new ERF at Avonmouth strategy.
By improving the quality of our products and near Bristol takes our total portfolio to 12 plants.
services we enhance the customer experience, and Of the three other ERFs currently under construction, this in turn supports customer retention and creates Dunbar and South London ERFs are progressing well.
Following the termination in the year of Interserve as our main contractor for Glasgow ERF, the project is 76% of Viridor customers said now progressing to our revised plan with commissioning expected in 2017. they were satisfied or very To date, the Group has invested more than 1 billion satisfied with the service into its ERF asset base.
This significant investment in environmental infrastructure is helping us to transform our business model with an increasing The key requirement from the perspective of our focus on ERFs and recycling.
customers is for a seamless service providing safe, reliable collection.
We continue to develop a fully In coming years, we expect our growing ERF business integrated service of waste management, recycling to be the largest contributor to Viridor, followed by and recovery recognising that customers are keen recycling, with these operations together already to avoid landfill.
Our aim is to maximise the amount successfully delivering new revenues that can replace ofwaste that goes into recycling and to divert our legacy landfill business.
thebalance to our ERFs or landfill as appropriate.
Bydoing this, we are supporting development Self-help measures during the year improved ofacircular economy with greater resource efficiency in our recycling operations whilethere was productivityleading to reduced waste and pollution.
continued progress in commodity risk sharing with our customers.
Energy recovery facilities We took further steps to evolve our approach to Viridor reported a good operational and financial health and safety.
The Groups new director of Safety, performance for 2016 17.
Health, Quality and Sustainability SHQS will work Our ERF portfolio is a significant asset base closely with Viridor to deliver a major transformation comprising eight plants in operation with four under in our health and safety outlook that will benefit construction, including Avonmouth.
This is the UKs personal wellbeing and enhance business performance.
largest network of modern low-carbon energy 1.1bn Viridors total energy capacity has continued to recovery facilities and produces much-needed invested to date in our ERF growand with our joint venture partners, we are energy.
At year end, our ERFs provided178MW of portfolio already one of the largest independent power generating capacity.
Once thetotal committed ERF generators from waste in the UK.
We had 280MW of portfolio is completed in 2020 21 our ERFs alone will operating capacity from ERFs, anaerobic digestion provide 276MW of energy generation capacity.
AD, solar and landfill gas including joint ventures Long-term waste contracts provide a secure fuel 1.5TWh at 31March 2017 and exported 1.5 terawatt hours source for the ERFs and strategically agreed energy TWh of power during the year.
power exported in 2016 17 offtake contracts provide assured earnings from the energy generated.
Bringing new solutions to plastics recycling Viridor is continually working on solutions to align next-generation recycling resources with the needs of UK industry.
Our 12.5m advanced plastics recycling facility at Rochester is capable of processing 75,000 tonnes of mixed plastics each year.
The Rochester team has partnered with packaging specialists Nextek, funded by WRAP to help find a solution to the 1.3 billion black plastic ready-meal trays sold by UK supermarkets that are not currently recyclable.
34 Plant optimisation Viridor plays a vital We are maintaining a high level of performance in part in the displacement these facilities and demonstrating we can deliver of virgin materials long-term stable earnings.
This helped us exceed our in manufacturing target contribution of some 100 million of EBITDA from our ERF portfolio for 2016 17. supply chains, with recycled material For the operational plants, our focus was on that significantly optimisation and during 2016 17 we achieved average availability in excess of 90%.
Our operational ERFs reduces embodied have a design capacity of 2.1 million tonnes of carbon across wasteinputs, including joint ventures.
are for this to increase to 3.2 million tonnes of waste by 2020.
ERF growth Two of our ERFs under construction, at Dunbar and Beddington, are progressing well and to budget.
Delays Ardley ERF achieves at Glasgows Recycling and Renewable Energy Centre best-in-class delivery led Viridor to terminate the construction contract with Viridors ERF at Ardley, north of Oxford, Interserve.
The project will be finished byan experienced delivered world-class safety performance team assembled by Viridor while contractual remedies in construction and was built on-time and will also support completion.
It completed its first year of Council is supportive and commissioning of the plant is operations in 2016 17 and achieved upper now expected in 2017. quartile availability between 90% and 96%.
We are building a strong operational team using This high level of performance is normally power industry best practice.
We have demonstrated associated with a mature asset and it would be that we can build these facilities safely, on time and reasonable to expect a lower level of 80%-90% tobudget and during the year we achieved upper availability from a new plant.
The achievement quartile availability and reliability.
Maintaining this at Ardley of upper quartile performance in high level of performance in our ERFs contributed to the first year with a completely new team is fulfilling our commitment to achieve c. 100 million the result of Viridors record of investing in EBITDA during the year.
quality people, training and development and its commitment to effective operational The 252 million Avonmouth ERF near Bristol is processes and procedures.
The plant will have a capacity of 320,000 tonnes per annum and will deliver 34MW of electricity.
Viridor expects to fill the plants capacity on opening and by year end 50% of Innovative use of by-products the fuel had already been agreed.
This includes some Viridors ERFs are moving closer to becoming a fully 35% of total capacity secured through a long-term zero waste to landfill solution using innovative contract with Somerset Waste Partnership.
This aligns technology to treat the by-products of the energy with our strategy to achieve a balanced risk-reward recovery process.
Incinerator Bottom Ash IBA, profile across the Group.
We are implementing that theash left behind after burning the waste and Air strategy by increasing long-term contracted revenue Pollution Control Residue APCr, the by-product of to match the life cycle of our assets.
There are further the filtering process to clean exhaust gases before contracts for Avonmouth ERF in the pipeline.
they exit the facility, are now being transformed into valuable construction products.
Our IBA is recovered Impact on carbon emissions for processing from all ERF sites and after the 41% of the Groups 2016 17 emissions were attributable removal of metals, is recycled into an aggregate that to our ERFs.
This part of the business will continue to is used as capping layers, sub-bases, trenches and contribute a significant proportion of our carbon binding concrete to structures.
The aggregate is now footprint as more plants come on stream however widely recognised and used in nationally important there are clear environmental benefits due to the construction projects such as the M25 widening.
reduction of waste going to landfill.
Viridor is in the Contracts are also in place for recycling APCr that process of establishing energy efficiency projects at includes an innovative technology that transforms key sites although, in the long term, we believe our the APCr into a carbon negative aggregate.
The energy recovery activities and their related combined Environment Agency considers the aggregate to be a heat andpower schemes will help to deliver a distinct product in its own right, having been assessed as an improvement over landfill.
In addition, the displacement end of waste material that can be used in exactly the of virgin materials in manufacturing with recycled same way as virgin aggregates and with no worse material contributes to significant reductions in environmental impact than virgin aggregate.
embodied carbon across product life cycles.
However, this offsetfalls outside current greenhouse gas reporting scopes.
35 Strategic report Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Recycling Local authority contracts Our operations Our recycling operations had a satisfactory year with Performance in 2016 17 across our key local authority Energy recovery Viridor retaining its position as one of the largest contracts, including Greater Manchester, Glasgow, recycling businesses in the UK.
Recycling volumes Lancashire, Somerset and West Sussex, as well as and waste recycling traded in 2016 17 were slightly lower than previous theThames Water contract, remains broadly in line continued years at 1.6 million tonnes.
We were active in many with 2015 16.
We began operating our 25-year areas, including mixed material recycling, glass and contracted service for Tomorrows Valley in Wales plastics recycling, paper recycling, transforming food where four local authorities are collaborating in a waste into organic and energy resources.
As one of 190 million residual waste contract that is securing the UKs largest glass-recycling companies, our fuel for Trident Park ERF.
In May 2016, we announced recycling plants in Sheffield and Glasgow processed a significant multi-authority recycling project in over 245,000 tonnes of glass in 2016 17.
This is expected to be worth around 700 million over the 25-year contract period Self-help measures and will secure fuel for the Dunbar ERF.
Recyclate prices were mainly flat but under pressure, Joint ventures with fluctuations across different commodities.
While The Lakeside ERF a 50 50 joint venture with Grundon the outlook for recyclate prices is relatively stable Waste Management continued to operate efficiently over the short term, we are not relying on a near-term while Viridor Laing Greater Manchester a joint venture recovery.
In addition, local authority austerity in the between Viridor and John Laing Infrastructure is face of central government cuts has made the market delivering the 25-year Greater Manchester Waste environment more difficult.
We therefore focused in private finance initiative PFI contract, which was the 2016 17 on self-help optimisation measures.
These UKs largest waste and energy project entered into in initiatives drove improved margins with EBITDA 2009.
Solid recovered fuel produced from Greater increasing by 6 per tonne, from 8 per tonne in Manchesters residual waste is used to generate heat 2015 16 to 14 per tonne in 2016 17. and power at Runcorn 1 ERF TPSCo, a joint venture As part of the self-help initiative, Viridor intensified its between Viridor, John Laing Infrastructure and Inovyn.
optimisation programme and, combined with other ongoing efficiency initiatives, this saw costs reduced by The Greater Manchester Waste Disposal Authority 1 per tonne for the year despite an increase in GMWDA continues to face financial challenges shipping costs.
andin April 2017 confirmed it is seeking an exit and re-negotiation of the PFI contract.
Diversion of Sharing commodity risk and opportunity wastefrom landfill remains ahead of contractual In line with the Groups strategy of achieving a commitments and Viridor and its partners are keen balanced risk profile, we continue to work with toensure this progress is able to continue.
Viridor stakeholders where we can share commodity risk andJohn Laing have been actively engaging with andopportunity.
There are further opportunities GMWDA as they consider their options.
forrisk sharing arrangements as contracts expire There are provisions in the PFI Contract for andare renegotiated.
compensation to be paid to Viridor and John Laing ontermination.
Crayford MRF underlines benefits Investment in dust control of self-help asset optimisation Viridor has one of Europes largest mixed-waste recycling facilities A key facet of our operations is managing the dust caused by at Crayford in Kent.
Crayford MRF applies advanced technology to our activities, to minimise the impact on our staff as well as on sort and recover co-mingled recyclable materials from local councils the external environment.
The primary focus for dust control is and businesses outside London.
elimination at source, through localised extraction and dust filtration systems at key locations within the process.
Water suppression the This plant serves as a good example of our boosting productivity dampening down of yard areas or haul roads is also used and we through asset optimisation and self-help measures that saw have invested in vacuum suction systems at a number of plants for inputs into Crayford reduce marginally from the previous year, but use in cleaning and maintenance activities.
These measures, as well delivered a significantly increased EBITDA.
as general standards of good housekeeping within our plants, help us to keep dust levels under control.
36 achieved The Wildlife Trusts Biodiversity Benchmark, Energy efficiency which includes two heathland restorations Tatchells Along with our JV partners, programmes and and Warmwell in Dorset and a grassland restoration Viridor is already one of the reorganised operations that has national significance for birdlife Beddingham have made our in Sussex.
largest independent power recycling facilities generators from waste in Community engagement more efficient and Investing in educational programmes and supporting theUK.
initiatives local to our operational facilities is a key element of our community engagement.
Our 11 educational facilities have received 19,327 visitors over Landfill the year and helped deliver 122 outreach events to In 2016 17 we continued to manage our landfill energy 6,848 people.
business to maximise the value of landfill gas power generation, optimise opportunities for waste disposal The education facility at Ardley ERF has been where it is not suitable for recycling or sending to ERFs, shortlisted for the UBS Award for Education, as part of whilst exploring alternative commercial development Business in the Communitys Responsible Business opportunities and other energy uses.
Awards 2017 which recognised our Business Class Partnership with The Bicester School, Industrial Cadet We operate a network of landfill gas power Programme, Go4Set and Engineering Trust projects.
generation sites that contributed 99MW of capacity in 2016 17.
We are continuing our strategy of During 2016 17 Viridor has provided 8.0 million delivering cash flow from landfill sites and anticipate incommunity support, sponsorship and charitable continued reduction of capacity.
However, we believe donations, of which 7.7 million was paid to there will be an ongoing requirement for some landfill ViridorCredits for distribution via the Landfill capacity in the UK as some waste is not suitable 1 Communities Fund.
forrecycling nor for sending to ERFs.
Careful consideration will be given to selecting suitable sites We operate active community liaison groups to ensure for this opportunity, our intention being to retain only effective dialogue with the local community and as a small number of strategic sites by 2020.
Viridor part of our major construction projects we work hard closed four sites during the year, bringing the total to ensure maximum benefit is achieved for local number of operational sites to 11. communities in the surrounding area.
Landfill restoration and biodiversity Viridor continues to manage 31 closed landfill sites across the UK in accordance with biodiversity plans and using our experience in restoration.
Sites have been restored to heathland, grassland, woodland, agriculture, amenity parkland or a combination of these.
Viridor currently has eight sites that have 1 Viridor Credits is an independent, not-for-profit organisation that administers Viridors contributions to theLandfill Communities Fund.
Investment in Household Waste Leachate Management Recycling Centres A number of operational projects have been launched aimed at Viridor manages a network of Household Waste Recycling Centres reducing leachate generation including accelerated capping and HWRCs in partnership with local authorities across the UK.
A dedicated leachate management team has complement kerbside collections by giving residents access to safe been created to focus on driving down long-term management and and modern facilities where they can bring along items that are not disposal costs, improving treatment plants and achieving the best routinely collected from their home to maximise recycling.
Our HWRCs have won awards for site design and excellent customer services.
In areas serviced by our HWRCs recycling rates significantly exceed national averages, often achieving recycling rates of more than 75%.
