Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Board of directors 1 2 3 4 5 1 Rod Kent, Chairman 4 Jamie Cayzer-Colvin, Executive Director Appointed a non-executive director of Caledonia in 2011 He joined the Caledonia group in 1995, initially working at its and Chairman in 2012, he is also Chairman of the Nomination Amber speciality chemicals subsidiary before becoming an Committee.
He was Managing Director of Close Brothers Group investment executive at Caledonias head office in 1999.
He for 28 years until 2002 and then a non-executive director and was appointed a director in 2005 and has held board positions later Chairman from 2006 until 2008.
His non-executive roles at numerous Caledonia investee companies.
He is currently have included the Chairmanships of M&G Group, Bradford & Chairman of The Henderson Smaller Companies Investment Bingley and BT Pension Trustees, Senior Independent Director Trust and a non-executive director of Polar Capital Holdings.
of Whitbread and a Governor of the Wellcome Trust.
He is He is also a director of Heritage of London Trust and the Bronze currently Chairman of the Trustees of Calthorpe Estates.
Mr Kent will be retiring from the board at the conclusion Mr Cayzer-Colvin brings to the board broad senior of the 2017 annual general meeting.
management experience and investment expertise.
Mr Kent brings to the board considerable senior board level experience and detailed knowledge of banking, corporate 5 David Stewart, Independent Non-Executive Director finance and asset management.
Appointed a non-executive director of Caledonia in 2015, he is a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 2 W ill Wyatt, Chief Executive Committees.
Having begun his career at Swire Pacific in 1981, He joined the Caledonia group in 1997 from Close Brothers he joined James Capel in 1986 and then Fidelity Investments Corporate Finance, working at Sterling Industries before in 1995, where he was Head of Emerging Markets and transferring to Caledonias head office in 1999 as an investment subsequently European President.
He was appointed a director in 2005 and Chief he was Chief Executive Officer of Odey Asset Management Executive in 2010 and is also a member of the Nomination before assuming a non-executive director role until 2014.
He has held board positions at numerous He is currently Chairman and co-founder of IMM Associates, Caledonia investee companies and is currently a non-executive Chairman of Hermes Investment Management and a nondirector of Cobehold and Real Estate Investors.
He is also a executive director of Hargreave Hale.
Mr Stewart will succeed trustee of the Rank Foundation and a director and committee Mr Kent as Chairman at the conclusion of the 2017 annual member of Newmarket Racecourses.
Mr Wyatt brings to the board corporate finance and Mr Stewart brings to the board extensive experience of investment expertise, broad senior management experience international business and asset management, both in the and team leadership skills.
UK and in Asia and emerging markets.
3 Stephen King, Finance Director He joined Caledonia in 2009 as Finance Director.
He was Group Finance Director of fide La Rue from 2003 to 2009, prior to which he was Group Finance Director of Midland Electricity and before that held senior financial positions at Seeboard, Lucas Industries and Lonhro.
He is currently a non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committees of Bristow Group and TT Electronics and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Mr King brings to the board extensive financial oversight and risk management experience.
34 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information 6 7 8 9 10 6 Stuart Bridges, Independent Non-Executive Director 9 C harles Gregson, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed a non-executive director of Caledonia in 2013, he is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of Appointed a non-executive director of Caledonia in 2009, he the Governance and Nomination Committees.
A chartered is Chairman of the Governance and Remuneration Committees accountant, he is Group Chief Financial Officer of Nex Group and a member of the Nomination Committee.
He spent his previously ICAP, which he joined in 2015 after some 16 years business career at United Business Media and its predecessor as Chief Financial Officer of Hiscox.
Prior to Hiscox, he held companies in a number of divisional and head office roles positions in various financial services companies in the UK and and has served on a number of boards in the financial service US, including Henderson Global Investors.
He is a member of sector, including St Jamess Place, Provident Financial, MAI the Audit Committee of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and International Personal Finance, and in the media sector, in England and Wales and of the Finance Committee of The including United Business Media and PR Newswire Europe.
He is currently non-executive Chairman of Nex Group and of Non-Standard Finance.
Mr Bridges brings to the board a wide knowledge of both the insurance and investment markets, as well as financial Mr Gregson brings to the board extensive senior board level oversight expertise.
experience, as well as experience of managing relationships with the media, regulators and the institutional investor community.
7 The Hon Charles Cayzer, Non-Executive Director Having gained experience of merchant banking, commercial 10 S honaid Jemmett-Page, Independent banking and corporate and project finance with Baring Non-Executive Director Brothers, Cayzer Irvine and Cayzer Ltd, he was appointed an executive director of Caledonia in 1985, becoming nonAppointed a non-executive director of Caledonia in 2015, she is executive in 2012, and is also a member of the Nomination a member of the Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
In the past he has held board positions at Committees.
She spent the first 20 years of her career at KPMG numerous Caledonia investee companies.
in London and Tokyo, rising to the position of Partner, Financial Services.
In 2001, she moved to Unilever, where she was Senior The Hon C W Cayzer brings to the board broad commercial Vice President, Finance and Information for Asia, based in experience and also extensive knowledge of the commercial Singapore, before returning to the UK as Finance Director for property sector.
In 2009, she joined CDC Group as Chief Operating Officer, a position she held until 2012.
8 Harold Bol, Independent Non-Executive Director Since then, she has focused on non-executive appointments An Belgian national, he was appointed a non-executive director and is currently non-executive Chairman of Origo Partners and of Caledonia in 2014 and is a member of the Audit and MS Amlin and a non-executive director of GKN and Greencoat Nomination Committees.
A material sciences engineer UK Wind.
by training, he has been Chief Executive Officer of Sofina, a Mrs Jemmett-Page brings to the board extensive financial quoted Belgian financial holding company, since 2008, prior oversight and international business experience, in particular to which he held a number of operational and managerial roles in the Far East.
within Corus, now part of Tata Steel.
He is a non-executive director of bioMrieux, in which Sofina is a shareholder.
Mr Bol brings to the board industrial and investment experience, particularly in Europe, as well as a deep understanding of the management dynamics of familycontrolled businesses.
Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 35 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017
