86 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Directors report The Directors of the Company present their report together with the audited Change of control consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2017.
Details of change of control provisions in the Companys revolving credit facilities are set out on page 144.
This report has been prepared in accordance with requirements outlined within The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Information on agreements between the Company and its Directors Regulations 2008 and forms part of the management report as required under providing for compensation for loss of office of employment including details Disclosure Guidance & Transparency Rule DTR 4.
Certain information that of change of control provisions in share schemes is set out on page 75 and fulfils the requirements of the Directors report can be found elsewhere in this 76.
Subject to that, there are no agreements between the Company and its document and is referred to below.
This information is incorporated into this employees providing for compensation for loss of office of employment that Directors report by reference.
occurs because of a takeover bid.
Responsibility statement Dividends As required under the DTR, a statement made by the Board regarding the Full details of the Companys dividend policy and proposed final dividend payment preparation of the financial statements is set out on pages 88 and 89 which also for the year ended 31 March 2017 are set out on pages 23 and 42 and note 9 provides details regarding the disclosure of information to the Companys auditor to the consolidated financial statements.
and managements report on internal control over financial information.
Sustainability Going concern Information about the Companys approach to sustainability risks and The going concern statement required by the Listing Rules and the UK Corporate opportunities is set out on pages 26 and 27.
Also included on these pages are Governance Code the Code is set out in the Directors statement details of our greenhouse gas emissions.
Political donations System of risk management and internal control No political donations or contributions to political parties under the Companies The Board is responsible for maintaining a risk management and internal control Act 2006 have been made during the financial year.
The Group policy is that system and for managing principal risks faced by the Group.
Such a system no political donations be made or political expenditure incurred.
is designed to manage rather than eliminate business risks and can only provide Financial risk management objectives and policies reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mistreatment or loss.
Disclosures relating to financial risk management objectives and policies, This is described in more detail in the Audit and Risk Committee report on pages including our policy for hedging are set out in note 23 to the consolidated financial 57 to 63. statements and disclosures relating to exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity The Board has implemented in full the FRC Guidance on Risk Management risk and cash flow risk are outlined in note 23.
Internal Control and related Financial and Business Reporting for the year and Important events since the end of the financial year to the date of this Annual Report.
The resulting procedures, which are subject Details of those important events affecting the Group which have occurred since to regular monitoring and review, provide an ongoing process for identifying, the end of the financial year are set out in the Strategic Report and note 32 to the evaluating and managing the Companys principal risks which can be found consolidated financial statements.
Future developments within the Group Corporate governance statement The Strategic Report contains details of likely future developments within The corporate governance statement setting out how the Company complies the Group.
withthe Code and which includes a description of the main features of our internal control and risk management arrangements in relation to the financial Group policy compliance reporting process is set out on pages 44 to 85.
The information required by DTR Each Group policy is owned by a member of the Executive Committee so that 7.2.
6R can be found in the Shareholder information section on pages 190 to 196. there is clear accountability and authority for ensuring the associated business A description of the composition and operation of the Board and its Committees risk is adequately managed.
Regional Chief Executives and the senior leadership is set out on pages 44 to 85. team member responsible for each Group function have primary accountability for ensuring compliance with all Group policies by all our markets and entities.
Strategic Report The Strategic Report is set out on pages 1 to 43 and is incorporated into this Our Group compliance team and policy champions support the policy owners andlocal markets in implementing policies and monitoring compliance.
Code of Conduct Directors and their interests All of the key Group policies have been consolidated into the Vodafone Code The Directors of the Company who served during the financial year ended of Conduct.
This is a policy document applicable to all employees and those who 31 March 2017 and up to the date of signing the financial statements are work for or on behalf of Vodafone.
It sets out the standards of behaviour expected as follows: Gerard Kleisterlee, Vittorio Colao, Nick Read, Sir Crispin Davis, in relation to areas such as insider dealing, bribery and raising concerns through Dr Mathias Dpfner, Dame Clara Furse, Valerie Gooding, Renee James, Samuel the whistle-blowing process known internally as Speak Up.
Jonah, Nick Land, Phil Yea and David Nish.
Details of Directors interests in the Companys ordinary shares, options held over ordinary shares, interests in share Branches options and long-term incentive plans are set out on pages 77 to 85.
The Group, through various subsidiaries, has branches in a number of different jurisdictions in which the business operates.
Directors conflicts of interest Established within the Company is a procedure for managing and monitoring Employee disclosures conflicts of interest for Directors.
Details of this procedure are set out on page 56.
Vodafone is an inclusive employer and diversity is important to us.
We give full and fair consideration to applications for employment by disabled persons and the Directors indemnities continued employment of anyone incurring a disability whilst employed by us.
In accordance with our Articles of Association and to the extent permitted by law, Training, career development and promotion opportunities are equally applied Directors are granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of liability for all our employees, regardless of disability.
Our disclosures relating to the incurred as a result of their office.
In addition, we maintained a Directors employment of women in senior management roles, employee engagement and and officers liability insurance policy throughout the year.
Neither our indemnity policies are set out on pages 7, 21, 24 and 25. nor the insurance provides cover in the event that a Director is proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
By Order of the Board Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 The information on the amount of interest capitalised and the treatment of tax relief can be found in notes 5 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements respectively.
The remaining disclosures required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 are not applicable to Vodafone.
Capital structure and rights attaching to shares Rosemary Martin All information relating to the Companys capital structure, rights attaching Group General Counsel and Company Secretary to shares, dividends, the policy to repurchase the Companys own shares and 16 May 2017 othershareholder information is contained on pages 190 to 196.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 87 Reporting our financial performance Focus on clear, effective and concise reporting We continue to review the format of our consolidated financial statements with the aim of making them clearer and easier to follow.
This year we have added the following highlights to help you navigate to the information that is important to you.
Reporting in euro currency Future adoption of IFRS9, IFRS15and IFRS 16 With effect from 1 April 2016, the Groups presentation currency We have updated the disclosures in was changed from pounds sterling note 1 Basis of preparation relating tothe euro to better align with the to the timetable and potential geographic split of the Groups impact of the future adoption of operations as detailed in note 1 Basis IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, IFRS of preparation.
Prior year results have 15 Revenue from Contracts with been restated accordingly.
For more information: For more information: Pages 103 to 106 Pages 107 and 108 Vodafone India India impairment Tax reporting Alternative performance measures Following the announcement We include details of the 4.5 We continue to enhance our best on 20 March 2017 that we had billion impairment charge practice reporting of the Groups This year, we have further clarified agreed to combine Vodafone recorded in respect of the Groups tax affairs to include how the tax where we have used alternative India with Idea Cellular to form investment in India in note 4 charge arises, expected future tax performance measures, including a joint controlled company, the Impairment losses, which charges and details of tax assets their usage and reconciliation results of Vodafone India became together with the recognition of an held in different jurisdictions as tothe closest respective discontinued operations and its associated 0.8 billion deferred tax detailed in note 6 Taxation.
equivalent GAAP measure and assets and liabilities held for sale.
asset, led to an overall 3.7 billion For more information: their definitions.
Pages 118 to 122 For more information: reduction in the carrying value of For more information: Pages 123 and 124 Pages 205 to 213 Vodafone India.
For more information: Pages 113 to 116 88 Directors statement 103 Notes to the consolidated financialstatements: 177 Other unaudited ofresponsibility financial information: 103 1.
Basis of preparation Cash flows 177 P rior year operating results 90 Report of independent Income statement 139 19.
Reconciliation of net registered public cash flow from operating 109 2.
S egmental analysis 182 Company activities accounting firm financial statements 112 3.
Cash and cash equivalents 91 Audit report 182 Company statement 113 4.
Borrowings on the consolidated of financial position 117 5.
Investment income and and parent company 144 22.
Liquidity and capital 183 Company statement financingcosts financial statements resources of changes in equity 118 6.
Capital and financial risk 184 Notes to the Company 123 7.
D iscontinued operations management financial statements: financialstatements: and assets held for sale Employee remuneration 99 Consolidated 184 1.
E arnings per share income statement 153 24.
E quity dividends management 99 Consolidated statement 186 3.
Debtors Financial position compensation ofcomprehensive income 187 4.
P ost employment offinancial position equipment benefits 188 6.
Called up share capital 101 Consolidated statement 130 12.
Share-based payments ofchanges in equity 188 7.
S hare-based payments and jointarrangements Additional disclosures 102 Consolidated statement 188 8.
T rade and other andlegal proceedings 163 30.
C ontingent liabilities receivables andlegal proceedings 189 11.
