90 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Report of independent registered public accounting firm A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process To Board of Directors and shareholders designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of Vodafone Group Plc of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated statement of financial external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting position and the related consolidated income statement, consolidated principles.
A companys internal control over financial reporting includes statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement those policies and procedures that i pertain to the maintenance of changes in equity and consolidated statement of cash flows present of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Vodafone Group transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: ii provide Plc and its subsidiaries the Company at 31 March 2017 and 31 March reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary 2016, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with of the three years ended 31 March 2017 in conformity with International generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with Standards Board and in conformity with International Financial authorizations of management and directors of the company: and iii Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
Also in our provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets internal control over financial reporting as of 31 March 2017, based that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework 2013 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial Commission COSO.
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the The Companys management is responsible for these financial risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control or procedures may deteriorate.
over financial reporting, included in Managements report on internal control over financial reporting.
Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Companys internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public  LLP London, United Kingdom Company Accounting Oversight Board United States and International 16 May 2017 Standards on Auditing.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.
Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its presentation currency with effect from 1 April 2016.
Note: The report set out above is included for the purposes of Vodafone Group Plcs Annual Report on Form 20-F for 2017 only and does not form part of Vodafone Group Plcs Annual Report for2017.
