18 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Our business model Delivering value for society and returns to our shareholders We deliver long-term benefits to society by providing access to digital services.
Our scale enables us to invest in superior gigabit infrastructure while delivering an excellent customer experience that drives revenues and cash-flow generation allowing us to reinvest and provide attractive shareholder returns.
Customers Revenue Assets #1 or 2 scale, delivering value to society and shareholder returns Assets Reinvestment Cash flow To maximise our returns and ensure we run a sustainable business we must effectively manage our key resources and relationships.
This means sustaining investment at a sufficient level to maintain the quality of our assets and ensure we retain our leading scale.
Network Products & services Brand To provide mobile services we primarily acquire We provide mobile services for calls, texts, data and Vodafone is one of the most recognised and spectrum licences in each of our markets through roaming: fixed products for internet access, data valuabletelecoms brands in the world, with 1 government run auctions, which we combine networks, calls and TV: IoT to connect machines an attributed worth of US$22 billion, which with our global network of base station sites to the Internet: Cloud & Hosting for storing data helpsus to retain and attract customers.
To provide fixed services and applications in the Cloud: and carrier services People we use a combination of our cable and fibre assets, for other businesses to transmit information across Diversity matters to us.
We employ 108,271 and wholesale agreements with other operators.
IT infrastructure Customer relationships The 195 members of our senior leadership Our big data data analytics capabilities: and IT Our distribution channels include around 7,000 teamcomprise 21 nationalities.
resources include our 65 data centres, which hold own-branded and franchised stores, online sales Maximised through our core programmes: People and Culture information such as customers details and usage: and telesales presence for individual customers.
our customer relationship management systems Enterprise customers are also served by our direct Financial resources and billing services: big data capability andour sales team of 5,650 people, a network of 5,000 Over the last three years we have generated online customerservice tools.
indirect partners and our telesales personnel.
strongfree cash flow and our pro-forma ratio Our digital service channels also include live Maximised through our core programmes: ofnetdebt to adjusted EBITDA at 2.2 times Network Leadership webchat capability, My Vodafone app and artificial is belowthe industryaverage.
Maximised through our core programmes: Maximised through our core programmes: Fit for Growth Customer eXperience eXcellence Note: 1 Source: Brand Finance, 2017.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 19 Customers We serve a wide range of customers including 516 million mobile customers, 18 million broadband users and 14 million Revenue TV customers.
In addition our networks 90% of our revenue is service revenue provide 54 million IoT connections for from customers and wholesale services such as smart meters or internet partners for providing mobile and fixed in the car.
As a global company we reach connectivity.
Most of this is from mobile many countries.
23% of our mobile services, but fixed services are becoming customers are from Europe and the increasingly important due to our remainder are from emerging markets investments in fibre and cable networks such as India and Africa.
and strong growth in broadband customers.
We serve a variety of enterprise customers Services are charged either on a contract including 1,900 multinational corporates, basis, typically for a fixed one to two year 90,000 public sector and national term, or on a prepaid pay-as-you-go companies, and nine million small and basis.
Contract customers may also receive medium sized enterprises.
a mobile handset and the repayment for the handset is included in the monthly fee.
Among our fixed broadband customers, The remainder of our revenue comprises 11 million including VodafoneZiggo take non-service revenue for a variety of items high-speed fibre providing download such as sales of handsets and accessories.
speeds up to one giga bit per second.
Delivering value to society and shareholder returns 24% 516m Our products and services play a central Share of service revenue Total mobile customers role in the daily lives of more than half from fixed services incl.
India, JVs and associates 2016: 23 % 2016: 493m a billion people globally.
Our three global transformation goals described in our sustainable business strategy on page 26 aim to deliver meaningful socio-economic benefit for our customers and wider society and will be achieved by means of our core longterm business objectives.
Our commitment to enhancing lives and livelihoods together with our longstanding commitment to operating responsibly is key to creating a sustainable business and is therefore integral to our duty to maximise returns to our shareholders.
The ongoing cash generated from Reinvestment Free cash flow operations allows us to sustain generous Over the last four years we have invested We have a strong track record of converting shareholder returns while also investing 71 billion into the business.
This comprises revenues into free cash flows with some in the future prosperity of the business.
40 billion to modernise our mobile and 6.7 billion generated over the last three Our shareholders regard the dividend IT networks and deploy fixed fibre networks years despite the increased investment as an important element of that return in Europe including Project Spring : in Project Spring.
This reflects the benefits and that is why we have increased the 13 billion to secure spectrum for 4G services, of our local and global scale, which creates dividend per share every year for more and 18 billion on acquisitions including significant efficiencies, supported by our than 17 years.
In the 2016 calendar year cable companies in Germany and Spain.
increased efforts to reduce costs.
Vodafone was the 5th largest dividend payer in the FTSE 100.
71bn 6.7bn Reinvested in the last Free cash flows generated in the 3.7bn four years, including India last three years, including India Dividends to shareholders 2016: 4.1bn Dividends in sterling 2017: 3.1bn, 2016: 3.0bn 1.9 Tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions More on our investment focus in the CFO section: saved per tonne generated Page 16 2016: 1.7 20 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Our business model continued How we are building competitive advantage through our core programmes We aim to outpace our competitors by using our unique skills and assets to provide a world-class communications service.
Network Customer Leadership eXperience eXcellence CXX Investing in our infrastructure Improving customer experience Over the year we invested 7.7 billion We are building on our Network Leadership in network and IT infrastructure, which has to deliver an outstanding and differentiated user enabled us to further expand our reliability, experience through our Customer eXperience data speeds, coverage and customer service.
eXcellence programme our core marketing According to independent tests conducted strategy for brand and service differentiation.
by agencies in 21 markets including India, This comprises four key areas, which we are either first or second in terms of data we summarise by the acronym CARE.
92% of our Connectivity that is reliable and secure customers data usage in Europe is at speeds sufficient to watch high definition video and Always excellent value to ensure our dropped call rate of just 0.37% in Europe we remain competitive means we provide a reliable voice connection.
Reward loyalty to incentivise long-term Our high speed fixed broadband networks, customer relationships, and including VodafoneZiggo, reach 36 million households with our own cable or fibre Easy access to customer service contacts.
and a further 60 million through wholesale deals, enabling us to reach 59% of the A key CXX performance measure is the European population.
The average NPS gap to the third placed operator reached 17percentage points, representing 92% a threepoint improvement year-on-year.
4G coverage in Europe 2016: 87% 18 Markets have tailored reward programmes 96m The best 2016: 11 Homes reached with next generation The best network fibre or cable in Europe customer We have the best including VodafoneZiggo or co-best mobile experience 16.2% 2016: 72m data networks in We have the best or Consumer contract churn 14out of 21 markets co-best consumer 2016: 17.1% as measured by net promoter score independent ranking in 19 out of assessors.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 21 Fit for People Growth and Culture Managing our financial resources Being a great place to work Fit for Growth is a comprehensive cost Our people are behind every aspect of our efficiency programme to generate strategy, so it is important that we attract, the funds to sustain future growth.
develop and retain exceptional people.
We also This is based on external benchmarking want our employees to act in The Vodafone analysis to determine the cost saving Way by operating with speed, simplicity and 1 opportunity within each local market, as well trust.
Therefore, we have initiated three people as Group programmes where our global scale programmes.
First, initiatives focused on female can provide a competitive advantage.
employees to support our goal of building a diverse and inclusive organisation.
These During the year, we continued to make include our global maternity policy, introducing significant cost savings in several areas.
a global minimum maternity standard and our These included centralising procurement, ReConnect initiative to bring women back into utilising shared services, investment in direct the workforce after a career break.
Second, sales channels so new customers reach our enhanced CARE training initiative to ensure us via branded rather than more expensive front line employees act with empathy for our third party channels, standardisation customers and take ownership to solve their of network and IT platforms and zero based problems.
To date 43,000 employees and third budgeting initiatives.
parties have completed the training.
Third, These savings have supported the 1.2 incorporating digital technology to improve percentage point improvement in organic our hiring process, career development tools Group adjusted EBITDA margin during the year.
1 Learn more about The Vodafone Way on page 24.
55% My Vodafone App penetration 81 2016: 36% Investment Employee engagement index including India in online and 2016: 79 digital channels has led to a 9% Developing 77% reduction in mobile our people of procurement centralised, which provides 26% customers calling 81% of employees feel efficiencies due to our scale of the senior leadership team are women our customer service that they can learn the 2016: 74% centres over the last including India skills and knowledge two years.
