92 Governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors report Statutory information contained elsewhere Branches In accordance with in the Annual Report The Company and its subsidiaries have established Information required to be part of this Directors branches in a number of different countries in which the Investment report can be found elsewhere in the Annual Report they operate: their results are, however, not material Associations as indicated in the table below and is incorporated to the Groups financial results.
guidelines, the effect into this report by reference: Share capital of the share buyback Information Page As at 31 March 2017, the Company had allotted and has been neutralised fully paid up share capital of 571,757,121 ordinary shares Corporate Governance Statement 40 in incentive schemes of 1p each with an aggregate nominal value of 5.7m Directors details 48 and one Special Share with a nominal value of 1.
The Directors interests in shares 88 ordinary share total includes 4,515,868 shares held Employees 30 exclusive of voting rights in treasury and 2,622,180 Financial instruments: Information on 129 shares held by employee share trusts.
the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, and its exposure Details of the shares in issue during the financial year to credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate are shown in note 28 on page 135. risk and foreign currency risk Greenhouse gas emissions 33 Share buyback activity The Company announced at the half year in November Likely future developments in the business 2 to 37 2015 that it intended to carry out a return of capital to of the Company or its subsidiaries shareholders of up to 50m over 12 months, consistent Results and dividends 34 with the Companys capital allocation policy, by way of an on-market buyback, subject to prevailing equity Management report market conditions.
This was a continuation of buyback The Strategic report on pages 2 to 37 and the activity which began in 2014 when a 150m return of Directors report, as detailed on pages 92 to 95, capital was carried out between 2014 and 2016.
The including information which has been incorporated into Board considers the buyback process to be a flexible those sections by reference, comprise the management distribution method which is simple to execute, easily report specified by rules 4.1.
8R of the understood by the market and provides shareholders FCAs Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
with a choice as to whether to participate.
During the financial year under review, the Company completed Research and development this buyback.
One of the Groups principal business streams is the provision of funded research and development As a result of the share buyback activity detailed above, R&D for customers.
The Group also invests in during the year under review, 19,439,947 ordinary shares the commercialisation of promising technologies with a nominal value of 1p each in the capital of the across all areas of business.
Company representing 3.4% of the issued ordinary share capital as at 31 March 2017 were purchased The majority of R&D-related expenditure is incurred at an average price of 243.6 pence per share.
Of these in respect of specific research contracts placed by shares, 4,515,868 shares are held in treasury and the customers.
R&D costs are included within operating remainder have been cancelled.
costs in the income statement and R&D income is reflected within revenue.
In the financial year, the Group In the financial year, the impact of the share buyback recorded 306.4m 2016: 300.8m of total R&D-related has been to increase basic underlying earnings per expenditure, of which 272.8m 2016: 277.6m was share from 16.3p to 16.7p, for total shareholder return customer-funded work and 33.6m 2016: 23.2m to remain unchanged and for net asset value to was internally funded.
In accordance with the Investment of late-stage development costs was capitalised Associations guidelines, the effect of the share buyback and 1.3m 2016: 1.2m of capitalised development has been neutralised in incentive schemes, such that costs was amortised in the year.
for calculation purposes the number of shares in issue is regarded as the same at the end of the three-year Political donations performance period as at the beginning.
Accordingly, QinetiQ does not make political donations to parties no benefit has accrued under the incentive schemes as that term would be commonly recognised.
The legal as a consequence of the share buyback.
definition of that term is, however, quite broad and may have the effect of covering a number of normal business Rights of ordinary shareholders activities that would not commonly be perceived to be The rights of ordinary shareholders are set out in the political donations, such as sponsorship of events.
The Articles of Association can be found on the Companys website at www.
These may include legitimate interactions in making com in the Corporate Governance section.
The holders MPs and others in the political world aware of key of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys industry issues and matters that affect QinetiQ, and that Reports and Accounts, to attend and speak at general make an important contribution to their understanding meetings of the Company, to exercise voting rights in of QinetiQ, the markets in which it operates and the person or by appointing a proxy, and to receive work of their constituents.
a dividend where declared or paid out of profits available for that purpose.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance | Directors report 93 Rights of special shareholder Corporate sponsored nominee At the date of this report, The Special Share is held by HM Government In circumstances where ordinary shares are held by through the Secretary of State for Defence the Special the corporate sponsored nominee service, Equiniti there is no contract or Shareholder and it may only be held by and transferred Corporate Nominees Limited will vote on all resolutions arrangement with the to HM Government.
It confers certain rights which are proposed at general meetings in accordance with voting Company or any of set out in the Articles of Association to protect UK instructions received from shareholders using such defence and security interests.
These include: corporate nominee service.
its subsidiaries that is significant in relation the promotion and reinforcement of the MOD Major shareholdings to the business of the compliance principles which require QinetiQ to The Company has been notified of the following be an impartial, ethical and responsible contractor interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share Group as a whole by avoiding conflicts of interest in its dealings capital of the Company being voting rights over such in which a Director with the MOD: share capital pursuant to Rule 5.1 of the Disclosure of the Company is Guidance and Transparency Rules: the protection of defined strategic assets of the Group, such as certain testing facilities, by providing materially interested.
At 31 March At 17 May the Special Shareholder with an option to purchase # 2017 % of 2017 % of those assets in certain circumstances: issued share issued share the right to require certain persons with a material Name of shareholder capital capital interest in QinetiQ to dispose of some or all of their Schroders 9.984% 9.984% ordinary shares on the grounds of national security BlackRock, Inc. 8.63% 8.63% or conflict of interest: and Investec 4.95% 4.95% nationality of Directors provisions whereby at least Norges Bank 3.94% 3.94% the Non-executive Chairman or Chief Executive Officer must be a British citizen.
As notified by the shareholder and based on the issued ordinary share capital at the time of the notification.
# The Special Share carries no financial and economic Being a date not more than a month prior to the date value and the Special Shareholder is not entitled to vote of the Notice of AGM.
at a general meeting of the Company.
At any time the Special Shareholder may require QinetiQ to redeem the Employees share at par and, if wound up, the Special Shareholder The Group is committed to the fair treatment of people would be entitled to be repaid at its nominal value before with disabilities in relation to applications, training, other shareholders.
Any variation of the rights attaching promotion and career development.
If an existing to the Special Share requires the written approval of employee becomes disabled, we make every effort the MOD.
Further details can be found in note 28 on to enable them to continue their employment and page 135. career development, and to arrange appropriate training, wherever practicable.
Restrictions on the transfer of shares As detailed above, the Special Share confers rights Directors conflicts of interest under the Companys Articles of Association to require The Company requires Directors to disclose proposed certain persons with an interest in QinetiQs shares that outside business interests before they are entered exceed certain prescribed thresholds to dispose of some into.
This enables prior assessment of any conflict, or or all of their ordinary shares on the grounds of national potential conflict, of interest and any impact on time security or conflict of interest.
An annual review of all external interests is carried out by the Board.
Employee share schemes The QinetiQ Group plc Employee Benefit Trust the Directors interests in contracts Trust holds shares in connection with QinetiQs At the date of this report, there is no contract or employee share schemes, excluding the Share Incentive arrangement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries Plan.
As at 31 March 2017, the Trust held 2,622,180 that is significant in relation to the business of the Group ordinary shares of 1p each the Trust Shares.
The as a whole in which a Director of the Company is Trustees of the Trust have agreed to waive their materially interested.
entitlement to dividends payable on the Trust Shares.
The Trust holds further ordinary shares in respect of Indemnities deferred shares held on behalf of participants in the The Articles of Association of the Company entitle the Companys Deferred Annual Bonus Plan.
Dividends Directors of the Company, to the extent permitted by received by the Trust in respect of the deferred shares law, to be indemnified out of the assets of the Company are paid direct to the plan participants on receipt and in the event that they suffer any expenses in connection are not retained in the Trust.
with certain proceedings relating to the execution of their duties as Directors of the Company.
Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited acts as Trustee in respect of all ordinary shares held by employees under In addition, the Company purchases Directors and the QinetiQ Group plc Share Incentive Plan the Plan.
Where it is not possible for Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited will vote on all Directors and officers to be indemnified by the Company, resolutions proposed at general meetings in accordance such Directors and officers of the Company benefit from with voting instructions received from participants the Directors and officers liability insurance cover in in the Plan.
94 Governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors report continued respect of legal actions brought against them.
This Articles of Association KPMG LLP will insurance protection is also provided to the Company and Changes to the Articles must be submitted to its subsidiaries where they have provided an indemnity.
Save in respect of the rights be retiring as the attaching to the Special Share, the company has not Companys external The Directors of QinetiQ Pension Scheme Trustee adopted any special rules relating to the appointment auditor at the Annual Limited, a Group company and the Trustee of the and replacement of Directors or the amendment of QinetiQ Pension Scheme the Scheme, benefit from the Companys Articles of Association, other than General Meeting.
an indemnity contained in the rules of the Scheme.
The as provided under UK corporate law.
 indemnity would be provided out of the Scheme assets.
LLP has expressed Appointment and replacement of Directors Change of control significant agreements According to the Articles of Association, all Directors are their willingness to The following significant agreements contain provisions subject to election by shareholders at the first annual act as auditor and a entitling the counterparties to require prior approval, general meeting following their appointment, and to resolution to appoint exercise termination, alteration or other similar rights re-election thereafter at intervals of no more than three in the event of a change of control of the Company, years.
In line with best practice reflected in the Code, them will be proposed or if the company ceases to be a UK company: however, the Company requires each serving member at the Annual of the Board to be put forward for election or re-election General Meeting The Combined Aerial Target Service contract is a on an annual basis at each Annual General Meeting.
20-year contract awarded to QinetiQ by the MOD on 14 December 2006.
The terms of this contract require Powers of the Directors: allotment purchase QinetiQ Limited to remain a UK company which is of own shares incorporated under the laws of any part of the UK, At the Companys Annual General Meeting held in or an overseas company registered in the UK, and July 2016, the shareholders passed resolutions which that at least 50% of the Board of Directors are UK authorised the Directors to allot relevant securities up to nationals.
The terms also contain change of control an aggregate nominal value of 3,910,816 1,955,408 conditions and restricted share transfer conditions pursuant only to a rights issue, to disapply pre-emption which require prior approval from HM Government if rights up to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital there is a material change in the ownership of QinetiQ and to purchase ordinary shares up to 10% of the Limiteds share capital, unless the change relates to issued ordinary share capital.
The authorities will shares listed on a regulated market material is remain valid until the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
defined as being 10% or more of the share capital.
In addition, there are restrictions on transfers of Resolutions in respect of the allotment of relevant shares to persons from countries appearing on securities, the disapplication of pre-exemption rights the restricted list as issued by HM Government.
and the purchase of own shares will be laid before the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The Long Term Partnering Agreement LTPA is a 25-year contract, which QinetiQ Limited signed on Annual General Meeting 28 February 2003, to provide test, evaluation and The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on training services to the MOD.
This contract contains Wednesday, 19 July 2017 at 11.00am, at the offices of conditions under which the prior approval of HM Ashurst LLP, Broadwalk House, 5 Appold Street, London Government is required if the contractor, QinetiQ EC2A 2HA.
Details of the business to be proposed Limited, ceases to be a subsidiary of the QinetiQ and voted on at the meeting are contained in the Group, except where such change in control is Notice of Annual General Meeting, which is sent to all permitted under the shareholders Agreement shareholders and is also published on the Companys to which the MOD is a party.
com in the Investors section.
The company is party to a multi-currency revolving credit facility with a US$100m tranche and a 166m Auditor tranche, provided by a consortium of banks, that Following the completion of the external audit expires on 29 August 2019.
Under the terms of the tender process, as noted on page 63, KPMG LLP will facility, in the event of a change of control of the be retiring as the Companys external auditor at the company, any lender may give notice to cancel Annual General Meeting.
 its commitment under the facility and require all LLP has expressed their willingness to act as auditor outstanding amounts to be repaid.
and a resolution to appoint them will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors contracts contain no provisions for compensation for loss of office on a change of control of the company.
Disclosures in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 There are no matters requiring disclosure under Listing Rule 9.8.
For completeness, details of the waiver of dividends by the Employee Benefit Trust have been included in the note on Employee Share Schemes on page 93 notwithstanding that the waiver is in respect of less than 1% of the total value of any dividend.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance | Directors report 95 Directors responsibilities in respect of the Statement of disclosure of information to the auditor Annual Report and financial statements The Directors who held office at the date of approval The Directors are responsible for preparing the of this Directors report have confirmed that, so Annual Report and the Group and parent company far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant financial statements in accordance with applicable audit information of which the companys auditor is law and regulations.
unaware, and the Directors have taken all the steps they reasonably should have taken as Directors Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group to make themselves aware of any relevant audit and parent company financial statements for each information and to establish that the companys financial year.
Under that law they are required to auditor is aware of that information.
prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect law and have elected to prepare the parent company of the Annual Report financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting The Directors in office as at the date of this report Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Accounting Practice.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance Under company law the Directors must not approve the with the applicable set of accounting standards, give financial statements unless they are satisfied that they a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the position and profit or loss of the company, and the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss undertakings included in the consolidation taken for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and as a whole: and parent company financial statements, the Directors the management report which includes the Strategic are required to: report and the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business, select suitable accounting policies and then apply and the position of the company and the undertakings them consistently: included in the consolidation taken as a whole, make judgements and estimates that are reasonable together with a description of the principal risks and prudent: and uncertainties that they face.
for the Group financial statements, state whether By order of the Board they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Jon Messent for the parent company financial statements, state Company Secretary and Group General Counsel whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have 25 May 2017 been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors report, Directors remuneration report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
