10 Strategic report QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Market overview Several trends impact the markets we operate in.
Defence and security markets Three key themes across our markets driving strategy: 1.
Increasing global are changing rapidly.
A number threat complexity of emerging themes result in both challenges and opportunities for our industry.
Increasing global We live in a time of unprecedented uncertainty.
Threats to our security are becoming more numerous, Our strategy has been developed and will continue to be refined threat complexity more diverse and more intense.
It is not possible to 1 to respond to these themes.
separate foreign affairs, defence and homeland security: national security challenges are complex and demand whole-of-government responses.
In the last few years alone there have been multiple geopolitical concerns Partnering including instability in the Middle East and the associated displacement of refugees, terrorist attacks 2 for innovation in Europe, Brexit, rising tensions with Russia including the recent deployment of NATO forces to Poland and the Baltic States, concerns about North Korean aggression, and the continued threat from cyber attack.
Value for money in defence 3 The next five years will see rising tensions with and between countries... An ever-widening To ensure we deliver sustainable growth in these markets our approach is to: range of states, organisations, Act with pace and agility to meet customer needs and empowered individuals and market opportunities: Focus on the rapid development, experimentation will shape geopolitics.
and deployment of new capabilities: Support with Internal Research and Development: Source: National Intelligence Council Global Trends.
Prioritise commercial innovation and innovative business models: Our response: In this dynamic market we aim to act with pace and Select campaigns on the basis of our view of agility to stay ahead of the competition and meet long-term customer needs: customer needs.
Build networks that bring together Government, industry, SMEs and academia: We are fortunate to have a solid foundation to build Take steps to ensure we have access to talent on because our strengths are particularly well matched now and in the future: to emerging themes in global markets.
These include Drive outcome-based solutions for our customers greater use of autonomy in a wide range of military that both improve services and deliver savings: and and civil applications, growing demand for integrating Work to build cross-border collaboration.
capabilities, such as the teaming of manned and unmanned platforms and continued requirements in cyber security and Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance ISR.
More generally, the digital economy, new materials and energy sources provide future opportunities.
We work across all domains land, sea, air, space and cyberspace and across the whole capability life cycle from early stage research and experimentation through to training and rehearsal.
We are developing these strengths to ensure a greater focus on the rapid development, experimentation and deployment of new security capabilities to respond to growing and diversifying threats.
For example, the creation of a Strategy and Planning function and an expanded business winning team facilitate a better understanding of markets, and carefully targeted Internal Research and Development projects help us shape and take advantage of new opportunities.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Market overview 11 Five-year defence budgets 2.
Value for money in defence UK Governments need innovation to respond to these After several years of shrinking defence budgets, there bn fast evolving threats.
Defence innovation initiatives is increasing evidence that the cycle is bottoming out.
are underway in a number of nations including the Growth is forecast in adjacent areas such as security 2021 49 United Kingdom, Australia, and the United States.
The of civil infrastructure due to continued concerns about core principle of the UK Defence Innovation Initiative unrest and insecurity.
In the US, President Trump has 2020 49 is establishing: fertile partnerships with innovators in committed to increase defence spending and other 2019 49 industry and academia, as well as with key allies and governments are expected to increase defence spending 2018 48 partners.
In Australia the aim is to: access the potential to meet the NATO target of 2% of GDP.
The projections 2017 48 of Australian defence industry to innovate.
In the US, are less certain in the Middle East where the lower the Third Offset strategy aims: to identify and invest oil price could constrain spending and in the UK US in innovative ways to sustain and advance Americas due to Brexit.
military dominance for the 21st Century by developing US$bn capabilities in areas such as sensor fusion and All governments, whether they are increasing or man-machine interfaces.
decreasing defence and security spending are 2021 637 under pressure to deliver greater value for money 2020 638 Through these initiatives government customers for taxpayers.
This is being driven both by greater 2019 643 are seeking new approaches to innovation across the scrutiny of defence programmes and the need to Defence Enterprise, in both equipment and processes, create headroom for greater investment in innovation 2018 646 so that they can rapidly integrate new technologies by ensuring better value for money for what they deliver 2017 643 into existing capabilities.
For example, the UK Government is looking to achieve a 30% reduction in MOD civilian staff Australia Many customers are keen to capture the innovation and built estate in the period 2015-2020. that comes from universities and SMEs, particularly AU$bn as the defence sector is no longer the sole, or primary, The requirement for greater value for money is driving incubator of new technology.
They are looking for bilateral and multilateral approaches to developing 2021 32 assistance from organisations that can collaborate new capabilities, which remain relevant irrespective of 2020 31 and help them connect their supply chains and Brexit.
For example, in December 2016, the French and 2019 31 access ideas coming from outside defence.
British Governments signed a number of agreements 2018 30 committing them to work together on joint programmes Value of defence innovation initiatives such as the development of a new Unmanned Combat 2017 29 Air System.
United States United Kingdom Source: Janes Defence Budgets.
US$18bn 800m 2% to FY21 over ten years NATO target for % of GDP to be spent on defence Australia Our response: We have a long track record of improving services and AU$1.4bn delivering savings in parallel for our customers and have, over ten years for example, delivered significant savings for the MOD over the last 14 years we have been delivering the Our response: Long Term Partnering Agreement.
We also deploy We help customers meet new challenges through the expertise of our people to help customers innovation.
As a company we often fulfil an innovation meet their own efficiency challenges.
integrator role, establishing partnerships with other organisations and building networks of suppliers.
The key objectives of our transformation are to increase These networks bring together Government, customer focus and competitiveness.
In some cases, industry, SMEs and academia in collaborating this requires the introduction of innovative business teams to facilitate innovation.
models such as our Strategic Enterprise model for the delivery of UK aircraft engineering services where we Page 32 Relationships are delivering both improved services and savings for our customers.
Our ability to innovate and solve customer problems is based on the world-leading expertise of our people.
As Through exercises such as the QinetiQ-facilitated with many companies in our sector, the average age of Unmanned Warrior exercise in October 2016 which our scientists and engineers has increased over the last the UK Secretary of State for Defence described as a decade.
We are taking a number of steps to ensure our signal of our desire to work with global partners we access to talent now and in the future, including launching are working to build cross-border collaboration between Company-wide graduate and apprentice programmes, the UK and other nations.
We are taking this approach in a QinetiQ Academy to drive the development of our other home markets and also working with governments employees and the 5% Club, a campaign which in new markets, which are looking to strengthen local promotes opportunities for young people.
