10 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Market overview Understanding our challenges and opportunities The fixed and mobile telecommunications market is constantly evolving with increasing demand for faster data speeds, ongoing external regulatory and competitive pressures and changing societal expectations.
We operate in a fast-moving market where innovation and scale are key Importance and speed of change in the telecommunications industry Telecommunications is an essential service The number of smartphone users continues In broadband markets, an increasing proportion used by over seven billion mobile customers to grow rapidly.
Today 45% of mobile handsets of customers are upgrading from copper-based and 0.9 billion broadband users across the are smartphones, compared to 11% five ADSL with speeds up to 24 Mbps to high-speed globe.
The global mobile industry generates years ago.
This is being driven by rising living fibre and cable with speeds up to 1,000 Mbps.
52% standards and population growth, combined We believe that Gigabit networks direct to of revenue arises from traditional voice calls with lower airtime and device costs.
homes and businesses form the bedrock of and messaging services.
The fixed telecommunications market On average, a customer consumes 203 includes calls, broadband and TV packages, outgoing minutes per month, which has been generating 0.7 trillion of revenue annually.
1.65tn largely stable over the last couple of years.
The number of voice-only users continues 1 Value of the mobile and fixed market in 2016 The demand for mobile data services to watch to decline as customers disconnect their videos, browse the internet and use various landlines in favour of mobile phones, however, Why we are well positioned apps has accelerated rapidly, and today 48% the take-up of broadband and pay TV services We are one of the largest telecommunications of global revenue comes from data, compared offsets this.
According to Ovum, fixed providers in the world with typically a number to only 22% five years ago.
broadband will be the fastest-growing market, 1 or 2 position by market share in mobile with revenues increasing at a compound in each country we operate in and the largest annual rate of 3.1% from 2016 to 2021, ahead NGN footprint in Europe.
Growing demand for data and high-speed networks The telecommunications industry has cable or fibre today.
These developments transformed significantly in the last 30 years.
bring significant opportunities to drive 69% further revenue from increased data usage, 1 4G data traffic of total traffic in 2016 In the 1990s, mobile phones were mostly but also require investment to keep used for calls on 2G networks, and basic up with technology.
1 Global mobile data traffic 60 picture messages could be sent at very low 000 petabytes 1 petabyte 1m gigabytes speeds of 50200 Kbps.
Today users can These developments are collectively 600 588 enjoy 4G speeds of up to 800 Mbps for rapid leading to substantial growth in data traffic.
500 video downloads, with 1 Gbps speeds already Between 2011 and 2016 mobile data traffic demonstrated.
This network technology increased by an average of 75% p. a. and today 420 400 innovation has been accompanied by 95% of total traffic on mobile networks across 300 288 the growing demand for smartphones, the globe is data.
5G, the next major step 200 204 which are now used by 63% ofVodafones in mobile technology, is expected to launch 132 100 European customers.
commercially by 2020, most likely only in dense 84 urban areas in Europe and will enable speeds 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Fixed network development has been of up to 1 Gbps combined with extremely equally rapid.
In the 1990s most fixed quick reaction times.
This will support the Why we are well positioned connections were for landline calls, today development of new applications, including the greatest use is broadband internet usage.
We have the best data network in 14 out in the areas of augmented and virtual reality.
Average download speeds have progressed of the 21 countries we operate in and rapidly from around 816 Mbps using copperwe can market fixed services to the most based technology in 2007 to 1 Gbps using homes in Europe with next generation 1.2 GB 1 fibre or cable with speeds of up to 1 Gbps.
Smartphone average monthly data usage Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 11 We must also manage external pressures and expectations Increasing competition The telecommunications industry is highly The high level of competitive intensity has competitive, with many alternative providers, resulted in continued downward pressure giving customers a wide choice of supplier.
on the price of services, with the average In each of our countries of operation, there are cost per unit of mobile data falling nearly typically three or four main mobile network 40% p. a. over the last three years.
operators, such as Vodafone, and several resellers that wholesale network services from operators to sell on to their customers.
40% Average reduction in the price per GB of data over In our fixed markets there is usually one 2 the last three years national fixed incumbent typically the former state owned operator, one or two Why we are well positioned cable and satellite companies and resellers that rent network services from the Our substantial investments continue incumbent.
In addition, there are an increasing to provide superior network and Increasing demand for number of over-the-top OTT operators that customer service levels, supported converged solutions provide internet-based apps for content, by a very wide range of mobile and fixed Today, consumers are increasingly taking messaging and voice services.
Our enterprise products and an unrivalled global reach, bundles of mobile, landline, broadband and business also faces competition from OTT to deliver a leading customer experience TV services.
For the consumer this provides and cloud service providers which offer across the majority of our markets.
the benefit of simplicity one provider IT infrastructure as a standardised service for multiple services and better value.
For operators this provides higher customer loyalty as well as operational efficiencies.
Regulatory burden The same motivations apply for businesses, The telecom industry is heavily regulated.
In June 2017, European regulators will abolish which are increasingly taking advantage Vodafones European businesses are overseen mobile retail roaming charges, enabling of converged services that bring together by more than 200 national and regional customers to use their phones abroad at communications tools that work across all regulatory authorities covering areas such the same price as they do at home.
fixed and mobile end points.
as spectrum allocation, roaming charges, Why we are well positioned consumer rights, copyright, data protection, Fixed households with both fixed cyber security and the wholesale fees that 1 We have launched roaming inclusive andmobile services operators charge each other.
While these plans across all our EU markets well % policies are designed to protect consumers, in advance of regulation and already have 100 for example by championing ever-lower a significant portion of our customers retail prices, they have historically failed 80 that do not pay extra for EU roaming.
to adequately address the need to encourage Vodafone typically offers twice the operator investment in the latest technologies.
60 number of 4Groaming destinations to itscustomers than any other operator.
40 9% of our European revenue is subject to regulated 20 2 roaming and mobile termination rates 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Changing customer and societal expectations Germany Italy Netherlands Portugal Spain UK Today, communication networks underpin such as privacy, tax and digital human every aspect of society, enabling citizens rights areas that our ongoing corporate Why we are well positioned to increase their knowledge while providing transparency programmes address directly.
As Europes largest broadband company, access to services that can improve health we are ready for the growing demand for Why we are well positioned and wellbeing, enhance skills and increase converged services.
In this context, companies need As one of the worlds largest networks in Europe can reach 315 million to ensure they operate responsibly as they communications companies, we are people with 4G mobile and 96 million strive to deliver their objectives.
There are proud of the role that we play in bringing households with fixed broadband.
areas within the telecommunications social benefit to more than half industry that are a source of public concern a billion mobile customers across 26 countries.
Page 26 of this report shows how we are successfully aligning our 31m Notes: business objectives with a clear social people use our mobile money services, which are 1 The industry data on pages 10 and 11, unless stated, 2 purpose to create value and meet is from the following sources: Analysys Mason, Cisco, available in ten markets.
