35% 65% 2% 5% 4% 7% 8% 24% 9% 10% 8 Strategic report QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our business model Our unique expertise allows us to operate a sustainable business model that creates value for our customers.
Our unique expertise allows us to... operate a sustainable business model... QinetiQ is a company of scientists and Our unique position in the market How we deliver benefits to key stakeholders engineers essential to sovereign capability.
Our customers are predominantly government Customers organisations in our home markets of the UK, Deliver mission-critical solutions We combine the dedication and creativity of US and Australia, with a growing international Responsive and flexible our people, our unique science and engineering and commercial presence.
Ensure value for money expertise, and our distinctive modernised facilities to equip customers with powerful Our customer relationships and domain Shareholders solutions to their most pressing challenges.
know-how have been developed over Deliver sustainable growth in revenue, many years of working in partnership.
operating profit and high quality earnings Customers choose us to protect, improve and advance their vital interests because of our: We occupy a unique position in the market Employees and collaborate with prime contractors, service Work in integrated teams People and domain know-how providers and a broad-based supply chain Utilise expertise across QinetiQ that includes specialist firms.
Sustaining our business model As a company whose reputation and achievements are centred on our people, our, 3 000 90% future success is primarily dependent on our scientists, engineers of our people in the ability to recruit, develop, engage and retain and technicians UK, and 75% in the exceptional employees.
US have national security clearance Our business model is robust and sustainable because our knowledge base is constantly Technical expertise refreshed as we learn from experience, understand emerging customer needs and Over Over invest in our future.
This enables us to both sustain existing capabilities and create new ones to ensure we respond to customer, 1 000 300 needs and stay ahead of the competition.
granted patents patents pending UK Ministry of Defence MOD As a people and knowledge-based business, Distinctive facilities Government agencies our capital requirements are relatively low.
Our Commercial principal use of capital is investment in organic US Department of Defence DoD growth and, in particular, capital expenditure 1of 3 1 6 Commercial defence to modernise our facilities as a platform for Our low speed wind Our ocean basin at that growth.
tunnel is one of just Gosport, Hampshire three in the world is the largest in Revenue by key domain How we generate revenue Europe its the We deliver advantage to our customers size of 16 Olympic when and where it really matters through swimming pools the provision of advice, services and technology-based products often combined in unique ways.
We operate two divisions: EMEA Services generates revenue through the provision of advice and services, particularly test and evaluation.
The division is underpinned by long-term contracts providing good visibility of revenue and cash flows.
Global Products delivers products and solutions supported by research and development which is often funded by EMEA Services Maritime, Land & Weapons customers.
The division is technologyEMEA Services Air & Space based and has shorter order cycles so EMEA Services Cyber, Information & Training can have a more variable revenue profile.
EMEA Services International Global Products QinetiQ North America Within our two divisions, our business units are Global Products EMEA Products aligned to customer domains and all deliver a Global Products OptaSense combination of services, advice and products.
Global Products Space Products 6% 12% 13% QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Our business model 9 that creates value for our customers.
How we create value for our customers We work across the equipment lifecycle from initial concept through to final disposal.
Equipment Generation after next Next generation Current generation lifecycle What we do Experimentation & Research Test & Evaluation Training & Rehearsal Delivering At the start of the lifecycle, We then test and evaluate next Once a new capability customer our focus is on research generation equipment to help has been adopted, we train and experimentation.
customers to manage risks and users and facilitate the rehearsal advantage determine the best options.
of how equipment will be used most effectively in an FY17 operational environment.
examples Spear 3 Successful trial of a new missile system planned for F-35 Lightning II aircraft.
Test Aircrew Training Contract to update aircraft and introduce a new syllabus to meet future military and commercial Unmanned Warrior test aircrew training needs.
A world-first demonstration of autonomous systems operating as part of a multinational naval exercise.
What we offer Advice Services Feedback from Products customers allows us to understand their future needs Our unique Science and engineering capability expertise
