Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 03 Our purpose At Vodafone our purpose is to connect everybody to live a better today and build a better tomorrow We do this by investing in the  of the future, delivering a quality service that allows individuals and businesses to connect confidently anywhere and at any time.
Our services enhance the quality of peoples lives, providing benefits to society as well as financial rewards forour shareholders Ten years This year we celebrated ten years of M-Pesa, our pioneering mobile of M-Pesa money service, which enables people to securely send, receive and store money electronically.
M-Pesa empowers tens of millions of people previously excluded from financial services to live a safer, more productive life.
Today, 31 million customers in ten countries rely on our service, making us the worlds leading mobile money provider, alleviating financial uncertainty and contributing to achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
04 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Our purpose continued Network Leadership Our goal is to create a Gigabit Society where everyone benefits from ubiquitous and reliable high-speed connectivity Our partnerships and investment in superior cable, fibre and mobile networks allow us to deliver better performance everywhere In 2016, we teamed up with ENEL in Italy, a major electricity company, ENEL Breaking the to establish a leading fibre provider, taking Italy one step closer to gigabit barrier becominga Gigabit Society.
In 2016, only 3% of Italian fixed broadband subscribers were on fibre andin 2015 60% of the population received less than 30 Mbps.
Through ourpartnership with ENEL, called Open Fiber, we will be able to deliver gigabit fibre 1,000 Mbps to 270 cities reaching at least 9.5 million households by 2022.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 05 Customer eXperience eXcellence We deliver a differentiated customer experience through CARE Connectivity that is reliable and secure Always excellent value Rewarding loyalty Easy access to customer support We will create 2,100 new customer service roles in the UK to deliver Raising the bar in an outstanding level of service and support.
customer This is one of the many steps we are taking following billing migration service with issues, which caused disruption to our UK customers and commercial 2,100 new operations during the year, but are now resolved.
roles across the UK 06 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Our purpose continued Fit for Growth Using our resources efficiently makes sound environmental and economic sense That is why we are exploring new ways of improving our energy efficiency to reduce our emissions while saving costs Improving We ensure that each new generation of equipment is more energy the energy and cost efficient than the equipment it replaces.
By incorporating efficiency of more energy efficient technology, such as free air cooling and our networks solar power solutions whenever we upgrade our networks, we have reduced our own greenhouse gas emissions by 64% per petabyte of data carried by our mobile network since 2015.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 07 People and Culture The Vodafone Way Our people are key to our performance We aim to create a diverse and inclusive working environment that reflects our customers and our global footprint ReConnect We want Vodafone to be the best employer for women by 2025. with your ReConnect is a leading programme designed to attract talented career women who have left the workplace for several years and would like to return to work on a full-time or flexible basis.
The programme will operate on a global scale across 26 countries witha target of 1,000 ReConnect recruits within three years.
