Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Business model and strategy What we do Caledonia is an investment trust company, strategically managed through four complementary pools of capital: Quoted, Income, Unquoted and Funds.
Pools Activity Investments What we do Strategic allocation Risk management Equity holdings in listed companies We identify investment We manage risk throughout Quoted with proven long term returns, opportunities through research, the portfolio, paying particular 18 25-40% global reach and strong market focusing on mature, long term attention to concentration, presence.
businesses with significant market volatility, geographical exposure core holdings of net assets presence, strong balance sheets and liquidity.
and good returns on capital.
468m Our primary focus is on the UK Net assets, 25% of NAV and US markets.
A global listed equity portfolio with We identify investment We manage risk throughout Income a reliable and growing annual opportunities through research, the portfolio, paying particular 22 15-20% income stream targeting a net focusing on large-cap companies attention to the corporate drivers yield of 4.5% pa and providing a of global scale and market of investment yield and growth.
holdings of net assets source of readily accessible presence, offering above market This requires a detailed liquidity.
understanding of the longer 216m term investment models of We build a balanced portfolio of 4.8% Net assets, 11% of NAV the businesses and their cash similar size stakes across a broad net yield flow profiles.
range of sectors and regions.
Direct equity investment in We identify investment We manage risk and monitor Unquoted unquoted companies, mainly in the opportunities through our investments through board seats 13 35-45% UK, typically targeting majority extensive network of contacts, on all unquoted investments.
ownership where our team can focusing on established UK companies of net assets We structure our investments to provide a long term stable financial businesses led by successful provide robust cash flows to pay partnership to proven management management teams.
568m annual and special dividends and teams looking to grow established We conduct extensive due to manage liquidity risk.
Net assets, 30% of NAV 260m businesses.
diligence on the business We manage exposure to market value of top three trading and management team.
cycles to identify optimal times companies We take board seats in all to invest and divest.
Investment in a portfolio of funds We search for and build We manage risk throughout Funds in both quoted and unquoted relationships with successful the portfolio, with particular 21 15-20% markets, focused on the US and fund managers, whom we attention to future commitment Asia to provide Caledonia with monitor for an extensive period levels and liquidity, manager private equity fund managers of net assets significant geographical diversity.
concentration and foreign exchange exposures.
404m We focus on US and Asian markets and commitments We actively monitor manager 5 Net assets, 21% of NAV in the $20m-$50m range.
quoted market fund managers We balance exposure to managers and vintage by replacing maturing with early stage funds.
8 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Pools Activity Investments What we do Strategic allocation Risk management Equity holdings in listed companies We identify investment We manage risk throughout Quoted with proven long term returns, opportunities through research, the portfolio, paying particular 18 25-40% global reach and strong market focusing on mature, long term attention to concentration, presence.
Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 9 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017
