Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Valuation methodology Investments are measured at the directors estimate Multiples of fair value at the reporting date, in accordance with This methodology involves the application of an earnings IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
Fair value is the multiple to the maintainable earnings of the business amount for which an asset could be exchanged and is likely to be appropriate for an investment in an between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arms established business with an identifiable stream of length transaction.
The earnings multiple used is determined by reference Publicly traded securities to market-based multiples appropriate for the Investments listed in an active market are valued at business and correlating to the period and calculation their bid price on the reporting date.
When a bid price of earnings of the company being valued.
The aim is to is unavailable, the price of the most recent transaction identify comparator companies that are similar in terms will normally be used.
of risk and growth prospects to the company being Unlisted companies valued.
Earnings multiples are adjusted for points of Unlisted company investments are valued by applying an difference between the comparator and the company appropriate valuation technique, which makes maximum being valued where appropriate, including the ability use of market-based information, is consistent with of Caledonia to effect change in the company, the models generally used by market participants and is liquidity of the respective entities compared with the applied consistently from period to period, except where unlisted investment and other risks associated with a change would result in a better estimation of fair value.
The value of an unlisted company investment is generally Maintainable earnings balance reliability and relevance.
crystallised through the sale or flotation of the entire Generally, the latest historical accounts are used unless business, rather than the sale of an individual instrument.
reliable forecast results for the current year are Therefore, the estimation of fair value is based on the available.
Earnings are adjusted where appropriate for assumed realisation of the underlying business at the exceptional or non-recurring items and an average of reporting date, based on the International Private Equity more than one years earnings may be used to estimate and Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines December maintainable earnings for cyclical or volatile businesses.
Recognition is given to the uncertainties inherent Net assets in estimating the fair value of unlisted companies and The net assets methodology is likely to be appropriate appropriate caution is applied in exercising judgments for a business whose value derives mainly from the and making the necessary estimates.
underlying value of its assets rather than its earnings, Enterprise value is normally determined using one such as a property holding company or an investment of the following valuation methodologies: business.
It may also be appropriate for a business that is not making an adequate return on assets and for Price of recent investment which a greater value can be realised by liquidating the Where the investment being valued was recently business and selling its assets.
A third party valuation acquired or a recent transaction has taken place, its may be used to give the fair value of a certain asset cost or transaction price will generally provide a good or group of assets.
This methodology is likely to be appropriate only for a limited period after the date of the relevant transaction.
Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 27 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Valuation methodology continued Fund interests Fund interests refer to participations in arrangements to create a designated pool of capital to invest in a wider range of assets than is feasible for an individual investor and to share the costs and benefits.
Open-ended funds, including investment companies with variable capital, typically report regular net asset values, which usually provide a reliable basis to estimate fair value.
If the price reported by the fund is not available at the reporting date, the latest available price is used and may be adjusted to take account of changes or events to the reporting date.
Closed-ended funds include unlisted investment companies and limited partnerships.
For these investments, the fair value estimate is based on a summation of the estimated fair value of the underlying investments.
Fund manager valuation reports may be used where there is evidence that the valuation is derived using fair value principles and may be adjusted to take account of changes or events to the reporting date.
Adjustment may also be necessary for features of the fund agreement not captured in the valuation report, such as performance fees or carried interest.
Other investments Other investments include preference shares, loan notes or facilities, options, warrants and treasury instruments that are not publicly traded and do not form part of an investment in an unlisted company.
For such investments, appropriate valuation techniques are adopted and used consistently.
28 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017
