Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Directors report other statutory disclosures Introduction Employment policies and employee involvement This Directors report is prepared in accordance with the provisions The Group has a culture of continuous improvement through ofthe Companies Act 2006 and regulations made thereunder.
investment in people at all levels within the Group.
The Group is Itcomprises pages 54 to 73 and 100 to 103 as well as the following committed to pursuing equality and diversity in all its employment matters which the Board considers are of strategic importance and, activities including recruitment, training, career development and aspermitted by legislation, has chosen to include in the strategic promotion and ensuring there is no bias or discrimination in the report rather than the Directors report: treatment of people.
In particular, applications for employment are welcomed from persons with disabilities, and special arrangements risk management systems page 46 of the strategic report and adjustments as necessary are made to ensure that applicants likely future developments of the Company pages 24 and 25 aretreated fairly when attending for interview or for pre-employment ofthestrategic report aptitude tests.
Wherever possible the opportunity is taken to retrain important post-balance sheet events page 25 of the people who become disabled during their employment in order to strategicreport maintain their employment within the Group.
Information regarding certain employee matters page 18 and 19 of the strategic report, the Groups workplace policies is provided on page 18. as well as the disclosures below.
The Board has a diversity policy and encourages gender diversity in In addition, there are a number of disclosures which are included in particular.
Further details of the Boards diversity policy are set out in theDirectors report by reference, including: the report of the Nomination Committee on page 71, and information regarding the diversity of the workforce is provided on page 19. financial risk management note 3 of the notes to the financialstatements Employees are consulted regularly about changes which may affect them either through their trade union-appointed representatives, financial instruments page 42 of the strategic report and through consultation groups or by means of the elected staff council notes2 o and 18 of the notes to the financial statements.
which operates in South West Water for staff employees.
Board of Directors These forums, together with regular meetings with particular groups The Directors in office as at the date of this report all of whom of employees, are used to ensure that employees are kept up to date servedduring the year are named on pages 56 and 57.
In addition, with the business performance of their employer and the financial and IanMcAulay, who was Chief Executive, Viridor, and an Executive economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
The Group Director of Pennon Group plc, served during the year until his also cascades information monthly to all employees to provide them resignation from the Board on 31 August 2016. with important and up to date information about key events and to obtain feedback from them.
Further information about employment Financial results and dividend matters relating to the Group is set out on pages 18 and 19 of the The Directors recommend a final dividend of 24.87 pence per ordinary strategic report.
share to be paid on 1 September 2017 to shareholders on the register on 7July 2017, making a total dividend for the year of 35.96 pence, The Group encourages share ownership among its employees by thecost of which will be 149.5 million, resulting in a transfer to operating an HM Revenue & Customs approved Sharesave scheme reserves of 14.8 million.
The strategic report on pages 38 to 45 and Share Incentive Plan.
Following shareholder approval at the 2014 analyses the Groups financial results in more detail and sets out AGM, these were amended to provide for the increased savings limits otherfinancial information.
At 31 March 2017 around 41% of the Groups employees were participating in these plans.
Directors insurance and indemnities The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity provisions contained Greenhouse gas emissions in the Companys Articles of Association Articles, and the Company Change in emissions has maintained throughout the year Directors and officers liability Gross greenhouse gas emissions for the Group this year increased by insurance for the benefit of the Company, the Directors and its officers.
14%, primarily as a result of Viridors newly commissioned energy The Company has entered into qualifying third party indemnity recovery facilities reaching their full operating capacity.
arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors in a form and scope which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 andwhich were in force throughout the year and remain in force.
100 Viridors energy recovery facilities burn waste that would otherwise Organisational boundary have gone to landfill.
This has the double benefit of extracting more of The emissions listed here cover the Pennon Group of companies, each the energy embedded in the waste and substituting energy generated of which uses the financial control approach, except where Viridor use from other, predominantly fossil fuel, sources.
There has been a 4% an equity share approach where a joint venture exists.
reduction year-on-year in emissions from the Groups landfill sites and Operational Scopes a similar percentage increase in renewable energy generation across We have measured our Scope 1, 2 and certain Scope 3 emissions the Group.
All Group companies benefitted from a reduction in the UKs average electricity grid emissions conversion factor which fell sharply by 11% Intensity measurement between 2015 16 and 2016 17.
This resulted in an overall reduction in We have chosen an intensity measure of Scope 1 and 2 gross the Groups Scope 2 emissions over the year and saw both South West emissions in tCO e per 100,000 revenue 2 Water and Bournemouth Water record lower overall emissions than in the previous year.
External assurance statement Our greenhouse gas emissions data has been independently verified South West Water recorded an increase in emissions from energy by Strategic Management Consultants.
Certain aspects that relate usage associated with the provision of drinking water services driven tothe disclosures of South West Water and Bournemouth Waters by an unusually dry year.
The companys water resources models emissions have been subject to an independent audit of regulatory signalled the need to protect water resources that would normally be data conducted by CH2M.
The assumptions methods and procedures topped-up naturally from rainfall.
As a result additional raw water was that are followed in the development of the reported data have been pumped into reservoirs over the winter period to ensure sufficient tested and the data audited for accuracy and consistency.
water supplies would be available for the subsequent summer period.
A corresponding reduction in emissions from energy usage was seen Carbon offsets in the waste water side of the business as the lack of rainfall meant We rely on self-generated renewable energy to reduce our overall less surface water run-off ended up in the sewer system and needed Scope 2 emissions and supplement this with power purchase to be pumped.
contracts with third parties for renewable energy through private wire where it is available near our sites.
For the second year in succession the Groups gross Scope 1 and 2 emissions are growing at a faster rate than our revenue.
Renewable energy export Thisisreflected in the emissions intensity measure we use of Pennon Group self-generates more electricity than it uses and much tCO e 100,000 revenue.
This indicator has increased this 2 of its renewable electricity generation is exported to the grid.
2 2 account for this exported renewable electricity in our net emissions measure where we subtract emissions credits up to the limit of our Methodology and approach gross volume of Scope 2 emissions.
We have adopted the equity share approach for Viridor companies.
This means that emissions from joint venture operations can be Pennon Group plc greenhouse gas emissions accurately attributed to the company in proportion to the percentage 2016 17 2015 16 of Viridors holding.
The remaining companies in the Group continue to use the financial control approach.
This is the conventional method Scope 1 1,576,428 1,351,192 for parent companies and subsidiaries within a group that have the Scope 2 144,707 157,089 ability to direct financial and operating policies and retain the majority Scope 3 60,760 56,764 of the organisations risk and rewards.
Total gross emissions 1,781,895 1,565,044 Green tariff electricity offset 1,774 2,041 Quantification and reporting Exported renewable energy reduction We have followed the Governments guidelines for mandatory up to total amount of electricity greenhouse gas emissions reporting published by DEFRA in June purchased and consumed by 2013 and updated in October 2013.
In calculating our emissions we organisation 142,933 155,048 have used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Total annual net emissions 1,637,188 1,407,955 Reporting Standard revised edition and the web based conversion Biogenic emissions outside factors provided by DEFRA.
ofscopes 1,692,423 1,767,878 Intensity measure: tCO e 2 Market and Location based methodology gross Scope 1 2 100,000 revenue 127.1 112 In 2015 the Greenhouse Gas Protocol introduced the market-based and location-based methodologies for reporting Scope 2 emissions Scope 1 direct emissions Activities owned or controlled by our organisation that from imported energy.
This change of reporting guidance allows release emissions straight into the atmosphere, for example the combustion of fuels in organisations that contractually purchase electricity from generators company-owned and controlled stationary equipment and transportation, emissions from site based processes and site-based fugitive emissions.
where the supply is backed by appropriate certificates or other Scope 2 indirect emissions Emissions released into the atmosphere associated with instruments to use an emission factor that is specific to the electricity our consumption of purchased electricity, heat, steam and cooling.
These are indirect being purchased.
No such qualifying supply was procured by Pennon emissions that are a consequence of our activities but which occur at sources we do not Group companies for 2016 17 and therefore we have decided to own or control.
Scope 3 other indirect emissions Emissions that are a consequence of our actions, continue to report using only the location-based methodology this which occur at sources which we do not own or control and which are not classed as year, we intend to review this approach again next year.
101 Governance Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Disclosures required by publicly traded companies Directors report The following disclosures are made pursuant to Part 6 of Schedule 7 other statutory disclosures of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and Rule 7.2.
R of the UK Listing continued Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR.
As at 31 March 2017: a Details of the Companys issued share capital, which consists of ordinary shares of nominal value 40.7 pence each, are set out innote 33 to the financial statements on page 160.
All of the Companys issued shares are fully paid up, rank equally in all Human rights and anti-slavery respects and are listed on the Official List and traded on the The Group is fully supportive of the principles set out in the UN London Stock Exchange.
The rights and obligations attaching Declaration of Human Rights, and the Group Ethics Policy outlines tothe Companys shares, in addition to those conferred on their thehigh standards of employment practice with which everyone in holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles, copies of Pennon Group is expected to comply.
The Group also supports the which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by International Labour Organizations core conventions for the writing to the Group Company Secretary at the Companys protection and safety of workforces wherever they may be throughout registered office: the Group.
b There are no restrictions on the transfer of issued shares of the The Groups commitment to ensuring the human rights of its Company or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, employees are not infringed extends to those of its suppliers.
Supplier except where the Company has exercised its right to suspend codes of conduct are in place to ensure that people are treated fairly their voting rights or to prohibit their transfer following the and with respect and dignity.
omission of their holder or any person interested in them to provide the Company with information requested by it in In addition, we have in place policies and procedures to assess, accordance with Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 or where monitor and reduce the risk of modern slavery and human trafficking their holder is precluded from exercising voting rights by the occurring in our businesses and supply chains.
Risk assessments Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules or the City Code on ofany high risk supply partners have been completed by Viridor, Takeovers and Mergers.
There are no persons with special rights SouthWest Water and Bournemouth Water to ensure compliance regarding control of the Company.
No shares issued under the withthe Modern Slavery Act across the Group and our anti-slavery employee share schemes have rights with regard to control of and human trafficking web-based statement for the year is available the Company that are not exercisable directly by the employees: atwww.
c Details of significant direct or indirect holdings of securities of Research and development the Company are set out in the shareholder analysis on page 175.
Research and development within the Group involving water and The Company is not aware of any agreements between waste treatment processes amounted to 0.2 million during the shareholders which may result in restrictions on the transfer of year 2015 16 0.1 million.
securities or on voting rights: Overseas branches d The Companys rules about the appointment and replacement of The Company has no overseas branches.
Directors are contained in the Articles and accord with usual English company law provisions.
The powers of Directors are Pennon Group donations determined by UK legislation and the Articles in force from time During 2016 17 the Group provided a total of 136,000 in to time.
Changes to the Articles must be approved by the charitabledonations Companys shareholders by passing a special resolution: No political donations were made or political expenditure incurred and e The Directors have the power to make purchases of the no contributions were made to a non-EU political party 2015 16nil.
Companys own shares in issue as set out above.
The Directors also have the authority to allot shares up to an aggregate Purchase of own ordinary shares nominal value of: i 55,978,817 such amount to be reduced by The Company has authority from shareholders to purchase up to 10% any shares allotted or rights granted under ii below in excess of of its own ordinary shares as renewed at the Annual General Meeting 55,978,817 : and ii 111,957,635 by way of a rights issue such in 2016, which was valid as at 31 March 2017 and remains currently amount to be reduced by any shares allotted or rights granted valid.
No purchases were made during the year.
As at 1 April 2016, from i above, which was approved by shareholders at the 2016 10,356 shares were held in treasury, with a nominal value of 4,215 Annual General Meeting AGM.
In addition, shareholders andrepresenting 0.003% of issued share capital.
1,913 treasury shares approved a resolution giving the Directors a limited authority to representing 0.0005% of issued share capital as at 1 April 2016 were allot shares for cash other than pro rata to existing shareholders.
reissued during the year under the Companys Executive Share Option These resolutions remain valid until the conclusion of this years Scheme for proceeds of 13,257.
Similar resolutions will be proposed at this years AGM.
The Directors have no present intention to issue ordinary shares other than pursuant to the Companys employee share schemes and the scrip dividend alternative: 102 f There are a number of agreements which take effect, alter or Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a 56 and 57, confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: takeover bid, such as bank loan agreements, eurobond i The financial statements, which have been prepared in documentation, hybrid capital securities documentation, private accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards placement debt and employees share plans.
This may result in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair certain funding agreements being altered or repaid early.
The view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the impact on employees share plans is not considered significant: Group and of the Company.
and ii The strategic report pages 1 to 51 and the Directors report g There are no agreements between the Company and its pages 100 to 103 include a fair review of the development and Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of performance of the business during the year and the position of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
the Company and the Group at the year end, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
Going concern Having considered the Groups funding position and financial iii Following receipt of advice from the Audit Committee, that the projections the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Group has adequate resource to continue in operational existence understandable, and provides the information necessary for the forthe foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the theCompanys website www.
Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and accordance with applicable law and regulations.
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements other jurisdictions.
Under that law the Directors have prepared Statement as to disclosure of information to theGroup and Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by theauditor theEuropean Union.
i So far as each of the Directors in office at the date of the signing of the report is aware, there is no relevant audit information of Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial which the Companys auditor is unaware: and statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit ii each of the Directors has taken all the steps each Director ought or loss of the Group for the year.
to have taken individually as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish In preparing these financial statements the Directors are required to: that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply The Directors report consisting of pages 54 to 73 and 100 to 103 was themconsistently approved by the Board on 23 May 2017. make judgements and accounting estimates which are reasonableand prudent By Order of the Board state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Helen Barrett-Hague Unionhave been followed, subject to any material departures Group Company Secretary disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
23 May 2017 The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions, and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company: and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
103 Governance Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 This includes improving and future Our business continues to proofing our services with projects grow supported by ongoing 191m suchas the Mayflower Water Capital investment in South investment in our assets Treatment Works in Plymouth West Water up from 134.1m andgenerating growth through in previous year theexpansion of our fleet of EnergyRecovery Facilities with four newplantsdue to be operational 195m inAvonmouth, Beddington, Capital investment in DunbarandGlasgow by 2020.
Viridorup from 182.8m inprevious year Skelmersdale Recycling Facility 104 106 Independent auditors report Financial statements and 114 Financial statements shareholder information 173 Five-year financial summary 174 Shareholder information Continued investment in our assets 105 Financial statements
