Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Board of Directors Sir John Parker Chairman GBE, FREng, DSc Eng, ScD Hon, DSc Hon, Since his appointment as Chairman, Sir John has brought the DUniv Hon, FRINA Group together under arevised governance framework that features a new role of Group Chief Executive Officer and Sir John was appointed to the Board as Deputy Chairman othersenior positions.
The new team is working together on1April 2015 and became Chairman on 1 August 2015. collaboratively to drive forward the Groups strategy.
Heisalso chairman of the Nomination Committee.
External appointments Skills and experience Sir John is the chairman of Anglo American plc and of Sir John is a highly experienced and independent chairman Advanced Plasma Power Limited.
He is also a non-executive and brings a wealth of leadership experience across a range director of Carnival Corporation and Airbus Group, and is ofindustries.
He won the lifetime achievement award at aVisiting Fellow of the University of Oxford.
Sir Johns TheSunday Times 2015 Non-Executive Director Awards commitments are expected to reduce in 2017, when andis widely recognised for his policy work on corporate heretiresfrom the board of Anglo American plc.
governance, including the value of diversity in the boardroom.
He has chaired five FTSE100 companies and was previously the chairman of National Grid plc, senior non-executive director and chair of the Court of the Bank of England, deputy chairman of DP World, joint chair of Mondi and chair of BVT and P&O plc.
He was also president of the Royal Academy of Engineering from 2011 to 2014.
Christopher Loughlin Chief Executive Officer BSc Hons, MICE, CEng, MBA Chris has a comprehensive understanding of the water industry.
He was previously a board member and, for a Chris was appointed to the Board on 1 August 2006 upon period, president of the Institute of Water, and between joining Pennon as Chief Executive of South West Water.
He April2008 and March 2012 was chairman of Water UK.
became the Group Chief Executive Officer on 1 January 2016.
Chris is chairman of the Pennon Executive and a member of Since his appointment as Group Chief Executive Officer, Chris the Sustainability Committee.
has set Pennon on a path of closer collaboration in pursuit of delivery of its strategy, with the constituent parts of the Group Skills and experience now working together to identify synergies, reduce costs and Chris has extensive experience of the regulated business exploit opportunities for growth.
environment and the management of major engineering and infrastructure services.
He started his career as a chartered External appointments engineer working in both the consulting and contracting Chris is currently chairman of British Water, a director of Water sectors and, after holding a number of senior positions with UK and a trustee of the charity WaterAid.
An enthusiastic British Nuclear Fuels plc, joined its board as an executive advocate of local business, Chris is also vice chairman of the director.
Prior to joining Pennon he was chief operating officer Cornwall Local Enterprise Partnership.
with Lloyds Register and before that executive chairman of Magnox Electric plc.
He was also a senior diplomat in the British Embassy, Tokyo.
Susan Davy Chief Financial Officer BSc Hons, ACA Susans knowledge of the industry coupled with her financial and regulatory expertise has supported the development of Susan joined the Board on 1 February 2015.
She is a member Pennons strategy and her input has been invaluable to the of the Pennon Executive.
Susan is highly respected in the City Skills and experience and has been instrumental in building Pennons reputation.
Susan is a graduate qualified chartered accountant with External appointments 20years experience in the utility sector.
Susan is a member of the A4S Accounting for Sustainability Prior to her current appointment Susan was Finance Director CFO leadership network and a council member of CBI at South West Water between 2007 and 2015, during which SouthWest.
time she was responsible for the companys Business Plan to 2020.
She has also held a number of other senior finance roles in the water sector, including as Head of Regulation and Head of Finance Wastewater at Yorkshire Water.
56 Gill Rider Senior Independent Director Non-Executive CB, PhD, CCIPD As chairman of the Sustainability Committee, Gill has encouraged and supported executive management in the development Gill was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2012.
She is ofa sustainability programme that underpins the delivery of chairman of the Sustainability Committee and a member of Pennons strategy.
At Accenture she chaired the global corporate theAudit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
responsibility and Foundation giving programme and was Skills and experience instrumental in building sustainability objectives into Gill has a wealth of experience in leadership, governance and Accentures worldwide human capital strategies.
remuneration across a broad range of sectors including External appointments professional services, education and government.
Gill currently holds non-executive directorships with Formerly, she was head of the Civil Service Capability Group in CharlesTaylor plc, where she is senior independent director, the Cabinet Office, reporting to the Cabinet Secretary and prior andIntertek Group plc.
She is chairman of both their to that held a number of senior positions with Accenture LLP remuneration committees.
She is also chair of the council culminating in the post of chief leadership officer for the global board of the University of Southampton.
She was previously president of the Chartered Institute ofPersonnel and Development and a non-executive director of fide La Rue plc.
Martin Angle Independent Non-Executive Director BSc Hons, FCA, MCSI Martin has also served as a non-executive director on a number of boards including Savills plc, where he was the Martin was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2008.
He senior independent director: National Exhibition Group, where ischairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member he was chairman: Severstal: and Dubai International Capital.
ofthe Audit, Nomination and Sustainability Committees.
As chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Martin has steered Skills and experience Pennons approach on executive remuneration, ensuring that it is Martin is an experienced non-executive director, bringing aligned with and supports the Groups strategy.
awide range of knowledge and experience from a career ininvestment banking, private equity and industry.
External appointments Martin is currently vice chairman and non-executive Over a 20-year executive career in investment banking, Martin directorof the FIA Foundation, the adviser to the Board of held senior roles withSGWarburg & Co. Ltd, Morgan Stanley theCommercial Bank of Dubai and the adviser to NGP, a and Dresdner Kleinwort Benson, before becoming the group private group based in the USA, which is building out a finance director of TI Group plc, then a FTSE 100 company.
majorplatform in renewable energy in emerging markets.
Hesubsequently joined Terra Firma Capital Partners where he held various senior roles in its portfolio companies, including the executive chairmanship of the Waste Recycling Group Limited, then a major participant in the UK waste sector, andLeMeridien Hotel Group where he was executive deputychairman.
Neil Cooper Independent Non-Executive Director BSc Hons, FCMA As chairman of the Audit Committee, Neil has been influential in directing Pennons approach on a number of significant matters Neil joined the Board on 1 September 2014.
He is chairman of including internal control, governance and financial reporting.
the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Skills and experience Neil brings to the Board extensive experience in a wide variety of corporate and financial matters.
Most recently, he was group finance director of Barratt Developments plc and, before that, group finance director of William Hill plc and Bovis Homes plc.
He also held senior finance positions at Whitbread plc, worked for  as a management consultant and held a number of roles with Reckitt & Colman plc.
Helen Barrett-Hague Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Solicitor, LLB Hons Helen is responsible for the provision of legal and company secretarial services to the Group, for statutory and regulatory Helen joined Pennon as Group General Counsel & Company compliance in terms of business conduct, and for supporting Secretary to the Board in March 2016. the Chairman and the Board in ensuring that Pennons high Skills and experience standards of governance continue to be met.
She is also Helen has extensive corporate experience, including capital chairman of the board of trustees of the Pennon Group raisings, initial public offerings, corporate restructuring, Defined Contribution Pension Scheme.
mergers and acquisitions, both in the UK and overseas.
She External appointments began her career in private practice before moving in-house None.
in1999 and subsequently held positions of increasing responsibility with the Generics Group AG, Aveva Group plc and Alent plc.
57 Governance r d e n t a a g r W o n t t i c s t e e e r i W e D h M g t n u e i o g v S a i n f t a o u M s c e r e v e i x t t a u E W c r e t x e s e t e l a W a W p h i t c u t n o s i r S e p e W f h o t h g y n t b i u t d s o e i g r s i S n a n p o h i t c u C g s o i n s r i n G t o e e c h e d t n M f a o e O s v E e i v C t i t Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 The Board of Pennon Group plc and its governance The Board framework is set outbelow.
and its The Board acts as the main governing body for the purpose of oversight ofViridorsbusiness.
For regulatory reasons, South West Waters business governance continues to be overseen by the board of South West Water Limited.
Theboards and committees of Pennon Group plc and South West Water framework Limited usually meet sequentially on the same day or days, facilitated by the dual directorships held bya number of the Directors.
Read more pages 61 and 62 The Pennon Board Consisting of the Chairman, the Group CEO, the CFO and three independent Non-Executive Directors The South West Water Board Consisting of the Chairman, the Group CEO, Audit Committee Sustainability Members: three independent the Managing Director, the Finance Director, Committee Non-Executive Directors and three Pennon Non-Executive Directors Members: two independent two South West Water Non-Executive Directors, two and three South West Water non-executive directors for South West Water non-executive non-executive directors South West Water matters directors of which one is a vacancy for South West Water matters, and theGroup CEO Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Members: three independent Members: the Chairman, three Non-Executive Directors and two South independent Non-Executive Directors West Water non-executive directors of and three South West Water nonwhich one is a vacancy for South West executive directors of which one is a Water matters vacancy for South West Water matters Recruitment is underway to fill the vacancy for a 58 non-executive director of South West Water u p u u c c o e e r x x G e E e l h a n t p o i y c n b n n i d r e e p r i P f a o h C r d o n d a i r r i o g V t n c f o i e t r i s e D e e v g i t M n u i g c e a e v n x i a e t M l u a r p c o i e c d i n x r i i r E V p e r f h o o t d g y i n b r i t i d s V i e s r i n a o h c C Pennon Board composition, independence and experience Composition Diversity as at 31 March as at 31 March 100 100 75 75 50 50 25 25 2016 2017 2016 2017 Executive Non-Executive Male Female At the end of the year the Board of Directors comprised the Chairman, The Board continued to exceed its target of 25% female two Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors.
representation throughout the year and at the year end it was 33.3%.
Tenure Experience as at 31 March as at 31 March 100 100 75 75 50 50 25 25 2016 2017 2016 2017 0-3 years 4-6 years 7-10 years Industry Finance Governance All of the Non-Executive Directors were considered by the Board All of the Non-Executive Directors are considered to have the tobeindependent throughout the year.
None of the relationships appropriate skills, experience in their respective disciplines and orcircumstances set out in provision B.
1.1 of the UK Corporate personality to bring independent and objective judgement to the Governance Code the UK Code applied to the Non-Executive Boards deliberations.
Their biographies on pages 56 and 57 and the Directors listed on the following page.
In December 2017 Martin Angle experience chart above demonstrates collectively a broad range of will reach the ninth anniversary of his appointment.
The Board is business, financial and other relevant experience.
satisfied that Martin continues to demonstrate independence of Directors roles character and judgement in the performance of his role as a Director Neil Cooper is chairman of the Audit Committee and in accordance and therefore has determined that he remains independent.
with the UK Code and FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1.
1 Sir John Parker met the independence criteria set out in provision hehas recent and relevant financial experience as set out in his B.
1.1of the UK Code on his appointment as Chairman and there biography on page 57.
Martin Angle is also a member of the havebeen no significant changes to his external commitments since AuditCommittee and he has relevant financial experience as set his appointment.
All Directors are subject to re-election each year in accordance with There is a clear separation of responsibilities between the Chairman provision B.
and the CEO, divided between managing the Board and the business, while they of course maintain a close working relationship.
% 28.6% 33% 50% 66.7% 17% 33.3% Governance Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 The Board and its governanceframework continued All the Directors are equally accountable for the proper stewardship of the Groups affairs but they do have specific roles, which include those set out below: Position Director Role Chairman Sir John Parker Leading the Board and setting its agenda Promoting the highest standards of integrity and probity and ensuring good and effective governance Managing Board composition, performance and succession planning Providing advice, support and guidance to the CEO Representing the Group and being available to shareholders Discussing separately with the Non-Executive Directors performance and strategic issues Chief Chris Loughlin Managing the Group and providing executive leadership ExecutiveOfficer Developing and proposing Group strategy Leading the operation of the Group in accordance with the decisions of the Board Co-ordinating with the Chairman on important and strategic issues of the Group and providing input to the Boards agenda Contributing to succession planning and implementing the organisational structure Leading on acquisitions, disposals, business development and exploiting Group synergies Managing shareholder relations Senior Gill Rider Assisting the Chairman with shareholder communications and being available as an additional point of contact for shareholders Independent Being available to other Non-Executive Directors if they have any concerns that are not satisfactorily resolved by the Chairman Director Leading the annual evaluation of performance of the Chairman with the other Non-Executive Directors Chief Financial Susan Davy Supporting the CEO in providing executive leadership and developing Group strategy Officer Reporting to the Board on performance and developments across the business Implementing decisions of the Board Managing specific business responsibilities Non-Executive Martin Angle Critically reviewing the strategies proposed for the Group Directors Neil Cooper Critically examining the operational and financial performance of the Group Gill Rider Evaluating proposals from management and constructively challenging managements recommendations Contributing to corporate accountability through being active members of the Committees of the Board South West Water Martin Hagen As for the Pennon Non-Executive Directors above, but only in respect of South West Water matters non-executive Matthew Taylor directors Vacancy In 2016 the number of scheduled Board meetings was reduced from Board meetings and attendance ten to nine per year plus an annual strategy day and the number The Directors and their attendance at the nine scheduled meetings ofscheduled Committee meetings was reduced to four per year to ofthe Board during 2016 17 are shown below: coincide with Board meetings.
Board and Committee meetings are arranged over a session lasting a day and a half, which includes a Members Appointment date Attendance working dinner for the Directors.
Additional meetings of Committees Chairman are arranged as and when necessary.
This approach allows for longer Sir John Parker April 2015 9 9 agendas and in depth review and discussion around complex matters.
Non-Executive Directors Martin Angle December 2008 9 9 Managing the Group and its subsidiaries Neil Cooper September 2014 9 9 The Boards responsibilities include overall leadership of the Group, Gill Rider September 2012 9 9 setting the Groups values, policies and standards, approving Pennons South West Water non-executive strategy and objectives and providing oversight of the Groups 1 directors operations and its performance.
The Board makes decisions in relation Martin Hagen 9 9 to Group and Viridor business in accordance with its schedule of 2 Steve Johnson 1 1 matters reserved.
The South West Water board continues to operate Matthew Taylor 9 9 as a separate independent board in accordance with its own schedule Executive Directors of matters reserved to ensure compliance with Ofwats principles on Susan Davy February 2015 9 9 board leadership, transparency and governance.
Christopher Loughlin August 2006 9 9 3 Ian McAulay September 2013 4 4 1 Representing South West Water interests.
60 Detailed consideration of certain matters is delegated to Board approach is compatible with Ofwats principles for holding companies Committees, to the Executive Directors and to the Group General in respect of Board leadership, transparency and governance.
Counsel & Company Secretary, as appropriate.
In addition to the Operation of the Board matters the Directors are required to decide by statute or regulation, The Board operates by receiving written reports circulated in advance the matters reserved to the Board in relation to Pennon Group plc of the meetings from the Executive Directors and the Group General andViridor Limited include: Counsel & Company Secretary on matters within their respective all acquisitions and disposals business areas of the Group.
When appropriate, the Board also receives major items of capital expenditure presentations on key areas of the business and undertakes site visits to gain a better understanding of the operation of business initiatives.
authority levels for other expenditure risk management process and monitoring of risks Under the guidance of the Chairman, all matters before the Board are approval of the strategic plan and annual operating budgets discussed openly.
Presentations and advice are received frequently Group policies, procedures and delegations from other senior executives within the Group and from external advisers to facilitate the decision-making of the Board.
appointments to the Board and its Committees.
The Pennon Board and the South West Water board usually meet The Board also ratifies certain decisions taken by the South West sequentially, which allows a more holistic and cohesive approach to Water board, including major capital projects and investments, decision-making and communication across the Group.
This is long-term objectives and commercial strategy, the five-year regulatory facilitated by the dual directorships held by a number of the Directors.
plan, annual budgets and certain decisions relating to financing.
This Pennon Board composition South West Water board composition Chairman Group CEO CFO Chairman Group CEO Managing Director, Finance Director, South West Water South West Water 3 independent In attendance 3 independent non-executive 3 independent In attendance Non-Executive 3 independent non-executive directors of both South West non-executive directors Group CFO Directors ofPennon directors of South West Water Water and Pennon of South West Water Recruitment is underway to fill the one vacancy Pennon Executive management Board support and training The role of the Pennon Executive is to define and drive the business Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group General priorities that will achieve delivery of the strategy.
It is responsible for Counsel & Company Secretary, and the Board has an established ensuring, to the extent of the authority delegated by the Board, the procedure whereby Directors, in order to fulfil their duties, may seek proper and prudent management of Group resources to create and independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Newly appointed Directors receive a formal induction which includes an explanation of the Group structure, regulatory and legal issues, the Chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, the Pennon Executive meets Group governance framework and policies, the Groups approach to formally on a monthly basis to review and refine recommendations to risk management and its principal risks financial and non-financial, be presented to the Board.
including environmental, social and governance ESG risks, duties and obligations including protocols around conflicts of interest and Members of the Pennon Executive dealing in shares, and the current activities of the Board and its Chris Loughlin Chief Executive Officer Committees.
Directors also visit operating facilities across the Group Susan Davy Chief Financial Officer and have meetings with staff to receive briefings on key processes Adele Barker Interim Group director of Human Resources and systems.
Helen Barrett-Hague Group General Counsel & Company Secretary The training needs of Directors are reviewed as part of the Boards Stephen Bird Managing Director, South West Water performance evaluation process each year.
Training consists of Sarah Heald Director of Corporate Affairs & Investor Relations attendance at external courses organised by professional advisers Steve Holmes Director of Safety, Health, Quality & Sustainability andalso internal presentations from senior management.
SHQS Ed Mitchell Director of Environment and interim Operations director Wastewater Services, South West Water Phil Piddington Managing Director, Viridor Paul Ringham Commercial director, Viridor Bob Taylor Operations director Drinking Water Services, South West Water 61 Governance Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 The Board and its governanceframework continued Performance evaluation Dealing with Directors conflicts of interest The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous review of its In accordance with the directors interest provision of the Companies performanceand that of its Committees and Directors each year.
Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association, the Board has in Thisyear, Armstrong Bonham Carter LLP, who are independent place a procedure for the consideration and authorisation of Directors boardperformance consultants with no other connection with conflicts or possible conflicts with the Companys interests.
This has theCompany, facilitated the evaluation of the Boards and the operated effectively during the year.
The exercise was conducted in March Risk management and the Groups 2017by way of a series of structured interviews with all the Directors, various members of the senior executive team, the Internal Audit systemofinternal control Manager and the External Audit Partner.
The Board is responsible for maintaining the Groups system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the Groups The agenda for these interviews was circulated to each participant assets and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to prior to the meetings and was designed to assess: manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute whether the Directors had thoroughly discussed and agreed the assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing use of shareholders funds to ensure the Company was successful process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks whilst managing the risks inherent in the strategy, plans and the faced by the Group that has been in place throughout 2016 17 and operating environment upto the date of the approval of this annual report and accounts.
the effectiveness of the Board in ensuring that the executive team had implemented the strategy and plans, and had managed all the The Groups system of internal control is consistent with the FRCs other activities of the Company well.
new Guidance on Risk Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting FRC Internal Control Guidance.
Armstrong Bonham Carter collated and analysed the results from eachinterview and prepared separate reports on the performance The Board confirms that it applies procedures in accordance with ofthe Board as a whole and one for each Committee, all of which theUK Code and the FRC Internal Control Guidance which brings werereviewed and discussed by the Board.
together elements of best practice for risk management and internal control by companies.
The Boards risk framework described on page The Senior Independent Director separately conducted a review of 46 in the strategic report provides for the identification of key risks theindividual directors performance and the Chairmans performance including ESG risks in relation to the achievement of the business was evaluated separately by the Non-Executive Directors, led by the objectives of the Group, monitoring of such risks and ongoing and Senior Independent Director.
annual evaluation of the overall process.
The review concluded that the Board, its Committees and its As part of the review of the effectiveness of the system of risk individualDirectors had demonstrated a high degree of effectiveness.
management and internal control under the Group risk management The new Board structure was viewed most positively and had helped policy, all Executive Directors and senior managers are required to the Non-Executive Directors to achieve a broader knowledge of both certify on an annual basis that they have effective controls in place businesses.
Consequently, the Board had a good understanding tomanage risks and to operate in compliance with legislation and ofopportunities for growth and the threats facing the business.
TheBoards commitment to health and safety was widely noted andallDirectors commented on the need to improve performance The Group also has policies covering suspected fraud, anti-bribery following three fatalities since 2013.
The appointment of a new and whistleblowing, which were reviewed and refreshed during the Groupdirector ofSafety, Health, Quality and Sustainability, who will year.
Allegations of misconduct and irregularity are thoroughly work to embed a strong health and safety culture throughout the investigated and follow-up action in respect of the Groups control Group, was welcomed.
In addition, the Board agreed toadopt actions environment is taken when appropriate.
In the normal course of relating to the development of Group strategy, theshaping of Pennons business, investigations into irregularities may be ongoing as of corporate values and increased focus on employee engagement.
thedate of the approval of the financial statements.
Subsequently the Board agreed and implemented an action plan The Groups processes and policies serve to ensure that a culture which it will monitor regularly.
ofeffective control and risk management is embedded throughout Conclusions and recommendations in respect of the composition of theGroup and that the Group is in a position to react appropriately the Board were considered by the Nomination Committee and are tonew risks as they arise.
Details of key risks affecting the Group covered on page 70. areset out in the strategic report on pages 47 to 50.
Board Committees terms of reference In accordance with Group policies, a range of key matters are delegated to the Boards Committees as set out on pages 63 to 73 of this governance report.
The terms of reference of each of the Boards Committees are set out on the Companys website www.
co. uk and are also available from the Group Company Secretary upon request.
