12 Strategic report QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 An update on our home markets We operate in three home markets: the UK, US and Australia.
United Kingdom The UK Governments Strategic Defence and Security On 16 September 2016, the Secretary of State for Review SDSR published at the end of 2015 helped Defence launched a new Defence Innovation Initiative In the UK, the Government is to clarify the UKs capability priorities.
In the SDSR for the UK focused on ensuring that Britain remains a seeking to mitigate any negative the MOD pledged to spend 2% of GDP on defence credible military force against major adversaries, using impact from Brexit with a and to address capability gaps such as combat air and traditional lethal and non-lethal effects to respond to renewed focus on exports maritime surveillance.
New capabilities will be funded evolving threats with pace and agility.
A Defence and and a defence industrial policy.
by 30% reductions in MOD civilian staff and in its built Security Accelerator has been launched as part of the estate, and by 11bn of savings from 2015-20.
The Initiative to administer an 800m Innovation Fund.
The introduction of new capabilities and, in particular, Defence Innovation Initiative has a particular emphasis extending the life of existing capabilities, provides on partnership and the Whole Force military, civil QinetiQ with opportunities to deliver engineering, servants and industry people working as one.
test and evaluation services as well as further opportunities for providing outsourced services.
It is UK defence budget to increase by possible that a Comprehensive Spending Review and a new SDSR will take place following the UK General Election but all major political parties are committed to spending 2% of GDP on defence.
Although competition is intense, the SDSR and focus 0.5% pa on counter-terrorism is driving increases in budgets for above inflation to 2021 C4ISR and cyber security.
Investment in cyber security is to rise from 809m in 2015 to 1.9bn in 2020 and a new UK National Cyber Security Centre was established in 2016.
The UK Government is determined to get the best deal MOD spending on science and technology protected at for Britain when exiting the EU and has a renewed focus on supporting exports as part of the Global Britain agenda.
In the defence sector the Government is developing an industrial policy with the stated aim of bringing its prosperity and security agendas closer together.
The policy is likely to require the MOD to spend 1.2% more money with SMEs and companies that win large of the defence budget defence contracts will be required to ensure that 3% of employees working on that contract are apprentices.
QinetiQ is well-placed to support these commitments as we already manage framework contracts for the MOD that involve more than 100 UK SMEs, and through our commitment to The 5% Club Page 31.
UK Government spending on cyber security The Single Source Regulations Office SSRO is developing a new methodology for calculating the baseline profit rate in future years, potentially introducing multiple profit rates.
This baseline rate acts as the starting point for agreeing the profit rates of new and 1.9bn renewed contracts, and suppliers can both underand by 2020 over-perform the contracted rate depending on, for example, risk, capital servicing and project execution.
Approximately three-quarters of the revenue of our EMEA Services division is derived from single-source contracts, an increased proportion of which is now contracted on a long-term basis.
For example, the 11-year, 1bn amendment to the LTPA, signed in December 2016, was contracted using the FY17 single source profit formula.
In the 2015 SDSR the MOD committed investment in science and technology will continue to be protected at 1.2% of the defence budget with an increased emphasis on disruptive technologies and innovation, and a move away from some more traditional research programmes.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | An update on our home markets 13 President Trumps proposed defence spending increase United States In the US, the FY17 Defense Bill was published sooner in 2018 than expected.
Although it did not deliver the entirety of In the US, the cycle appears the $54bn increase that President Trump had proposed to be bottoming out with a for defence, it will result in a significant increase in the significant increase in the budget for Overseas Contingency Operations.
A renewed commitment by US military customers US $54bn to unmanned ground vehicle products is reflected in plans to award new competitive Programs of Record for the development, acquisition and sustainment of US unmanned systems capability.
Competitions are either under way or will be under way this year for these Programs of Record, funded by the US Defence Innovation Initiative Department of Defenses base budget.
The previous administrations Defense Innovation Initiative, also known as the Third Offset Strategy, put $18bn behind innovation and R&D in the period from 2016 to 2021.
Although this may be fide-emphasised US$18bn or rebranded, many of the key enabling technologies, behind Innovation and R&D to FY21 such as artificial intelligence, human-machine collaboration, cyber and electronic warfare, are expected to remain priorities to ensure the United States technological superiority.
Australia The Australian Government remains committed to Government committed to increase defence expenditure to providing defence with a stable and sustainable funding Continued growth in defence growth path, and the budget is on track to grow to two budgets is projected in Australia.
This is likely to result in six per cent per annum growth in its defence budget through 2020 and the replacement of the majority of its platforms over the next 15 years.
The trend in Australia 2% is for the Government to place larger contracts for of GDP whole-life programmes with strategic partners.
Many of these programmes have a significant integrated logistics support requirement, and through the purchase of RubiKon Group in January 2017, we have acquired this capability as well as a significant reference programme.
Likely growth in defence budget 6% pa through 2020
