Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 Through our business model, we fulfil our Business vision to deliver sustainable shareholder value by providing high quality environmental model infrastructure and customer services.
Our strategy is to lead in the UKs water and waste sectors, invest for sustainable growth and drive value through efficiency.
What we do... the strengths we rely on Our strengths We provide water and The best people Strong relationships wastewater services in The talent, commitment and hard work with our suppliers the most efficient and ofour people is the foundation of our We work closely with our suppliers and success.
As a responsible employer sustainable way possible take the steps necessary to ensure their weare focused on employee wellbeing, performance meets our expectations.
retention, training and development, Read more page 26 Weexpect them to uphold our productivity and, above all, an unwavering standards, align with our policies, commitment to health and safety.
protect human rights and promote good working conditions.
Effective governance Efficient financing The strength of our proposition and Strong governance framework investor confidence in our performance providesoversight and support to and reputation means that we are well Groupbusinesses including robust We transform waste funded with efficient longterm financing.
decisionmaking and performance management processes.
intoenergy, high qualityrecyclates High quality assets Well managed risk andraw materials We invest in the construction of Comprehensive and fully embedded worldclass facilities and plants that riskmanagement processes assist us Read more page 32 usestateoftheart technology.
inidentifying and managing risks and We engage the best people to opportunities to deliver the Groups maintain andoperate our fleet of assets, strategy and objectives.
to ensure we always maximise returns.
Our pillars Safety first Our people Service and value The safety of our employees, Our success comes from our We are committed to delivering customers and communities talented people doing great things exceptional service and value for comes first.
We will do everything for our customers and each other.
safely and responsibly, or not at all.
14 and our strategy to create value Long-term priorities Value created for our stakeholders We aim to lead in the water and Customers wastesectors by capitalising on Group 81.6 1 strengths, capabilities, best practice Best ever customer service Leadership in UK and synergies and achieving the right 1 score for South West Water balance between risk and reward.
water and waste Read more page 22 Investors 19% Earnings per share 2 We are focused on driving down increased to 47.0p overheads and operating in the 2 mostefficient way to minimise costs.
People Leadership in cost 130 Read more page 23 base efficiency Number of apprentices trained withinthe Group since 2011 We actively seek opportunities to invest for growth, whether through Community 3 investment to increase our asset 98.6% portfolio, initiatives to expand our Driving sustainable 141 bathing waters out of 143 3 customer base or partnerships with classified as sufficient or better growth other organisations.
Environment Read more page 23 1.6m 1 As measured by the service incentive mechanism SIM.
Tonnes of waste 2 Before non-underlying items and deferred tax.
materials recycled 3 116 beaches 81.1% classified as excellent.
Our pillars Efficiency in Progress through Sustainability everything we do innovation matters We work smart, keep things simple From the technology and science We take our responsibilities towards and invest money wisely.
we use, through to the way we the environment seriously and aim to approach what we do innovation be sustainable in everything we do.
Under the dam at Roadford Reservoir, Devon 15 Strategic report
