Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Remuneration policy Implementation of the policy Legacy arrangements The remuneration policy set out below describes the policies, The policy is essentially forward looking in nature.
In view principles and practices operated by the company for the of the long term nature of the companys remuneration remuneration of its directors.
If approved by shareholders at the structures including obligations under service contracts, annual general meeting to be held on 20 July 2017, this policy pension arrangements and incentive schemes a substantial will supersede the policy approved at the 2014 annual general number of pre-existing obligations will remain outstanding at meeting and take effect from that date and will then apply until the time that the new policy is approved, including obligations a revised remuneration policy is approved by shareholders.
that are grandfathered by virtue of being in force at The company does not expect to seek shareholder approval 27 June 2012 or which were incurred under the previous for a revised policy until the annual general meeting in 2020. remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 annual general meeting.
It is the companys policy to honour Under the current statutory regime, a company may only make in full any pre-existing obligations that have been entered a remuneration payment to a director or a payment for loss of into prior to the effective date of this policy.
office if it is either consistent with the most recently approved remuneration policy or, if not, is separately approved by Objectives shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee considers that an The key objectives of the Remuneration Committee in setting effective remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible the companys remuneration policy are as follows: to take account of future changes in the companys business environment, and in remuneration practice generally.
In framing remuneration of executive directors should be linked to the its policy, the Remuneration Committee has therefore sought companys long term performance and its business strategy to combine a level of breadth and flexibility to enable it to react performance related remuneration should seek to align the to changed circumstances without the need for a specific interests of executive directors with those of the shareholders shareholder approval, whilst at the same time incorporating a significant proportion of executive directors remuneration sufficient detail and transparency to enable shareholders to should be linked to the performance of the company and only understand how it will operate in different scenarios and feel receivable if demanding performance targets are achieved comfortable that payments made under it are justified.
remuneration packages for executive directors should be Components of remuneration where the Remuneration competitive, but not excessive, in terms of market practice, in Committee wishes to retain a level of discretion are identified order to attract, retain and motivate executive directors of the in the relevant sections of the policy.
The Remuneration quality needed to manage and grow the company successfully.
Committee may also make minor amendments to the remuneration policy to aid its operation or implementation without seeking shareholder approval, for example to take account of a change in legislation or for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes, provided that any such change is not to the material advantage of the directors.
Remuneration structure Executive directors The table below sets out Caledonias policy in relation to each component of executive director remuneration, with further explanations in the notes that follow.
Salary fixed pay Purpose and To support the recruitment and retention of executive directors of the calibre required to manage and grow the link to strategic company successfully.
The basic salaries of the executive directors on implementation of the policy will be: W P Wyatt: 524,500: S A King: 376,000: J M B Cayzer-Colvin: 317,750.
Opportunity Salary increases are normally awarded by reference to any increase in the cost of living, but may take and recovery into account other factors such as external market positioning, change in the scope of the individuals or withholding responsibilities or level of experience, development in the role and levels of pay elsewhere in the company.
provisions Year on year increases in basic salaries will not exceed inflation by more than 5%, other than in exceptional circumstances or where there is a change in role or responsibilities.
No recovery or withholding provisions.
measurement framework Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 47 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy Benefits fixed pay Purpose and To provide a range of benefits alongside basic salary to recruit and retain high calibre executive directors.
link to strategic objectives Operation Executive directors are provided with family private medical insurance cover, death-in-service insurance, and permanent health insurance and, in the case of Mr Wyatt and Mr Cayzer-Colvin, a cash allowance in lieu of a company car.
They are also entitled to receive minor benefits that are available to other Caledonia staff.
The executive directors are also covered by the companys directors and officers liability insurance policy and have the benefit of an indemnity under the companys articles of association.
Where there is a valid business reason for doing so, the company may pay for the cost of spouses or partners accompanying directors on business trips and reimburse directors for hotel accommodation and travel expenses including payment of any tax thereon.
Executive directors are also eligible to receive other minor benefits and expenses payments again including payment of any tax thereon.
Opportunity A taxable benefits package that is competitive with the marketplace.
and recovery The value of taxable benefits provided, other than ad hoc items incurred in connection with Caledonias or withholding business that may be deemed taxable benefits such as travel and other expenses, will not in aggregate exceed provisions 10% of basic salary.
measurement framework Short term incentives variable pay Purpose and To reward performance on an annual basis against key financial, operational and individual objectives.
link to strategic objectives Operation Discretionary annual bonus scheme and deferred bonus plan under which a proportion of bonus may be compulsorily deferred into shares.
Opportunity The maximum potential bonus is 100% of basic salary.
Any bonus over 50% of basic salary is compulsorily and recovery deferred into shares for a period of three years.
or withholding All bonus payments are subject to the overriding discretion of the Remuneration Committee, which also retains provisions discretion to amend the proportions of bonus subject to compulsory deferral or not to require any deferral.
In order to be entitled to an annual bonus, an executive director must normally be in the groups employment and not under notice of termination either given or received at the time the bonus is paid.
The Remuneration Committee has the right to cancel or reduce any cash bonus or deferred bonus shares granted after the effective date of this policy which have not yet been paid or vested, in the circumstances described under long term incentives below.
The Remuneration Committee also has the right to recover all or part of cash bonus paid or deferred bonus shares and dividend equivalent amounts awarded after the effective date of this policy within the two years following date of payment or vesting as applicable, in the circumstances described under long term incentives below.
Performance By reference to a combination of company performance against external benchmarks and individual measurement performance against personal objectives.
Executive directors with responsibility for pools of capital will have a framework proportion of bonus determined by reference to pool performance and objectives.
48 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Long term incentives variable pay Purpose and To motivate executive directors to deliver long term shareholder value, thereby aligning the interests of link to strategic management with those of shareholders.
objectives To encourage long term retention of key executives.
Operation Caledonia operates a performance share scheme under which participants are awarded nil-cost options over the companys shares.
The performance share scheme replaced an executive share option scheme under which market value options were awarded to senior executives.
The last awards under the executive share option scheme were made in 2010, although Mr Cayzer-Colvin retains options under this scheme which have yet to be exercised.
Prior to the effective date of this policy, under the companys deferred bonus plan, matching share awards were granted in respect of compulsory and voluntary deferral of pre-tax bonus, some of which remain outstanding.
Opportunity The maximum value of nil-cost options that may be granted in any year under the performance share scheme and recovery rules is 200% of basic salary, although the companys policy is to grant annual awards of no more than 150% of or withholding basic salary.
provisions On exercise of nil-cost options, participants will also receive an amount equivalent to the dividends and, if relevant, any associated tax credits that would have accrued on the shares during the relevant performance measurement period.
The Remuneration Committee has the right, in respect of awards granted after 1 April 2014, to cancel or reduce long term incentive awards which have not yet vested, in the event of a material misstatement of the companys financial results, miscalculation of a participants entitlement, individual misconduct or an event resulting in material loss or reputational damage to the company or any member of the group.
The Remuneration Committee also has the right, in respect of awards granted after the effective date of this policy, to recover all or part of the value of long term incentive awards and dividend equivalent amounts received within two years of the date that such awards vested and became exercisable, in the event of a material miscalculation of a participants entitlement, a material misstatement or restatement of the companys financial results for the years to which the performance periods relate, or material personal misconduct that would justify summary dismissal, or result in significant reputational damage to the company, or have a material adverse effect on the companys financial position, or reflect a significant failure of the companys risk management or control.
In the event of a change of control before the expiry of the performance measurement period of a long term incentive award, the vesting level of the award will be determined by the Remuneration Committee based on the extent to which the Remuneration Committee considers that the performance targets have been achieved and vested shares will then be scaled down to reflect the shortened measurement period.
The Remuneration Committee may modify such vesting levels if it considers that the performance target would be met to a greater or lesser degree at the testing date and or if the application of time pro rating would be inappropriate in the circumstances.
Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 49 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy Performance For executive directors who are not directly responsible for a pool of capital, nil-cost options awarded under the measurement 2011 performance share scheme are subject to the performance of the companys annualised diluted net asset framework value per share total return NAVTR measured over three or five years.
For executive directors directly responsible for a pool of capital, the nil-cost options are subject to a combination of the performance of the companys annualised NAVTR as above and the annualised total returns achieved by the relevant pool for which he or she is responsible, again measured over three or five years.
Outstanding nil-cost options awarded in the 2014 financial year are subject to the performance of NAVTR relative to the FTSE All-Share Total Return index.
Matching share awards previously granted under the deferred bonus plan and which are still in their performance measurement period are subject to the performance of the companys annualised NAVTR, measured over three years.
The rules of each scheme provide discretion to the Remuneration Committee to amend the performance targets or impose different performance targets and to determine the appropriate proportion of any award subject to each performance measure.
The performance targets for all outstanding options granted under the companys executive share option scheme have been met.
Pension related benefits fixed pay Purpose and To provide a means of retirement saving as part of a range of benefits alongside basic salary to recruit and link to strategic retain high calibre executive directors.
objectives Operation Executive directors are offered defined contribution funding, based on a percentage of salary, to a personal pension scheme or a cash salary supplement or a combination of both at their choice.
Opportunity The percentage of basic salary for the Chief Executive is 22.5% and for other executive directors 17.5%.
If a and recovery or director chooses to take a cash supplement in lieu of some or all of his or her pension entitlement, the payment withholding is reduced by such amount as is necessary to make the cash supplement cost neutral for the company after provisions taking into account National Insurance contributions.
The Remuneration Committee will retain the discretion to increase the percentage of salary relating to pension benefits from time to time in line with market conditions, up to a maximum of 30% of basic salary.
Performance measures and targets Compulsory deferral of bonus Annual bonus Shares comprised in a compulsory deferral will normally only vest if the director F or the Chief Executive and the Finance Director, a maximum of 50% of bonus is remains an employee of the Caledonia group for a three year period commencing determined by reference to company performance and 50% by reference to on the first day of the financial year in which the award is made.
For executive directors responsible for a Long term incentive plans specific pool of capital, 25% of bonus is determined by reference to the Performance share scheme companys performance, 25% to pool performance, 35% to pool objectives and Outstanding nil-cost options granted prior to the 2014 financial year have all met 15% to individual performance objectives.
In all cases, the company performance their performance targets.
element is determined by reference to the relative performance of the companys For nil-cost options granted in the 2014 financial year, one-half of the shares NAVTR against RPI, with RPI taken as the higher of actual RPI over the bonus year comprised in an award were subject to a performance condition which compared or 3%, being broadly in line with its historic long term average.
Bonus payments the performance of Caledonias NAVTR against the FTSE Actuaries UK for this element commence with a 10% pay-out if NAVTR matches RPI, increasing Index-linked Gilts all stocks Total Return index Gilts index over three years.
incrementally to the maximum entitlement payable if outperformance of 7% or For the other half, NAVTR is measured against the FTSE All-Share Total Return more is achieved.
Pool performance is judged by the Remuneration Committee index FTSE index, over five years.
Awards vest on a graduated basis, with 10% by reference to the return achieved by the pool against a set target return and by vesting on 0.5% outperformance of the relevant benchmark, rising on a straight objectives such as deal flow and delivery of portfolio strategy.
Individual line basis to maximum vesting on 3.5% outperformance.
There is no re-testing of performance is assessed by reference to personal objectives set at the start of either performance target and, to the extent a performance target is not met, the the year, including non-financial measures such as risk management, marketing of relevant award lapses.
For the purpose of calculating the performance measures, the company, team leadership, management skills and promotion of Caledonias averages of the companys NAVTR and the two benchmark indices over the three corporate culture and image both internally and externally.
months prior to the start and end of the performance period are used to reduce T he Remuneration Committee retains discretion to amend or adopt alternative volatility.
To the extent that the performance targets are met, awards may be annual bonus targets in order to achieve better alignment with the companys exercised between the date of vesting and the tenth anniversary of the date of strategic objectives.
Those nil-cost options measured against the Gilts index were tested by reference to Caledonias NAVTR performance for the three years to 31 March 2016 and achieved maximum vesting.
50 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information For nil-cost options granted to Mr Wyatt and Mr King in the 2015 financial year For awards under the performance share scheme and relevant matching shares and subsequently, awards will vest on a graduated basis, with vesting under the deferred bonus plan, the Remuneration Committee has chosen commencing at 10% on the achievement of an annualised NAVTR of 3%, rising Caledonias annualised NAVTR as the performance measurement, as it believes incrementally to 100% vesting on achievement of an annualised NAVTR of 10%, that this is the most effective method of aligning directors rewards with the long measured over three and five years.
For Mr Cayzer-Colvin, who is head of the term strategic objective of the company of delivering annualised returns over Funds pool, 60% of his performance share scheme awards will be measured rolling ten year periods of between RPI 3% and RPI 6%.
For Mr Cayzer-Colvin, against the annualised total returns achieved by the Funds pool, measured over the Remuneration Committee believes that a significant proportion of his three and five years.
Awards will similarly vest on a graduated basis, with vesting variable pay should be weighted towards the annualised total return commencing at 10% on achievement of an annualised Funds pool total return of performance of the Funds pool of capital for which he is responsible and has 6%, rising incrementally to 100% vesting on achievement of an annualised total therefore determined that 60% of his performance share scheme awards should return of 13.5%.
The remaining 40% of Mr Cayzer-Colvins performance share be tested by reference to this.
scheme awards will be measured against Caledonias annualised NAVTR as above.
The targets for each component of the long term incentive plans have been set by the Remuneration Committee with the aim of delivering increasing reward for For nil-cost options granted in the 2015 financial year, one-half of the shares comprised in the awards will be measured over three years and the other half greater outperformance.
The Remuneration Committee keeps these measures and the levels at which incremental and maximum entitlements are earned under over five years.
For the 2016 and subsequent financial years, one-third will be measured over three years and two-thirds over five years.
In all cases, shares review in order to ensure that they remain sufficiently challenging and aligned with the companys strategy and key performance indicators.
that vest will become immediately exercisable and will lapse if not exercised within ten years of grant.
The nil-cost options granted in the 2015 financial year 2.
New components introduced into the new remuneration policy which were measured over three years were tested by reference to Caledonias There are no new components included in the above policy table which were annualised NAVTR and, in the case of Mr Cayzer-Colvin, also the Funds pools not a part of the remuneration policy previously operated for executive directors annualised total return, to 31 March 2017, achieved maximum vesting.
Deferred bonus plan matching awards 3.
Changes to components included in the previous remuneration policy Matching awards granted prior to the 2016 financial year have all been The only changes to the previous remuneration policy are the removal of performance tested.
Matching awards granted in the 2016 financial year are the availability of voluntary bonus deferral and the award of deferred bonus subject to performance measurement by reference to Caledonias annualised matching shares, an increase in the standard annual award under the performance NAVTR over three years, with vesting commencing at 20% on achievement of an share scheme from 125% of basic salary to 150% to compensate for the removal annualised NAVTR of 4%, rising incrementally to 100% vesting on achievement of of deferred bonus matching and the introduction of clawback provisions for all an annualised NAVTR of 10%.
Shares that vest can be called immediately elements of variable pay.
following the end of the performance measurement period and will lapse if not 4.
How the remuneration policy for executive directors relates to remuneration called within twelve months thereafter.
of Caledonia group employees generally Rationale for choice of performance measures for the short and long term Caledonias executive directors remuneration packages tend to be higher than incentive plans those of other group employees, but also include a higher proportion of variable pay.
The Remuneration Committee has chosen NAVTR as the basis of performance measurement for the company for both its short term and long term incentive arrangements as it regards this as the best indicator of the success or failure of management decisions in terms of creating value for the company.
For the company performance element of the annual bonus scheme, the board has taken the view that benchmarking against a stock market index or indices over a short period is not relevant given Caledonias long term investment horizon and the nature of its portfolio.
The Remuneration Committee has therefore instead chosen RPI, subject to a minimum of 3%, as the comparator, as on this basis executives will only be rewarded to the extent that they are able to deliver positive real returns for shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee will review the rate of increase in RPI at the start of each financial year and may adjust the level of outperformance required for the incremental and maximum bonus payments in order to ensure that they remain a fair measure of performance.
Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 51 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy Chairman and non-executive directors The table below sets out each component of the Chairmans and the non-executive directors remuneration and the approach taken by the company in relation thereto.
Component Approach Chairmans and The Chairmans fee is determined by the Remuneration Committee and the non-executive directors fees non-executive are set by the board.
These are reviewed periodically taking into account the responsibilities and time directors fees commitments required and non-executive director fee levels generally.
The Chairman receives an annual fee, which includes his basic non-executive directors fee, but does not receive any other remuneration.
Non-executive directors receive basic fees, which are subject to an aggregate annual limit for non-executive directors ordinary remuneration contained in the articles of association, currently 350,000.
In addition, special fees are paid for the chairmanship and membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and also for the role of Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and chairman of the Governance Committee.
The fees of the Chairman and the non-executive directors on implementation of the policy will be as follows: Chairman 150,000 Basic non-executive directors fee 39,900 Audit Committee chairman 5,600 Audit Committee member 2,300 Remuneration Committee chairman 4,900 Remuneration Committee member 1,600 Senior Independent Director Governance Committee chairman 5,100 Additional fees Exceptionally, non-executive directors may receive fees from subsidiary companies for services provided to payable for them.
Fees for services provided to subsidiary companies are set and reviewed by the boards of those services to other companies, but will not exceed 100,000 per annum in aggregate for any non-executive director.
group companies Other benefits The Chairman and the non-executive directors are all covered under the companys directors and officers liability insurance policy and have the benefit of an indemnity under the companys articles of association.
The Chairman is also provided with an office and secretarial support.
The company may, where appropriate, pay for the cost of spouses or partners accompanying non-executive directors on trips where there is a business reason for doing so and reimburse non-executive directors for hotel accommodation and travel expenses in each case including payment of any tax thereon.
Remuneration policy for new appointments The Remuneration Committee may in addition make bonus commitments or share awards on the appointment of an Executive directors external candidate to compensate for remuneration In the case of the appointment of a new executive director, arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer, the Remuneration Committee would typically seek to align taking into account factors such as any performance conditions the remuneration package with the above remuneration policy.
attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted, The Remuneration Committee however retains the discretion for example cash or shares, and the time over which they would to make special remuneration commitments on the have vested.
The aim would be to ensure that replacement appointment of a new executive director, including the use of awards would be made on no greater than a comparable basis.
2 of the Listing Rules, if such were necessary to ensure the recruitment of a candidate.
In doing so, In order to attract and retain suitable executives, the the Remuneration Committee would take into consideration all Remuneration Committee retains discretion, in exceptional relevant factors, including, but not limited to, overall quantum, circumstances, to offer service contracts with up to an initial type of remuneration offered and comparability with the 24 month notice period, which then reduces to 12 months at packages of other Caledonia senior executives and the total the end of this initial period.
If it considers it appropriate, the variable pay would not exceed the maxima stated in the policy Remuneration Committee may also offer a lower salary initially, table for executive director remuneration above.
but with a series of increases to achieve the desired salary positioning over a period of time, as the individual develops into the role.
52 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information If a new appointment is the result of an internal promotion, payment relates.
Mr Wyatts and Mr Cayzer-Colvins service the Remuneration Committee would expect to honour any contracts provide that an amount equivalent to 80% of the pre-existing contractual arrangements or benefits package average of the annual bonuses paid for the previous three agreed with the relevant individual.
In the event that a new financial years would also be included in the payment in lieu of director resides overseas, the Remuneration Committee may notice.
Mr Wyatts and Mr Cayzer-Colvins service contracts also agree a reasonable relocation package and tax equalisation include provisions whereby a liquidated sum is payable in the arrangements.
event of termination within one year following a change of control.
The payment would be calculated on the same basis as In recruiting any new executive director, the Remuneration a payment in lieu of notice, except that an amount equivalent to Committee would apply the overall policy objective that 100% of the average of the annual bonuses paid for the previous executive directors remuneration should be competitive, but three financial years would be included.
In the event that the Remuneration Committee agreed that it was necessary for special commitments or Mr Kings service contract contains provisions whereby, as sign-on arrangements to be offered to secure the recruitment an alternative to the payment of a lump sum in lieu of notice, of a new executive director, an explanation of why these were the company may elect to pay the equivalent amount in equal required and details thereof would be announced at the time monthly instalments, such instalments to be reduced by 50% of of appointment.
one-twelfth of the basic salary in excess of 20,000 per annum that Mr King receives from any alternative employment that he Chairman and non-executive directors takes up during the notice period.
Terms for the appointment of any new Chairman or nonexecutive director would also be determined by the Executive directors service contracts may be terminated Remuneration Committee or the board within the above without notice and without any further payment other than remuneration policy.
in respect of amounts due at the date of termination on the occurrence of certain events such as gross misconduct.
Executive directors service contracts and the Chairman and non-executive directors Chairmans and non-executive directors letters The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not of appointment have service contracts, but are appointed under letters of Executive directors appointment, which provide for termination without notice Executive directors have service contracts with Caledonia or compensation.
Group Services Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, Inspection details of which are summarised below: Executive directors service contracts and the Chairmans and Notice period non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for company Unexpired for inspection at the registered office of the company.
Date of contract and director term W P Wyatt 2 Jun 2005 12 months 12 months S A King 19 Nov 2009 12 months 12 months Policy on external non-executive directorships held J M B Cayzer-Colvin 19 Apr 2005 12 months 12 months by executive directors It is the companys policy to allow executive directors to hold If notice is served by either party, the director can continue to non-executive directorships unrelated to the companys receive basic salary, benefits and pension payments for the business to broaden their commercial experience, provided duration of the notice period, during which time the company that the time required is not material.
Normally the company may require the individual to continue to fulfil his current duties will retain any fees arising from such non-executive directorships, or may assign a period of gardening leave.
Alternatively, the but may permit the executive director to retain fees on a case company may, in its discretion, terminate the contract without by case basis.
notice and make a lump sum payment in lieu of notice.
This lump sum would include an amount equivalent to the basic salary and Details of any fees from external non-executive directorships benefits based on a fixed percentage of salary specified in the retained by executive directors are disclosed in the Annual service contract for the unexpired period of notice to which the report on directors remuneration.
Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 53 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy Illustration of the application of the remuneration policy for executive directors The charts below provide an indication of the total pay of the executive directors in the first year of operation of the remuneration policy under three assumed performance scenarios: minimum receivable this assumes that the director receives fixed components of pay only and nothing in respect of annual bonus or long term incentives receivable for target performance this assumes that, in addition to fixed pay, there is a pay-out of 50% of basic salary for annual bonus and 50% vesting for performance share scheme awards maximum receivable this assumes that, in addition to fixed pay, there is a maximum bonus of 100% basic salary and 100% vesting of performance share scheme awards.
Fixed pay comprises basic salary and pension related benefits, based on basic salary for the financial year ending 31 March 2018 and other taxable benefits taken from the table of total emoluments paid to directors for the 2017 financial year included in the Annual report on directors remuneration.
Annual bonus based on basic salary for the year ending 31 March 2018.
Long term awards for target performance and maximum receivable, an initial grant of 150% of basic salary for the year ending 31 March 2018 under the performance share scheme is assumed, as this is the policy maximum set by the Remuneration Committee, notwithstanding that the maximum permitted under the scheme rules is 200%.
No share price growth is assumed for shares vesting under the performance share scheme, nor are any dividend equivalents that might accrue on share awards included.
Policy on payments for loss of office The termination provisions in executive directors current service contracts are described above in the section on Executive directors executive directors service contracts.
It is the Remuneration It is the policy of the company that, other than in exceptional Committees intention that all future executive directors circumstances on recruitment as stated above, no executive service contracts should include provisions enabling the director should be offered a service contract that requires company to reduce compensation payments in the event that more than one years notice of termination or which contains the director takes up alternative employment within the notice provision for predetermined compensation in excess of one period.
However, if a new director is appointed internally, the years total emoluments.
In the event of a termination, the Remuneration Committee would expect to honour any existing Remuneration Committee will consider a directors past contractual arrangements agreed with the relevant individual performance and the circumstances of the departure in before he or she becomes a director.
exercising any discretions relating to the arrangements for loss of office, including contractual obligations, prevailing In applying the companys right to make a lump sum payment best practice, the reason for the departure and any transition in lieu of notice, the Remuneration Committee would normally or handover required.
expect to pro rate the lump sum for the unexpired period of notice to which the payment relates.
In appropriate circumstances, the Remuneration Committee may make a payment in respect of the full twelve months notice period, even if the director works under notice for part of it.
54 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information The companys annual bonus scheme provides that an Chairman and non-executive directors employee must be in the groups employment and not under The Chairman and the non-executive directors have no notice of termination either given or received in order to be entitlement to any compensation on termination of their entitled to receive a bonus for the relevant financial year.
The appointments, although they would have the benefit of run-off Remuneration Committee would expect to apply this principle cover under the directors and officers liability insurance policy to executive director terminations, but retains discretion to as described above.
make bonus payments on termination if it believes it appropriate to do so.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the group Executive directors would also be entitled under their service contracts to be paid on termination for any accrued, but In setting the policy for directors remuneration, the untaken, holiday entitlement.
The Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee considered pay and employment may, where it considers it appropriate in the circumstances, conditions of other employees within the group.
The make payments for loss of statutory rights or waiver thereof Remuneration Committee does not however seek to apply any and a contribution towards legal and outplacement fees.
The metrics between pay levels of different roles within the group as Remuneration Committee may also make a payment to ensure this would restrict flexibility in aligning reward and performance and potentially could hinder the recruitment and retention of that any restrictive covenants remain enforceable.
Executive directors remuneration Where the director holds unvested awards under the packages are however benchmarked with other senior companys long term incentive schemes, the Remuneration investment executives, who participate in the same annual Committee would exercise its discretions as to vesting in bonus and long term incentive plans.
Given the parity of these accordance with the relevant scheme rules.
In good leaver remuneration arrangements, the Remuneration Committee did circumstances, for example where cessation of employment not feel it necessary to conduct any formal consultation with is by reason of death, retirement, injury, disability, ill-health, employees, although views expressed by senior executives were redundancy, or such other reason as the Remuneration shared with Remuneration Committee members.
Committee may decide, the Remuneration Committee will normally determine the level of vesting based on the Statement of consideration of shareholder views attainment of the performance targets, either at the time of Prior to the finalisation of this policy, the Remuneration cessation or at the normal test date if permitted by the scheme rules, but in the case of the former may decrease or increase Committee consulted a number of the companys larger shareholders and certain institutional shareholder the level of vesting if the Remuneration Committee considers that the targets would have been met to a lesser or greater representative bodies through written correspondence and a telephone conference call.
No changes to the remuneration extent at the end of the performance period.
The number of shares that vest will normally be reduced to reflect the policy were requested as a result of the consultation.
proportion of the performance period that the director was More generally, the Remuneration Committee receives copies in employment, although the Remuneration Committee has of any correspondence from shareholders relating to discretion not to scale down the number of shares if it believes remuneration matters and the companys annual general it appropriate in the circumstances.
meeting provides shareholders with the opportunity to ask Following termination, the Remuneration Committee questions about directors remuneration.
may agree to pay a director consultancy fees and continue insurance related benefits until the end of the insurance policy period.
The companys directors and officers liability insurance policy also provides for a six year period of run-off cover for former directors.
In limited circumstances, the company may permit a director to remain in employment after ceasing to be a director for a limited period to allow time for an effective handover or for a successor to be appointed.
Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 55 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on directors remuneration The following report sets out details and explanations of remuneration paid to directors over the financial year to 31 March 2017 and describes how Caledonias remuneration policy will be implemented for the 2018 financial year.
Single total figure of remuneration for each director audited Executive directors The table below provides an analysis of total remuneration of each executive director for the financial year ended 31 March 2017 and a comparison with the previous financial year.
Taxable benefits The companys NAVTR was 18.0% over the year, therefore achieving a maximum Taxable benefits comprised private medical insurance cover and a small pay-out.
The Funds pools return over the year was 23.1%, well above the Christmas supplement paid to all Caledonia staff.
Mr Wyatts and Mr Cayzermaximum payment trigger of 13.5% and therefore a maximum bonus was Colvins taxable benefits also included a cash allowance of 15,024 in lieu of awarded to Mr Cayzer-Colvin for this element.
In view of the significant progress a company car.
made by the Funds pool in developing the private equity fund strategy and deploying capital with chosen managers in both Asia and the US, the I n addition to taxable benefits, other non-taxable benefits were provided Remuneration Committee awarded Mr Cayzer-Colvin the maximum of 35% for to executive directors, including death-in-service insurance 4x basic salary, attainment of his pool objectives.
Based on an assessment of their individual permanent health insurance, directors and officers liability insurance and performance objectives over the year, the Remuneration Committee awarded Mr certain other benefits of minor value provided to all of Caledonias staff.
Cayzer-Colvin his maximum bonus for that component of 15% and Mr Wyatt and 2.
Short term incentives Mr King also their maximum of 50%.
In accordance with the rules of the companys deferred bonus plan, the following The total bonuses awarded to Mr Wyatt, Mr King and Mr Cayzer-Colvin for the amounts included in the total of short term incentives were compulsorily deferred, year were therefore determined as follows: to be satisfied by share awards made shortly after the approval of the new remuneration policy: W P Wyatt S A King J M B Cayzer-Colvin 2017 2016 Award Max Award Max Award Max % % % % % % CompCompulsorily ulsorily Performance deferred Cash Total deferred Cash Total Company 50 50 50 50 25 25 000 000 000 000 000 000 Pool n a n a n a n a 25 25 W P Wyatt 255 256 511 230 230 Objectives S A King 183 184 367 164 164 Pool n a n a n a n a 35 35 J M B Cayzer-Colvin 155 155 310 148 148 Individual 50 50 50 50 15 15 F or Mr Wyatt and Mr King, a maximum of 50% of bonus was determined Total 100 100 100 100 100 100 by reference to company performance and 50% by reference to individual 3.
Long term incentives performance objectives.
For Mr Cayzer-Colvin, who has specific responsibility for the Funds pool of capital, 25% of his bonus was determined by reference to The long term incentive awards whose performance measurement period ended during the year were all of the matching share awards granted in 2014 under the the companys performance, 25% to his pools performance, 35% to his pools objectives and 15% to individual performance objectives.
For the 2017 financial companys deferred bonus plan and half of the awards granted in that year under the performance share scheme.
The vesting of the awards under the deferred year, the company performance element was determined by reference to the relative performance of the companys NAV per share total return NAVTR bonus plan was dependent on the performance of the companys NAVTR over the three financial years ended 31 March 2017 measured against two separate against the Retail Prices Index RPI, which for bonus purposes was taken as 3%, or actual RPI if greater, with bonus payments for this element commencing with a performance benchmarks.
For two-thirds of the shares comprised in an award, Caledonias NAVTR was measured against the FTSE All-Share Total Return index 10% pay-out if the companys NAVTR matched RPI, increasing incrementally to the maximum entitlement payable if outperformance of 7% or more was FTSE index and for the remaining one-third against the FTSE Actuaries UK Index-linked Gilts all stocks Total Return index Gilts index.
Mr Cayzer-Colvins pool performance was assessed by reference to the return achieved by the Funds pool over the year, with payments commencing on vesting was on a graduated basis, with 10% vesting on achievement of 0.5% outperformance of the relevant benchmark index, rising on a straight line basis to achievement of a total return of 6%, rising to a maximum pay-out against a total return of 13.5%, and pool objectives, by measures such as increasing Caledonias 100% vesting on 3.5% outperformance of the relevant index.
For the purpose of calculating the performance measures, averages of the figures for the companys knowledge of the Asian and US fund universe, raising the companys profile with target fund managers and further development of portfolio strategy.
Individual NAVTR and the two benchmark indices published over the three months prior to the start and end of the performance period were used to reduce volatility.
performance for each executive director was assessed by reference to personal objectives set at the start of the year, including non-financial measures such as risk management, marketing of the company, team leadership, management skills and promotion of Caledonias corporate culture and image both internally and externally.
56 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Under the performance share scheme, for Mr Wyatt and Mr King half of the Chairman and non-executive directors shares comprised in the awards granted in 2014 were to be measured by reference to Caledonias annualised NAVTR performance over three years and Fees and other remuneration paid to the Chairman and the half on the same basis over five years.
In each case, vesting would be on a non-executive directors during the year ended 31 March 2017 graduated basis, commencing at 10% on achievement of an annualised NAVTR of 3%, rising incrementally to 100% vesting on an annualised NAVTR of 10%.
For and the previous year were as follows: Mr Cayzer-Colvin, 40% of his 2014 performance share scheme awards were to be measured against Caledonias annualised NAVTR as above, and 60% by reference Fees to the annualised total return achieved by the Funds pool, with graduated vesting 2017 2016 commencing at 10% on achievement of an annualised total return of 6% rising 000 000 incrementally to 100% vesting on achievement of an annualised total return of 13.5%.
Again, half of his 2014 award was to be measured over three years and R D Kent 185 185 half over five years.
1 H Y H Bol For the 2014 deferred bonus matching share awards, the companys NAVTR 2 S J Bridges 46 46 increased by 41.5% over the three year performance period, compared with increases of 22.5% for the FTSE index and 43.2% for the Gilts index.
Accordingly, the 3 Hon C W Cayzer 100 100 two-thirds of the 2014 deferred bonus scheme matching share awards measured by C H Gregson 50 50 reference to the FTSE index vested in full, whereas none of the one-third measured by reference to the Gilts index vested and therefore lapsed in their entirety.
4 S C R Jemmett-Page 42 31 For the half of the 2014 performance share scheme awards measured over the D C Stewart 44 44 three years to 31 March 2017, Caledonias annualised NAVTR over the period was 11.4%, resulting in maximum vesting.
For Mr Cayzer-Colvins awards measured by 1.
Mr Bol has waived his entitlement to all fees arising from his appointment.
reference to his pools performance, the Funds pool delivered an annualised total 2.
Mr Bridges non-executive directors fees in 2016 were paid to Hiscox Group return of 23.7% over the period, also therefore resulting in maximum vesting.
Underwriting Services Ltd until his employment with Hiscox terminated on The amounts shown in the table above under long term incentives therefore 31 August 2015. comprised the value of the vested deferred bonus plan matching awards and 3.
The Hon C W Cayzers fees for 2017 and 2016 included 60,000 paid by the vested performance share scheme awards granted in 2014, based on the a subsidiary in respect of his services as Chairman of The Sloane Club.
companys share price at 31 March 2017 of 2750p, together with the value of dividends and any associated tax credits that would have accrued on the vested 4.
Mrs Jemmett-Page was appointed a director on 1 July 2015. shares during the relevant retention periods and also the value of dividend equivalents that would have accrued on the compulsory deferred bonus plan awards granted in 2014, that gave rise to the matching share awards.
These are Total pension entitlements audited analysed as follows: Value of long term Value of dividend Defined contribution incentive awards equivalents Total Pension benefits paid to executive directors during the year, 000 000 000 W P Wyatt 587 69 656 either as contributions to personal pension arrangements or S A King 416 49 465 as cash supplements, were as follows: J M B Cayzer-Colvin 352 41 393 Pension Cash contribution supplement Total 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 W P Wyatt 101,141 101,141 101,141 101,141 S A King 56,377 55,819 56,377 55,819 J M B Cayzer-Colvin 26,310 47,671 24,071 47,671 50,381 Defined benefit The Hon C W Cayzer is provided with benefits in the Caledonia Pension Scheme, a final salary defined benefit pension scheme.
He ceased to be an active member of the scheme in December 2012 and therefore has not accrued any further benefits in addition to those already accrued since then, nor have any contributions been made on his behalf into the scheme.
The increase in pension accrued over the year was due to a further year of deferral revaluation.
The Hon C W Cayzer reached normal retirement age of 60 on 26 April 2017, at which point he began drawing his pension benefits.
Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 57 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on directors remuneration 1.
The accrued pensions shown in rows a and b represented the deferred pension Details of The Hon C W Cayzers accrued pension benefits were that would be paid at normal retirement age, before any potential taxation and as follows: ignoring any revaluation from the date shown to normal retirement age.
The transfer values shown in rows d and e were the present values of the Row accrued pension revalued to normal retirement age and associated benefits at ref the relevant date.
Transfer values were calculated using the transfer value basis Accrued pension at 31 March 2017 a 198,055 as determi ned by the trustees of the Caledonia Pension Scheme, which reflected market conditions at the relevant date.
The change in transfer value over the year shown in row f calculated as row d Increase in accrued pension during the year c 7,287 less row e, also reflected the impact on transfer values of factors beyond the control of the company and the directors, such as movements in financial Transfer value at 31 March 2017 d 4,200,406 markets.
These changes can cause transfer values at different points in time to Transfer value at 31 March 2016 e 3,840,816 fluctuate significantly.
Disclosed changes in transfer values may therefore be subject to a large degree of volatility and may even be negative.
In particular, the Change in transfer value over the year f 359,590 Caledonia Pension Schemes transfer value assumptions have been updated to allow for changes in market conditions.
The Hon C W Cayzer began drawing his pension on 26 April 2017.
Scheme interests awarded during the financial year audited The table below sets out the awards made to each executive director during the year under the companys performance share scheme.
No share awards were made during the year under the deferred bonus plan.
Receivable if minimum Face value Share Shares performance End of 2 of award price comprised achieved performance 1 Scheme Type of award Basis of award 000 at grant in award % period W P Wyatt Performance Share Scheme Nil-cost option 125% of salary 639 2422p 26,401 10 31.03.21 S A King Performance Share Scheme Nil-cost option 125% of salary 458 2422p 18,921 10 31.03.21 J M B Cayzer-Colvin Performance Share Scheme Nil-cost option 125% of salary 387 2422p 15,999 10 31.03.21 1.
The number of shares comprised in the awards under the performance share scheme was determined by reference to the companys share price at the time that the awards were made.
The performance targets for awards under the performance share scheme are set out under the statement of directors share scheme interests below.
External directorships Statement of directors shareholdings and scheme interests audited The table below sets out details of external directorships held by executive directors where it had been agreed that they Executive directors minimum shareholding guidelines could retain the fees arising therefrom.
In order to align the interests of executive directors with those of shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has adopted Fees guidelines for minimum shareholdings, which executive directors 2017 2016 Name Position 000 000 will be expected to attain through the retention of all post-tax S A King Non-executive director, share awards vesting under the companys long term incentive TT Electronics plc 50 48 plans until the minimum shareholding is met.
For these purposes, J M B CayzerNon-executive Chairman, The shareholdings include those of connected persons and also the Colvin Henderson Smaller Companies value, net of any exercise costs, income tax and National Investment Trust plc 34 33 Insurance contributions, of unexercised options granted under the companys executive share option scheme and awards granted under its performance share scheme for which the Payments to past directors audited performance targets have been met.
Also included are bonuses There were no payments made to former directors during the year.
deferred, compulsorily or voluntarily, under the companys deferred bonus plan and any uncalled bonus matching shares Payments for loss of office audited for which the performance targets have been met, again net There were no payments for loss of office made during the year of income tax and National Insurance contributions.
to any director or former director.
58 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: NEW P58-60.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information For the Chief Executive, the minimum guideline shareholding Directors shareholdings has been set at 200% of basic salary and for other executive The interests of the directors who served during the year and directors 150% of basic salary.
All of the executive directors their connected persons in the ordinary share capital of the have attained the minimum guideline shareholding as at company as at 31 March 2017 were as follows: 31 March 2017.
The values of the relevant shareholdings of each Beneficial Non-beneficial executive director as at 31 March 2017, calculated by reference 2017 2016 2017 2016 No No No No to Caledonias closing share price on that date of 2750p, and the R D Kent 10,000 10,000 percentage level by which the value of the minimum guideline 1 W P Wyatt 1,107,785 1,083,654 28,418 28,418 shareholding has been achieved were as follows: S A King 32,299 15,889 Value of Attainment 1 J M B Cayzer-Colvin 374,320 374,320 65,953 65,953 shareholding of guideline m % H Y H Bol W P Wyatt 31.3 2,986 S J Bridges 5,309 5,222 1 S A King 1.5 265 Hon C W Cayzer 40,092 40,092 12,500 14,500 J M B Cayzer-Colvin 11.0 2,318 C H Gregson 1,610 610 S C R Jemmett-Page 1,000 D C Stewart 4,072 4,072 1.
Mr Wyatts beneficial interests included 972,066 shares 2016 972,066 shares held by The Dunchurch Lodge Stud Company, a private family company controlled by Mr Wyatt and certain of his connected persons, and his non-beneficial interests included 12,500 shares 2016 12,500 shares in which The Hon C W Cayzer also held a non-beneficial interest.
The Hon C W Cayzers beneficial interests included 4,200 shares 2016 4,200 shares in which Mr Wyatt and Mr Cayzer-Colvin had non-beneficial interests.
There have been no changes in the directors interests shown above notified up to the date of this report.
Directors share scheme interests The interests of directors as at 31 March 2017 in the share-based incentive schemes operated by the company are set out in the following table.
Unvested Unvested Share price with without Vested at date of performance performance but 1 2 3 award conditions conditions unexercised Total W P Wyatt Performance share scheme awards Granted 28.05.12 nil-cost 1267p 15,776 15,776 Granted 12.06.13 nil-cost 1802p 17,137 17,137 Granted 27.11.14 nil-cost 2294p 13,799 13,799 27,598 Granted 26.06.15 nil-cost 2435p 26,260 26,260 Granted 26.05.16 nil-cost 2422p 26,401 26,401 83,597 29,575 113,172 Deferred bonus plan compulsory awards Granted 06.06.14 nil-cost 2186p 11,302 11,302 Granted 26.06.15 nil-cost 2435p 10,400 10,400 10,400 11,302 21,702 Deferred bonus plan matching awards Granted 06.06.14 nil-cost 2186p 7,535 7,535 Granted 26.06.15 nil-cost 2435p 10,400 10,400 10,400 7,535 17,935 Total share scheme interests 93,997 39,975 18,837 152,809 During the year, Mr Wyatt exercised executive share options, performance share scheme awards and deferred bonus plan awards over a total of 56,465 shares at a pre-tax gain of 1,166,093.
Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 59 PDF Page: NEW P58-60.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on directors remuneration Unvested Unvested Share price with without Vested at date of performance performance but 1 2 3 award conditions conditions unexercised Total S A King Performance share scheme awards Granted 28.05.12 nil-cost 1267p 11,194 11,194 Granted 12.06.13 nil-cost 1802p 12,160 12,160 Granted 27.11.14 nil-cost 2294p 9,791 9,791 19,582 Granted 26.06.15 nil-cost 2435p 18,633 18,633 Granted 26.05.16 nil-cost 2422p 18,921 18,921 59,505 20,985 80,490 Deferred bonus plan compulsory awards Granted 06.06.14 nil-cost 2186p 8,019 8,019 Granted 26.06.15 nil-cost 2435p 7,379 7,379 7,379 8,019 15,398 Deferred bonus plan matching awards Granted 06.06.14 nil-cost 2186p 5,346 5,346 Granted 26.06.15 nil-cost 2435p 7,379 7,379 7,379 5,346 12,725 Total share scheme interests 66,884 28,364 13,365 108,613 During the year, Mr King exercised performance share scheme and deferred bonus plan awards over 31,048 shares at a pre-tax gain of 742,006.
Unvested Unvested Share price with without Vested at date of performance performance but 1 2 3 award conditions conditions unexercised Total J M B Cayzer-Colvin Executive share options Granted 29.05.09 exercise price: 1446p 1446p 12,707 12,707 12,707 12,707 Performance share scheme awards Granted 28.05.12 nil-cost 1267p 9,466 9,466 Granted 12.06.13 nil-cost 1802p 10,282 10,283 20,565 Granted 27.11.14 nil-cost 2294p 8,279 8,279 16,558 Granted 26.06.15 nil-cost 2435p 15,756 15,756 Granted 26.05.16 nil-cost 2422p 15,999 15,999 50,316 17,745 10,283 78,344 Deferred bonus plan compulsory awards Granted 06.06.14 nil-cost 2186p 6,781 6,781 Granted 26.06.15 nil-cost 2435p 6,240 6,240 6,240 6,781 13,021 Deferred bonus plan matching awards Granted 06.06.14 nil-cost 2186p 4,521 4,521 Granted 26.06.15 nil-cost 2435p 6,240 6,240 6,240 4,521 10,761 Total share scheme interests 56,556 23,985 34,292 114,833 During the year, Mr Cayzer-Colvin exercised deferred bonus plan awards over a total of 15,972 shares at a pre-tax gain of 382,210.
60 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc PDF Page: NEW P58-60.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information 1.
Performance conditions Performance graph of total shareholder return and Performance share scheme table of Chief Executives total remuneration Nil-cost options awarded under the performance share scheme on 28 May 2012 have met their performance targets.
The graph below shows the companys total shareholder return Half of the nil-cost options granted on 12 June 2013 have met their performance targets.
The other half are subject to a target related to the companys NAVTR TSR against that of the FTSE All-Share Total Return index for performance against the FTSE index measured over five years.
Awards vest on a the eight financial years ending on 31 March 2017.
TSR has graduated basis, with 10% vesting on 0.5% outperformance of the benchmark, rising to maximum vesting on 3.5% outperformance.
There is no re-testing of the been calculated assuming that all dividends are reinvested on performance target and, to the extent that it is not met, the award will lapse.
The FTSE All-Share Total Return index the purpose of calculating the performance measure, averages of the companys NAVTR and the FTSE index over the three months prior to the start and end of has been chosen as it is the benchmark by which the company the performance period is used to reduce volatility.
To the extent that the measures its delivery of value over the longer term.
performance target is met, vested awards may be exercised between the date of vesting and the tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
For nil-cost options granted to Mr Wyatt and Mr King on 27 November 2014, TSR growth over eight years 26 June 2015 and 26 May 2016, shares will vest on a graduated basis, with vesting Caledonia TSR FTSE All-Share TR commencing at 10% if the company achieves an annualised NAVTR of 3%, rising 280 incrementally to 100% vesting on achievement of an annualised NAVTR of 10%.
For Mr Cayzer-Colvin, who is head of the Funds pool, 60% of his performance share scheme awards granted on 27 November 2014, 26 June 2015 and 26 May 220 2016 will be measured against the annualised total returns achieved by the Funds pool.
Awards will similarly vest on a graduated basis, with vesting commencing at 10% on achievement of an annualised Funds pool total return of 6%, rising 160 incrementally to 100% vesting on achievement of an annualised total return of 13.5%.
The remaining 40% of Mr Cayzer-Colvins performance share scheme awards for these grants will be measured against Caledonias NAVTR as above.
100 For the nil-cost options granted on 27 November 2014, the relevant performance 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 conditions will be tested over three years for one-half of the shares comprised in an award and over five years for the other half of the shares comprised in an award.
For the nil-cost options granted on 26 June 2015 and 26 May 2016, the The table below shows the total remuneration received by relevant performance conditions will be tested over three years for one-third of the shares comprised in an award and over five years for the remaining two-thirds the Chief Executive in each of the eight years to 31 March 2017, of the shares comprised in an award.
prepared on the same basis as in the single total figure in the The one-half of the shares comprised in the nil-cost options granted on table on page 56, and the percentage of the maximum potential 27 November 2014 were performance tested against their relevant targets as at 31 March 2017 and all achieved maximum vesting.
short and long term incentives received in those years.
Deferred bonus plan matching awards For the matching awards granted on 6 June 2014, two-thirds of the shares Incentives vested comprised in the awards were tested against the FTSE index and one-third against as a percentage Years Total the Gilts index, each over three years and on the graduated scale and basis of of maximum % ended Chief remuneration measurement described for the performance share scheme awards granted on 1 31 March Executive 000 Short term Long term 12 June 2013.
The two-thirds of the awards tested against the FTSE index vested 2010 T C W Ingram 926 47.5 in full, whereas the one-third tested against the Gilts index failed to meet the minimum vesting threshold and therefore lapsed in their entirety.
For the 2011 T C W Ingram 215 1.5 matching awards granted on 26 June 2015, shares will vest on a graduated basis, 2011 W P Wyatt 669 67.5 with vesting commencing at 20% if the company achieves an annualised NAVTR measured over three years of 4%, rising incrementally to 100% vesting on 2012 W P Wyatt 585 50.0 achievement of an annualised NAVTR of 10%.
Shares that vest must be called 2013 W P Wyatt 1,077 100.0 within 12 months of vesting.
Other exercise conditions 2014 W P Wyatt 1,196 100.0 10.1 Performance share scheme 2015 W P Wyatt 2,285 100.0 100.0 For the nil-cost options granted under the performance share scheme on 28 May 2012, the performance targets have been met, although the shares 2016 W P Wyatt 1,648 45.0 100.0 are normally only exercisable five years after grant.
For nil-cost options granted 2017 W P Wyatt 1,799 100.0 85.0 thereafter, shares that vest following the three or five year performance testing become immediately exercisable.
Mr Ingram served as Chief Executive until his retirement on 21 July 2010, at which 3.
Vested but unexercised time Mr Wyatt was appointed as his successor.
The remuneration shown for 2011 Shares vested but unexercised represent those awards that are immediately represents the amounts paid to each in the period that they served as Chief exercisable without any conditions.
Executive in that financial year.
The long term incentives held by Mr Ingram which vested in 2011 were HMRC approved executive share options granted in 2008, which the Remuneration Committee determined should vest based on the measurement of the performance targets up to the date of his retirement.
The percentage of short term incentives shown as vesting for Mr Wyatt in 2011 related to his annual bonus for that year, the total amount of which has been included in the corresponding single figure for total remuneration.
Subsequent to his retirement, Mr Ingram exercised further share options at a pre-tax gain of 119,413 in the 2014 financial year.
Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 61 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on directors remuneration Percentage change in remuneration of Chief Executive Relative importance of spend on pay The following table shows the percentage change in the basic The graph below shows the personnel expenses for the year salary, value of taxable benefits and short term incentives paid of group companies consolidated under IFRS 10, compared to the Chief Executive in the year to 31 March 2017 against the with amounts distributed to Caledonias shareholders by way previous financial year, compared with the average percentage of dividends and share purchases.
changes in those components of pay of Caledonias other staff Relative importance of spend on pay on a per capita basis.
The Chief Executive did not receive an increase in basic salary for the 2017 financial year, whereas 2017 2016 m Caledonias staff received a standard increase in basic salary of 1.0%.
The per capital percentage increase for staff shown in the 45 26.0% table is however higher due to the effect of non-standard 40.2m 30 increases awarded for promotions, increased responsibilities or 31.9m other such adjustments.
The average per capita percentage 14.6% 15 change for staff taxable benefits increased over the year 18.0m 15.7m principally due to age related premium re-rating under the 0 companys private medical insurance plan.
The Chief Executive Personnel expenses Dividends share purchases was awarded a bonus of 100% of basic salary, based on the companys performance and individual objectives, compared Statement of implementation of remuneration policy with 45% in the previous year.
Caledonias staff were also in the 2018 financial year awarded maximum bonuses, however their average per capital If approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting percentage change was lower due to a variety of factors, such to be held on 20 July 2017, the company expects to operate as differing bonus scales and the fact that some members of the remuneration policy as described in the previous section staff received a higher percentage bonus than the Chief without any changes in the financial year ending 31 March 2018.
Basic salaries of executive directors Chief Staff average Executive per capita In respect of the 2018 financial year, the Remuneration change change Committee has awarded each of the executive directors % % inflation-based increases in basic salary of 2.5%, as follows: Basic salary 2.3 Taxable benefits 2.2 14.7 Salary for year to 31 March Short term incentives 122.2 114.7 2018 2017 W P Wyatt 524,500 511,550 S A King 376,000 366,610 J M B Cayzer-Colvin 317,500 310,000 62 Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Chairmans and non-executive directors fees Consideration by the directors of matters relating The Chairmans and the non-executive directors fees are to directors remuneration reviewed triennially.
The last review was in April 2017 and The current members of the Remuneration Committee are it was concluded that the Chairmans fee should be reduced Charles Gregson Chairman, David Stewart and Shonaid from 184,500 pa to 150,000 pa with effect from the Jemmett-Page, all of whom served throughout the year.
implementation of the revised remuneration policy on During the year, the Remuneration Committee received advice 20 July 2017, but that the fees for the other non-executive from Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, the companys main directors should remain unchanged, as follows: legal advisers, in relation to the preparation of the 2016 Directors Fees for year remuneration report, legal issues relating to the post-grant to 31 March 2018 2017 amendment of the performance measures for the 2014 deferred bonus plan matching awards, and the 2017 remuneration policy Chairman 150,000 184,500 renewal.
The Remuneration Committee also consulted with the Non-executive director basic fee 39,900 39,900 Chairman and the Chief Executive in relation to the remuneration Chairman of the Audit Committee 5,600 5,600 of the executive directors and internal support was provided Member of the Audit Committee 2,300 2,300 to the Remuneration Committee by the Company Secretary.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 4,900 4,900 Member of the Remuneration Committee 1,600 1,600 Statement of voting at general meetings Senior Independent Director Chairman At the annual general meeting of the company held on 21 July of the Governance Committee 5,100 5,100 2016, the proxy votes lodged for the resolution relating to Annual bonus scheme and long term incentive schemes directors remuneration were as follows: As outlined in the Chairman of the Remuneration Committees Number % annual statement, it is proposed to discontinue the award To approve the 2016 Directors remuneration of matching shares for deferred bonus and, in compensation, report other than the directors to increase the policy level of annual awards under the remuneration policy performance share scheme from 125% to 150% of basic salary.
Votes in favour 35,705,029 97.6 No other changes to the companys annual bonus or long term Votes against 891,670 2.4 incentive schemes are anticipated for the 2018 financial year.
Total votes cast 36,596,699 Approach Votes withheld 73,548 The Remuneration Committee will keep the implementation of The proxy votes lodged for the most recently approved the remuneration policy under review in order to take account of any changes in the companys business environment and remuneration policy, being at the annual general meeting held on 17 July 2014, were as follows: remuneration practice generally, but with the overall aim of ensuring that Caledonias remuneration arrangements continue Number % to support the companys strategy and deliver long term Votes in favour 36,427,822 99.8 shareholder value by attracting and retaining talent and Votes against 88,185 0.2 rewarding executives appropriately in the light of the Total votes cast 36,516,007 companys performance.
Votes withheld 434,216 This report was approved by the board on 25 May 2017 and signed on its behalf by: Charles Gregson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Annual report 2017 Caledonia Investments plc 63 6919 Caledonia AR2017 SR Directors Report TP.
pdf Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR NoColourInfo Job Name: 68895z Caledonia Investments Report 2017
