14 Strategic report QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategy Our vision is to be: The chosen partner around the world for mission-critical solutions, innovating for our customers advantage.
To realise our vision, we Our three part strategy: Our values are the foundation: are implementing three mutually-reinforcing strategic priorities designed to grow 1.
Modernise UK T&E Integrity the Company.
Build an international Collaboration company Performance 3.
Invest in innovation Transformation Leadership and organisation Delivery and operational excellence We are transforming QinetiQ, To drive higher performance and alignment, new During the year, we successfully introduced a our people, leadership, leaders were appointed during FY17 for the International new operating model that allows us to resource and our organisation, in business and our Business Development, Human as one company.
Our UK scientists and engineers order to deliver our vision and Resources and Finance functions, all from outside were transitioned to a new Engineering and Operations strategy.
After the first year QinetiQ.
Our top 100 leaders completed a leadership function at the beginning of 2017, ensuring that supply we have achieved a great deal, development programme and are being supported meets demand and we have the right skills mix over the and the plan for FY18 is equally with ongoing coaching.
Our focus during FY18 is long term.
Our focus going forward is on embedding this demanding.
Not least is the ongoing challenge presented on a similar development programme for managers, change across QinetiQ to ensure the desired benefits in embedding cultural change and on facilitating employee-enabled change via four are achieved, leading to greater innovation and value across the Company to enhance Transformation Action Groups established by employees for our customers.
customer focus and improve from across the Company.
We have also renewed our competitiveness.
focus on our values and behaviours which support us To support our ability to resource as one company, in operating safely and successfully, and in working we introduced a dynamic resource planning process together effectively to meet customer needs first in FY17, driving improved productivity and deployment time.
Our values are Integrity, which reinforces of capability to meet customer needs.
our responsibility and accountability for our actions, 20m Collaboration, which focuses us on delivering value Our future success will be built on operational excellence of operational efficiencies through partnership and team work and Performance, keeping our people safe, delivering what we say we reinvested to drive growth.
which emphasises excellent delivery to our customers.
are going to deliver, meeting milestones, exceeding expectations and improving customer satisfaction.
We have completed the reorganisation of QinetiQ, David Smith, our new Chief Financial Officer, is driving establishing new businesses responsible for winning a renewed focus on operational excellence in tandem and delivering work, as well as enabling functions to with his role of executive sponsor for transformation.
A Strategy and Planning Safety remains our top priority in addition to our function has been created to help position QinetiQ for day-to-day focus on consistent operational delivery.
The new function manages an Integrated Strategic Business Planning process which ensures we Investing in our future prioritise short-term actions within a coherent long-term In FY17, we delivered 20m of operational efficiencies plan for sustainable growth, and is developing a pipeline to create the headroom to invest in sustainable growth.
of potential bolt-on acquisitions where there is a This was delivered by realigning our organisation and strong strategic fit and investment rationale.
improving productivity and included a reduction of approximately 200 roles across the Company during the Business winning year.
These efficiencies drove better value for money for In order to grow we need to win more work both our customers and allowed us to invest carefully in both in our home markets and internationally.
Our new our business winning capability and in research and International business unit is now established.
To development, particularly in support of our selected improve our business winning capability, our sales growth campaigns.
and bidding employees have completed assessment and development programmes, and further An Internal Research and Development IRAD development of their skills is planned for FY18.
programme is under way with appropriate Executive oversight to ensure that projects are customer-driven Over the last year we have established more than 30 and properly controlled.
We have over 40 live projects, business winning campaigns across the Group to drive more than half of which are related directly to our organic growth.
The teams pursuing these campaigns growth campaigns, where we are using our investment comprise established expertise within the Company plus to position ourselves for new market opportunities.
experienced hires to ensure we have the optimum mix In FY18, we are launching an improved ideas of knowledge and capability.
As part of their strategy, management process to ensure we capture each campaign team considers the best approach to and exploit early-stage ideas and innovations.
partnership and investment needed to win business by delivering compelling customer value.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Strategy 15 Contract extension 1.
Lead and modernise UK Since its initial signature in November 2015, 80m of additional work has been added to the Strategic Defence Test & Evaluation.
Enterprise contract, originally valued at 153m, under 109m which we deliver aircraft engineering services to the supporting UK centre of MOD on an outputs-based model.
We have added eight FY17 Progress a year of building momentum excellence for maritime additional aircraft types to the contract, both fixedand In September 2016, we signed an 11-year, 109m mission systems.
rotary-wing and see further opportunities to expand, contract extension for Naval Combat System Integration working with partners to pool skills and bring Support Services NCSISS to the MOD.
This supports collaborative teams together across industry.
the development of our Portsdown Technology Park site as the UK Centre of Excellence for maritime missions FY18 further enhancements to UK capability systems, improves the security of future revenues Over 50 Our focus is on working with the Front Line Commands and provides a platform to win incremental work.
autonomous systems deployed and prime contractors to develop the future vision as part of Unmanned Warrior for UK T&E to meet the needs of the UK Defence Plan, In October 2016, we hosted Unmanned Warrior, a naval exercise.
support exports and international partnerships, and world-first demonstration of how unmanned systems deliver the right outputs to enable future military can operate as part of a major multinational naval capability.
The five-year repricing of our Long Term exercise.
Over 50 autonomous vehicles were deployed Contract amendment Partnering Agreement with the UK MOD is due to take in the air, on the water and under the surface on place at the end of FY18 so this is a particular focus.
missions ranging from anti-submarine warfare to mine countermeasures.
From inception to delivery we were 1bn In FY17, we were invited by Boeing to submit a instrumental in making this exercise happen, leading 11-year commitment for proposal offering MOD Boscombe Down as a the UK component, providing range management modernisation of air ranges prospective location for its UK centre of excellence expertise and delivering a transportable command and Test Pilot School.
driven by its fixed-wing business.
We will continue and control system.
to work with the MOD and Boeing to identify ways in which the site, which we operate on behalf of In December 2016, we agreed an 11-year, 1bn the MOD, could meet their requirements.
commitment with the UK MOD that secures approximately half our revenue on the core LTPA contract until 2028.
This amendment, which uses the FY17 single source profit formula, secures our operation and modernisation of the Empire Test Pilots School at MOD Boscombe Down and the Air Ranges at MOD Aberporth and Hebrides.
This gives us the confidence to invest approximately 180m to upgrade facilities and equipment, driving efficiencies to avoid cost increases that would have otherwise arisen and providing a platform for future growth.
Our investment will be recovered from the MOD over time using the current LTPA mechanism.
Simon Dale, using the binoculars on a Multiple Object Tracking Radar at MOD Aberporth to acquire and track a target.
MOD Aberporth will benefit from the Air Range Modernisation investment, which is part of a commitment we made to modernise UK Test & Evaluation in the LTPA amendment signed in December 2016.
16 Strategic report QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategy continued QinetiQ Target Systems 2.
Build QinetiQ as an complex logistics, supply chain and procurement project challenges.
Earlier in the year we were part international company.
of a RubiKon-led team which won the Strategic Support 90% Partnership Contract for the Australian Governments of revenue generated outside procurement of maritime patrol aircraft to replace FY17 Progress International business established the UK.
The acquisition of RubiKon better On 1 April 2016, we created a new International business positions QinetiQ Australia to offer whole programme unit incorporating our Australian, Swedish, Canadian, solutions to customers in the Asia Pacific region.
Commerce Decisions and Advisory Services operations.
In August we appointed Iain Farley as its Managing We are evaluating new home markets with a particular Director from Expro Group International where he was focus on the Middle East and Asia Pacific and Vice President for Business Development and Emerging developing plans which inform the prioritisation of Business.
Andreas Ward, previously Vice President resources and the identification of potential partners.
Nordic and Baltics at Saab, was also appointed to We secured a number of aerial targets contracts in run our operations in Sweden.
the United Arab Emirates and flew our latest Banshee Jet 110 for the first time in India.
During the year, our In December 2016, we acquired Meggitts Target OptaSense subsidiary also completed the delivery of a Systems business for 57.5m, or 60.3m including system for the worlds largest distributed fibre sensing price adjustments for working capital and net debt.
project for the 1,850km Trans-Anatolian Natural Gas The business now renamed QinetiQ Target Systems Pipeline TANAP principally in Turkey.
holds a leading position in the global targets and services market which is growing strongly as customers We continue to develop opportunities to grow sales seek to validate their defence capabilities using by exporting our products and services, working high-fidelity threat representation.
In addition to a design with partners such as the UK Trade and Investments and manufacture capability in the UK and Canada, the Defence and Security Organisation UKTI DSO.
While business supplies targets to more than 40 countries we were unsuccessful with our joint bid with BAE and has on-site target operations in 15 countries.
Systems for a competition in Chile to upgrade their Type 23 frigates, we have an increasing pipeline of During FY17 we have focused on building our sales opportunities, particularly in the Middle East.
capabilities in our home markets the US and Australia in addition to the UK.
In the US we have engaged with FY18 delivering international growth customers such as the US Defense Advanced Research The International business was established to grow Projects Agency DARPA, to collaborate to create new QinetiQ as an international company.
In Canada we secured our first is to win significant contracts outside the UK.
As our home contract win with the Royal Canadian Coast strategy prioritises collaborative working, on many Guard for work that will be delivered locally in Canada.
of our growth campaigns we work in partnership with prime contractors and with the support of In Australia, we acquired RubiKon Group in January the UK Government.
The company is a leading integrated logistics support provider and helps customers meet With growing defence ambitions and close to the rapidly evolving Asia Pacific region, Australia is a particularly attractive market.
During the year QinetiQ Australia continued to develop its core capabilities including extending its contract for the provision of Aircraft Structural Integrity services.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report | Strategy 17 3.
Invest in innovation and apply role is to provide the high-powered laser technology for the programme and conduct trials over land and water our core competence for Over 30 at various ranges that we manage under the LTPA.
We are supporting this campaign with IRAD funding customer advantage in defence to further develop our core laser technology which and commercial markets.
will be the enduring element of our offering.
Dragonfire consortium During the year we secured contracts worth more FY17 Focus campaigns initiated to drive than 10m for secured navigation working with both commercial innovation 30m European and UK Government customers.
Our work During FY17 we established business winning campaigns programme to deliver helps users to effectively exploit the Galileo constellation to drive commercial innovation, new processes, and defensive laser capability.
of satellites the European Union version of GPS innovative business models, in addition to the technical which is due to go live in FY21.
This included the first innovation that QinetiQ has always been known for.
demonstration of accessing the encrypted Public Campaigns are driven by horizon scanning of future Regulated Service PRS real-world applications.
At customer needs and market opportunities.
Group-level the end of the year we secured a global agreement campaigns align with four main growth levers: Over 10m with Rockwell Collins, the market leader in secure of secured navigation navigation, who will become the primary route to Major government programmes, such contracts awarded.
market for our software technology worldwide.
as Ballistic Missile Defence and Carrier Strike: Areas of QinetiQ strategic capability, such FY18 growth campaigns in international markets as modernised T&E, cyber security, and We will have capture plans and resourcing in place experimentation and rehearsal: for all of our major campaigns in FY18.
Because our International business was only established in April Major near-term competitions: and 2016, our international growth campaigns are less Exploitation of promising capabilities we have mature than those focused on our home markets previously invested in, such as airborne surveillance.
so they are a particular focus.
To enhance our probability of winning, we resource these through investment and partnership, collaborating with prime contractors, small businesses and universities on many of the campaigns.
During the year we established partnerships with companies such as MBDA on laser technology and Thales on Defence Operational Training.
In January 2017, the Dragonfire consortium led by MBDA and including QinetiQ as well as other industry partners was awarded a 30m programme by the UK MOD to deliver a defensive Laser Directed Energy Weapon LDEW Capability Demonstrator.
QinetiQs QinetiQs multi-channel laser system, for coherent beaming is being developed as part of the Dragonfire consortium consisting of MBDA, QinetiQ and other industry partners.
