64 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 Relations with shareholders Communicating with our shareholders Listening to our shareholders We are committed to communicating our strategy and activities to all our shareholders and listening to their questions and feedback.
Our investor May June July August calendar Set out here Roadshows in: Roadshows in: Investor meetings in: Roadshows in: is a calendar of our London: Amsterdam: Germany: Hong Kong: and investor events Edinburgh: Milan: Spain: Singapore.
Boston: Frankfurt: Italy: and Toronto: Madrid: Turkey.
New York: and San Francisco: and Annual general meeting Paris.
Investor conferences in London at: Merrill Lynch: and JP Morgan Cazenove.
Chairman roadshow to top investors How we communicate with our shareholders What our shareholders have asked us this year We maintained an active dialogue with our shareholders throughout Common topics raised by our institutional and individual the year through a planned programme of investor relations activities.
shareholders include: We also respond to daily queries from shareholders and analysts 5G investment and business cost: through our Investor Relations team and have a section of our website which is dedicated to shareholders and analysts: vodafone.
cash flow, capital expenditure, debt and dividend cover: com investor.
Our registrars, Computershare and Deutsche Bank fixed broadband and TV strategy: as custodians of our American Depositary Receipts ADR programme also have a team of people to answer shareholder and ADR holder performance outlook: queries in relation to technical aspects of their holdings such as dividend network differentiation: payments and shareholding balances.
All of our financial results presentations are available on our website at vodafone.
shareholder returns: regulation in Europe and emerging markets: Institutional investor meetings spectrum renewal costs: We hold meetings with major institutional investors, individual shareholder groups andfinancial analysts to discuss the business VodafoneZiggo JV: performance and strategy.
These are attended by the appropriate Vodafone India and Idea Cellular merger: and mix of Directors and senior management, including our Chairman, Chief Executive, Executive Committee members, senior leaders and administration of shareholding.
Institutional investors also meet with the Chairman to discuss matters of governance.
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Additional information Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2017 65 September November December January March Investor conferences Roadshows in: Roadshows in: Roadshows in: Roadshows in: in London at: London: Edinburgh: Los Angeles: and Helsinki: Credit Suisse: Switzerland: Sydney: and San Francisco.
Copenhagen: and Deutsche Bank: and Boston: Cape Town.
Frankfurt: Investor conference Spain: and.
Investor conference New York: in New York at: in London at Berenberg Italy.
in London at: Amsterdam: and Goldman Sachs.
Roadshows in: in Miami at: Chairmans meeting with Helsinki: Deutsche Bank.
retail shareholders Copenhagen: and Stockholm.
Investor conference in Spain at Morgan Stanley Germany open office Annual general meeting Dividend payments Our annual general meeting is attended by our Board and For the financial year and beyond, dividends are declared in Executive Committee members and is open to all our shareholders euros and paid in euros and pounds sterling and for ADR holders to attend.
A summary presentation of financial results is given US dollars, aligning our shareholder returns with the primary before the Chairman deals with the formal business of the meeting.
currency in which we generate free cash flow.
All shareholders present can question the Board during the meeting.
The foreign exchange rate at which dividends declared in euros are Representatives from investor relations and customer services converted into pounds sterling and US dollars is calculated based are available after the meeting to answer any additional questions on the average exchange rate over the five business days during the shareholders may have.
week prior to the payment of the dividend.
