Board Committees reports The Audit Committee report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to introduce the Audit Committees report on its activities during the year.
As in previous years, the principal responsibilities of the Committee continue to be focused in a number of key areas: firstly, on ensuring the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting: an activity which includes the testing of accounting judgements made in preparing reporting and in assessing whether the presentation of the Groups activities is fair, balanced and understandable.
Secondly, on reviewing and challenging the ongoing effectiveness of the internal control environment and thirdly, on the scope of risk management processes across the Group, including monitoring the Groups risk appetite as well as acting as a forum in which to carry out more detailed reviews of higher risk areas of the operation.
Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the external auditor and the internal audit function is an important ongoing element Neil Cooper of the Committees assurance activities.
These responsibilities are discharged throughout the year in accordance with the calendar of Audit Committee Chairman business of the Committee, which is designed to allow sufficient time for their consideration whilst also permitting time to be spent on related key financial matters.
In this context, the Committee notes thatthe Financial Reporting Council FRC Audit Quality Review team The role of the Audit assessed the audit of the Groups 2016 report and accounts during the year and the Committee has received and discussed a report from Committee is to ensure theCompanys external auditor with regards to the findings, as set outon page 66. that robust systems are Following the establishment last year of a new Group executive risk management forum to assess risk appetite and monitor key risks in place for financial andtheir mitigation, the Committee has received detailed deep dive presentations from senior management on individual principal risks reporting, internal control including, for example, drinking water contamination risk, wholesale energy market risk, ERF business interruption and continuity and risk management.
management, EU UK regulatory and legislative change, nonrecoverable debt in South West Water and Viridor recycling and commodity activities.
More detail on our risk management processes, principal risks and their associated mitigation can be found on pages 46 to 51.
Aligned with this we continue to assess the Companys viability over a period of five years, which we consider to be aligned with key business cycle periods in the water business and the longer-term nature of Viridors ERF assets, as well as being reasonable in terms of our ability to look forward with some certainty in the business and regulatory environment in which the Company operates.
Our viability statement is reported on page 51.
As part of the half-year and year-end reporting review process, we reviewed and challenged the key financial reporting judgements of management as set out on page 65.
Significant matters considered by the Committee both during the year and in relation to the year-end financial statements are laid out in this report.
Neil Cooper Audit Committee Chairman 63 Governance Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 The Audit Committee report continued Audit Committee composition and meetings Date of appointment to South West Water Pennon Audit audit committee Committee Attendance member Committee chairman Neil Cooper September 2014 5 5 Committee members Martin Angle December 2008 5 5 Gill Rider September 2012 5 5 1 South West Water non-executive directors Martin Hagen 5 5 Matthew Taylor 5 5 1 Representing South West Water interests.
The Pennon Audit Committee and the South West Water audit experience and also, in accordance with FCA Rule 7.1.
1R of the FCAs committee meet sequentially on the same day.
The responsibilities Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, have competence in ofthe South West Water audit committee mirror those of the accounting or auditing.
Details of each Directors significant current PennonAudit Committee but only in respect of South West Water.
and prior appointments are set out on pages 56 and 57.
Other regular attendees to Committee meetings during the year All of the Committee members are also members of the Remuneration included: Chief Executive Officer: Chief Financial Officer: Managing Committee, which allows them to provide input into both Committees Directors of South West Water and Viridor: Group General Counsel on any Group performance matters and on the management of any &Company Secretary: Finance Directors of South West Water and risk factors relevant to remuneration matters.
Viridor: Group Financial Controller: Group Audit Manager: and Significant matters considered by the Committee external auditor.
The calendar of business of the Committee sets in place a framework In addition, the Board Chairman has an open invitation to attend the for ensuring that it manages its affairs efficiently and effectively Committee meetings.
In the last year he attended those meetings at throughout the year and is able to concentrate on the key matters which the Committee reviewed the half-year and full-year financial that affect the Group.
The most significant matters that the Committee considered and In accordance with the UK Code, the Board is satisfied that made decisions on during the year and, where appropriate, since the Neil Cooper and Martin Angle have recent and relevant financial year end, are set out below and opposite.
Financial Monitored the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and the half-year and full-year results announcements relating to the Groups reporting financial performance, including reviewing and discussing significant financial reporting judgements contained in the statements After a detailed review in accordance with its established process, advised the Board that the presentation of the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable in accordance with reporting requirements and recommended their approval for publication Internal control Review of internal audit reports on core systems and processes across the Group, for example, Group treasury, contract management and Recycling & Recovery and compliance Approved updated policies in relation to treasury and going concern assessment Reviewed an external quality assessment on the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function Monitored the effectiveness of key strategic projects including Viridors Enterprise transformation and South West Waters market ready programme External auditor Considered auditors report on its review of the annual results focusing on key findings Assessed external auditor and its effectiveness in respect of the previous years external audit process Recommended to the Board reappointment of the external auditor for approval at the Annual General Meeting with the Committee being authorised to agree the external auditors remuneration Considered and approved the audit plan and audit fee proposal for the external auditor Monitored the provision of non-audit services Considered the findings of the FRCs review of the 2016 external audit Risk Reviewed the Groups risk management framework and compliance with that framework during the year and after the year end up until the publication of the Companys annual report management Reviewed the assessment of the risks by the Executive Directors and considered risk appetite Reviewed the Group risk register and considered appropriate areas of focus and prioritisation for the audit work programme for the year Management of information security across the Group in mitigating key IT risks Received as part of the risk management review the annual report on any whistleblowing Carried out regular deep dives at Committee meetings on principal risk areas 64 Governance Discussed the results of independent performance evaluation of the Committee, conducted by Armstrong Bonham Carter LLP Reviewed new annual report disclosure requirements including the audit report Considered and approved Group accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements Reviewed updated Group policies covering treasury and foreign exchange Confirmed compliance with the UK Code Regularly held separate meetings with the external auditor and the Group Internal Audit Manager without members of management being present In respect of the monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements, which is a key responsibility of the Committee identified in the UK Code, the significant areas of judgement considered in relation to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2017 are set out in the following table, together with details of how each matter was addressed by the Committee.
At the Committees meetings throughout the year the Committee and the external auditor have discussed the significant matters arising in respect of financial reporting during the year and the areas of particular audit focus, as reported on in the independent auditors report on pages 106 to 113.
In addition to the significant matters set out in the table below, the Committee considered a range of other matters.
These include presentational matters, in particular relating to the non-underlying disclosure format and ensuring a fair presentation of statutory and non-statutory performance and financial measures.
During the year, the Group has seen substantial impact from movements in derivatives, both as a result of market movements and as a result of changes in our expectations of economic benefits.
This has led to the early unwind of a derivative through Peninsula MB Limited, giving rise to a substantial non-underlying charge.
The Committee and Board have received several updates and reports from the Chief Financial Officer in regard to these movements, deeming managements approach to the accounting recognition and disclosure of these items, as non-underlying, to be appropriate.
Area of focus by How the matter was addressed by the Committee the Committee Revenue There were a number of judgement areas in respect of revenue recognition relating to income from measured water services, estimates of timing of recognition receipt of unmeasured revenue, accounting for revenue from long-term service concession arrangements under IFRIC 12 and calculation of accrued income on waste management contracts and powergen.
The Committee relied on South West Waters track record of assessing an appropriate level of accrual at previous year ends given actual outturns and Viridors internal processes for analysing complex long-term contracts.
The Committee also closely considered the work in respect of these areas at year end by the external auditor as well as reviewing disclosures around revenue recognition accounting policies.
Non-current Recognising that the value of certain non-current assets and long-term environmental provisions within Viridor can be sensitive to changes in assumptions asset over future discount rates and cash flow projections which require judgement, the Committee pays careful attention to asset impairment and provisions.
impairment The Committee noted the substantial headroom in the mandatory review of goodwill for impairment, resulting in this area being deemed less judgemental.
review and Following a detailed review of the analysis undertaken, and consideration of management assumptions in relation to both the value of environmental provisions provisions and the assessment of indicators for potential impairment of non-current assets, the Committee was satisfied that a robust and consistent approach had been followed and that the managements assertion that the carrying value of these assets and liabilities remained reasonable, and therefore the Committee were able to approve the disclosures in the financial statements.
This key area was also closely reviewed as part of the year-end audit by the external auditor.
South West Regular updates on progress against debt collection targets and other contractual payments due are received by the Board.
Performance is monitored Water bad and regularly against South West Waters historical collection record and the track record of other companies in the sector.
At the year end the external doubtful debts auditor reported on the work it had performed, which together with the detailed analysis reported, enabled the Committee to conclude that managements assessment of the year-end position was reasonable.
Provisions for It remains the general policy of the Group to take a balanced view of its tax position and only release tax provisions when matters under discussion are uncertain tax expected to be cleared by HM Revenue & Customs.
At the year end the Chief Financial Officer provided a report to the Board setting out the resolution positions of a number of uncertain tax items, the background to which had been considered in detail by the Committee on a regular basis as part of progress reports from the Chief Financial Officer.
It was noted that on resolution of these matters the level of judgement required in assessing the year end tax creditor was consequently reduced.
Where appropriate expert external legal and accounting advice and other specialist taxation advice had been sought which assisted the Committee in forming a view on the appropriateness of the provisions for remaining uncertain tax positions and related tax disclosures in the financial statements.
Going concern A report from the Chief Financial Officer on the financial performance of the Group including forward-looking assessments of covenant compliance and basis for the funding levels under differing scenarios is provided to the Board on a periodic basis.
Rolling five-year strategy projections and the resultant headroom preparation of relative to borrowings is also regularly reviewed by the Board, including scenarios to better enable the committee to understand the potential range of the financial outcomes.
At the end of each six month period the Chief Financial Officer prepares for consideration by the Committee a report focusing on the Groups statements and liquidity over the 12-month period from the date of signing either the annual report or half-year results.
This year the Committee has also considered a report viability from the Chief Financial Officer on the Groups financial viability over an appropriate period, which the Board considers to be five years, in connection with the statement new UK Corporate Governance Code requirement for a viability statement to be given by the Board.
Consideration of these reports and constructive challenge on the findings of the reports, including the scenario testing carried out by management, has enabled the Committee to form its assessment and satisfy itself that it remains appropriate for the Group to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements and in addition advise the Board on providing the viability statement set out on page 51.
Effectiveness of the external audit process Receiving high quality and effective audit services is of paramount importance to the Committee.
We continue to monitor carefully the effectiveness of our external auditor as well as its independence, bearing in mind that it is recognised there is a need to use our external auditors firm for certain non-audit services.
We have full regard to the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards and ensure that our procedures and safeguards meet these standards.
The current external auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, was appointed following a comprehensive audit tender process and approval by shareholders at the Companys 2014 AGM.
Their reappointment was approved at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Debbie OHanlon is the audit partner and has been in that role since Ernst & Youngs appointment.
65 Governance Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 The Audit Committee report continued The external auditor produced a detailed audit planning report in The Chief Financial Officer regularly reports to the Committee on the preparation for the year-end financial statements, which has assisted extent of services provided to the Company by the external auditor the auditor in delivering the timely audit of the Groups annual report and the level of fees paid.
The fees paid to the external auditors firm and financial statements and which was shared with, and discussed by, for non-audit services and for audit services are set out in note 7 to the Committee in advance.
the financial statements on page 132.
The effectiveness review of the external auditor is undertaken as part Internal audit of the Committees annual performance evaluation, which was carried The internal audit activities of the Group are a key part of the internal out by independent external consultants, Armstrong Bonham Carter control and risk management framework of the Group.
Further details of the performance evaluation are provided on there is a long-standing and effective centralised internal audit service page 62.
No issues were raised during that review and the Committee led by an experienced head of function who makes a significant concluded that the auditor was effective during the year.
In addition, contribution to the ability of the Committee to deliver its responsibilities.
during the year the FRCs Audit Quality Review team reviewed the A Group internal audit plan is approved in September each year.
It audit of the Groups 31 March 2016 financial statements, focussing on takes account of the principal risks, the activities to be undertaken the audit of impairment, taxation and revenue.
The FRC categorised bythe external auditor, and also the Groups annual and ongoing risk the audit as good or limited improvements required, with no management reviews.
This approach seeks to ensure that there is a significant areas for improvement identified.
Following the review and programme of internal and external audit reviews focused on identified discussion of the findings by the Committee, changes were madeto key risk areas throughout the Group.
the auditors approach to the audit of revenue in the waste business.
The Committee considered that it is appropriate that the external The Group Internal Audit Manager reports regularly to the Committee auditor be re-appointed and has made this recommendation to the on audit reviews undertaken and their findings, and there are regular Board.
The Committee chairman has also met privately with discussions, correspondence and private meetings between the Group theexternal auditor.
Internal Audit Manager and the Committee chairman.
Auditor independence During the year an external assessment of the internal function was The Committee carefully reviews on an ongoing basis the relationship performed by KPMG LLP, concluding that the Companys internal with the external auditor to ensure that the auditors independence audit function conforms to IIA standards issued by the Institute of and objectivity is fully safeguarded.
The review highlighted both areas of good practice and some areas for improvement which would improve the delivery of The external auditor reported on their independence during the year the Companys internal audit function.
and again since the year end, confirming to the Committee that they have complied with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards Fair, balanced and understandable assessment and, based on their assessment, that they were independent of To enable the Committee to advise the Board in making its statement the Group.
that it considered that the Companys Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable FBU on page 103, the Committee Provision of non-audit services has applied a detailed FBU review framework that takes account of In line with the requirements of the EU Audit Directive and Regulation theGroups well-documented verification process undertaken in which came into force on 17 June 2016, the Committee continues to conjunction with the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts.
have a robust policy for the engagement of the external auditors firm This is in addition to the formal process carried out by the external for non-audit work.
The Committee receives a regular report covering auditor to enable the preparation of the independent auditors report, the auditors fees including details of non-audit fees incurred.
which is set out on pages 106 to 113.
Recurrent fees relate to agreed procedures in relation to annual regulatory reporting obligations to Ofwat, work most efficiently and In preparing and finalising the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, effectively performed by the statutory auditor.
The policy is for the Committee considered a report on the actions taken by non-audit fees not to exceed 70% of the audit fee for statutory work.
management in accordance with the FBU process and an FBU The Committee carefully reviews non-audit work proposed for the assessment undertaken by each Group executive management board.
statutory auditor, taking into consideration whether it was necessary This assisted the Committee in carrying out its own assessment and for the auditors firm to carry out such work and would only grant being able to advise the Board that it considered that the Annual approval for the firms appointment if it was satisfied that the auditors Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and independence and objectivity would be fully safeguarded.
If there was understandable and provides the information necessary for another accounting firm that could provide the required level of shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business experience and expertise in respect of the non-audit services, then model and strategy.
such firm would be chosen in preference to the external auditor.
Statement of compliance with CMA order The level of non-audit fees payable to the external auditor for the past Having undertaken a competitive audit tender process in 2014, the year is 11.3% of the audit fee, which is well within the Groups 70% Company is in compliance with the Statutory Audit Services for Large non-audit fee limit.
Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
66 The Sustainability Committee report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to introduce the Sustainability Committees report on its activities during the year.
Sustainability remains an integral part of Pennons strategy, and the Group continues to take this responsibility seriously in all its business and operational practices.
Our investment and our commitment to high levels of service and performance will contribute to meeting our communities long-term needs for water, energy and waste management.
The role of the Sustainability Committee is to promote the highest standards of corporate responsibility by bringing together and reviewing initiatives that drive sustainability, approving targets and monitoring the progress made in achieving Pennons strategic sustainability objectives.
Those objectives are set out on page 69.
We are well equipped to oversee performance from the perspective of the Group and that of the individual businesses, with additional attendees Lord Matthew Taylor South West Water non-executive Gill Rider director, Stephen Bird Managing Director, South West Water and Phil Piddington Managing Director, Viridor contributing to the Sustainability Committee Committees discussions.
We are delighted with the strengthening Chairman of the executive team and envisage that director of Safety, Health, Quality and Sustainability, the director of Environment and the interim director of Human Resources, all recently recruited to Group-level Our approach to roles, will play a central role in supporting the Committee as we continue to guide the business and advise the Board on sustainability sustainability helps us to which we believe is material to delivery of the Groups strategy.
Pennons business model and its strategic priorities on pages 14 to 17 draw together the needs show how a thorough approach to sustainability helps us to draw together the needs of society with the delivery of commercial success.
of society with the delivery The Groups long-term strategic priorities are designed to create value for all our stakeholders our customers, our communities and of commercial success.
our people, as well as our investors and details of how we are implementing this strategy are provided throughout the annual report.
We are pleased to note the results in both businesses, which confirm sustainability is indeed integrated in all we do.
Gill Rider Sustainability Committee Chairman 67 Governance Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 The Sustainability Committee report continued Sustainability Committee composition andmeetings South West Water Date of appointment to sustainability Pennon Sustainability committee Committee Attendance member Committee chairman Gill Rider September 2012 5 5 Committee members Martin Angle December 2008 5 5 Chris Loughlin November 2006 5 5 1 Ian McAulay September 2013 2 2 n a 2 South West Water non-executive directors 3 Steve Johnson 1 1 Matthew Taylor 5 5 1 Until 31 August 2016.
2 Representing South West Water interests.
The Pennon Sustainability Committee and the South West Water other stakeholders.
The Sustainability Committee reviews and sustainability committee meet sequentially on the same day.
Senior approves as appropriate the strategies, policies, management, executives also attend meetings to support discussions on their initiatives, targets and performance of the Pennon Group companies specific areas of expertise.
in the areas of occupational health and safety and security, environment, workplace policies, responsible and ethical business Neil Cooper stood down from the Committee on 1 April 2016 and practice, customer service and engagement, and the role of the Steve Johnson, who was a member of the South West Water Group in society.
sustainability committee, resigned on 28 April 2016 as a non-executive director of South West Water.
Recruitment for a replacement Since last years report, the Committee has considered a wide range of isunderway.
matters in the course of fulfilling its duties in accordance with its terms of reference: The responsibilities of the South West Water sustainability committee mirror those of the Pennon Sustainability Committee but only in the Groups health and safety performance including a health and respect of South West Water.
In addition, the South West Water safety deep dive and the effectiveness of health and safety sustainability committee continues to provide oversight of South policies and procedures WestWaters performance against its sustainability targets and the environmental strategy and performance sustainability activities that are core to the successful delivery of performance in respect of customer service and engagement South West Waters K6 Business Plan 2015-2020.
This is consistent the Groups approach to community relations and investment with Ofwats requirement for independent governance of our performance against the Groups workplace policy, including review regulatory business.
of the results of employee engagement surveys conducted by During the year the Committee continued to apply the best Pennon, South West Water and Viridor practice framework published by Business in the Community BitC, sustainable procurement and practices within the supply chain a leading business-led charity that promotes responsible business.
sustainability reporting for 2016 and the associated verifiers The structure provided through BitCs key areas of sustainability reports and recommendations marketplace, workplace, community and environment is reflected progress against the sustainability targets for 2016 17 and inPennons sustainability objectives and supports the development sustainability targets for 2017 18. ofa range of targets by South West Water and Viridor as part of their In addition, the Committee considered: business planning processes.
We aim to set stretching targets and as at 31 March 2017 South West the development of Pennons new Code of Conduct, which sets out Water had achieved eight of its 12 targets for the year and Viridor had the principles that should guide our employees actions and completed eight out of 16 of its targets.
Further details will be provided support everyday decision making in Viridors sustainability report and South West Waters company the establishment of a Group-wide compliance and annual performance report, to be published in June 2017 and ethics programme July2017 respectively.
the results of Business in the Communitys 2016 benchmarking assessment of South West Water and Viridor, with both The Sustainability Committee balances the requirement to conduct organisations awarded two and a half stars out of five business in a responsible manner in relation to environmental, social the results of Committees independent performance evaluation and governance ESG matters while at the same time delivering conducted by Armstrong Bonham Carter LLP strong financial performance and lasting value for shareholders and modifications to the Committees terms of reference.
68 Benchmarking Strategic sustainability objectives Pennon is a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index, an equity index The Sustainability Committee has defined the following series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet strategic objectives, which drive the sustainability targets globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
Companies in set by South West Water and Viridor.
Commentary on our the FTSE4Good Index Series have met stringent environmental, social performance against our objectives is integrated throughout and governance criteria, and are positioned to capitalise on the the strategic report.
benefits of responsible business practice.
Manage Pennon Group as a sustainable and successful Pennon sustainability report business for the benefit of our customers, shareholders and Pennons sustainability reporting is integrated throughout the strategic other stakeholders report and specifically in the following sections: Aim to ensure that all our business activities have a positive Chairmans statement page 8 economic, social and environmental impact on the Business model page 14 communities in which we operate Strategic priorities page 16 Engage with our customers and other stakeholders and foster good relationships withthem Our people page 18 Strive for the highest standards of health andsafety in the Review of the Chief Executive Officer page 20 workplace so as to minimise accidents, incidents and lost time Our operations pages 26 to 37 Develop and motivate our employees, treat them fairly and South West Water and Viridor ensure that they are fully engaged in allaspects of Pennon Groups objectives and follow the highest standards  ofbusiness conduct The sustainability report for Viridor will be published in June 2017, and South West Water will incorporate its sustainability reporting in its Aspire to leadership in minimising emissions that company annual performance report and regulatory accounts, which contribute to climate change, and develop climate will be published in July 2017.
Both documents will be available to view change adaption strategies at www.
co. uk and also on the subsidiaries websites.
Aspire to leadership in all aspects of waste prevention and resource efficiency by delivering solutions for society Full details of the sustainability targets for South West Water and to address the environmental challenge of depleting Viridor for 2016 17, and their performance against them, are given in natural resources.
Reporting and verification In reporting on sustainability, the Company has sought to comply withthe Investment Association Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure.
Pennons sustainability performance and reporting has been auditedby Strategic Management Consultants Limited SMC, anindependent management consultancy specialising in technical assurance in the utility sector.
Pennon considers that SMCs method ofverification which includes testing the assumptions, methods and procedures that are followed in the development of data and auditing that data to ensure accuracy and consistency complements the best practice insight gained through South West Waters and Viridors membership of Business in the Community.
Certain disclosures within this annual report that relate to the sustainability performance of South West Water and Bournemouth Water have been verified by SMC against the output of an independent audit of regulatory data conducted by CH2M.
69 Governance Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 The Nomination Committee report We are pleased to report that, at the year end, 36% of Pennon Executive members were women.
The Nomination Committee met four times during the year to fulfil the Sir John Parker duties set out in its terms of reference.
Nomination Committee Chairman Matters considered by the Committee during the year included: The recruitment for a non-executive director of South West Water, to fill the vacancy arising from the resignation of Steve Johnson in April 2016 The appointment of the Group director of Safety, Health, Quality and Sustainability, the interim Group director of Human Resources and the Group director of Environment The recruitment of a director of Wastewater Services, South West Water A review of succession plans, the leadership needs of the Group and the Groups approach to succession planning, resulting in the instigation of a project to be undertaken by the interim Group director of Human Resources the structure, size and composition of the Board, including the skills, knowledge, independence, diversity and experience of the Directors, taking into account the findings of the independent performance evaluation conducted by Armstrong Bonham Carter LLP a review of the time spent by Non-Executive Directors in fulfillingtheir duties and the other directorships they hold the steps to be taken to bring further skills and experience in environmental management into the executive team resulting inthe appointment of Ed Mitchell to the new role of director of Environment, after the year end the Groups performance against its diversity and equality policies.
It is the practice of the Committee, led by the Chairman, to appoint an external search consultancy to assist in Board appointments to ensure that an extensive and robust search can be made for suitable candidates.
Buchannan Harvey & Co, who have no other connection with the Company, were engaged to assist with the recruitment of a non-executive director for the South West Water board, the process for which is still underway.
70 Nomination Committee composition and meetings South West Water Date of appointment to nomination Pennon Nomination committee Committee Attendance member Committee chairman Sir John Parker April 2015 4 4 Committee members Martin Angle December 2008 4 4 Neil Cooper September 2014 4 4 Gill Rider September 2012 4 4 1 South West Water non-executive directors Martin Hagen 2 2 2 Steve Johnson 0 0 Matthew Taylor 2 2 1 Representing South West Waters interests.
The Pennon Audit Committee and the South West Water audit committee meet sequentially on the same day.
The responsibilities of the South West Water nomination committee mirror those of the Pennon Nomination Committee but only in respect of South West Water.
The CEO also attends meetings when invited.
The Committee is pleased to report that as at 31 March 2017 and, as Diversity policy disclosed on page 59, one third of the Boards Directors are women The Committee is required by the Board to review and monitor and as such the Group has exceeded 25% female representation at compliance with the Boards diversity policy and report on the targets, Board level.
achievement against those targets and overall compliance in the annual report each year.
We are pleased to report that, at the year end, 36% of Pennon Executive members were women compared to the reported 22% at The Boards diversity policy confirms that the Board is committed to: 31March 2016.
Action is being taken to improve diversity across the the search for Board candidates being conducted, and appointments workforce which will assist in increasing female representation at made, on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard for senior management level as described on page 19. the benefits of gender and ethnic diversity on the Board The Committee and the Board will continue to monitor and promote satisfying itself that plans are in place for orderly succession of diversity across the Group with the aim of ensuring women are appointments to the Board and to senior management to maintain appropriately represented on the Pennon Executive.
an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Group and on the Board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the As well as its diversity policy, the Group has a number of policies in Board.
In addition, within the spirit of Principle B.
2 of the UK Code, place embracing workplace matters, including non-discrimination and the Board endeavours to achieve and maintain: equal opportunities policies which are reported on separately on page 18, together with information regarding the gender breakdown of the a minimum of 25% female representation on the Board workforce on page 19. a minimum of 25% female representation on the Groups seniormanagement team.
71 Governance Pennon Group plc Annual Report 2017 The Remuneration Committee report Our remuneration policy must help us to attract and retain high calibre people who are able to contribute to the success of the Group.
The Committee met seven times during the year to fulfil the duties Martin Angle setout in its terms of reference.
In particular, the Committee is Remuneration Committee Chairman responsible for: ensuring remuneration is aligned with and supports the Groups strategy, reflects our values as a Group and optimises performance maintaining and, in every third year, reviewing the remuneration policy and considering any changes necessary to ensure it remains appropriate and fulfils its purpose of attracting and retaining high calibre people who are able to contribute to the success of the Group advising the Board on the framework of executive remuneration forthe Group determining the remuneration and terms of engagement of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and senior executives of the Group.
The Committees activities during the financialyear The Committee engaged in the following activities during the year: Annual executive salary review Annual review of the Chairmans fee Determining performance targets in respect of the Annual Incentive Bonus Plan for 2016 17 Reviewing drafts of the Directors remuneration report for 2015 16 and recommending it to the Board for approval for inclusion in the 2016 annual report Determining bonuses and deferred bonus awards pursuant to theCompanys Annual Incentive Bonus Plan in respect of the year2015 16 Approving the Performance and Co-investment Plan awards for the year 72 Approving the remuneration arrangements for the new Finance The Committees focus for 2017 18 Director, Viridor Complete the design of the new simplified LTIP and oversee Approving the release of the 2013 deferred bonus share awards its implementation andthe vesting of executive share options pursuant to the Ensure that targets are stretching but also fair and achievable, so AnnualIncentive Bonus Plan that they act to retain, motivate and incentivise management to Determining the outcome of the 2013 Performance and deliver the Groups strategic goals and to create long-term value Co-investment Plan awards for shareholders Considering and debating issues relating to the review of the Improve the process around, and disclosure of, personal remuneration policy and future arrangements for the annual bonus targets bonusand long-term incentive plan LTIP, with a particular focus Conduct a shareholder consultation process in preparation onperformance metrics and incentive levels to ensure these are foritssubmission to shareholders for approval at the AGM aligned with the new management structure and strategic objectives Monitor on an ongoing basis the alignment of executive pay Reviewing and agreeing to recommend the removal of the coandbenefits with the strategic direction of the Group.
investment obligation under the Performance and Co-investment Plan, and an increase in our shareholding guidelines The results of independent performance evaluation of the Committee, conducted by Armstrong Bonham Carter LLP.
Remuneration Committee composition and meetings South West Water Date of appointment to remuneration Pennon Remuneration committee Committee Attendance member Committee chairman Martin Angle December 2008 7 7 Committee members Neil Cooper September 2014 6 7 Gill Rider September 2012 7 7 1 South West Water non-executive directors Martin Hagen 7 7 2 Steve Johnson 1 1 1 Representing South West Water interests.
The Pennon Remuneration Committee and the South West Water remuneration committee meet sequentially on the same day.
Theresponsibilities of the South West Water remuneration committee mirror those of the Pennon Remuneration Committee but only inrespectofSouth West Water.
Steve Johnson, who was a member of the South West Water remuneration committee, resigned as a non-executive director of South WestWater on 28 April 2016 In accordance with the Code, all of the Committee members are independent Non-Executive Directors, and the Committee is advised by Deloitte, an independent remuneration consultant, to ensure remuneration is determined impartially.
The Chairman of the Board attends fromtime to time but is not a member of the Committee.
The CEO also attends meetings when invited except for such part of a meeting whenmatters concerning his own remuneration are to be discussed.
