48 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Board of Directors The Board represents the interests of QinetiQ and its shareholders.
Mark Elliott, Non-executive Chairman Steve Wadey, Chief Executive Officer Appointed in June 2009: elected Chairman in Appointed in April 2015 N RC S March 2010 N R RC Skills and experience: Steve has in-depth experience of the defence industry and technology, and extensive Skills and experience: Mark has experience of a operational and corporate experience and stewardship.
variety of industry sectors from membership of He is a Fellow of the Institution of Engineering and the boards of FTSE listed companies.
Technology, a Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society Mark was a Non-executive Director of G4S plc, where and a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
he was the Senior Independent Director and Chairman He was previously Co-chair of the UK Defence of the Remuneration Committee, from September Growth Partnership, a member of the Prime 2006 until May 2016.
He was a Non-executive Director Ministers Business Advisory Group, Co-Chair of the of Reed Elsevier Group plc and also Chairman of its National Defence Industries Council Research and Remuneration Committee and Reed Elsevier NV from Development Group and a Non-executive director April 2003 until April 2013.
He worked for IBM for over of the UK MOD Research and Development Board.
30 years where he occupied a number of senior Steve held various roles with MBDA from 2001 to management positions, including General Manager 2014, most recently as Managing Director, MBDA UK of IBM Europe, Middle East and Africa and was a and Technical Director for the MBDA Group.
Before member of IBMs worldwide Management Council.
that, he held various roles in engineering with Matra Other appointments: Mark is Chairman of Kodak BAe Dynamics from 1996 to 2001, and various roles Alaris Holdings Limited.
with British Aerospace held from 1989 to 1996.
Other appointments: Steve is Chair of the Defence Industry Liaison Board of the UK Department for International Trade, Defence & Security Organisation.
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent, Ian Mason, Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed in June 2014.
A N R RC S Skills and experience: Ian has considerable experience in strategy, business transformation, Skills and experience: Sir James has significant eCommerce and international development.
experience of the defence industry, contracting with government and management.
He was Group Chief Executive of Electrocomponents plc from 2001 until 31 March 2015, having joined that Sir James was High Sheriff of Devon during 2015. company in 1995.
Previously he worked for The Boston During a 37-year career in the Royal Navy, which Committee membership key Consulting Group and was a Non-executive Director culminated in his appointment as Commander-inof the Sage Group plc from 2007 to 2013.
Chief Fleet, he commanded the aircraft carrier HMS A Audit Invincible and three other ships and submarines.
N Nomination Other appointments: In October 2016, Ian was Between operational duties, Sir James held several appointed Chief Executive Officer of Domestic & R Remuneration positions at the MOD and gained cross-Whitehall General Insurance Limited.
RC Risk & CSR experience while on secondment to HM Treasury.
S Security Other appointments: Sir James is the Non-executive Committee Chairman Chairman of Witt Limited.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Board of Directors 49 David Smith, Chief Financial Officer Michael Harper, Deputy Chairman and Senior Lynn Brubaker, Non-executive Director Appointed in March 2017 Independent Non-executive Director Appointed in January 2016.
RC S A N R RC Appointed in November 2011: elected Deputy Skills and experience: Lynn has considerable experience Chairman and Senior Independent Nonin the international aerospace industry, including Skills and experience: David has extensive executive executive Director in February 2012. responsibility for business development, strategy, experience in blue-chip companies and has worked A N R RC S operational and manufacturing issues.
She has a strong in the aerospace and defence, technology and track record of running international operations, as well automotive sectors.
David is an Associate of the Skills and experience: Michael has a wealth as experience of businesses in which technology and Chartered Institute of Management Accountants of operational and corporate experience and intellectual property are important.
and a member of its Advisory Panel.
stewardship, including in the engineering sector.
Previously, Lynn was a Non-executive Director of Force Before joining QinetiQ, David was Chief Financial Michael was Chairman of Ricardo plc from November Protection, Inc. Seabury Group, Graham Partners, Officer and a director of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc 2009 until November 2014, having joined that Board Cordiem, Chairman of the Flight Safety Foundation, from November 2014, having joined that company in 2003, Chairman of BBA Aviation plc from June and a member of the Management Advisory Council in January 2014 as Chief Financial Officer of the 2007 until May 2014 and CEO from February 2006 of the Federal Aviation Administration.
Prior to Rolls-Royce, David was until June 2007, having joined that Board in 2005, from Honeywell International in 2005, where she was Chief Financial Officer and a Board member of and Chairman of Vitec Group plc from 2004 to 2012.
Vice President and General Manager of Commercial Edwards Group from 2010 to 2013.
David was Chief He was Senior Independent Director of Catlin Group Aerospace.
Prior to that, she held a variety of roles in Executive Officer of Jaguar Land Rover from 2008 to Limited from 2005 to 2011.
Michael was previously the commercial aerospace sector working for Allied 2010, having been Chief Financial Officer and Interim a Director of Williams plc where, at the time of the Signal which acquired Honeywell in 1999, the CEO in 2008 and, from 1983 to 2008, held a variety demerger in 2000, he became CEO of Kidde plc.
McDonnell Douglas Corporation, Republic Airlines of roles with Ford Motor Company.
During the year and ComAir Airlines.
under review, David ceased to be an Advisory Board Other appointments: Michael is a Non-executive member for the Warwick Business School.
Director of the Aerospace Technology Institute.
Other appointments: Lynn is a Non-executive Director of FARO Technologies Inc. Hexcel Corp. and The Other appointments: David is a Non-executive Nordam Group.
Director of Motability Operations Group plc.
Paul Murray, Non-executive Director Susan Searle, Non-executive Director Jon Messent, Company Secretary and Appointed in October 2010.
Group General Counsel A N R RC S A N R RC S Appointed in January 2011.
Skills and experience: Paul has a broad Skills and experience: Susan has extensive Appointment to the Board: Appointed as Company range of experience in finance and corporate experience of investing in growing technology Secretary and Group General Counsel in governance from a cross-section of industries, businesses, acquisitions, intellectual property January 2011. all of which leverage technology.
and exploitation of new technologies.
Skills and experience: Jon Joined QinetiQ Previously, Paul was a Director of Knowledge Peers She was a founder of Touchstone Innovations plc from Chloride Group plc where he held a similar role.
plc, Senior Independent Director of Taylor Nelson formerly Imperial Innovations Group plc, leading it as He has a background in legal private practice as Sofres plc, a Non-executive Director of Thomson SA CEO from 2002 to July 2013, and previously has served well as general counsel and company secretarial and Tangent Communications plc, and has also been on a variety of private company boards in engineering, experience in other FTSE250 companies.
Group Finance Director of Carlton Communications healthcare and materials.
Susan was a Trustee of Fight plc, Group Finance Director of LASMO plc and a for Sight from 2013 to 2016.
During the year under Trustee of Pilotlight.
During the year under review, review, Susan ceased to be a member of the Paul ceased to be a Director of Independent Oil international advisory board of PTT.
variety of commercial and business development roles in her early career with Shell Chemicals, the Bank Other appointments: Paul is a Non-executive Director of Nova Scotia and Montech Australia.
and Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee at Royal Mail Group plc.
He is also a Director of Ventive Ltd Other appointments: Susan is the Senior Independent and Naked Energy Ltd. Non-executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee of both Benchmark Holdings plc and Horizon Discovery Group plc.
She is Chair of Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc and Chair of Mercia Technologies plc and Chair of its Nominations Committee, having been previously Deputy Chair and Chair of the Audit Committee.
50 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Code Principle B Effectiveness Board performance evaluation Set out below are details of, and progress against, the The 2017 review As noted on page 42, an evaluation of the performance key findings of the 2016 review.
Set out on the next of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors, is page are details of the 2017 evaluation process, its being carried out carried out annually, with an external, independent, review key findings and the priorities for the coming year.
internally by way in each third year.
An external review took place in 2016, of a questionnaire with the 2017 review being carried out internally by way of a questionnaire completed by Board members.
Progress against prior year review The key findings of the prior year external evaluation review and progress against them are as follows: Key findings Action taken The Board requested a review of its The schedule of Board agenda items for the year was reviewed 1 annual agenda, in order to ensure during the year.
In addition to Standing and Governance items, the focus on issues of strategy while Board would also follow a timetable of deep dive subject reviews, maintaining the requisite reporting and Executive Committee members would be attending Board rigour on operational and governance meetings to present on these.
activity, and fulfilling the Companys governance responsibilities.
Further, the format of the CEO and CFO report to the Board was updated during the year to provide more detail on customer engagement and on progress against strategic goals and the growth strategy, as noted on page 44.
The Board requested greater oversight At the September Board meeting, the Group Director, HR presented 2 of HR policy and the development of a report on HR processes, with particular emphasis on the a more in-depth understanding of challenges presented by the organisational design aspect of the the management of employee ongoing transformation programme, the matrix structure, details engagement, performance of the leadership development programme and activity with regard management, diversity and to gender pay legislation.
An HR review process was put in place succession planning.
and its progress would be monitored.
Reviewing Executive Committee As noted on page 45, at the October Board strategy meeting, the 3 succession planning.
CEO and Group Director, Human Resources gave a presentation on HR strategy, talent management and succession planning.
Reviewing the Boards composition The format of the Board skills matrix was reviewed, revised and 4 and skills.
updated during the year, following a review by the members of the Board in conjunction with the Companys recruitment advisors.
Reviewing risk management and The Board reviewed and approved a revised and updated Group 5 reporting processes.
Risk Register at its September meeting, and will consider its effectiveness during the financial year ended 31 March 2018.
Further details can be found in the report of the Risk & CSR Committee on page 66.
Ensuring further interaction with the As noted in item 1 above, Executive Committee members would be 6 leadership community and senior attending Board meetings to discuss deep dive topics, and business executives during the year.
growth would be discussed at each Board meeting.
In addition, as noted on page 44, Non-executive Directors have attended each of the quarterly extended leadership meetings run by the Executive Committee and which are attended by approximately 100 senior leaders within the Group.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Corporate governance statement 51 2017 Review process Priorities for the coming year The overall conclusion The review in respect of the 2017 financial year took The Boards priorities for the coming year were place in the final quarter of the year and consisted of a identified as: of the 2017 review was series of externally-provided questionnaires in respect that the Board was of each of the Board and its Committees and the i succession planning and longer-term Board satisfied that the Chairman, which were completed by each Director composition to support implementation of and the Company Secretary.
In order to obtain a strategic goals: performance of the complete overview of the workings of the Board and Board had improved its Committees, the Committee questionnaires covered ii a continued focus on strategy, and its and it continued to be time management and composition, Committee implementation processes and support, the work of the Committee and effective in executing priorities for change.
The Board questionnaire covered iii m onitoring the effectiveness of the executive its duties.
composition, expertise, dynamics, management of management team meetings, support, Board Committees, focus of meetings, strategic oversight, risk management and iv e nsuring effective emphasis on governance matters: internal control, succession planning and human resource management, and priorities for change.
v defining, developing and monitoring cultural development and change: and Respondents were encouraged to include illustrative comments with their feedback.
vi continuing with the implementation of the proposals from the 2016 review.
Key findings The results of the review were presented by the Details of the outcomes of the effectiveness reviews for Chairman at the Boards March meeting.
The overall the following committees can be found in the individual conclusion of the 2017 review was that the Board Committee reports, as follows: Audit Committee was satisfied that the performance of the Board had page 62, Risk & CSR Committee page 66, and improved and it continued to be effective in executing Remuneration Committee page 82. its duties.
The Board composition, expertise, interaction with management, oversight of strategy, risk and succession planning were all highly rated, with an area for improvement identified as better management reporting in terms of length of reports and the use of executive summaries.
Succession planning for the members of the Board was identified as a top priority, with the possible addition of greater international experience to align with QinetiQs strategic goals.
The level of interaction between the Board and senior management in Board meetings, in the business and in informal social settings was highly valued.
The management of the Boards annual cycle of work, the agenda for Board meetings, the time and input during the meetings, and the quality and frequency of presentations made by management to the Board were positively rated.
Further work was required to standardise the format and length of management reports and the inclusion of executive summaries.
The importance of the Board monitoring progress made against the strategy was noted and the Boards oversight of various aspects of risk management and internal control was rated highly, as was the oversight of the companys health and safety performance.
52 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Code Principle B Effectiveness continued Report of the Nominations Committee.
The Committee meets as necessary and when called by its Chair.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2017, the Committee met on six occasions.
Overview Key activities during the year were as follows: a Change of Chief Financial Officer: b Succession and development planning for senior management immediately below Board level, i. e. at Executive Committee level: and c Board succession planning, and in particular settling upon the skills required in current and future Non-executive Directors to support the Companys strategic intent, and corporate governance requirements.
a Change of Chief Financial Officer A sub-committee comprising the Chairman, Senior Independent Director and CEO was set up in June 2016 to deal with the change in CFO.
The CEO, in conjunction with the Group Director, HR, prepared a role specification and conducted a review of potential recruitment consultants.
Mark Elliott Three potential search partners were shortlisted and, in Nominations Committee Chairman July, the CEO reported to the Committee that Russell Reynolds had been appointed, due to their in-depth knowledge and experience of CFO recruitment.
Russell Reynolds had no other connections with the Company.
The Committee agreed at its meeting in July that the CEO would work with Russell Reynolds to produce a final Key points: Dear shareholder, shortlist of candidates for review at the Committees Six meetings during the year During the year under review, the Nominations September meeting.
A shortlist of four potential Change of CFO Committee focused on succession planning and candidates was put forward and a preferred candidate a review of the balance of skills, background and Succession and development identified.
The preferred candidate met with the CEO, planning.
The Committee oversaw the the Audit Committee Chair and the Chairman.
At its appointment of David Smith as the new CFO, following September meeting, the Committee considered the the resignation of David Mellors.
Board diversity and appointment and made a recommendation to the Board succession planning will remain key priorities for of the proposed appointment, which was then approved.
b Succession and development planning for senior Mark Elliott management immediately below Board level, i. e. at Nominations Committee Chairman Executive Committee level The Committee continues to maintain oversight of Main responsibilities the processes for ensuring that succession plans are in The role of the Committee is to ensure that the place for the top layer of management, with a focus on composition of the Board and Committees comprises the improving the talent pipeline and diversity.
This process optimum balance of skills, knowledge and experience, and includes ensuring that the Board as a whole meets to oversee succession planning for the Board and senior with senior management, that remuneration policy management.
It considers diversity, including skills mix, and long-term incentives for senior management are international industry experience and gender, when reviewed by the Remuneration Committee and that seeking to appoint a new Director to the Board.
The the Chairman works with the CEO to review succession Committees full terms of reference can be found in planning and to ensure the right mix of skills and the Governance section of the QinetiQ website at experience at the executive level.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Corporate governance statement 53 Target under review, the Committee and the Board were Board Diversity Policy The Board Diversity Policy was approved by the Board in 2013. updated by the CEO and the Group Director, HR, on HR The key statement and objectives of that policy the full text of strategy, including details of leadership skills required, which is available on the QinetiQ website www.
com 25% leadership and career development activity, and about-us corporate-governance are as follows: of board women succession planning for the Executive Committee and senior management.
The strengths of, and development Statement: opportunities for, Executive Committee members The QinetiQ Board recognises the benefits of diversity.
Diversity Currently were considered and agreed.
of skills, background, knowledge, international and industry experience, and gender, amongst many other factors, will be c Succession planning at Non-executive Director level taken into consideration when seeking to appoint a new Director to the Board.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, all Board 22% As noted on page 50, an action arising from the Boards appointments will always be made on merit.
of board women 2016 annual effectiveness review was to review the Boards composition and skills to ensure the right Objectives: balance of skills and experience as the Company The Board should ensure an appropriate mix of skills and evolves in pursuit of its strategic objectives.
The experience to ensure an optimum Board and efficient Chairman and the CEO began this process and a skills stewardship.
The Board should ensure that it comprises matrix was formulated for consideration by all members Directors who are sufficiently experienced and independent of the Board.
At the Committees January meeting, the in character and judgement.
form of the matrix was agreed and circulated to the Board for completion, in readiness for the Committees The Board aimed to increase the proportion of women on the Board to 25% by 2015.
Thereafter, the Board aimed to maintain March meeting.
The matrix was split between three key a minimum Board composition of 25% women, such percentage areas, i personal qualities, including a range of skills to be reviewed annually.
and behaviours: ii foundation skills, including business experience, mergers and acquisitions, financial and Progress against the policy: governance: and iii markets experience, including Having previously met the 2015 target of 25% of the Board government, defence, security and other commercial comprising women, changes since then led to a reduction in this areas.
Each of the three areas was given a weighting proportion.
Following the appointment of Lynn Brubaker in January and a rating as to current and future requirements, 2016, the proportion of women members of the Board increased to with an opportunity to add comments.
22%, which is working towards the Boards original objective of 25%.
The Committee notes the recommendation in the five-year review of the Davies report to achieve a minimum representation of 33% The outcome from the skills matrix was considered at by 2020. the Committees meeting in March 2017.
In particular, it was noted that personal qualities remained very Gender and ethnic diversity will be taken into consideration important, with strategic thinking of particular for all future Board appointments, with the proviso that future importance, and that business experience would appointments will be made on merit, and will continue to take into become more important in the future, in terms of account diversity in its broader sense, to ensure an appropriate mix business development.
The outcome of the review of skills, background and experience as identified from the Board will be instrumental in the process for identifying skills review.
Details of Company-wide diversity and inclusion activity can be found in the People and relationships section on page 31.
At its meeting in March 2017, the appointment and retirement dates of Non-executive Directors were considered, so that an appropriate calendar of activity can be prepared for timely succession planning.
These dates are detailed below.
Succession planning: Non-executive Director appointment and retirement dates Appointment 6-year 9-year AGM Retire Name date date date date 1 Mar 2010 Mark Elliott as Chair 1 Mar 2016 1 Mar 2019 July 2019 Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 10 Apr 2010 10 Apr 2016 10 Apr 2019 July 2019 Paul Murray 25 Oct 2010 25 Oct 2016 25 Oct 2019 July 2020 Michael Harper 22 Nov 2011 22 Nov 2017 22 Nov 2020 July 2021 Susan Searle 14 Mar 2014 14 Mar 2020 14 Mar 2023 July 2023 Ian Mason 3 June 2014 3 June 2020 3 June 2023 July 2023 Lynn Brubaker 27 Jan 2016 27 Jan 2022 27 Jan 2025 July 2025 54 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Code Principle C Accountability Board oversight of risk management Committee oversight of risk management The Board The Board oversees the system of risk management and The risk management process and the system of internal control by means of the Audit Committee and internal control necessary to manage risks are managed routinely challenges the Risk & CSR Committee in conjunction with the risk by the Audit Committee financial risks and the Risk management to ensure management and assurance processes detailed in this & CSR Committee non-financial risks.
The full Board that the systems of section.
Any matters of particular concern are escalated attends these Committee meetings, either as a for presentation at a Board meeting by the relevant Committee member or as a guest so as to receive at internal control are personnel.
Examples of such escalation are first-hand the findings of the Committee.
Details of the constantly improving consideration of the risk register, expression of risk Committee memberships are set out on page 46.
The to maintain their and risk reporting.
The Board routinely challenges internal audit function independently reviews the risk management to ensure that the systems of internal identification and control processes implemented by effectiveness.
control are constantly improving, to maintain their management, and reports to the respective Committee.
Once a year, the CEO presents to the Board on the system of internal control in operation The Audit Committee and the Risk & CSR Committee also during the year.
review the assurance process, ensuring that an appropriate mix of techniques is used to obtain the level of assurance At its meeting in March 2017, the Board reviewed the required by the Board.
The reports of both Committees effectiveness of the system of internal control that was can be found on pages 59 and 64 respectively.
in operation during the financial year ended 31 March 2017.
Details of specific risk review activity undertaken Risk reporting is embedded in the management of the during the year by the Executive Committee, the Audit business through the Executive Committee and monthly Committee and the Risk & CSR Committee, together Business Performance Reviews and feeds into Group with the current risk registers, were presented by strategy at the executive and Board level.
Internal audit function The following activity was noted at that review: The internal audit function, which is independent of the business and has a direct reporting line to the Audit Executive risk review Committee, provides assurance to the Board and its Risk owners had reviewed and updated their Committees over the effectiveness of the internal risks prior to review by the Executive Committee.
The programme of work undertaken by the internal audit function is approved Executive Committee formal risk reviews had been in advance by the Audit Committee.
It is prioritised undertaken at four meetings during the year.
according to risk, including those risks identified by the Group through its risk management processes.
Board Committee risk review Additionally, regular discussions are held between the The Audit Committee had undertaken a detailed internal audit function and the external auditor regarding review of the financial risk register at two meetings internal audit reports, risks, internal audit plans and the during the year.
The Risk & CSR Committee had reviewed the nonfinancial risk register at four meetings during the year.
Board statements relating to risk management The Risk & CSR Committee had undertaken deep Board statements relating to the fair, balanced and dive reviews into specific risks through the year.
understandable assessment, principal risks, the effectiveness of the risk management and internal Update to risk reporting format control process, and going concern statement, A revised risk reporting format had been prepared can be found on page 58.
The longer-term viability and reviewed by the Audit Committee, Risk & CSR assessment can be found in the Strategic report Committee and Executive Committee.
Following on page 22. various revisions, it had been approved and implemented during the year under review.
Details of Risk management and assurance activity the work of the Risk & CSR Committee in respect of Three lines of defence model the review of risk management and its reporting can Risk management and assurance activity conforms be found in the report of the Risk & CSR Committee to the three lines of defence model as detailed on on page 66. page 55.
The first line of defence is performed by the businesses, through managing activities in accordance As a result of the presentation to the Board, the Board with established operating principles: the second line considered that the risk review activity that had taken of defence is performed by the oversight functions, place during the year was effective.
including the safety and governance team: and the third line of defence is performed by the internal audit team, reporting to the Executive Committee, to the Boards Audit Committee in respect of financial risks, and to the Boards Risk & CSR Committee in respect of non-financial risks.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Corporate governance statement 55 Three lines of defence model Board Audit Committee Risk & CSR Committee The reports of the Audit Committee and of the Risk & CSR Committee Receive reports from the assurance functions.
Identification of can be found on pages 59 and 64 respectively.
the principal risks facing the Group and agreement of an acceptable level of risk page 54.
Senior Management and Executive Committee 1st Line of Defence 2nd Line of Defence 3rd Line of Defence Risk management Risk assurance Internal audit Managers identify and evaluate risks Oversight by management in the business Reviews and evaluates risk management and oversight functions.
activity and provides assurance of the Design and operation of internal controls effectiveness of the control environment to mitigate risks Production of management controls to manage risks page 54. and internal control processes.
Application of delegated authorities, policies, Management of external confidential reporting procedures and codes of practice.
Reports to the Board and the process page 56.
Annual process of a hierarchical selfReports to the Board and Executive Committee.
certification, reporting to assurance function page 56.
Anti-bribery and corruption measures page 31.
Details of key strategic and operational risks can Internal control system be found in the Strategic report on pages 22 to 25, QinetiQs businesses are responsible for ensuring details of the assurance process in respect of that a robust risk and control environment is in place financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated as part of their day-to-day operations.
Management accounts can be found on page 56, and details of risk in the business oversee this process and a clear set of management and assurance activity in respect of US delegated authorities is in place, covering financial and subsidiaries within the requirements of the US National non-financial activities, and is consistent with effective Industry Security Program can be found on page 57. operational control and risk management and the Boards risk appetite.
Key business policies, procedures Review of significant risks and codes of practice, together with the Companys The Board, the Audit Committee and the Risk & CSR Code of Conduct, are available on the Companys Committee regularly review significant risks to the intranet and apply to every employee within the QinetiQ business.
Significant risks are risks, both financial and Group, including all subsidiaries, with the exception of non-financial, which are related to the achievement of Foster-Miller, Inc. due to the proxy arrangement as business objectives.
They are identified, evaluated and detailed on page 57.
Foster-Miller, Inc. is, however, mitigated by QinetiQs managers and are assessed an active and supportive participant in this overall on a continual basis.
They may be associated with framework and their President is a member of a variety of internal and external events, including the Executive Committee.
control breakdowns, competition, disruption, regulatory requirements, and natural and other catastrophes.
Managers are responsible for the implementation of suitable internal controls to ensure effective mitigation.
56 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Code Principle C Accountability continued Risk assurance activity during the year responsible for the preparation of the half-year and Risk reporting is Risk assurance activity was ongoing during the year annual reports and for internal financial reporting under review.
The following areas were covered by the to senior management and the Board.
To ensure a embedded in the Executive Committee and then key issues reported consistency of approach and accuracy in financial management of the four times a year to the Risk & CSR Committee: reporting, the team provides advice on accounting business through the and financial reporting issues to QinetiQs businesses Updates in respect of general risk governance and sets the Groups accounting policies which are Executive Committee from the Group Director, Safety and Governance.
contained in the Finance Accounting Manual.
The and monthly Business team liaises with the external auditor.
Reviews of business risk registers and moderation Performance Reviews to form the Group Risk Register.
The internal control and risk management systems and feeds into Group Quarterly reports from the internal audit function in described on pages 54 to 57 apply to the Companys respect of the effective management of Group risks strategy at the process of financial reporting and the preparation of and the risk management process.
The internal audit and external Review of the risk identification process.
audit functions, and the reviews by the Audit Committee Board level.
The output from the self-certification process and and the Board, provide a structured approach to the a review of the effectiveness of internal controls.
review and challenge of financial information and financial reporting.
The report of the Audit Committee Regularly requiring risk owners to report their can be found on page 59 and the work of the Board activity to the Risk & CSR Committee.
in respect of financial oversight can be found on pages 45 and 54.
Self-certification process An annual process of hierarchical self-certification on Employee reporting and guidance: the effectiveness of internal controls, which provides a documented and auditable trail of accountability for Confidential reporting process the operation of the system of internal control, is in QinetiQ has in place a confidential reporting process operation.
This process is informed by a rigorous and which is detailed on the Companys intranet.
If an structured self-assessment that addresses compliance individual does not feel that they can resolve any with Group policy.
It provides for successive assurances concerns with the Company directly, either through to be given at increasingly higher levels of management discussions with their line manager or directly with the and, finally, to the Board.
The self-certification process Company Secretary or Group Internal Audit Manager, is carried out at the full year and the half-year.
they can use an externally provided confidential internet and telephone reporting system, as noted in the People Risk management and internal control: and relationships section on page 31.
All concerns are passed by the external third party to the Group Internal Financial reporting process Audit Manager who will ensure that they are held in The following elements provide assurance in respect strict confidence and are properly investigated.
Reports of the financial reporting process and preparation on confidential reporting activity and the outcome of consolidated accounts: of investigations are regularly reported to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviewed the The financial management and control framework: effectiveness of the Groups confidential reporting The Companys finance function: process during the year, as noted on page 60.
The internal control and risk management systems: The internal audit function: Anti-bribery and the prevention of corruption The external audit function: and QinetiQ has internal procedures in place that are designed to ensure compliance with the UK Bribery Oversight by the Audit Committee and the Board.
Act 2010, and other international regulations and best practice relating to the prevention of corruption, The Company operates a financial management and which are applicable to its business.
control framework, comprising a system of targets, reporting external and internal and controls, that is Ethics embedded throughout the businesses and on which The Company provides employees with guidance to progress is reported to the Audit Committee and to assist them in making informed ethical decisions on the Board.
The finance function consists of different a day-to-day basis, including the Companys Code financial reporting teams who report to the CFO.
The of Conduct, mandatory annual ethics training for all Group Finance team comprises suitably qualified and employees and the Companys Directors, and links experienced professionals, including accountants.
It is to the country risk table and review panel processes for doing business in high risk countries.
Further details can be found in the People and relationships section on page 31.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Corporate governance statement 57 Management and control of US subsidiaries In terms of the power to govern, the Proxy agreement It has been placed The US Global Products division, trading as QinetiQ vests certain powers solely with the Proxy holders North America, which contributed approximately 70m and certain powers solely with QinetiQ.
For example, under a Proxy to the Groups revenue in 2017, operates under a Proxy the Proxy holders cannot carry out any of the below arrangement as it arrangement, as detailed below, with the remainder of without QinetiQs express approval: is required by the US the US business operating outside the Proxy regime and therefore following the same reporting lines and processes sell or dispose of, in any manner, capital assets National Industrial as the Groups other, non-regulated businesses.
or the business of FMI: Security Program pledge, mortgage or encumber assets of FMI for US Global Products division and the Proxy arrangement purposes other than obtaining working capital The US Global Products division, trading as QinetiQ or funds for capital improvements: North America, is managed via Foster-Miller, Inc. FMI, merge, consolidate, reorganise or dissolve FMI: and a wholly-owned subsidiary of QinetiQ in the US.
It has file or make any petition under the federal bankruptcy been placed under a Proxy arrangement as it is required laws or similar law or statute of any state or any by the US National Industrial Security Program to foreign country.
maintain facility security clearances and to be insulated from foreign ownership, control or influence.
Under Unlike minority interest holders with protective veto the Proxy arrangement, FMI and the US Department rights, QinetiQ can unilaterally require the above to be of Defense DoD are parties to a Proxy agreement carried out and these are, therefore, considered to be that regulates the management and operation of significant participative features.
Pursuant to this Proxy agreement, QinetiQ has can require the payment of dividends, and the appointed four US citizens who hold the requisite US pay-down of parent company loans, from FMI.
security clearances as Proxy holders to exercise the voting rights in FMI.
The Company maintains its involvement in FMIs activities through normal business activity and liaison The current Proxy holders comprise David Carey, John with the Chair of the Proxy Board.
QinetiQs CEO and or Currier, Tom Mills and Scott Webster and have all been CFO attended four meetings of the Proxy Board during in office during the year under review.
The Proxy holders the year under review.
In addition, the March Board are also Directors of FMI, with David Carey as Chairman.
and Committee meetings were held at the FMI site in In addition to their powers as Directors, the Proxy Waltham.
Members of the local leadership team met holders have power under the Proxy arrangements with Board members and attended part of the Board to exercise all prerogatives of share ownership of FMI.
meeting, and the Board went on a site visit and met The Proxy holders have a fiduciary duty, and agree, local employees.
to perform their role in the best interests of QinetiQ as shareholder including the legitimate economic interest, The President of FMI is a member of the Executive and in a manner consistent with the national security Committee as detailed on page 47.
FMI commercial interests of the US.
QinetiQ Group plc does not have any and governance activity is included in the business representation on the Board of FMI.
QinetiQ Group plc update provided in the regular executive report to the may not remove the Proxy holders other than for acts Board.
This activity is subject always to the confines of of gross negligence or wilful misconduct or for breach the Proxy regime to ensure that it meets the requirement of the Proxy agreement and always only with the that FMI must conduct its business affairs without consent of the US Defense Security Service.
external control or influence, and the requirements necessary to protect the US national security interest.
58 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Code Principle C Accountability continued Board statements relating to risk management.
Directors statement in respect of fair, balanced Going concern The Group continues and understandable assessment The Groups activities, combined with the factors All of the Directors consider that the Annual Report, that are likely to affect its future development and to adopt the goingtaken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable performance, are set out on pages 2 to 37.
The Chief concern basis and provides the information necessary for shareholders Financial Officers review on pages 34 to 37 sets out in preparing its to assess the Companys position and performance, details of the financial position of the Group, the cash business model and strategy.
In this context, the flows, committed borrowing facilities, liquidity, and the financial statements.
coordination and review of the Group-wide input into the Groups policies and processes for managing its capital Annual Report is a vital part of the control process upon and financial risks.
Note 26 on page 129 to the financial which the Directors rely and is an exercise which spans statements also provides details of the Groups hedging a period wider than the timetable for compiling the activities, financial instruments, and its exposure to Annual Report itself.
Critically these processes include liquidity and credit risk.
the controls the business operates throughout the year to identify key financial and operational issues.
Further The Group meets its day-to-day working capital details can be found in the report of the Audit requirements through its available cash funds and Committee on page 61. its bank facilities.
The market conditions in which the Group operates have been, and are expected to continue Board assessment of principal risks to be, challenging as spending from the Groups key The Board confirms that it has carried out a robust customers in its primary markets in the UK and US assessment of the principal risks facing the Company, remains under pressure.
Despite these challenges, including those that would threaten its business model, the Directors believe that the Group is well positioned future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The way in to manage its overall business risks successfully.
which the Board understands and manages risk is set After making enquiries, the Directors have a out on pages 54 to 66 and details of principal risks reasonable expectation that the Group has and their management and mitigation can be found on adequate resources to continue in operational pages 22 to 25.
Board level oversight is carried out by existence for the foreseeable future.
The Group the Audit Committee and the Risk & CSR Committee.
therefore continues to adopt the going-concern At its meeting in March 2017, the CEO presented basis in preparing its financial statements.
details of the risk review activities that had taken place during the year.
The Group is exposed to various risks and uncertainties, the principal ones being summarised in the Principal Board review of the effectiveness of risk management risks and uncertainties section on pages 22 to 25. and internal control processes Crystallisation of such risks, to the extent not fully The Board confirms that it has conducted a review of mitigated, would lead to a negative impact on the the effectiveness of the Companys risk management Groups financial results but none are deemed and internal control systems in operation during the sufficiently material to prevent the Group from year, as required by the Code.
The Board considers that continuing as a going concern for the next 12 months.
the risk review activities undertaken during the year under review, as presented by the CEO at the Boards March meeting, amounted to an effective system being in place to ensure that all aspects of risk management and internal control had been considered for the year under review.
Details of the Companys principal risks and uncertainties and how they are managed and mitigated can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 22 to 25.
Details of the Companys risk management and internal control systems are set out in this Corporate governance statement on pages 54 to 66, and the reports of the Audit Committee and Risk & CSR Committee in respect of the oversight of risk management can be found on pages 59 and 64 respectively.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Corporate governance statement 59 Report of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Paul Murray.
The Board considers him to have recent and relevant financial experience.
He was formerly Group Finance Director of Carlton Communications plc and LASMO plc, and he is currently Audit & Risk Committee Chairman at Royal Mail Group plc.
The Board considers the members of the Committee to be independent.
They bring extensive experience of corporate management in senior executive positions to the Company.
Details of their background and experience can be found on pages 48 and 49.
The CEO, CFO, Group Financial Controller, Group Internal Audit Manager and representatives of the external auditor normally attend Audit Committee meetings.
Main responsibilities The Audit Committee monitors the Groups integrity in financial reporting and reviews the effectiveness of the financial risk management framework.
The Committees full terms of reference can be found in the Governance section of the QinetiQ website at www.
Paul Murray Audit Committee Chairman The Audit Committee meets as necessary and at least four times a year.
The external auditor has the right to request that a meeting of the Audit Committee be convened.
During the past Dear shareholder, financial year, and in accordance with its terms of The Audit Committee I am pleased to present the report of the Audit reference, the Committee met with each of QinetiQs Committee on the work carried out during the last external auditor and the Group Internal Audit Manager monitors the Groups financial year.
The Committee continues to operate on two separate occasions, without Executive Directors integrity in financial on the basis of an open but challenging dialogue with present, to discuss the audit process and assure itself reporting and reviews management and with the internal and external auditors, regarding resourcing, auditor independence and objectivity.
and the application of an appropriate level of scrutiny.
the effectiveness Activities during the year of the financial The main responsibilities of the Committee are set out in The Committee has an annual calendar of activities, in risk management this report.
In addition to reviewing the Groups financial addition to which it identifies particular areas of focus reporting processes and external audit effectiveness, two during the year.
During the course of its meetings, the framework.
key areas that the Committee considered during the year Committee received presentations, reports and analyses were i a review of the process for risk management and from the CFO, the Group Financial Controller, the Group reporting, in conjunction with the Risk & CSR Committee, Internal Audit Manager and the external auditor.
in response to the outcome from last years review of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
The key activities during the year were as follows: Further details are set out in the report of the Risk & CSR Committee on page 66 and the Committee reviewed the a Internal controls page 60 : new process format at its March 2017 meeting: and ii b Financial reporting: the significant issues considered to initiate and oversee an audit tender process for the by the Committee in relation to the preparation appointment of the external auditor, of which further details and reporting of the full and half-year financial can be found in this report.
After the successful conclusion statements, and how these issues were addressed of the tender, the Board approved the appointment of page assessment of the fair, balanced and  LLP as the external auditor for understandable requirement page 61 : the financial year ending 31 March 2018, to succeed KPMG c Audit Committee effectiveness review page 62 : LLP.
I would like to thank all of the audit firms for their and professionalism and work in the audit tender process, d External audit: and also the team at KPMG who have worked closely Effectiveness of external audit process with the Committee over many years.
page 62 : As noted on page 51, an internal review of the External auditor independence and the provision effectiveness of the Board and its Committees was of non-audit services page 63 : carried out during the year.
The outcome of the review Review of the effectiveness and the in respect of the Audit Committee is set out on page 62. independence of the external auditor page 63 : and Paul Murray External audit tender and the appointment Audit Committee Chairman of auditor page 63.
60 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Code Principle C Accountability continued Report of the Audit Committee continued Other matters considered during the year: The annual plan is structured to ensure that all During the year under significant financial and non-financial risks are reviewed The following matters are examples of items which the within a rolling three-year strategic plan.
The audits review, the Committee Committee considered during the year under review as include the review of financial systems, programmes monitored the part of its annual cycle: and projects, as well as the management of specific effectiveness of the risks identified through the Groups risk management External audit strategy for FY17: The external auditor processes.
During the year under review, the internal systems of internal presented a paper on their FY17 audit strategy.
audit function audited constituent parts of the Groups control to gain Significant risks to be reviewed included, among transformation programme, in line with a programme assurance that an others, timing and recognition of revenue and profit, to support adherence to plans and achievement of value of goodwill, tax treatments and accounting, outcomes.
Other areas of focus during the year were effective control and pensions accounting.
anti-bribery and corruption processes and I. T. risk framework was and control.
Audit tender process: The Committee was kept maintained.
informed on the work of the working group it had set Internal audit activity in the year continued to indicate up to carry out the audit tender process.
A meeting that, overall, an effective control environment was in of the Committee was held in January 2017 solely for place, with an open culture of continuous improvement the purpose of considering the final two candidates being demonstrated by regular management requests and for making a recommendation to the Board.
for internal audits to be undertaken.
Details of the audit tender process and its outcome can be found on page 63.
The Committee also regularly reviews the effectiveness Group tax policy review: The CFO presented a of the financial risk management framework, including paper to update the Committee on the Groups tax reviewing key financial risks and assessing the priorities and issues.
Various aspects of the Groups effectiveness of managements remedial action plans.
R&D expenditure credit claims were discussed.
The During the year, the Committee undertook a detailed tax policy was considered to be cautious and the review of the financial risk register, noting i risks being Company was up to date with its tax compliance.
actively managed through internal mitigation activity, Annual review of the Committees Terms of Reference including the timeframe for current mitigation to improve and annual schedule of activities: No changes were the risk position, ii risks managed at post-mitigation made to the Terms of Reference.
The annual schedule levels but heavily influenced by external factors and or of activities was updated to reduce the number that require ongoing monitoring, and iii retired risks.
of meetings in May from two to one.
As noted on page 50, following on from the Board a Internal controls: effectiveness review, the format for the Group Risk During the year under review, the Committee monitored Register and for risk reporting was reviewed by the the effectiveness of the systems of internal control to Board at its September and March meetings respectively.
gain assurance that an effective control framework was The Board approved a revised and updated Group Risk maintained.
Reports on the effective operation of the Register at its September meeting, and the effectiveness control framework were received from management of the register will be considered during the financial and reviewed by the Committee along with key policies year ended 31 March 2018. and processes.
The process in respect of QinetiQ North America is During the year under review, at four meetings, reports adjusted to take into account the Proxy arrangements on the operation of internal controls and risk management referred to on page 57.
The executive management processes, including the confidential reporting process, function has regular contact with the Chair of the Proxy were received from the internal auditor.
Board and with US executive management, and the Groups internal controls have been applied as far as Particular attention was given to the timely and effective possible within the requirements of the Proxy regime.
implementation of remedial actions, either identified by the business directly, or by the internal audit function, The internal audit function continues to work closely with updates on improvement actions being scheduled with US management to gain assurance that an for follow-up at a later meeting during the year.
The effective control environment is in place.
In addition, the internal audit functions risk based strategic and annual Executive Directors attended meetings of the US Board plan was presented to, and scrutinised twice during the during the year and further such meetings are planned.
year by, the Committee, to provide assurance that resources were adequate and directed towards The Committee confirms its view that it has received key risk areas.
sufficient, reliable and timely information from management in the last financial year to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Corporate governance statement 61 b Financial Reporting the significant issues c Assessment of the fair, balanced and... the Committee considered by the Committee in relation to the understandable requirement: preparation and reporting of the full and half The Committee was required to provide advice to the was satisfied that the year financial statements, and how these Board to meet with the requirements of the Code on accounting disclosures issues were addressed: whether the annual report and accounts, taken as a and assumptions The Committee reviewed whether suitable accounting whole, provide a fair, balanced and understandable policies had been adopted, whether management had assessment of the Companys financial position and were reasonable and made the appropriate estimates and judgements, and future prospects and provide all information necessary appropriate for a sought support from the external auditor to assess to a shareholder to assess the Groups performance, business of the Groups them.
To facilitate this process, the Committee received business model and strategy.
To enable it to do so, presentations from the CFO and the Group Financial the CFO and members of management presented to size and complexity...
Controller in respect of goodwill, accounting provisions the Committee details of the processes followed by for key contracts, litigation, trade controls and the management in preparing the accounts.
In particular, treatment for taxation.
It also received a report from the Committee noted: the external auditor on the outcome of the audit.
the Group has developed a clear strategy, which has The Committee reviewed the following main issues been presented to the Board for review during the year for the periods ended 30 September 2016 and by business leaders, with updates on progress at each 31 March 2017: Board meeting: monthly business reviews are undertaken by senior the basis for, and judgements made by management management which include monitoring business in determining, the liabilities recorded for litigation, progress against budget: onerous contracts, potential claims and other disputes: business performance is monitored by the Board the carrying values of the Groups cash generating as detailed on page 44: units CGUs, specifically goodwill associated with the key individuals from appropriate business divisions US Global Products CGU which had been impaired and functions contribute to, or are involved in the in the prior year.
The major assumptions impacting verification of, the content of the Annual Report: on the net present value of future expected cash the Company has an Annual Report working group, flows were also discussed.
Certain discount rate comprising individuals from the Finance, Investor assumptions and market growth forecasts are Relations, Assurance, HR, Group Strategy, Company advised by external consultants: Secretariat and Communications functions, which assumptions used to value the net pension adheres to a timetable of actions for the production asset of 156.0m as advised by the Companys and review of the Annual Report: external actuaries : the Annual Report working group is aware of the fair, a quality of earnings analysis prepared balanced and understandable requirements and is by management: tasked with ensuring that the Annual Report takes the disclosures in the preliminary announcement account of those requirements: and annual report and accounts, in particular those a checklist of considerations to ensure the relating to non-recurring items specifically, the 5.2m requirements were met was completed by the relating to the release of engine servicing obligations, working group and presented to the Committee in risk, goodwill and tax: order to provide assurance to the Committee and the implications of delays to the BEPI-Colombo to the Board.
The checklist includes areas such as mission to Mercury programme: and ensuring what must be included to satisfy regulatory the process for making the longer-term viability requirements, consulting with relevant experienced statement and the assessment of different scenarios people to contribute and review each section, avoiding that could arise, to enable the Committee to make where possible the use of boiler-plate language and a recommendation to the Board at its May meeting.
jargon, ensuring that all matters are discussed and all Further details can be found on page 22. issues reported at an appropriate level of aggregation, with tables of reconciliations supported by and The reviews were carried out by way of papers consistent with the accompanying narrative.
There is presented by the CFO, the Group Financial Controller, an opportunity for contributors to provide comments the external auditor and the internal auditor, and on areas where there were difficulties or details of through discussions with management.
Based upon specific issues that have been considered: and the business assurance process and discussions with that Alternative Performance Measures are management and the external auditor, the Committee appropriately described and reconciled to statutory was satisfied that the accounting disclosures and measures in the Annual Report and Accounts.
assumptions were reasonable and appropriate for a business of the Groups size and complexity, that The external auditor confirmed their satisfaction with the external auditor had fulfilled its responsibilities the standard achieved.
The Boards statement in this in scrutinising the financial statements for any respect can be found on page 58. material misstatements and that the disclosures were satisfactory.
62 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Code Principle C Accountability continued Report of the Audit Committee continued d Audit Committee effectiveness review: e External Audit The transition to a The Committees September meeting considered Review of the effectiveness of the external audit process the processes to be followed for the various The Committees September meeting considered new CFO and external governance reviews.
With regard to the Audit Committee the approach for monitoring the effectiveness and auditor was identified effectiveness review, as reported on page 50, the most independence of the external audit process in the light as a key priority for recent external effectiveness evaluation of the Board of the requirements of the Code and Financial Reporting and its Committees took place during 2016 and it Council guidance.
In terms of timing, in previous years, the Committee in was agreed therefore that for 2017, the evaluation the external audit had still been under way when the the coming year... of the effectiveness of the Committee would be taken effectiveness questionnaire had been issued, with alongside the Board effectiveness review and carried the results of the review being considered at the out by way of an externally provided  May meeting.
As this timetable gave little based process.
opportunity for the external auditor to respond or correct any issues within the audit cycle, the Committee The following actions had been noted from the 2016 decided to change the timetable and to undertake the effectiveness review: review around June time, by way of a questionnairebased process, and to report the findings at the A review of risk management and reporting September Audit Committee meeting.
This would processes, led by the Chairs of the Audit Committee provide an opportunity for any improvements to be put and the Risk & CSR Committee: in place in time for the year-end audit.
For the purpose of the 2017 year-end, an update was provided at the An update on the processes for the risk management Committees May meeting on the actions arising and controls of the US business: and from the 2016 effectiveness review.
To continue with Committee training to keep appraised of legislative evolution and best practice.
The 2016 review had been undertaken by way of questionnaire and had included the views of These items were covered during the year under review.
management and employees who were involved in Details of the risk review can be found in the Report of supporting the external audit work, feedback from the Risk & CSR Committee on page 66.
The processes the CFO and Group Financial Controller and an open for risk management and control of the US business Committee discussion without the external auditor were covered in reports from the internal audit function, being present.
and the Committee received updates from the external auditor in respect of financial matters.
At the May 2017 meeting, a report was received detailing the improvement actions implemented during the 2017 As detailed on page 51, the 2017 Board and Committee financial year external audit process which had arisen effectiveness reviews were carried out by way of from the detailed 2016 review questionnaire referred an externally-provided questionnaire.
The Audit to above, as well as the output from an effectiveness Committee questionnaire covered time management review meeting held between KPMG, Group Finance and composition, Committee processes and support, and Group Internal Audit earlier in the 2017 financial year.
the work of the Committee and priorities for change.
Review by the FRCs Audit Quality Review Team The outcome of the review was considered at the During the year, the audit of the financial statements Committees March meeting.
The effectiveness of the of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2016 was Committee continued to be rated highly.
It was agreed subject to a review by the Financial Reporting Councils that the Committee should continue with its process FRC Audit Quality Review Team AQRT.
The and discussion of items, with importance placed on Committee did not consider any of the review findings focus and discipline.
The transition to a new CFO and to have a significant impact on KPMGs audit approach.
external auditor was identified as a key priority for the Committee in the coming year, along with obtaining more insight into any issues created by the ongoing transformation programme, improving the insight provided and ensuring that the reporting focuses the Committee on the key issues.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Corporate governance statement 63 External auditor independence and the External audit tender and appointment of auditor KPMG has been the auditor of the QinetiQ Group since its The Committee provision of non-audit services: formation in 2001 pursuant to a competitive tender and is Policy on the regulation of non-audit work concluded that responsible for the audit of the financial statements for the and safeguarding auditor independence year ended 31 March 2017, following their reappointment  The Company views it as essential that the external at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
LLP PwC was auditor is both independent of any conflict of interest and perceived to be so.
To safeguard auditor the preferred firm The Company stated in the previous Annual Report and Accounts independence and objectivity, the following that it was its intention to align the process for putting the to conduct the audit process is operated by the Company: external audit contract out to tender with the conclusion in 2017 engagement, and that of the five-year tenure of the audit partner.
The tender process was managed by the Audit Committee and a sub-committee The Company has a Code of Practice applicable to all they would bring a appointed, comprising the Audit Committee Chairman, two employees which sets out the principles for regulating fresh approach Non-executive Directors, the CFO and the Group Financial the award of non-audit work to the external auditor.
A three-stage process was designed and, in June to the audit...
The Code of Practice clearly articulates the non-audit 2016, a notification of interest document and an independence services which are prohibited, the non-audit services assessment document were issued to interested firms.
which can be purchased and the key approvals that are necessary prior to the provision of non-audit work.
Stage 1 required submission of a summary information Pursuant to the Code of Practice, any non-audit services document and an interview with the sub-committee.
A number conducted by the auditor require the prior consent of audit firms requested one-on-one meetings with the Audit Committee Chairman prior to the Stage 1 submission.
These of the CFO or the Chairman of the Audit Committee: meetings were held in September 2016. any services exceeding 50,000 in value require the prior consent of the Audit Committee as a whole.
Stage 2 required submission of a detailed, formal proposal document.
A virtual data room was made available to the firms Further, and in line with this policy, the Committee containing relevant QinetiQ information, in order to assist with ensures that any advisory and or consulting services preparation of their proposals.
The audit firms were able to provided by the external auditor do not conflict with interview members of QinetiQ management, to understand the its statutory audit responsibilities and are conducted requirements of the role and the complexities of the organisation.
through entirely separate working teams: such advisory This process took place from September to December 2016. and or consulting services generally only cover Stage 3 involved presentations and interviews with the regulatory reporting, tax, and mergers and sub-committee and took place in January 2017.
considered by the sub-committee as part of the evaluation process included audit effectiveness and approach, The Code of Practice enables the Committee to take commerciality and independence, insight and understanding, corrective action if it believes that there is a risk of the perspective on accounting judgements and sector experience.
external auditors independence being undermined through the award of such work.
Following Stage 3, the sub-committee made a recommendation as to first and second choice candidates, with reasons as It is also QinetiQs policy that no KPMG employee may required by the regulations to the Audit Committee at a meeting convened in January 2017 specifically to conclude the audit be appointed to a senior position within the QinetiQ tender process.
The Committee noted the evaluation bases Group without the prior approval of the CFO.
made by the sub-committee and discussed them.
The Committee concluded that  LLP Review of non-audit work during the year PwC was the preferred firm to conduct the audit engagement, The Committee reviews the cost and nature of non-audit and that they would bring a fresh approach to the audit, and work undertaken by the external auditor at three meetings recommended to the Board that PwC be selected as the Groups as a standing item, with a fourth meeting considering the external auditor for the year ending 31 March 2018.
A resolution auditors fees as part of the year-end review.
to appoint PwC as auditor will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 19 July 2017.
On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank all of the audit firms for In the last financial year, the fees relating to non-audit their professionalism and work in the audit tender process.
services amounted to 9,000 2016: 199,000, being approximately 1% of the audit fee and 1% of the total fees.
The fees related to advisory services in respect of business risk assessments.
The Committee had concluded, prior to engaging KPMG for the provision of these services, that there had not been any conflict Statutory Audit Services Compliance of interest that might compromise the independence The Company confirms that, during the year under of KPMGs audit work.
Details of the external auditors review, it has complied with the requirements of the remuneration can be found in note 5 on page 115.
Competition and Marketss Authority Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Review of the effectiveness and the independence Mandatory Use of Competitor Tender Processes ad of the external auditor Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014, which At its May meeting, the Committee reviewed the relates to the frequency and governance of external effectiveness and the independence of the external auditor audit tenders and the setting of a policy on the during the year.
The members of the Committee have provision of non-audit services.
declared themselves satisfied with the performance of KPMG as the Companys auditor in the last financial year.
64 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Code Principle C Accountability continued Report of the Risk & CSR Committee.
Main responsibilities The Committee has three primary functions: to oversee the sound operation of the Companys risk management systems: to monitor non-financial risk exposures, including security, trade controls, ethics, corporate responsibility and health, safety and environment: and to monitor adherence to the generic MOD compliance system.
The Committee meets as necessary, although normally not less than four times a year.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2017, the Committee met on four occasions.
Activities during the year The Committee has an annual calendar of activities, in accordance with which it carries out its core functions Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent by way of regular reporting.
In addition, it identifies Risk & CSR Committee Chairman particular areas of focus deep dives.
The Committee continued to oversee health, safety and environment, trade controls, corporate responsibility, ethics and security through quarterly reports from the heads of those functions in the business.
Details of key activities in respect of health, safety and environment and Dear shareholder, business ethics are set out in the People and A series of deep dives I am pleased to report that, during the year, the relationships section on pages 30 to 33.
Committee continued to carry out its core functions, are scheduled for the with the support of the Executive Committee, in respect In addition, during the year under review, in response to course of each year, of non-financial risk management and oversight.
The the outcome of last years review of the effectiveness to facilitate an in-depth annual calendar of activity, together with the in-depth of the Board and its Committees, the Committee, in review of red risks and deep dives into key risk areas, review and discussion conjunction with the Audit Committee, oversaw a has continued to provide a firm basis on which the project to review the process for risk management of key risks.
Committee is able to oversee the operation of the and reporting.
Details can be found on page 66. non-financial risk management processes within the Group.
Regular updates, including corporate At each meeting, an introductory note of the key issues responsibility issues from management responsible for that particular meeting ensured that all relevant for specific areas, continued to further the Committees matters were considered and dealt with appropriately.
understanding of risks and how they are mitigated.
In addition, a separate section of the Committee papers contained supplementary materials to ensure that there In response to the outcome from last years review of was sufficient detail for those Committee members the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, the who wished to have more in-depth information on Committee, in conjunction with the Audit Committee, a particular matter.
reviewed the process for risk management and reporting.
Further details are set out in this report The key activities during the year were as follows: on page 66.
The effectiveness of the new process will be monitored during the coming year.
a a review of the Groups risk management activities page 65 : Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent b a review of the generic MOD compliance system Risk & CSR Committee Chairman page 65 : and c the outcome of the Committees effectiveness review page 66.
A series of deep dives are scheduled for the course of each year, to facilitate an in-depth review and discussion of key risks.
Examples of the deep dives carried out by the Committee during the year can be found on page 65.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Corporate governance statement 65 a A review of the Groups risk management activities: Oversight of the operation of the compliance system Red risks are made Each Committee meeting during the year was is provided by the Committee.
During the year under structured so that it received the following regular review, the Committee received an annual report from the subject of a report reports: a report from the Group Director, Safety and the Group Director, Safety and Governance and the to the Committee or Governance, a report from the Group Director, Corporate internal audit function on the compliance areas that become the subject of Responsibility and an update from the Group Head it monitored.
The report was tabled at the January of Internal Audit.
A typical report includes a summary of the a deep dive review as scope and an executive summary of the findings with part of the Companys The report from the Group Director, Safety and an audit opinion.
The report includes specific findings risk management Governance covered key areas of risk management with agreed associated time-bound action plans.
activity, including health and safety and international processes.
It included a high level summary of The Committee addresses any issues that would arise changes to non-financial risks, and an overview of if QinetiQ were to fail to comply with the requirements assurance activity.
In July 2016, an air accident involving of the generic compliance system.
No breaches were a contracted-in Yak aircraft operating in support of the noted during the year.
Empire Test Pilots School sadly resulted in the death of an RAF pilot and serious injury to the contractor pilot.
The Company is actively supporting the subsequent official enquiries, and we will respond to all recommendations made.
As part of its work, Examples of deep dive reviews into key risks carried out by the Committee during the year: the Committee has considered, and will continue to consider, the procedural and risk management aspects Cyber security I. T. improvement programme of this incident.
The report from the Group Director, The Group Director, I. T. presented to the Committee on two Corporate Responsibility covered areas including occasions during the year.
He updated the Committee on business ethics training, emerging reputational risks, the Companys I. T. security arrangements, including system anti-bribery and corruption, diversity and inclusion, controls for high security networks, responsibilities for stakeholder engagement, trading policy and Modern information systems across the Group, details of cyber Slavery Act reporting.
The report from the Group Head security-related projects currently under way and steps being of Internal Audit provided an update on internal audit taken to improve I. T. systems across the Group.
The format for a cyber security dashboard was considered and agreed activity since the last meeting, details of progress with by the Committee, detailing critical areas of focus, their audit recommendations and details of any overdue status and actions or mitigations.
recommended actions from internal audits.
Competition law and anti-bribery and corruption The Company Secretary and Group General Counsel set out Details of the principal risks and uncertainties can be the framework for compliance including perceived gaps and found in the Strategic report on pages 22 to 25.
Red proposed remedial actions with respect to each area of risks are made the subject of a report to the Committee legislation.
The Head of Business Assurance advised of actions or become the subject of a deep dive review as part being taken on anti-bribery and corruption compliance within of the Companys risk management processes.
the Group in accordance with an established timetable.
Recruitment and retention b Generic MOD compliance system: The Group Director, Human Resources updated the meeting on A key aspect of the Committees work is the oversight engagement with staff on changes being brought about by the new organisational design programme and the focus being of the MODs generic compliance system.
This is applied to graduate retention and career development.
integral to the work of QinetiQ in its relationship with the UK Government.
For each deep dive, Committee members were able to challenge the details provided and receive further details or give guidance The generic compliance system is designed to give as necessary.
the MOD customer confidence that QinetiQ is able to provide impartial advice during any competitive evaluation of a procurement opportunity, where the Group wishes to operate on both the buy and the supply sides.
The aim is to achieve a balance between meeting the needs of the procurement customers in the MOD principally Defence Equipment & Support and the need to allow QinetiQ the flexibility to exploit research into the supply chain and pursue its planned commercial activities, without compromising the defence or security interests of the UK.
The Board nominates two senior executives to act as Compliance Implementation Director and Compliance Audit Director.
Currently those roles are held by the Group Director, Safety and Governance and the Company Secretary and Group General Counsel respectively.
66 Corporate governance QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Code Principle C Accountability continued Report of the Risk & CSR Committee continued c Effectiveness review: Special Project: a review of the risk register and risk management reporting: The new reporting As reported on page 50, the most recent external The review of the risk register is a standing item on the effectiveness evaluation of the Board and its Committees process and risk Committees agenda, with amendments being made took place during 2016 and it was agreed therefore to reflect changes in the Groups business and strategy.
register format were that for 2017, the evaluation of the effectiveness of reviewed in conjunction the Committee would be taken alongside the Board Following the results of the Board and Committee effectiveness effectiveness review to be carried out by way of an with the Audit reviews, the action to revise and clarify risk management and externally-provided questionnaire-based process.
reporting was carried out jointly by the Chairmen of the Audit Committee in March Committee and Risk & CSR Committee, in conjunction with the 2017 and approved.
The following actions had been noted from the 2016 Executive Committee.
The Board had requested revisions to the Group Enterprise Risk Reporting document to make clear the effectiveness review: changing nature of risks as new elements arise, and specific mitigations are implemented, and thereby highlight areas A review of risk management and reporting requiring focus.
processes, led by the Chairs of the Audit Committee and the Risk & CSR Committee: A draft revised risk register was presented to the Committee To continue to focus on the big risk areas: at its July meeting and to the Executive Committee later in July, along with an implementation plan to roll out the new To continue with the practice of having a more risk reporting format and process.
The Executive Committee focused discussion on fewer items, aided by requested reassurance around briefings to risk owners and executive summaries: leadership teams around the new metrics to be used in the To work closely with the Executive Committee and revised format.
The Group Director, Safety and Governance management in respect of risk management activity: confirmed that briefings and support would be provided.
The Committee further reviewed the non-financial risk register in To continue the practice of deep dives into subject September 2016 and January 2017.
The Audit Committee risk areas: and undertook a detailed review of the financial risk register in To review the Committees focus on Corporate September 2016.
In addition, the risk reporting format was Responsibility in the light of best practice.
Amendments were made to the risk reporting document and the format approved by the Audit Committee and the Board at their September meetings.
The Board requested revisions to These items have been covered during the year the Group Enterprise Risk reporting, to convey a dynamic sense under review by the specific project with regard of progress and identify areas requiring focus.
KPMG were to risk reporting and the ongoing Committee engaged to provide consultation on good practice risk reporting.
activities, as noted in this report.
The new format was used for the November Audit and Risk & The outcome of the 2017 review was considered at CSR Committee meetings.
The new reporting process and risk the Committees May meeting and was as follows: register format were reviewed in conjunction with the Audit Committee in March 2017 and approved.
It was noted that the improvements made to risk management had resulted in a new The Risk & CSR Committee was rated highly and the reporting template, an Executive Committee focused risk review continued separation of financial and non-financial risk and risk appetite review and new resource to improve tactical into the Audit Committee and Risk & CSR Committee risk management.
respectively was considered to be working well and created appropriate time to focus on key issues.
The following actions were also agreed for the coming year: Report of the Security Committee Devoting more time to deep dives and less to reporting: There was no requirement for the Committee Improved quality of papers: to meet during the year.
Continuing to simplify and further use the new risk reporting system: and Membership and attendance during the year Further training in risk management.
The Security Committee is chaired by Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent and the other Committee members during the year were Michael Harper, Ian Mason, David Mellors until 31 December 2016, Paul Murray, Susan Searle, David Smith from 1 March 2017 and Steve Wadey.
Main responsibilities The Committee was established in June 2009 to enable UK nationals on the Board to consider matters of a UK national security dimension that have an impact on QinetiQs UK business.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Corporate governance | Corporate governance statement 67 Code Principle E Relations With Shareholders Understanding the views of shareholders Providing information to shareholders Further investor activity The Chairman proactively offers to attend meetings The Company sets itself the target of providing with key shareholders, and their corporate governance information that is timely, clear and concise.
included an investor teams, on a regular basis.
The Chairman, the Senior Key means of communication are: event attended by Independent Director and Non-executive Directors over 30 analysts routinely attend key financial calendar events such the Annual Report, which sets out the business model as presentations of interim and preliminary results and strategy, corporate governance arrangements and investors at and make themselves available to meet shareholders and financial results: the Farnborough as required.
announcements made via the Companys website International Airshow or a regulatory information service: The Board as a whole is informed on a regular basis in July, and investor responding to environment, social and governance about the views of key shareholders including their questionnaires: visits to QinetiQ sites concerns.
The Group Director Investor Relations results presentations and webcasts: and on request.
and Communications provides regular updates to the Companys website, www.
com, and an the Chairman and Non-executive Directors by way app for smartphones and tablets.
All shareholders and of face-to-face briefings, email updates and a section potential shareholders can gain access to the Annual in the Executive Directors report which is included Report, presentations to investors, Annual General in the Board papers as a standing item.
The following Meeting documentation, key financial information, information is included in these reports: regulatory news, financial calendar, share and dividend data and other significant information about Investor relations activity including background QinetiQ in the Investors section of the Companys information on investor relations activity, share website, www.
The site also provides price performance, analyst expectations : contact details for any investor-related queries, by Shareholder feedback: and telephone and by email.
The Company continues to look at ways of improving Investor relations activity during the year under review the quality of its engagement with shareholders and to In June 2016, the Chairman wrote to investors offering explore with investors any additional practical means a meeting with himself and the Senior Independent by which it can give effect to the requirements of the Director.
Subsequent meetings took place with investors Financial Reporting Councils UK Stewardship Code and topics covered included both the external context, for institutional investors, and of the Code.
such as Brexit, and QinetiQs strategy.
Further direct communication was made with investors later in Details of the Companys share capital, which are 2016 with regard to the transition to the new CFO, and required to be disclosed in accordance with rule meetings were held between the new CFO and investors 7.2.
6 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure as a result.
In 2017, the Senior Independent Director Guidance and Transparency Rules, and the Directors wrote to shareholders as part of the consultation on powers in relation to issuing and buying back shares the renewal of the Companys remuneration policy can be found on pages 92 and 94 in the Directors and has met with investors on this subject.
report section of this Annual Report.
Investor roadshows were held in London in June and Further information for shareholders November.
Further investor activity included an investor can be found on pages 152 to 153 of this event attended by over 30 analysts and investors at the Annual Report Farnborough International Airshow in July, and investor visits to QinetiQ sites on request.
Telephone briefings were held with analysts and investors to explain the detail behind key market announcements, such as the amendment to the LTPA contract and the acquisition of the Target Systems business during the year.
The Company updates the market by way of continued quarterly trading updates, in conjunction with key financial announcements and the full year and half-year results.
Telephone briefings for analysts and investors took place in conjunction with these dates.
Live and post-event webcasts of key presentations are provided in respect of the full year and half-year results.
All shareholders were invited to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting which was held on 20 July 2016 in London, at which the full Board was in attendance.
