Lines of business continued Consumer continued TV A good example of innovation in action was our coverage of the BT TV is available exclusively to our broadband customers.
TV content 2016 UEFA Champions League final.
We made this the most social is delivered via a YouView box, which includes content from a number sports broadcast ever by live-streaming the match on BT Sports of third parties, including Netflix.
Our ambition is to provide a YouTube channel and breaking new ground across social media.
selection of pay content at an attractive price.
BT Mobile BT Mobile is available as both SIM-only and a range of service plans BT TV comes in three different packages: with a choice of market-leading handsets.
BT broadband customers get a 5 month discount on BT Mobile service plans.
This year Starter BT Sport we launched BT Family SIM a service plan which lets BT Mobile Over 70 Freeview channels, plus BT Sport channels: AMC: customers purchase two or more SIM cards at a discounted price.
BoxNation and access to BT Store.
This package comes with a YouView box which lets people pause and rewind live TV.
Plusnet entered the quad-play market in November 2016 with the launch of Plusnet Mobile.
Entertainment Plus Includes 110 channels, as well as a YouView box, which lets customers record up to 300 hours of programmes, pause and Performance in the year strategic rewind live TV, and access seven days worth of catch-up TV.
It also includes access to the BT TV app.
Customer experience remains our top priority.
Total Entertainment 1 Offers 141 channels, including 21 in HD.
Also includes additional recording space on the set-top box: BT Sport in 4K Ultra HD and Delivering great customer experience BT Kids TV.
Last year we made an important investment in customer care.
This year weve made real progress in this area.
Even so, we continue to focus on making improvements.
Entertainment Plus and Total Entertainment are only available to BT Infinity broadband customers.
Weve added more than 2,200 additional FTE call centre roles in the UK and Ireland.
Weve also made important gains by making sure YouView TV on Plusnet is available to Plusnets fibre customers.
were easy to deal with, a key part of our Net Promoter Score.
It includes over 70 Freeview channels, plus BT Sport 1, as well as pay-TV channels.
Investing in online support 1.4m customers have the My BT app and can use it to get in touch EE TV provides more than 70 Freeview channels, as well as with us, while the percentage of online contacts that reach us via pay-TV channels.
The EE TV app works seamlessly on up to chat has grown from 6% in 2015 16 to 20% today.
Better systems and tools for our agents BT Sport Were in the process of deploying a new system to our frontline There are four main live BT Sport channels.
agents so they can help customers even more quickly and accurately.
This system is now live for more than 4,500 agents.
The BT Sport channels are available on BT TV, the BT Sport app to BT and EE customers, btsport.
Sky, TalkTalk and Virgin Media New diagnostics to help us detect and resolve faults TV customers can also purchase a BT Sport subscription.
Theres a Diagnostics are still progressing, while on-time repair performance discount on BT Sport for existing broadband customers, and an even improved by six percentage points over the course of the year.
On bigger discount for customers who take broadband and BT TV.
average, our customers now have landline faults fixed 24 hours quicker than last year.
BT Sport 4K UHD is the UKs first Ultra HD TV channel.
It has four times the detail of HD and is available exclusively to BT TV Total Simplifying our organisation Entertainment customers with BT Infinity broadband.
Weve broadened the skillsets of our agents and empowered them to take ownership of customers needs.
BT Sport is the exclusive live broadcaster of the UEFA Champions League and UEFA Europa League in the UK, with the rights secured Even so, work continues in this area until the end of the 2020 21 season.
We also broadcast games Although a lot of progress has been made in the year on customer from the Premier League and the FA Cup.
As well as football, BT experience, the criticism weve received from both the media and the Sport offers coverage of a range of different sports including Aviva regulatory authorities over the year reinforces the need to redouble Premiership Rugby, MotoGP, Cricket Australia, WTA tennis and most our efforts.
One specific issue we need to address is the growing recently, boxing.
This year, we broadcast over 11,000 hours of number of customers contacting us to discuss their monthly package livesport.
The increasing number of contacts offset the progress made in other areas such as fault resolution and providing services on time Innovation is a key part of our strategy at BT Sport.
Over the course and lowered the Right First Time score achieved by Consumer.
of this year, weve run trials broadcasting content using virtual reality.
Weve also launched Dolby Atmos sound on our Ultra HD channel.
Our BT Sport app and Ultra HD channel have won awards for innovation.
58 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 3 2 Investing for growth Transforming our costs This year we continued to focus on sustainable long-term growth, Last year our costs went up by 10%, reflecting both our revenue making several investments for the future.
The table below growth and our investment in the mobile market and customer summarises the progress made on the top priorities we set out experience.
To partly offset this we cut costs by: Review of last years priorities consolidating suppliers shared by both Consumer and EE: WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID encouraging customers to adopt a self-service approach more than 1.4m of them now have the My BT app: and We said wed Weve invested in systems and process to finding production and insourcing efficiencies in our TV business.
transform customer improve customer experience, and weve services.
employed more people to make sure that by spring of 2017, 90% of customer calls Performance in the year operating are answered in the UK or Ireland.
Were on We won several awards for our products and track to meet this target, with over 86% of calls now answered in the UK and Ireland.
services over the course of the last year.
Weve also made it easier for customers to interact with us online.
Organisation Publication Award BT product service This year we provided over 800,000 hours Mobile Industry Hottest New BT Mobile of training to our contact centre agents.
Awards MVNO PC Pro Recommended BT Smart Hub We said wed launch This football season we aired 42 Premier our new Premier League matches and 130 live games Expert Reviews Recommended BT Smart Hub League rights and from the UEFA Champions League.
We Tech Advisor Recommended BT Smart Hub Australian cricket on also broadcast 16 international Australian BT Sport.
cricket games exclusively in the UK.
Alphr Recommended BT Smart Hub We said wed trial Following successful trials of G. fastExpert Reviews Recommended BT Halo phone and launch ultrafast powered ultrafast broadband, with over Mobile Choice Awards Best Network BT Mobile broadband using 300 customers already connected across Deal Under 25 Openreach G. fast two locations in the UK Gillingham products.
and Cherry Hinton, were extending Mother & Baby Silver Award BT 7500 Baby to another 15 sites in our plan prior Monitor to our launch.
Expert Reviews Best Buy Whole Home Wi-Fi We said wed launch We launched handsets with BT Mobile Alphr Recommended Whole Home Wi-Fi mobile handsets to and created synergies with EE by create new market consolidating suppliers.
We also launched uSwitch Most Popular BT Broadband opportunities and BT Family SIM.
Provider In November 2016, we launched Plusnet Mobile.
Broadband World Best TV or media BT Sport App Forum innovation We said wed In February 2017 we started to roll out TV Connect Awards Best Content BT TV introduce a new the new BT TV YouView user interface Discovery Service YouView interface YouView user to our customers, a process thats now interface.
The Connies Contribution to YouView on BT TV User Experience The Connies Best TV Video YouView on BT TV We said wed Known as BT Call Protect, we launched Service Update launch our new this innovative new service in January Silver breakthrough 2017. service to help home Sports Technology Most innovative BT Sport phone customers Awards live event avoid nuisance calls.
D&AD Wood pencil Ultra HD We said wed Were making good progress towards this increase the aspiration, but were not there yet.
number of revenue generating units by 2.5m over the next three years.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 59 Lines of business continued Consumer continued Home phone, broadband and TV are reported on a group-wide Plusnet also won several awards: basis in the section below.
Mobile performance is also reported on a group-wide basis and can be found in the EE section on page 62.
Organisation publication Award Broadband Genie Survey Best broadband provider Home phone Awards 2017 Best customer care As of 31 March 2017, BT Group had a combined total of 10.3m home phone customers.
This Most recommended provider represents a market share of 39%.
Best technical support Most trustworthy provider home phone Best value provider customers uSwitch Broadband and Broadband provider of the year Mobile Awards 2017 Best provider customer service 10.3m Best value broadband provider Cable.
co. uk Awards 2016 Best broadband provider Broadband This year we maintained our position as the UKs Best reliability largest provider of retail fixed broadband services Best customer service with 9.3m customers, representing a market share of 37%.
Best value Over half of our retail broadband customers have a fibre broadband connection and benefit from faster internet speeds than ever before.
broadband customers 9.3m TV We have 1.7m TV customers, divided between BTTV, YouView TV on Plusnet and EE TV.
29,800 commercial premises have a BT Sport subscription, up from 27,000 last year.
BT Sport is the only place to watch BT Sports average daily viewing figures went up by the Premier League, Champions 12% in 2016.
During this time, our BT Sport app League, Europa League and FA Cup was downloaded more than 2.2m times.
all season long BT Sport channels BT Sports daily viewing figures 5 12% 60 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 61 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Performance in the year financial Priorities for the year ahead In 2016 17, our revenue went up by 7%, with a particularly strong growth across broadband, Over the next 12 months well carry on TV and BT Mobile.
investing for the future and doing everything possible to ensure a great customer experience and sustainable business growth.
2017 2016 2015 Year ended 31 March m m m Revenue 4,934 4,608 4,293 Our top priorities for 2017 18 are: Operating costs 3,922 3,553 3,249 Keeping the household connected EBITDA 1,012 1,055 1,044 well carry on moving customers from copper to fibre Depreciation and amortisation 209 207 218 broadband and grow our base through customer acquisitions: Operating profit 803 848 826 well also launch an ultrafast broadband product in the form Capital expenditure 237 207 207 of G. fast and, where possible, via : and well carry on promoting our BT Mobile proposition to give Free cash flow 709 781 828 existing BT customers more for their money.
Broadband and TV revenue increased by 13% 2015 16: 17%, Enhance sport and TV content reflecting the growth in our customer bases.
Our calls and lines exclusive sport is a key point of differentiation, giving revenue increased by 4% 2015 16: 2%, in part reflecting the potential customers an excellent reason to choose BT: and growth of our BT Mobile business.
Other revenue decreased by at the same time well improve the TV viewing experience 6% 2015 16: 8% reflecting the declining fixed handset market.
Consumer 12-month rolling ARPU increased 8% to 39.9 per month driven by broadband, BT Sport and BT Mobile.
Weve also Transform customer experience seen growth of 3% in the number of revenue generating units per a well complete the deployment of our new frontline systems customer, which is now at 1.95. and operating structure to simplify the way we work: and well make further investments to cut the time it takes to Operating costs increased by 10% 2015 16: 9% as a result of get through to a contact centre agent.
investment in our new mobile handset business and increases in sports rights costs in relation to our UEFA rights and our new Premier League contract, which commenced in August 2016.
Our cost base also went up because of our investment in improving customer experience and contact centre onshoring.
Our EBITDA decreased 4% 2015 16: increased 1% over the year, with a strong performance across voice, broadband and BT Sport more than offset by our investment in contact centre onshoring, increases in sports rights costs and our investment in mobile handsets.
Capital expenditure increased by 14% 2015 16: flat.
a Revenue generating units are voice lines, broadband, TV and mobile.
60 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 61 Lines of business EE Were the UKs largest mobile network operator, and we also offer fixed broadband and TV.
At BT we report mobile customer numbers on a group-wide basis, By September 2016, total UK mobile call volumes were steady at including those from our other lines of business.
We have over 30m around 37bn minutes per quarter.
SMS and MMS messages were connections, 18.6m of which are 4G.
In EE, new mobile customers down 4% to an average of 24bn messages per quarter.
Mobile join the EE brand, though we still have a number of customers on telephony services generated 3.9bn in retail revenue in the quarter legacy Orange and T-Mobile tariffs.
We acquire and retain customers to September 2016, up 1% compared to last year.
through our chain of around 570 shops, our website and contact centres, and through third parties, such as Dixons Carphone.
To According to Akamais latest State of the Internet report, the UK has improve customer experience, all EE customer service calls have the fastest mobile connection speed of the 61 countries it surveyed been handled in the UK and Ireland since the end of 2016. around the world.
We have 9,000 people, with 67% directly helping our customers The market is subject to a number of existing and potential through our shops and contact centres.
And we were named the structural changes: third best employer in the Sunday Times Best Big Companies to Work rapid adoption of 4G devices as 4G networks are deployed.
For 2017 awards, up from seventh in 2016.
That means nearly all handsets sold are smartphones: growth of connected devices, including tablets: Starting in September 2017 well support the Emergency Services significant growth in mobile data use: Network contract by providing a resilient 4G network for 300,000 continued decline in the prepaid market as customers move to emergency services workers.
postpaid tariffs: blurring of postpaid and prepaid customer types with rolling Our mobile network has been independently recognised as the postpaid tariffs and auto-renewing prepaid bundles: fastest network by Ofcom in its Smartphone Cities 2016 report, and popularity of SIM-only tariffs.
Smartphones are evolving at best overall network by RootMetrics in its report for the second half a slower pace so people are keeping their mobile phones for of 2016. longer: and regulatory pressure on the prices charged to customers and other From 1 April 2016 we changed how the former EE business was telecoms companies.
organised to manage it better within the group.
Business mobile was transferred to Business and Public Sector, the wholesale operations BT has a 29% share of the UK mobile market, measured on a were transferred to Wholesale and Ventures, and the mobile network subscriber basis.
was transferred as a distinct business unit into TSO.
Mobile subscriber UK market share by operator Markets and customers At 31 December 2016 With four mobile network operators 29% BT including EE and numerous mobile virtual network 1% TalkTalk operators MVNOs, the UK mobile market 4% Virgin Mobile is very competitive.
Of the UKs 91m mobile 6% Tesco Mobile connections, 87% are consumer and 13% 11% Three business.
Our main competitors are O2, Vodafone, Three, Tesco Mobile, Virgin Media and TalkTalk.
Sky also entered the market in January 2017 as an MVNO.
Competition for customers is further increased by 22% Vodafone third-party distributors selling mobile services on behalf of mobile operators, from high street shops and online.
Around 93% of adults in the UK use a mobile phone.
Over 70% of 27% O2 adults in the UK use a smartphone, and 59% of homes also have Source: EE and market data.
Smartphones are now the most widely-used device by UK adults for accessing the internet.
Consequently, total mobile data use went up 64% in 2015.
According to Ofcom, 63% of mobile connections are on postpaid tariffs.
The consumer fixed line voice and broadband market is discussed in the Consumer section of this report on page 56.
62 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Products and services We provide mobile services in the UK, now covering up to 99% of the population with 2G, 98% with 3G and over 99% with 4G, or 80% on a geographic basis.
We also sell broadband services, fixed-voice and a TV service.
The wholesale services previously provided by EE are now managed by Wholesale and Ventures.
Postpaid New consumer customers, and those who renew their contracts with us, are put on 4G tariffs.
If the tariff includes a handset, the contract is typically for 24 months.
The tariff will include a bundle of monthly voice, SMS and data use.
Prices vary with the size of the bundle, the One of EEs Rapid Response Vehicles device type and 4G speed.
The tariffs are split into three main groups: 4GEE Essentials plans give access to 4G speeds of up to 20Mbps, unlimited texts and tiered bundles of voice and Emergency Services Network data use: In December 2015 EE was awarded the network part of the 4GEE plans offer unlimited UK minutes and texts and 4G speeds Emergency Services Network ESN.
of up to 60Mbps: and 4GEE Max plans combine the largest data bundles, inclusive Some of the applications that our 4G network will enable include: access to the BT Sport App and roam like home voice, text and an ambulance crew sending vital data to a hospital to help staff data usage when abroad in the EU.
prepare for a patients arrival: a policeman recording an arrest on a body-worn camera and livePrepaid streaming to nearby officers for support: and Prepaid customers buy a phone and then add a pay-as-you-go pack a fire and rescue crew assessing a burning building based on of 4G use.
The packs are split into three groups: live helicopter camera footage and digital blueprints viewable Everything packs for unlimited texts and tiered bundles of voice via tablets.
and data use over a 30-day period: Talk and text packs for tiered bundles of voice and text use over To deliver the ESN service were: seven to 30-day periods: and building a new, dedicated core network: Data packs ranging from 100MB to 4GB over seven to 30-day constructing up to 500 new sites to expand coverage: periods.
switching on 800MHz on more than 3,500 sites to improve outdoor and indoor coverage: We also operate a loyalty programme where customers get extra data using new 4G voice services, such as push to talk: added to their packs in return for staying with us and topping up.
providing a fleet of Rapid Response Vehicles to ensure maximum service availability: and Devices using satellite backhaul for remote sites.
We offer a wide range of 4G mobile phones, tablets, connected devices and mobile broadband devices from leading manufacturers including Apple, Samsung and Google.
Customers may also choose to use their own device and then connect via a SIM-only plan.
Broadband and TV We sell fixed-voice, broadband including superfast fibre broadband and TV services.
To reward loyalty, our postpaid customers get larger data allowances if they also buy EE broadband.
EE TV provides more than 70 free channels simultaneously on up to four devices, as well as access to pay-TV channels.
The EE TV set-top box comes with one terabyte of memory and can be controlled from a mobile phone or tablet using the EE TV app.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 63 Lines of business continued EE continued Performance in the year strategic Performance in the year operating Weve grown financially, improved customer We report mobile customer numbers on a total experience and extended our mobile network BT Group basis, including those from other lines while integrating with the group.
At 31 March 2017 we had over 30m connections.
Heres how they 1 break down: Delivering great customer experience Customer base by type Improving customer service is one of our top priorities.
While weve 000 made strong progress on mobile services, we believe theres always more we can do, particularly for our fixed broadband customers.
2,439 M2M During the year we worked on projects across four key areas: Call centres all EE customer service calls are now handled in 3,760 MVNO UK and Ireland contact centres: Self-service we now have 9m customers using My EE: Prepay 6,921 Shops were improving our service: and IT were enhancing our customer-facing IT systems.
16,916 Postpay Weve made real improvements across the business in the way we design, build and communicate our products and services to our of which 4G 18,628 customers.
Weve improved the way we engage with them, whether 0 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 thats by phone, in store or online, and upgraded the information and tools our advisers use to help them with customer queries.
Our postpay base grew by 803,000 to 16.9m, supported by growth Together these steps have helped cut the number of customer in the EE and BT brands.
The prepay base continued to decline in line calls to our contact centres, and cut the number of complaints with industry trends, partly as a result of customers moving our postpay customers make to Ofcom by 43%.
At the same time to postpay.
our postpaid net promoter score has improved, with many more promoters than detractors.
The machine-to-machine base grew 78,000 to 2.4m as the Internet of Things market starts to grow.
2 Our base of MVNO customers stood at 3.8m, up 40,000, as our Investing for growth MVNO partners continued to do well in the mobile market.
Weve built the UKs best mobile network and were continuing to invest to keep our number one position.
Customer base movements 000 Weve extended 4G geographic coverage to 80% and plan to increase this to 95% by the end of December 2020.
As part of 31,500 the ESN contract well also increase the resilience of the network, benefiting all of our customers.
Weve also enabled new features like 31,000 4G calling Voice Over LTE and some parts of our network now let customers achieve download speeds of up to 360Mbps.
30,500 30,000 3 29,500 Transforming our costs Since becoming part of BT weve started a cost reduction programme 29,000 to deliver planned synergies and identify other savings.
We delivered savings this year by: improving customer self-service to cut the volume of calls to our contact centres: answering all EE customer calls in the UK and Ireland, rather than overseas, to resolve more queries first time and cut subsequent calls: improving efficiency within our shops, through better staff planning and reduced facilities costs: and reducing the number of head office employees.
64 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 65 As at 1 April 2016 30,445 Postpay 803 Prepay 1,330 MVNO 40 M2M 78 30,036 As at 31 March 2017 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION In last years report, we set out our top priorities for this year.
In the Revenue was 5,090m which includes postpaid mobile revenue table below we summarise the progress weve made.
of 4,140m, prepaid mobile revenue of 402m, fixed broadband revenue of 276m and equipment sales of 272m.
Our Review of last years priorities performance for the year benefited from additional revenue from our more for more pricing strategy.
Monthly mobile ARPUs for the WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID final quarter of the year were 26.3 for postpaid customers, 4.4 We said wed We now answer 100% of EE calls in UK for prepaid and 19.8 on a combined basis.
improve the and Ireland contact centres.
customer Operating costs were 3,934m giving EBITDA of 1,156m, a experience.
Weve cut the rate of postpay complaints margin of 23%.
Adjusted for the acquisition of EE We said wed extend Weve now extended 4G geographic capital expenditure was up 22% as we extend 4G coverage and as 4G coverage and coverage to 80% of the UK.
our investment in ESN increased.
Preparation for our part of the retain our position as Emergency Services Network contract continued in line with agreed the UKs best quality EE is still ranked as the best UK mobile milestones.
Operating cash flow, which excludes interest and tax, was 570m.
We said wed We remain on track to deliver our part of progress the build the ESN contract by September 2017.
Priorities for the year ahead phase of the ESN contract, working Over the next 12 months well continue to closely with TSO.
invest in the network and further improve the We said wed launch Weve refreshed the EE mobile tariffs, customer experience.
a range of combined offered BT Sport to EE customers and mobile, fixed-line trialled the sale of Consumer broadband and TV products.
and TV products in EE shops.
Our top priorities for 2017 18 are: Maintain network leadership Performance in the year financial well further extend 4G geographic coverage to 95% of the UK by 2020.
Revenue for the year was 5,090m and a EBITDA was 1,156m.
Underlying revenue Carry on improving customer experience a in the medium term we aim to become the mobile network and EBITDA adjusted for the acquisition of EE operator with the best postpaid net promoter score.
went up by 1% and 6% respectively.
Deliver the EE part of the Emergency Services Network contract b were aiming to finish building and testing by the end of 2017 2016 Year ended 31 March m m September 2017.
Revenue 5,090 841 Underlying revenue excluding transit adjusted for the acquisition of EE 1% n a Operating costs 3,934 668 EBITDA 1,156 173 Depreciation and amortisation 780 146 Operating profit 376 27 Capital expenditure 616 96 Free cash flow 570 238 a Excludes specific items, foreign exchange movements and disposals.
Calculated as though EE had been part of the group from 1 April 2015. b Includes EE results from acquisition on 29 January 2016. c Includes EEs historical financial information as though it had been part of the group from 1 April 2015, under the new organisational structure.
64 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 65 Lines of business Business and Public Sector We sell communications and IT services in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
Weve around 1.2m business and public sector customers and lead the field in fixed voice, networking and broadband.
Were passionate about helping all our customers succeed from Markets and customers large government departments, big household names and public We have around 1.2m customers, including over sector organisations right through to small businesses and new start-ups.
We created our Business and Public Sector line of business on Major customers include: 1 April 2016 by combining three organisations into one: the original retailers like the Co-Operative Group: BT Business organisation, EEs business division, and parts of Global utilities like Northumbrian Water: Services UK corporate and public sector teams.
Our 10,000 people public sector organisations like Norfolk County Council: provide local, regional and national coverage across the UK.
financial organisations like eSure: and educational institutions like Kingston University.
We now have three customer-facing units focused on providing communication solutions and IT services to help create business The telecoms market we serve has revenue of 8bn, and we outcomes for our customers: estimate the adjacent IT services market has revenue of 14.5bn.
Convergence of these markets to create more integrated services is TRADING UNIT CUSTOMERS already underway, a trend we expect to accelerate.
Small & Medium Businesses in the UK with up to At 10bn, the public sector market for IT and telecoms is a Enterprises 100 employees, ranging from sole substantial part of our addressable market.
Challenges in the traders through to more complex public sector remain substantial as the market continues to organisations including schools change.
For example, larger systems integration contracts are and colleges.
being disaggregated and replaced by smaller contracts, while the devolution agenda is increasingly shifting procurement decisions and Corporate Businesses in the UK with between spend to the regions.
Public Sector and Public sector central and local Overall were focused on four main product markets: Fixed voice: Major Business government, health, higher Mobility: Fibre and connectivity: and Networked IT services.
Businesses in the UK with over 1,000 Fixed voice employees.
For some time the market for fixed voice services has been Multinational corporates with transitioning from traditional voice to Future IP Voice.
Market majority of BT business in the UK.
analysts such as IDC believe that IP Voice will become the dominant business voice service by 2018.
Corporates and public sector in Northern Ireland.
The fixed voice market is largely fragmented as the market leader, Corporates, public sector and we compete against more than 950 resellers and fixed network wholesale customers in the operators, including companies such as Azzurri, Colt Group, Daisy Republic of Ireland.
Group, Gamma, KCOM Group, O2 and Unicom.
Mobility Mobility and mobile device usage continues to grow as a way for customers to cut costs, improve productivity and deliver a richer customer experience.
This growth is taking place against a backdrop of increasing risks concerning security, privacy and compliance.
Our main competitors in this area are O2 and Vodafone.
Both offer fixed products as well as mobile and are increasingly selling converged services.
66 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 67 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Fibre and connectivity Mobility Broadband services are still migrating to fibre in order to meet the Our mobile portfolio offers a range of handsets and tablets and a need for faster communication speeds.
Were the largest business choice of voice and data tariffs.
broadband provider in the UK.
BT One Phone is a converged proposition combining office Networking is moving from physical provision to software-based, switchboard and mobile needs into one cloud-based solution mainly virtual provision.
Its expanding into the wide area networking space delivered through the customers mobile phone.
through technologies such as Software Defined Networking SDN.
See page 71 for more details.
Fibre and connectivity We provide a range of internet access options including: BT Business Ethernet and dedicated internet access services are growing strongly, Broadband over copper connections : BT Business Infinity over fibrewith businesses becoming increasingly reliant on connectivity.
Were to-the-cabinet FTTC and  FTTP : and BTnet the leading provider of fixed networking services in the UK.
Networked IT services Our networking solutions are ideal for customers who want to The IT services market is diverse, ranging from off-the-shelf connect offices together or connect to the internet over dedicated hardware sales to large outsourced solutions.
Products include Ethernet, IP Virtual Private Network services, SIP trunking which transports voice calls over IP networks, Areas of the market experiencing growth include cloud services, leased lines, cabling infrastructure and local area networking hosting, infrastructure and security, all of which offer attractive solutions.
opportunities for us to expand our share of the overall market.
Networked IT services Competition is fragmented, with providers often focused on specific Our specialist IT services team provide solution design, delivery, customer-types, industries or technologies.
Our main competitors are management and in-life support, built around five core product Computacenter, Dimension Data, CDW, Logicalis, SCC and Softcat.
areas: end-user computing: Security is increasingly important for companies as they face an unified communications and collaboration: evolving range of cyber security threats.
networking: security: and data centres, cloud and hosting.
Products and services We offer a wide choice of voice, connectivity and These services are supported by partnerships with the likes of Cisco, HP and Microsoft.
These range from standalone products and converged propositions to managed services and customised solutions.
Together these meet the needs of our customer base that varies from small start-ups to large enterprises and public sector organisations.
Fixed voice Our fixed-voice services range from calls and lines, to fully-managed office phone systems and contact centre solutions across both our traditional and IP Voice portfolio.
Weve a broad Future Voice portfolio of Cloud Unified Communications services, BT Cloud Phone and BT Cloud Voice, aimed at the full spectrum of customers we serve.
BT Cloud Voice, a feature-rich, cloud-based phone system with the flexibility to meet the demands of the modern, agile business 66 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 67
