Board and Governance Directors Report DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their Annual Report and the audited The Independent Auditors Report starting on page 119 sets consolidated financial statements of the Company for the out the information contained in the Annual Report which year to 31 March 2017. has been audited by them.
Strategic Report Disclosures requires under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 Burberry Group plc is required by the Companies Act The information required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4, where 2006 to prepare a Strategic Report that includes a fair applicable, is included in this Directors Report.
review of the Companys business, the development and the performance of the Companys business during the Political donations year, the position of the Company at the end of the financial The Company made no political donations during the year in year to 31 March 2017 and a description of the principal line with its policy 2016: nil.
In keeping with the Companys risks and uncertainties faced by the Company.
The approach in prior years, shareholder approval is being following are incorporated by reference and shall be sought at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, as a deemed to form part of this Directors Report: precautionary measure, for the Company and its subsidiaries to make donations and or incur expenditure which may the Strategic Report on pages 9 to 65: be construed as political by the wide definition of that term included in the relevant legislation.
Further details are the Board and Governance Report which includes provided in the Notice of this years Annual General Meeting.
the Board, the Corporate Governance Report and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 111: and Financial instruments the energy and global greenhouse gas emissions The Groups financial risk management objectives and disclosure on page 51. policies are set out within note 25 of the Financial Statements.
Note 25 also details the Groups exposure Other governance disclosures to foreign exchange, share price, interest, credit, capital Revenue and profit and liquidity risks.
This note is incorporated by reference Revenue from the continuing business during the period and deemed to form part of this report.
The profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the Company Annual General Meeting was 286.8m 2016: 309.5m The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the InterContinental Hotel, One Hamilton Place, Park Lane, Going concern London W1J 7QY on Thursday, 13 July 2017.
The Notice of The going concern statements for the Group and this years Annual General Meeting will be available to view Company are set out on pages 130 and 185 of the on the Companys website at www.
financial statements and are incorporated by reference and shall be deemed to be part of this report.
The directors consider that each of the proposed resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting are in the Independent auditors best interests of the Company and its shareholders and In accordance with section 418 2 of the Companies Act are most likely to promote the success of the Company 2006, each of the Companys directors in office as at the for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
The directors date of this report confirms that: unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each of the proposed resolutions, as the directors intend so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant to do in respect of their own shareholdings.
audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Directors he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought The names and biographical details of the directors as to have taken as a director in order to make himself or at the date of this report are set out on pages 68 and 69 herself aware of any relevant audit information and to and are incorporated by reference into this report.
establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
At the 2017 Annual General Meeting, all of the current directors will offer themselves for election or re-election.
The Groups auditors are  LLP.
The Notice of this years Annual General Meeting sets out A resolution to reappoint  LLP as why the Board believes the directors should be elected or auditors to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming re-elected.
Details of the directors service agreements Annual General Meeting.
Note 7 of the Financial Statements and letters of appointment are given in the Directors states the auditors fees both for audit and non-audit work.
Remuneration Report on pages 87 to 111.
112 Board and Governance Directors Report Directors insurance and indemnities Share capital The Company maintains directors and officers liability Details of the issued share capital, together with details insurance which gives cover for legal actions brought of movements in the issued share capital of Burberry against its directors and officers.
In accordance with Group plc during the year are shown in note 22 which section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, qualifying thirdis incorporated by reference and deemed to be part of party indemnity provisions are in place for the directors this report.
in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office, to the extent permitted by law.
Both the insurance and The Company has one class of ordinary share which indemnities applied throughout the financial year ended carries no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the 31 March 2017 and through to the date of this report.
right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
The ordinary shares are listed on the Official List and Directors share interests traded on the London Stock Exchange.
As at 31 March The interests of the directors holding office at 31 March 2017, the Company had 438,439,160 ordinary shares in 2017 in the shares of the Company are shown within the issue.
The Company held 6,733,905 shares in treasury.
Directors Remuneration Report on page 105.
There were no changes to the beneficial interests of the directors In order to retain maximum flexibility, the Company between the period 31 March 2017 and 17 May 2017. proposes to renew the authority granted by ordinary shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2016, Dividends to repurchase up to just under 10% of its issued share The directors recommend that a final dividend of 28.4p capital.
From July 2016 to April 2017, the Company per ordinary share 2016: 26.8p in respect of the year to completed 100 of a 150m announced share buyback.
31 March 2017 be paid on 4 August 2017 to those persons A further share buyback of 300m will be completed on the Register of Members as at 7 July 2017. in FY 2018, in addition to the 50m already announced.
Further details are provided in the Notice of this years An interim dividend of 10.5p per ordinary share was Annual General Meeting which is available on the paid to shareholders on 27 January 2017 2016: 10.2p.
This will make a total dividend of 38.9p per ordinary share in respect of the financial year to 31 March 2017.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2016, shareholders The aggregate dividends paid and recommended in respect approved resolutions to allot shares up to an aggregate of the year to 31 March 2017 total 169.4m 2016: 163.7m.
nominal value of 73,430 and to allot shares for cash other than pro rata to existing shareholders.
Resolutions Substantial shareholdings will be proposed at this years Annual General Meeting As at 31 March 2017, the Company had been notified under to renew these authorities.
Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following major interests in its issued ordinary share capital: No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully Number of % of total paid.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of ordinary shares voting rights holding or on the transfer of shares which are both BlackRock, Inc. 25,036,087 5.70 governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Lindsell Train Limited 21,928,267 5.00 Association and prevailing legislation.
The directors FMR LLC 21,867,513 4.98 are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Schroders plc 21,666,352 4.99 Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 21,664,800 4.97 transfer of securities or voting rights.
The directors have JP Morgan Chase & Co 21,578,580 4.99 no current plans to issue shares other than in connection The Capital Group Companies, Inc 20,783,178 4.67 with employee share schemes.
Massachusetts Financial 20,073,645 4.61 Services Company GBL Energy Sarl 13,183,000 3.00 Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 26.
The Burberry Group plc ESOP Trust has waived all dividends payable by the Company in respect of the As at 17 May 2017, the Company had not received any ordinary shares held by it.
In addition, the Burberry further notifications under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Group plc SIP Trust has waived all dividends payable Transparency Rules of major interests in its issued ordinary by the Company in respect of the unappropriated ordinary share capital.
The total dividends waived by the trusts in the year to 31 March 2017 were in aggregate 1.7m Interests in own shares 2016: 1.2m.
Details of the Companys interests in its own shares are set out in note 22 to the financial statements.
113 Board and Governance Directors Report With regard to the appointment and replacement Burberry World is the key digital intranet channel of directors, the Company follows the UK Corporate used by the Company to communicate to its employees.
Governance Code 2014 and is governed by its Articles However, other methods and channels are also used, of Association, the Companies Act 2006 and related including face-to-face briefings, open discussion forums legislation.
The Articles of Association may be with senior management, email and instant messaging.
amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Burberry Chat Live global video broadcasts are hosted by the Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer and senior Significant contracts change of control management and provide real-time updates to highlight the Revolving credit facility Groups performance and its ongoing strategic initiatives Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the directors and projects.
The Company also uses videos and digital disclose that in the event of a change of control, the web pages to communicate key initiatives, events and Companys borrowings under the Groups 300m revolving other brand messages, to enhance internal communication, credit facility dated 25 November 2014 could become employee connectivity and the Burberry culture.
Details of the service agreements of the executive directors are set out on page 95 of the Employee share ownership Directors Remuneration Report.
The Group encourages share ownership at all levels and runs incentive schemes and share ownership schemes for The provisions of the Companys employee share plans the benefit of employees.
Further details of these schemes may cause options and awards granted under such are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages plans to vest upon a change of control.
Licence agreement The Group again intends to grant free share awards On 3 April 2017, Burberry entered into an exclusive licence or equivalent cash-based awards to all eligible agreement with Coty pursuant to which Coty will develop, employees during 2017 18.
The Group also intends, manufacture, market, distribute and sell Burberry Beauty where possible, to invite eligible employees to take products.
The agreement is anticipated to take effect from part in the Sharesave Scheme.
October 2017 from which time ongoing royalty payments will be payable to Burberry.
The agreement provides that Further information regarding the Groups approach to Burberry will receive cash payments of 130m in the employee involvement and communications is provided second half of FY 2017 18 for the long-term exclusive in Inspired People on page 44. global licence and related transfer of the Beauty business.
Burberry will also receive c. 50m for assets transferring Employment policies which is subject to inventory adjustments.
Pursuant to the Diversity and inclusion Companies Act 2006, the directors disclose that a change The Group takes a very inclusive approach to diversity.
of control of Burberry will, in limited circumstances, result As a global business, Burberry values people of all cultures, in Coty having a right of termination of the licence nationalities, races, religions and ethnicities, regardless agreement.
of characteristics such as gender, gender identity and or expression, age, disability or sexual orientation.
Burberry Employee involvement is passionate about attracting, developing and rewarding Employee communication the most talented and skilled individuals, regardless of The Group believes that employee communication is background.
The Group encourages its employees to work an important tool to enhance the Company culture and across functions, geographies and cultures to enhance connectivity and to motivate and retain its employees.
understanding and create a connected global community.
A global communications programme, incorporating As the Group continues to grow globally, it is building various physical and digital channels, enables all on its long-term commitment to diversity and inclusion, employees to connect and collaborate closely.
These embracing the cultures of all the countries where we do channels are used to efficiently communicate the business.
Burberry is committed to making the necessary Companys key strategies, financial performance adjustments to support the employment of people with and other matters of interest and importance.
disabilities and provide training and development to ensure they have the opportunity to achieve their potential.
114 Board and Governance Directors Report Further information regarding the Groups employment policies are provided on the Groups website at www.
Health and safety The Group has a health and safety policy approved by the Board.
Governance of the health and safety strategy is maintained through a Global Health and Safety Committee which is chaired by the Chief People and Corporate Affairs Officer.
Health and safety is also considered at the Group Risk Committee and Audit Committee.
Each region has local committees which assist with the implementation of the health and safety strategy.
Strategic direction on health and safety matters is provided by the Senior Manager, Global Health and Safety and is supported by a global team.
The Global Health and Safety team aims to visit each location worldwide approximately every three years to provide advice, assistance and support.
In addition, occupational health and safety compliance is formally audited in stores every three to five years, dependent on profile, and annually in our Regent Street flagship, our corporate offices and our internal manufacturing and distribution sites.
The Strategic Report from pages 9 to 65 and Directors Report from pages 112 to 115 have been approved by the Board on 17 May 2017.
By order of the Board Catherine Sukmonowski Company Secretary 17 May 2017 Burberry Group plc Registered Office: Horseferry House Horseferry Road London SW1P 2AW Registered in England and Wales Registered number: 03458224 115 Financial Statements 118 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 129 Analysis of Net Cash 119 Independent Auditors Report to the 130 Notes to the Financial Statements Members of Burberry Group plc 177 Five Year Summary 125 Group Income Statement 179 Independent Auditors Report to 126 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income the Members of Burberry Group plc 127 Group Balance Sheet 182 Company Balance Sheet 128 Group Statement of Changes in Equity 183 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 129 Group Statement of Cash Flows 184 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 117
