Strategic Report Performance Capital Allocation Framework Driving shareholder value.
Burberrys new Capital Allocation Framework is used to prioritise the use of cash generated by the Group.
The framework addresses the investment needs of the business, regular dividend payments and additional returns to shareholders.
The framework also seeks to maintain an appropriate capital structure for the business and a strong balance sheet with solid investment grade metrics.
The diagram below summarises the key priorities.
Reinvest for Progressive Return excess to Strategic investments organic growth dividend policy shareholders Store portfolio Committed to maintaining Investment in structural Review future cash New space and or growing the dividend in changes to business generation, reflecting renovation pence terms year-on-year activities Burberrys growth, productivity and IT Deliver regular returns to Typically these investment plans, taking Infrastructure and shareholders investments tend to into consideration the digital be infrequent, but can external environment Supply chain be significant, such as the acquisition of China non-controlling interest Maintain strong balance sheet with solid investment grade credit metrics as indicated by capital structure metrics Review the principal risks of the Group and the relevant financial parameters, both historical and projected, including net cash, lease-adjusted net debt and measures covering balance sheet strength and fixed charge cover.
These risks are considered by the Board when assessing the viability of the Group, as set out on page 61.
Capital structure metrics FY 2017 FY 2016 Net cash 809m 660m Lease-adjusted net debt 388m 441m Burberry has applied its capital allocation framework during the year ended 31 March 2017, as follows.
Reinvested 104m into the business as capital expenditure.
Increased its full year dividend by 5% to 38.9p.
Invested 69m in the strategic acquisition of non-controlling interests in China and the Middle East.
From July 2016 to April 2017 100m of an announced 150m was returned to shareholders via a share buyback programme.
In addition, a further share buyback of 300m has been announced for completion in FY 2018, in addition to 50m already announced.
This is inclusive of the distribution of the Coty upfront sum.
