INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS To measure performance against the Groups strategy, a number of Key Performance Indicators KPIs are utilised: further explanation of which, including reconciliations to GAAP numbers, is included in Note 6 of the financial statements and in the glossary.
A description of these KPIs and performance against them during the period is set out below: PERFORMANCE Billings represents the value of products Continued strong growth in all regions and Billings and services invoiced to customers.
Cash is products with a particularly strong YOY Q4 received at the start of a subscription period performance.
See page 29 for a detailed $632.1M and consequently billings become a key forward review of billings.
Revenue reflects the element of billings Subscription billings driving revenue growth Revenue recognised in the period including from into double-digits and trending towards companies acquired from the date of their billings growth rates.
The majority of billings are for detailed review of revenue.
FY16: $478.2m subscription contracts that are recognised rateably over the contract term.
Sustained momentum of billings growth Cash EBITDA provides visibility of cash earnings Cash EBITDA coupled with leveraging of the existing cost during the period, even if the associated revenue base resulted in an increase in cash EBITDA $150.1M for that periods billings has not yet been and margin cash EBITDA as a percentage recognised.
Unlevered free Unlevered free cash flow represents the cash flow Strong performance above the Boards amount of cash generated by operations expectations, driven by growth in billings and after allowing for capital expenditure, $133.4M close control of working capital.
taxation and working capital movements.
FY16: $46.4m Weighted Small increase due to material contract The weighted average contract length, measured average previously announced in Q1.
The over the prior twelve month period, gives the contract length comparative has been restated as it is now Group an indication of the period over which future measured on a total Group basis.
28.1 months FY16: 27.8 months Renewal rate Renewal rate including upsell and cross-sell The Group has continued to leverage its is a measure of long-term value of end user product portfolio, leading to a continued 106% agreements and the Groups ability to retain improvement in the renewal rate.
The continued growth of the business partially Endpoint-UTM depends on successfully selling additional As the Group has demonstrated the benefits products and services to existing customers.
cross-sell of cross-ownership of its products, the Customers can derive greater value by owning level of cross-sell has continued to steadily 9.6% multiple products from the Group as they increase through the year.
benefit from synergies in management, FY16: 7.4% support and functionality.
