Strategic Report Burberry Group Overview MARKET OVERVIEW Macro environment Socio-economic and environmental Economic The year was marked by a number of socio-economic During the 2016 calendar year, the global economy grew and environmental events.
These included the results by3.1%, a deceleration versus 2015 at 3.5%.
The year of the UK Brexit referendum, the highly polarised US was marked by a slowdown of the US economy, heightened election campaign, the worsening of the migrant crisis uncertainty in the Eurozone and increased geopolitical in the Eurozone, the increased incidence of cyber attacks concerns in the Middle East and Russia.
In addition and terrorist attacks such as those in Nice, Berlin, Paris commodity prices rebounded in 2016, particularly oil, and London.
In addition, there was the continued impact which almost doubled in the year, leading to increased of the El Nio weather phenomenon, which made 2016 the inflation rates in the US and Europe.
warmest year on record the third consecutive year a new global annual temperature record has been set.
Across the major economies, the US grew by 1.6% after a slow start to the year.
The recovery of oil prices and Luxury sector the stabilisation of the dollar enabled the economy to Markets accelerate in the second half.
In Asia, Chinas economy This challenging global macro-economic backdrop had a grew by 6.7%, a continued deceleration from 6.9% in 2015 significant impact on the performance of the luxury sector.
Increased public spending and credit At constant exchange rates, sector sales growth in 2016 growth measures exacerbated concerns around a real was flat, in line with the 1% growth experienced in 2015, estate bubble and hastened capital outflows.
Hong Kong although performance improved significantly in the second experienced modest GDP growth of 1.9%, a decline from half of the year.
Underlying growth at constant exchange 2.4% in 2015, impacted by slowing exports, a cooling rates of 4% in China and 1% in Europe was partially offset property market and slowing private consumption.
The by declines in the Americas and Japan.
Japanese economy returned to growth at 1.0% as exports recovered, although private consumption and capital Mainland China experienced a recovery after several expenditure remained weak.
South Korea GDP growth years of stagnation.
Repatriation of Chinese consumption remained stable at 2.7%, in line with 2015 at 2.6%, which commenced as price differentials with other global was impacted by the MERS outbreak.
The Eurozone markets narrowed and the Chinese government declined slightly to 1.7% despite strong growth rates introduced initiatives to reduce grey market activities in Spain, Germany and Ireland.
In the UK, GDP grew and limit overseas shopping.
Despite the recovery in by 1.8%, a deceleration from 2.2% in 2015.
Across key Mainland China, overall luxury consumption by Chinese developing markets, Russia and Brazil exhibited early nationals declined for the first time in recent records.
signs of a recovery from deep recession.
Finally, the In Continental Europe, performance was negatively Middle East economy started to recover, supported by impacted by declining tourist consumption due to terrorist increasing oil prices.
attacks and stricter visa rules for Chinese visitors.
These negative dynamics were offset by the recovery of local consumption in most countries and the strong tourist flows to the UK attracted by the devaluation of Sterling.
In the Americas, the US market continued to underperform as the strong Dollar resulted in lower tourist spend and local consumption suffered from the uncertainty around the 30 Strategic Report Burberry Group Overview presidential election.
Hong Kong, one of the most profitable Products luxury markets in the world, continued to decline due to its For the sector, Beauty was the fastest-growing product decreasing popularity as a destination forChinese tourists.
category at 4% growth driven by Asia and the Americas.
In Japan, theappreciation of the Yen reduced Chinese Accessories grew by 1% with positive momentum from tourists consumption and stimulated overseas purchases shoes and leather goods, particularly at entry price by Japanese customers.
South Korea grew by 13% points, mens travel, and usage occasion products such atconstant exchange rates driven by returning Chinese as backpacks.
The apparel category declined by 4%, tourism after the 2015 MERS outbreak.
Finally, the Middle driven by poor performance from luxury brands with East continued to decline, driven by poor consumption by a high apparel mix and partially offset by strong growth both local and tourist customers.
Eastern Europe started from luxury denim and down-jackets, and the resurgence to recover, particularly with local consumers in Russia.
of sports-lines and active wear.
Finally, hard luxury continued to struggle driven by weak performance More widely, luxury customers continue to mature in Asia, particularly at high price points.
becoming increasingly discerning in their shopping experiences, expecting a high level of service, exciting Outlook experiences and innovative and bespoke products.
Industry analysts forecast that the personal luxury sector will grow by low to mid single-digit percentage Channels in the medium term at constant exchange rates, driven Globally, the retail channel continued to outperform by a recovery of the US market and the rebound of Chinese wholesale and now accounts for 35% of luxury global spending.
Japan is expected to remain challenging, consumption.
This channel grew by 1%, driven by store and the Hong Kong market difficult.
Over the longer term, perimeter expansion which more than offset negative the luxury market should benefit from the growing Chinese like-for-like performance.
Digital commerce remained the middle class and the recovery of developed market fastest-growing channel in the sector and now accounts consumers, increased concentration of wealth in global for 7% of total luxury sales.
Key drivers of this growth destination cities, improving macro and socio-economic included strong performance in the Asia region and the trends, strong luxury consumer travel flows, and the sustained momentum of mobile commerce.
Travel retail continued increasing penetration of digitalcommerce.
continued to outperform the sector and grew by high Note: single-digits despite being negatively impacted by shifting References are to calendar years, unless otherwise stated.
B ain & Company and Fondazione Altagamma 2016 tourist flows.
Finally, the wholesale channel declined by Luxury Goods Worldwide Market Report October 2016.
2% in 2016, mainly driven by the continued deterioration M ainland China excludes Hong Kong, Taiwan and Macau.
of US department store sales and Asian watch retailers.
31 Strategic Report Strategic Report key strategies Burberrys ambition is to bring pioneering British creativity and culture to the world by creating beautifully made products, inspiring with its storytelling and shared experiences, delivering impeccable and distinctive services, and continually innovating.
Burberrys key strategies and progress made during the year, are set out on the following pages.
