What we do In this section, we Our purpose, goal Investing in provide more details and strategy what sets us apart on our purpose, goal Our purpose We invest in building and maintaining and strategy in the Our purpose is as simple as it is ambitious: communications networks in the UK and to use the power of communications to overseas, as well as developing products and context of our business make a better world.
services that run over those networks.
It shows how The world is changing.
Political upheaval, Some investments, such as TV sports rights we create value for our social and demographical changes, increasing page 58, have a lifespan of just a few economic inequality and worsening years.
Other investments, such as our fibre stakeholders over the environmental impacts are becoming the broadband network, are much longer term, new norm.
We believe that technology has with a pay-back period that lasts more than short, medium and an important part to play in addressing these a decade.
We have a strong combination of people, Our goal technology, networks and other physical Our goal is growth, in particular the creation assets that sets us apart from our of sustainable, profitable, revenue growth.
Importantly, we also have the We aim to achieve profitable revenue growth financial strength to continue to invest in by delivering both a great experience these areas.
and valued products and services to our customers.
Profitable revenue growth, Our most important resources and combined with continued transformation relationships are described from page 26. of our cost base and productivity, will drive strong, sustainable operating cash flow.
We will reinvest a significant proportion of our operating cash flow in networks, products and services that will drive longterm growth and value for our customers and shareholders.
We will use the residual cash flow to fund our pensions, pay dividends to shareholders and maintain a strong balance sheet.
Our strategy In order to achieve our purpose and deliver our goal weve adopted a strategy based on broadening and deepening our customer relationships.
To create sustainable profitable revenue growth, we need stronger relationships with our customers.
The three pillars of our strategy help us build these relationships, providing a great customer experience, transforming our costs and enabling us to invest for growth in the process.
They work together: the better our customers experience, the more well sell and the less time and money well spend putting things right.
And the better we manage our costs, the more we can invest in improving our customers experience and in products and services that will create growth.
24 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 25 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Oversight Creating value for Selling services and governance all our stakeholders integral to modern life We sell fixed-voice, broadband, mobile and Generating strong cash flow enables Communications markets are dynamic and TV products and services to individuals and us to invest in the business, reduce net very competitive, particularly in the UK.
For businesses we debt, support our pension fund and pay There are multiple risks and opportunities, so offer a variety of communications services progressive dividends see page 26. its important our business model is flexible ranging from phone and broadband through and sustainable.
To help us we: to complex managed networks and IT But theres much more to what we do than services and cyber security protection.
It have a framework to identify and public services rely on our technologies and helps millions of people communicate, enjoy mitigate the challenges we face see in the UK we help other communications entertainment, do business and generally page 44 : providers to service their own customers.
We help our customers reduce use insight teams to make sure we stay their carbon footprint and we contribute in tune with market opportunities and We see growing demand for many of our directly to communities and the health customer expectations: products and services because they play of the UK by providing jobs, supporting undertake an annual materiality such an integral role in modern life.
suppliers, paying tax and encouraging our review to understand the social and employees volunteering activities.
environmental issues that are important We sell our products and services through to our stakeholders: and our customer-facing lines of business, All of which contribute to the strength use governance committees, such as and continuously improve our costs and of our brands which in turn influences our Design Council, to make sure were productivity to drive revenue, margins and whether a potential customer buys from making the right investments.
We reinvest a us or one of our competitors.
significant proportion of this operating cash Together, these help us anticipate and flow in the business, creating a virtuous respond to changes in our markets including circle that delivers value for our stakeholders macro events like Brexit and the prospect over the short, medium and long term.
of the UK leaving the single European market.
Thats why were confident we can We use a range of channels to sell our deliver value over the short, medium and products and services, including online, long term.
Its this confidence that underpins contact centres and account managers.
We our assessment of the future prospects and also have around 570 EE shops in the UK.
viability of the group see page 55.
Our revenue is mostly subscription or Design Council contract-based.
Individuals, households and The Design Council is a sub-committee SMEs pay for standalone or bundled services, of the Operating Committee page 14.
It typically on 12- to 24-month contracts.
normally meets monthly and is responsible Large corporate and public sector customers for aligning our capital investments in our usually buy managed networked IT services networks, systems, platforms and products on contracts spanning several years.
so that they reflect our strategy, serve the Our wholesale customer contracts range needs of our customers and are delivered from one month for regulated products, cost-effectively.
to five years or more for major managed services deals.
24 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 25
