Lines of business continued Business and Public Sector continued Performance in the year strategic Performance in the year operating Our order intake of 3.4bn was up 7% with the Our continued investments in our people and inclusion of EE orders offsetting public sector our portfolio has helped improve the customer decline.
During the year weaker trading in the experience we provide while positioning us to public sector, driven by a number of contracts exploit the market move to convergence.
coming to an end, contributed to our revised group outlook.
1 Business & Public Sector 12-month rolling order intake Delivering great customer experience Year ended 31 March Weve made good progress on our journey to become the market leader for customer experience.
m 3,800 Our Net Promoter Score has improved by 12.4 points and our Right 3,600 First Time measure by 6.1%.
Were resolving complaints 11% more quickly than last year.
3,400 This year weve: 3,200 followed up with 20,000 customers on specific pain points to improve their end-to-end experience: 3,000 launched our first Customer Experience Lab in Dundee to trial innovative customer service solutions and new ways of 2,800 supporting our customers: Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 invested in people with more than 200 new advisers joining our 2016 2017 service teams, including new apprentices: and delivered over 30,000 hours of training to our customer service advisers to improve the customer experience.
Contracts we won or re-signed this year include: CUSTOMER CONTRACT 2 Royal Mail.
A four-year deal for wide-ranging Investing for growth network and ICT services, covering voice, Were still investing to improve and future-proof our products and data, and customer contact centres.
Whatever tomorrow brings, we aim to be ready.
Renewal of existing WAN and managed services deal by adapting our service This year weve: model to meet Glanbias global expansion enriched our Future Voice portfolio by adding new features such needs particularly in the US.
as portal and app enhancements: upgraded our Infinity Broadband portfolio to address the Ardagh Group.
Extension of existing WAN contract, demand for higher speeds, offering up to 76Mbps as standard: addition of global SIP, completion of improved the wi-fi performance and reliability of our Business a Cisco PBX replacement project and Hub and expanded our Smart Diagnostics capability to fix issues deployment of BT Microsoft One Cloud.
proactively: and expanded our range of cloud-based services for SME customers, Metropolitan Police.
100m networking and IT contract to for example Mozy Backup, our new flexible cloud back-up deliver high-speed fixed and wireless solution.
networks, together with a range of Cloud and IT services, to help underpin its 3 technology transformation programme.
Transforming our costs Surrey County Our public services network contract was Weve achieved major cost synergies by integrating EE and Business Council.
extended for a further two years, growing and Public Sector.
The creation of Business and Public Sector gave us the opportunity The number of business lines we provide fell by 9% as customers to align our customer service operations more effectively.
The first continue to migrate to VoIP.
This has been partly offset by growth in stage of this reorganisation brought together around 2,000 of our the number of IP lines, up 78%.
Were seeing strong take-up of our people into a single centre of excellence for UK and Republic BT Cloud Voice and BT Cloud Phone services with user numbers up of Ireland managed services.
Weve brought around 800 engineers from across BT Group into Business and Public Sector.
The result is a unified field service team focused on the provision and maintenance of equipment on customers premises.
These changes will allow us to better serve our customers while driving efficiency and reducing costs.
68 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 69 3,477 3,726 3,475 3,163 3,228 3,094 3,212 3,369 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION In last years report, we set out our top priorities for this year, the SME revenue was up 37% due to growth in mobile from the table below summarises the progress weve made against them.
addition of EE customers, while also benefiting from an increase in revenue from IP lines, partly offset by a decline in traditional switch Review of last years priorities revenue.
WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID Corporate revenue was up 37% with growth in mobile revenue We said wed We integrated 1,600 people within 60 driven by EE offset by a reduction in equipment sales.
successfully launch days of concluding the EE acquisition our new Business and the new organisation went live on Public Sector and Major Business revenue was down 12%, with the and Public Sector 1 April 2016.
However, lower trading in inclusion of EE revenue more than offset by the decline in public organisation.
Public Sector driven by the completion sector revenue.
Public sector still faces challenges as we have a small of a number of large contracts led to a number of large contracts coming to an end.
decline in underlying profits and a revised performance outlook.
Foreign exchange movements had a 52m positive impact on a Republic of Ireland revenue, where underlying revenue excluding transit was down 2%.
We said wed Weve made our full range of propositions introduce our full available across BT and EE.
Operating costs were up 12% 2015 16: 0% and EBITDA was up portfolio of fixed, a 8% 2015 16: 2% as a result of EE.
Underlying EBITDA adjusted mobile and IT for the acquisition of EE was down 10%, reflecting the revenue services to existing decline in public sector.
Depreciation and amortisation went up by BT customers and 24% 2015 16: 21% reflecting the impact of EE.
Capital expenditure went up by 122m 2015 16: 7m decrease b and adjusted for the acquisition of EE was up 81m.
Operating We said wed Weve upgraded Infinity Broadband to cash flow went up 17% 2015 16: 3% reflecting the higher develop and up to 76Mbps as standard, expanded EBITDA and the timing of working capital movements.
integrate our our range of cloud-based services and portfolio of introduced new features to BT Cloud products and Voice.
Priorities for the year ahead managed services.
Over the next 12 months well continue We said wed carry Our Net Promoter Score has improved on improving by 12.4 points and our Right First Time to invest for the future to deliver a great the customer measure by 6.1%.
customer experience and sustainable experience we provide.
Performance in the year financial Our top priorities for 2017 18 are: Revenue was up 11% 2015 16: 1% while underlying revenue excluding transit adjusted Drive growth from greater sales coverage, acquiring and cross-selling to customers for the acquisition of EE was down 6% increase the average number of products sold per customer.
Underlying profits declined Differentiate through an integrated experience and portfolio, in the year, impacted by a number of large delivered on the best network public sector contracts coming to an end.
The growth in the strategic portfolio areas of IP Voice, Mobile, Networking and ITservices.
remaining business performed well, led by good growth in mobile.
Continue to improve the customer experience we provide further improvements in NPS.
2017 2016 2015 Year ended 31 March m m m Revenue 4,758 4,294 4,247 a Underlying excluding transit adjusted for the acquisition of EE 6 % 2 % n a Operating costs 3,230 2,880 2,867 EBITDA 1,528 1,414 1,380 Depreciation and amortisation 352 284 235 Operating profit 1,176 1,130 1,145 Capital expenditure 275 153 160 Free cash flow 1,293 1,101 1,070 a Excludes specific items, foreign exchange movements and disposals and from 2016 17 is calculated as though EE had been part of the group from 1 April 2015. b Includes EEs historical financial information as though it had been part of one group from 1 April 2015, under the new organisational structure.
68 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 69 Lines of business Global Services Were a leading global business communications provider, supplying ICT services to 5,500 multinational companies in 180 countries.
By combining our global strengths in networks, ICT and innovation around 7,200 people across key European business hubs, and have with our deep expertise and global delivery model weve become an extensive network of more than 1,000 PoPs.
a trusted partner for our customers.
We provide them with the services they need to create the digital transformation of their In the UK, we serve multinational companies and financial services businesses.
During the year, we identified inappropriate behaviour in our Italian The Americas is important because 70% of our top customers have business.
This is an extremely serious matter and has no place in BT.
We operate in 28 countries in Latin America For full details of what we found, how we responded and what we and the Caribbean, as well as the US and Canada.
will do going forward see page 6.
In Asia, Middle East and Africa were helping multinationals expand Global Services serves multinational companies headquartered into these areas, while supporting local companies as they grow around the world.
Weve been simplifying how we work to provide a internationally.
We help our customers from 26 offices.
sharper focus on our global customers.
Were structured around four regional operations providing expertise in key industry sectors.
Outside the UK, use of the incumbents access network under non-discriminatory terms and conditions is important to provide a competitive service to our customers.
We still campaign for fair markets as we expand our business.
Global Services revenue by region Year ended 31 March 2017 30% UK 12% AMEA 21% Americas Americas UK Continental Europe Asia, Middle East & Africa Key industry sectors: Media and Business Services Financial Services Retail and Consumer Goods Automotive 37% Continental Europe Technology and Telecoms Energy and Resources Travel, Transport and Logistics Manufacturing Global Services strategic review We have undertaken a strategic review of Global Services, with the objectives of improving its market and financial performance, its risk Markets and customers profile, and the long-term value that it delivers to BT.
Global Services Customers is most differentiated with large, multinational customers, who We work with 5,500 customers across 180 countries worldwide.
Our demand high quality, secure communications.
Its product portfolio focus is on our major accounts, which generated 78% of our revenue is industry-leading across a range of areas, including networking, in 2016 17.
72% of revenue was from customers served in multiple security, cloud collaboration and contact centres.
Technology trends mean that we are now less dependent on owning We also keep focusing on growing our share of customer spend by crossphysical local network access assets around the world, creating the selling products and services in line with our Cloud of Clouds strategy.
opportunity to reposition Global Services as a more focused digital business.
We will prioritise innovation of cloud-based platforms that Regions deliver our products and services, with BTs global network at the Weve over 17,000 people worldwide in 63 countries.
Our 20 highest core, to support the digital transformation of our customers.
As we priority countries, including the UK and other key countries where our implement this strategy, we will ensure that we optimise the value of major customers are based, generate over 90% of our revenue.
our global and our local network assets.
Continental Europe is our largest region by revenue.
We employ 70 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 71 S I n e n r o v B v i a c T t e i A o THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION To enable this strategic repositioning, we are restructuring our Global BT Connect Services organisation to a simpler operating model.
This will involve a Network services are at the core of our Cloud of Clouds strategy.
two-year restructuring of our operations, the costs of which will be treated as a specific item.
They connect our customers to their people, their own customers and the cloud.
We offer a range of flexible, intelligent hybrid and Key market trends secure IP, Ethernet and internet virtual private network services.
Our customers are globalising and transforming their businesses.
These include direct connectivity to third-party cloud services Theyre using services from the cloud to gain competitive advantage providers and the latest Network Function Virtualisation NFV and by increasing efficiencies and decreasing IT costs.
They want: Software Defined Networking SDN solutions the new generation a greater choice of cloud service providers: of networking technologies that are giving us a new way to build high performance across their network and IT service: and manage corporate networks that are fit for the digital age.
flexible, end-to-end secure service: and a trusted partner to provide ICT services.
We use a range of access technologies to deliver our network services to over 180 countries.
The network continues to be the critical infrastructure that connects our customers to their cloud services, their sites, their employees, BT Security customers and suppliers.
As customers seek more flexible and agile With cyber-attacks a daily event, cyber security is firmly on the models, theyre increasingly adopting software-based network boardroom agenda for many companies.
technologies to achieve the right balance between performance, service, security and cost.
We use the expertise weve gained from protecting BT to deliver managed security services, threat intelligence analysis and In this market, our main competitors are global telecoms companies management, and consultancy services, helping our customers such as AT&T, NTT, Orange and Vodafone.
We also compete against protect their organisations from this growing threat.
regional telecoms companies such as Singtel.
BT One People communicate using technology in many different ways by Products and services phone, instant messaging, email, audio and video conferencing and data-sharing, either at their desks or on mobile devices.
Our portfolio strategy, known as Cloud of Clouds, brings together our six core product families and Businesses want these channels to be integrated and to work together easily and reliably.
a network of partners to support the delivery of global network and IT infrastructure services.
Our collaboration services help customers improve productivity and cut costs by transforming the way they communicate with their customers, colleagues, partners and suppliers.
Our six core product families BT Contact Our contact centre services help our customers build stronger relationships with their customers.
We offer a number of ways for them to communicate, including email, web chat, video, social media and the phone either via automated systems or dedicated advisers.
Our cloud contact solutions give companies more control over their costs, allowing them to change capacity in response to demand.
BT BT Compute Security BT Compute Businesses want reliable but flexible ICT platforms and services for their applications, data storage and security.
We provide ICT services BT across our global network from 48 data centres around the world, with 22 of them supporting our cloud services.
Our services range Connect BT BT from traditional telehousing and colocation to the latest public, Contact One private and hybrid cloud solutions.
BT Advise BT for Our global team of around 2,000 consultants work closely with customers to understand their business needs and current Industries capabilities so we can create a set of recommendations based on our portfolio.
We develop a plan to help customers achieve benefits such as cutting costs, increasing productivity or becoming more agile.
70 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 71 f d n r v o i f s r m e o m B B T T
