Governance and directors report GLOBAL EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT GROUP Code principle GLOBAL EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT GROUP Leadership EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES The Group operates three executive committees: the GEMG, the GOC and the GFC.
The purpose of these committees is to complement and support the work of the board and its principal committees.
Membership of the executive committees consists of the executive directors, senior management and representatives from Group functions.
Appointments to the executive committees are approved by the board.
The GEMG is responsible for proposing commercial strategy to the board, overseeing the strategic and operational performance of the Group and Michael Spencer Group Chief Executive Officer Chairman, GEMG setting its commercial direction within the scope of delegated authorities.
The biographies of the GEMG members highlight the skills and experience Michaels biography is set out on page 36. each member brings to the committee.
The GOC has executive responsibility for the Groups operations and reports to the board and the GEMG.
It also reports to the Audit and Risk Committees, as required.
The GFC has executive responsibility for the Groups financial structure and control environment.
The GFC reports to the GEMG, the Audit and Governance Committees, as required.
The gender balance of each of the Groups executive committees as at 31March 2017 is illustrated below.
GEMG Women 14% Men 86% Stuart Bridges Group Chief Financial Officer Total number of members 7 Stuarts biography is set out on page 37.
GOC Women 42% Men 58% Total number of members 12 GFC Women 22% Men 78% Total number of members 9 50 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Tim Cartledge Global Head of FX and Head of Product, NEX Markets Steve Gibson Chief Executive Officer, NEX Opportunities Tim was appointed Global Head of FX and Head of Product for NEX Markets in Steve leads NEX Opportunities, the Groups financial technology investment division.
He brings significant expertise in electronic trading within both the Its portfolio includes a number of emerging fintech firms bringing new technologies FX and fixed income markets.
Tim previously served as Chief Strategy Officer of EBS and business models into capital markets.
NEX Opportunities is represented on BrokerTec and, prior to that, he was Head of Global Fixed Income Currencies and theboards of Abide Financial, AcadiaSoft, Axoni, Cloud9 Technologies, Duco, ENSO Commodities Electronic Trading at Barclays Bank and Managing Director at Barclays Financial, OpenFin, OpenGamma and Research Exchange.
Timhas also held roles at Dresdner Bank, Credit Suisse and Goldman Sachs.
senior management positions with Calypso Technology, Ipreo and Siebel now Oracle.
Jenny Knott Chief Executive Officer, NEX Optimisation Seth Johnson Chief Executive Officer, NEX Markets Jenny leads the NEX Optimisation division andheadsthe Abide Financial, ENSO Seth was appointed Chief Executive Officer of NEX Markets in October 2016.
Hewas Financial, NEX Data, Reset, Traiana and TriOptima businesses.
Her career in financial previously responsible for developing ICAPs global broking strategy, focusing on services spans over 30years and includes Standard Bank Group, where she held growing revenue, improving the application of technology to its business model and a variety of roles including Chief Executive Officer of Standard Bank Plc and CIB expanding client coverage.
Seth also led the expansion of NEX Markets product International, Global Corporate and Investment Banking Chief Financial Officer and portfolio in his role as ChiefExecutive Officer of BrokerTec and Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer.
Prior to this, Jenny worked at a number of global investment of NEX Exchange.
He joined ICAP as a graduate trainee andhas worked in the Group banks including UBS and Nomura.
She joined ICAP in 2015. for more than 20 years.
Ken Pigaga Global Chief Operating Officer Ken was appointed Global Chief Operating Officer in November 2013 and previously served as Chief Operating Officer for ICAP Americas.
Prior to this, Ken was a managing director at JPMorgan in the Investment Bank focused on e-commerce activities.
From 1991 to 2001 he held several roles at Goldman Sachs in emerging markets trading, portfolio structuring and e-commerce.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 51
