Board and Governance Board of Directors Board of Directors Sir John Peace 68 Chairman Sir John Peace became Chairman of the Board in June 2002 and is also Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Previously he was Chairman of Standard Chartered PLC from 2009 to 2016, Chairman of Experian plc from 2006 to 2014, and Group Chief Executive of GUS plc from 2000 to 2006.
Sir John is Lord-Lieutenant of Nottinghamshire and was knighted in 2011 for services to business and the voluntary sector.
Christopher Bailey 46 Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer Christopher Bailey became Chief Creative and Chief Executive Officer in May 2014, having previously served as Chief Creative Officer since 2009.
Christopher joined as Design Director in May 2001.
Prior to working at Burberry, Christopher was the Senior Designer of Womenswear at Gucci in Milan from 1996 to 2001.
From 1994 to 1996 he was the Womenswear Designer at Donna Karan.
Christopher will transition into his new role of President and Chief Creative Officer in July 2017.
Julie Brown 55 Chief Operating and Financial Officer Julie Brown became Chief Operating and Financial Officer on 18 January 2017.
Julie was Chief Financial Officer of Smith & Nephew from 2013 to 2017.
Prior to this Julie was with ICI and AstraZeneca plc from 1987, where she held the positions of Interim Group CFO, Vice President Group Finance, VP Corporate Strategy and Regional Vice President Latin America.
She is also a non-executive director and Audit Committee Chair of Roche Holding Ltd. Philip Bowman 64 Senior Independent Director Philip Bowman was appointed as a non-executive director in June 2002 and is the Senior Independent Director.
Philip is Chairman of Majid Al Futtaim Properties LLC and a non-executive director of Ferrovial S. A. Philip was Chief Executive of Smiths Group plc from 2007 to 2015, and previously held the positions of Chief Executive at Scottish Power plc and Chief Executive at Allied Domecq plc.
His earlier career included five years as a director of Bass plc.
He was previously Chairman of Liberty plc and Coral Eurobet plc and a non-executive director of Scottish & Newcastle plc and British Sky Broadcasting Group plc.
Fabiola Arredondo 50 Non-executive director Fabiola Arredondo was appointed as a non-executive director in March 2015 and is Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Fabiola is currently the Managing Partner of Siempre Holdings, a private investment firm based in Connecticut, US.
She is also a non-executive director of the Campbell Soup Company, NPR, Inc. National Public Radio, and a former Board trustee and a current member of the National Council of the World Wildlife Fund.
Prior to Siempre Holdings, Fabiola held senior operating roles at Yahoo!
Inc, the BBC and Bertelsmann AG.
She has also previously served as a non-executive director of Experian plc, Rodale Inc. Saks Incorporated, Intelsat Inc. BOC Group plc, Bankinter S. A. and Sesame Workshop.
68 Board and Governance Board of Directors Ian Carter 55 Non-executive director Ian Carter was appointed as a non-executive director in April 2007.
He is President of Hilton Worldwide Global Development and Chairman of Del Friscos Restaurant Group, Inc.
Previously, Ian was CEO of Hilton International Company and Executive Vice President of Hilton Hotels Corporation and a director of Hilton Group plc until the acquisition of Hilton International by Hilton Hotels Corporation in February 2006.
He previously served as an Officer and President of Black & Decker Corporation between 2001 and 2004.
Jeremy Darroch 54 Non-executive director Jeremy Darroch was appointed as a non-executive director in February 2014 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is Chief Executive Officer of Sky plc, a position he has held since 2007, having joined the company as Chief Financial Officer in 2004.
Prior to Sky, Jeremy was Group Finance Director of DSG International plc formerly Dixons Group plc and spent 12 years at Procter & Gamble in a variety of roles in the UK and Europe.
Jeremy also previously served as a non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Marks and Spencer Group plc.
Stephanie George 60 Non-executive director Stephanie George was appointed as a non-executive director in March 2006.
She is an adviser to Penske Media Corporation and was recently Vice Chairman of Fairchild Fashion Media Inc parent of Womens Wear Daily.
Stephanie also sits on the Board of Lincoln Center.
Previously, Stephanie was Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer at Time Inc. and spent 12 years at Fairchild Publications.
Matthew Key 54 Non-executive director Matthew Key was appointed as a non-executive director in September 2013.
Matthew is a non-executive director of Orbit Showtime Network, a leading multi-platform pay TV network in the Middle East and North Africa, and he recently stepped down from his role on the European Advisory Board of Samsung Group.
Previously, Matthew was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Telefnica Digital, the global innovation arm of Telefnica.
He also previously served as Chairman and CEO of Telefnica Europe plc formerly O2 plc, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of O2 UK, and Chief Financial Officer for Vodafone UK.
Prior to this, he held various financial positions at Kingfisher plc, Coca-Cola & Schweppes Beverages Limited and Grand Metropolitan Plc.
Matthew is also Chairman of the Dallaglio Foundation, which is a charity focused on disengaged youth.
Dame Carolyn McCall 55 Non-executive director Dame Carolyn McCall was appointed as a non-executive director in September 2014.
Carolyn is Chief Executive of easyJet plc, a position she has held since July 2010.
Prior to easyJet, she held a number of roles at Guardian Media Group plc including Chief Executive from 2006 to 2010.
She has also previously served as a non-executive director of Lloyds TSB, Tesco PLC and New Look plc.
Carolyn was awarded the OBE for services to women in business in June 2008 and a Damehood for services to the aviation industry in January 2016.
Committee membership key Carol Fairweather 56 Audit Committee Chief Financial Officer Nomination Committee Carol Fairweather became Chief Financial Officer in July 2013, having joined Burberry in June 2006.
Remuneration Committee Carol stepped down from the Board on 18 January 2017.
John Smith 59 Chief Operating Officer John Smith became Chief Operating Officer in March 2013 having previously been a non-executive director from December 2009.
John stepped down from the Board on 31 March 2017.
