Strategic report RESULTS FOR 2016 17 NEX is focused on driving revenue growth, increasing its operating profit margin and delivering value to its shareholders.
Financial performance Group performance For the year ended 31 March 2017, the Group reported revenue of Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 543 million, an increase of 18% on a reported basis on the prior year and 2017 2016 Change an increase of 8% on a constant currency basis.
On a constant currency m m % basis, revenue from NEX Markets was up 8% and from NEX Optimisation Revenue 543 460 18% was up 9%.
Trading operating profit 145 139 4% During the course of the year, the Groups trading performance benefited Trading profit before tax 114 110 4% from increases in market share and volatility across European repo, Trading operating profit margin 27% 30% 3 ppt BrokerTec UST Actives and Asian NDFs.
triResolve continued to show Trading EPS basic 23.2p 23.6p 2% growth underpinned by an increase in client numbers and the launch of triResolve Margin.
NEX transformation programme This was partly offset by low FX volatility impacting trading activity on the NEX is focused on driving revenue growth, increasing its operating profit EBS platform and low euro interest rate volatility impacting Reset, the risk margin and delivering value to its shareholders.
By the end of 2019 20 both mitigation product.
divisions, NEX Markets and NEX Optimisation, aspire to report an operating margin of at least 40%, with Group revenue compound annual growth rate NEX continues to make focused investments to drive product innovation CAGR at 7-10%.
in response to evolving market needs.
Major areas of focus include products that provide clients with solutions to regulatory requirements and ones that NEXs current core cost base is expected to increase in line with inflation are targeted at expanding NEXs client base.
In addition, NEX Opportunities over the medium term.
Following the completion of the sale of ICAPs has continued to invest in new start-ups leveraging next generation Global Broking division to TP ICAP, NEX management has undertaken a technologies.
During the year NEX acquired ENSO and Abide Financial review of the business and its requirements.
As a result, NEX has identified in which it already had minority stakes.
cost savings of approximately 25 million to be delivered by 2019 20.
These The Group reported a trading operating profit of 145 million, an increase savings will be derived from the reassessment of corporate functions and of 4% on the prior year.
Although the Groups trading operating profit margin the streamlining of infrastructure, particularly within NEX Optimisation.
The reduced to 27% 2015 16: 30% underlying profitability was higher after cost to achieve these savings will be approximately 10 million, which will adjusting for FX hedging losses of 17 million 2015 16: loss of 6 million not be treated as an exceptional item.
The costs savings will be offset by and one-off costs of 5 million relating to the integration of offices in the continued investment in new products in addition to increased costs from US.
Moreover, the newly acquired high-growth ENSO and Abide Financial potential acquisitions and special projects.
businesses added operating losses of 5 million and should reach run rate breakeven in the next 18 months.
The Groups continuing operations reported a trading profit before tax of 114 million 2015 16: 110 million, 4% up on the prior year.
Continuing trading EPS basic of 23.2p per share 2015 16: 23.6p per share was down from the prior year as a four percentage point increase in the trading ETR offset the 4% improvement on the trading profit before tax.
24 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Geo-political events dominated this past years news and underpinned Review of operations sporadic trading in US Treasuries.
Last November, the result of the US NEX MARKETS presidential election produced the second highest volume day since the launch of BrokerTec underpinned by the resilience of the platform.
NEX Markets is a leading electronic trading platforms and solutions business Speculation around the US Presidents policies also continued to drive in FX and fixed income products.
The BrokerTec and EBS platforms offer heightened volatility.
Additionally, the Federal Reserve, although keeping efficient and effective trading solutions to clients in more than 50 countries interest rates on hold for much of the year, has now embarked on a across a range of instruments including spot FX, FX forwards, US Treasuries, measured agenda of raising rates providing trading opportunities.
European government bonds and EU and US repo.
These electronic platforms are built on its bespoke networks connecting participants in Trading activity in the secondary market for European government bonds financial markets.
has steadily improved from the lows seen in the first half of the year.
Banks continue to hold less inventory and client flow is still substantially For the year ended 31 March 2017, revenue increased by 8% on a constant lower.
Trading activity remains concentrated around new bond issuance in currency basis and increased by 20% on a reported basis to 313 million addition to an uplift more generally in France and Holland in the run-up to 2015 16: 261 million.
The trading operating profit increased to 116 million 2015 16: 92 million In March 2017, BrokerTec announced that it had completed the transaction and the trading operating profit margin increased two percentage points to acquire a majority stake in e-MID, the first Italian electronic central limit to 37%.
order book platform for interbank deposits and overnight indexed swaps.
NEX Markets The transaction offers BrokerTec Europe a strong footprint in the Italian debt and money markets.
2015 16 2016 17 m Change The US repo product benefited from the uptick in market volatility that Revenue m restated % began ahead of the UK vote to leave the EU and persisted through the US BrokerTec 155 133 17 presidential election.
Trading activity in the European repo market benefited EBS 145 128 13 from increased volatility, demand for good quality collateral and a lack of CFETS contract 13 0 n a supply from the buy-side.
Total reported 313 261 20 BrokerTec Direct is the relationship-based trading platform that provides the constant currency 289 8 opportunity for liquidity consumers to receive tailored streams of liquidity for US Treasury benchmarks from major liquidity providers.
The existing Trading operating profit 116 92 26 platform will be upgraded to deliver enhanced functionality which will enable BrokerTec to increase its existing client base and broaden the overall Trading operating profit margin 37% 35% 2 ppt offering to further complement the existing core BrokerTec business.
Restated hedging impact and NEX Exchange are now reported separately EBS EBS, a global electronic platform for the FX markets, is a reliable and E BS is a reliable and trusted source of executable trusted source of executable and genuine liquidity across major and emerging market currencies.
Both its anonymous and disclosed trading and genuine liquidity across major and emerging venues give its clients multiple execution and distribution options and the market currencies.
benefit of an established and far-reaching distribution network of liquidity providers and consumers.
For the year ended 31 March 2017, revenue is flat on a constant currency basis and increased by 13% on a reported basis to 145 million 2015 16: BrokerTec 128 million contrasting with a 7% decrease in average daily volume to BrokerTec is a global electronic platform for the trading of US Treasuries, $83 billion.
The significant uptick in volume for the five weeks following the European government bonds and EU and US repo.
It facilitates trading for result of the US presidential election was unable to offset lower volumes in banks and non-bank professional trading firms.
the first half of the year.
For the year ended 31 March 2017, revenue increased by 8% on a constant EBS Market, the exchange-like central limit order book, remains the currency basis and increased by 17% on a reported basis to 155 million benchmark for the professional FX trading community, connecting buyers 2015 16: 133 million.
This performance reflects a 2% decrease in and sellers of currencies in more than 50 countries.
It has maintained its US Treasury average daily volume to $164 billion, a 3% increase in US position as a primary interbank venue for the trading of the worlds most repo to $219 billion and a 6% increase in European repo to 186 billion.
actively traded currency pairs, including euro dollar and dollar yen.
There is a focused plan in place to enhance the user experience on the EBS Market platform and expand into other currency pairs.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 25 Strategic report RESULTS FOR 2016 17 CONTINUED N EX Markets is a leading electronic trading platforms and solutions business in FX and fixed income products.
The BrokerTec and EBS platforms offer efficient and effective trading solutions to clients in more than 50 countries across a range of instruments.
These electronic platforms are built on its bespoke networks connecting participants in financial markets.
During the year EBS Market has continued to develop and create liquidity in EBS Select, which allows non-banks to become liquidity providers to both CNH and NDFs with average daily volume growing by more than 11% non-bank liquidity consumers, has seen a sharp increase in participants and 24% respectively compared with the same period last year.
with more than 25 liquidity providers and 180 liquidity consumers now actively trading.
FX forwards and swaps volumes continue to grow and Despite the ongoing headwinds from a low interest rate environment, EBS attract additional participants, with more than 20 new liquidity consumers Market continues to innovate.
In February 2017, it launched EBS Live Ultra, added since November 2016.
This allows access to a significant part of the the fastest FX live-streaming data feed available from a primary FX market FX market in which EBS has never previously participated.
venue at five millisecond ms intervals.
This faster data feed is available only to market participants that meet certain trading criteria.
The slower During the year, NEX Treasury added new FX functionality onto the platform data feeds at 100ms and 20ms have been competitively repriced to attract to support the trading of FX spot, forwards and swaps, leveraging FX pricing new client interest.
Currently there are more than 475 corporates and more than 625 funds and banks active on the platform.
NEX eFix, the matching service that enables clients to execute against daily benchmark rates electronically on the EBS Market platform, has continued CFETS contract to demonstrate significant growth.
Average daily volume has increased by In June 2016, NEX announced that CFETS, Chinas official interbank market more than 50% over the same period in 2015 16 to more than $1.6 billion trading platform and infrastructure provider, had chosen NEX Markets to matched per day.
deliver the underlying technology for fixed income and FX electronic execution services in mainland China.
The deal, valued at $65 million over EBS Direct is a platform that allows liquidity providers to stream tailored a three-year period, will see NEX expand into China, a key growth market prices directly to liquidity consumers.
Interest in the platform continues for the business.
to grow and the platform has more than 45 liquidity providers and 400 liquidity consumers using the service.
The EBS Direct platform had a 21% increase in average daily volume over the prior year to $21 billion.
26 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions TriOptima NEX OPTIMISATION TriOptima lowers costs and mitigates risk in OTC derivatives markets, primarily through the elimination and reconciliation of outstanding NEX Optimisation offers a portfolio of cloud-hosted services across the transactions.
It continues to benefit from the strategic alignment of its transaction lifecycle.
Ranging from pre-execution credit checking to offerings with the G20 policy objectives of transparency and risk reduction multilateral portfolio compression, NEX Optimisations purpose is to in the financial system.
simplify its clients workflow and help them optimise their resources by mitigating risk, increasing efficiency, reducing costs and streamlining For the year ended 31 March 2017, revenue increased by 6% on a constant increasingly complex processes.
currency basis and by 19% on a reported basis to 86 million 2015 16: During the year NEX Optimisation acquired ENSO Financial Analytics, 72 million.
Revenue growth was driven by the expansion into new market a treasury and portfolio finance solution business for the hedge fund segments for the portfolio compression service, triReduce, and the uptake industry, with over $1 trillion in assets under advisory, and Abide Financial, of new offerings in the reconciliation service, triResolve.
which provides solutions for market participants to meet their regulatory The stringent leverage ratio included within the Basel III rules continues to reporting obligations.
drive demand from banks for the compression service.
During the year, the Alongside Traiana and NEX Data, Abide Financial forms a central piece compression service terminated $191 trillion of gross notional outstanding of the NEX Regulatory Reporting business which provides a cross-asset 2015 16: $168 trillion.
Since launch, more than 253 financial institutions and cross-jurisdictional regulatory reporting solution for NEXs clients.
have participated in eliminating $959 trillion in total notional outstanding from the OTC derivatives market.
NEX Optimisation is currently reshaping its organisational structure.
triReduce continues to innovate and expand its product and market The primary focus is to organise the business in a way that clients want to coverage.
In April 2016, it launched the first Swedish krona swaps use services, matching the way they think about their financial, regulatory compression cycle in collaboration with Nasdaq: in May 2016, it completed and operational challenges.
This will be achieved by restructuring NEX the first compression cycle for cleared euro interest rate swaps in Eurex Optimisations legal entities and products to six solutions which resonate Clearing: in August 2016, the first cycle for cleared Mexican pesos at the with clients: trade and portfolio management, analytics, regulatory CME Group clearing house took place and compression for NDF and non-CLS reporting, financial resource optimisation, data insights and opportunities.
eligible currencies was launched: and in October 2016, it introduced the In conjunction with the restructuring, NEX Optimisation continues to build compression for client cleared swaps at LCH SwapClear.
the NEX Infinity platform which will provide clients with a single platform Initially a portfolio reconciliation service, triResolve has expanded its suite that seeks to simplify trade processing, reduce costs and optimise their of offerings during the year to include triResolve Margin for the automated risk and capital across the entire transaction lifecycle.
It will be capable of calculation and agreement of variation margin allowing clients to meet the delivering both NEX Optimisations suite of industry-leading services and regulatory requirements for variation margin which took effect in March others available from third party vendors.
Since launch, 70 subscribers have joined the triResolve Margin service.
NEX Infinity will deliver efficiencies in the divisions operating model by reducing duplicated functions and having a single data ingestion and Standard portfolio reconciliation, as required by regulation, continues to interface with clients.
The number of institutions using the triResolve core service has increased from 1,680 during 2015 16 to more than 1,900 For the year ended 31 March 2017, revenue increased by 9% on a constant who participate in 476,000 party-to-party reconciliations each month currency basis and increased by 24% on a reported basis to 240 million 2015 16: 384,000.
The trading operating profit was marginally down at 69 million 2015 16: 70 million and the trading operating profit Traiana margin reduced by seven percentage points to 29%, driven by the Traiana monitors pre trade risk and automates post trade processing consolidation of recent loss-making acquisitions ENSO and Abide Financial of financial transactions across multiple asset classes.
Its solutions and additional investment.
have become the market standard for post trade processing of FX, exchange-traded derivatives, fixed income, CDS and synthetic and cash NEX Optimisation equity transactions.
Traianas Harmony network connects more than 1,000 global banks, broker dealers, buy-side firms and trading platforms.
2016 17 2015 16 Change Revenue m m % For the year ended 31 March 2017, revenue decreased by 5% on a TriOptima 86 72 19 constant currency basis and increased by 8% on a reported basis Traiana 57 53 8 to 57 million 2015 16: 53 million following a reduction in FX NEX Data 48 32 50 volume-related services and the introduction of a new pricing structure Reset 37 37 to incentivise long-term client contracts.
This was partly offset by an increase in non FX-related revenue.
ENSO 9 n a Abide Financial 3 n a Traiana continues to innovate, grow and diversify its business into other asset classes.
In June 2016, it announced that Barclays and UBS had gone Total reported 240 194 24 live on its Harmony CCP Connect for Equities platform.
These banks will constant currency 220 9 further enhance the netting benefits already seen by the market through automated central clearing of OTC equity trades.
In February 2017, Traiana Trading operating profit 69 70 1 launched Swaps Centre, a suite of services which enable swaps providers to Trading operating profit margin 29% 36% 7 ppt electronically manage payments and confirmations in equity swaps.
Traiana has seen continued strong growth in volumes via its Harmony Equity CCP service which plays an important role in reducing counterparty risk and increasing transparency.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 27 Strategic report RESULTS FOR 2016 17 CONTINUED a period of increased demand for Resets US dollar services and continued E NSO is looking to leverage the capabilities of the with the US presidential election and Federal rate rises in December 2016 other NEX companies, the first example of which and March 2017.
Related FX volatility also benefited NDF volumes.
Despite the drag of subdued Eurozone demand, the business is well placed to is the partnership with NEX Treasury.
capitalise on higher client volumes on the back of further US interest rate rises.
ENSO Financial Analytics In April 2016, ENSO was acquired by NEX through NEX Opportunities.
NEX Data ENSO delivers data, analytics and workflow tools that enable hedge NEX Data delivers independent market intelligence and price information funds and asset managers to manage their relationships with prime for OTC data to financial market participants from information received from brokers more effectively.
ENSO provides a complete view of an individual NEX Markets and third parties.
NEX Data generates subscription-based fees hedge funds relationships across multiple counterparties, delivering insights as well as licensing fees from other index administrators for the use of NEX on counterparty credit risk, collateral management, portfolio financing Data in their indices.
For the year ended 31 March 2017, revenue increased by 30% on a constant During the course of the year, ENSOs client base grew by 16% to 104 clients currency basis and 50% on a reported basis to 48 million 2015 16: and its revenue for the year ended 31 March 2017 was 9 million.
Based on 32 million driven by organic growth on existing services, the launch of current investment plans, ENSO is expected to achieve run rate break even new pricing and analytics products and  based indices.
profitability within the next 18 months.
In addition, a change to direct client billing increased both revenue and the related operating expenses.
The future expansion of ENSOS hedge fund client baseis expected to be driven by sales of ENSO Edge, a product which has been developed for During the year, NEX Data launched the first fully electronic trade-backed funds with assets under management of less than $1 billion, and the entry CNH FX Spot benchmark following considerable interest from a number of into new geographies, specifically Asia.
ENSO is looking to leverage the major Chinese banks.
In addition, NEX Data and ENSO released the ENSO capabilities of the other NEX companies, the first example of which is the Market Rate, a reference rate which provides securities lending data from partnership with NEX Treasury that will allow ENSO clients to invest excess 100 of the largest asset managers.
cash into money market funds via the NEX Treasury platform.
In January 2017, NEX Data became a key distributor for Traditions market Abide Financial data and information services division.
The agreement includes real-time In October 2016, Abide Financial was acquired by NEX through NEX and end-of-day prices sourced directly from Traditions global electronic, Opportunities.
Abide Financial is a market leader in the provision of hybrid and voice broking operations in all asset classes.
By acting as a regulatory reporting technology, helping market participants ensure they distributor to Tradition, which offers complementary data services, NEX are compliant with evolving reporting obligations.
The company acts as a Data will be able to expand its multi-asset class and Asian market coverage reporting hub for EMIR and as an Approved Reporting Mechanism for MiFID.
and develop new services in pricing, analytics and indices.
Abide Financial is currently awaiting ESMAs approval to become a trade Reset repository, and recently submitted an application to become a MiFID II Data Reset is a provider of risk mitigation services, reducing basis risk within Reporting Services Provider.
Alongside Traiana and NEX Data, Abide Financial trading portfolios in interest rate, FX, equity index and inflation derivatives.
powers the NEX Regulatory Reporting division to deliver a holistic MiFID II For the year ended 31 March 2017, revenue decreased by 12% on a constant offering for NEXs clients.
currency basis and was flat on a reported basis at 37 million 2015 16: For the period since acquisition to 31 March 2017, revenue was 3 million.
37 million as the business continues to be affected by low short-dated Abide Financial is expected to achieve runrate break even profitability interest rate volatility in Europe and further dampened volatility as a result within the next 18 months.
of the ECBs quantitative easing programme.
During the year, commentators speculated about the timing of an increase in US interest rates which began 28 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions NEX OPPORTUNITIES Through NEX Opportunities, NEX is building an investment portfolio of emerging financial technology companies.
It identifies and provides capital to companies delivering new platforms, business models and next generation technologies with the objective to drive efficiencies, transparency and scale across the transaction lifecycle.
NEX Opportunities has invested 35 million in eight portfolio companies.
During the period, NEX Opportunities invested in RSRCHXchange, a MiFID II compliant marketplace for institutional research: Axoni, a leading provider of distributed ledger technology: OpenFin, a unifying operating layer for financial desktops: and Cloud9 Technologies, a cloud-based communication provider.
In addition, NEX Opportunities made a further investment in OpenGamma, a leading provider of risk analytics.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 29
