Strategic report OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES STRATEGIC PRIORITY What weve achieved The sale of our voice broking business has To support transformed us into a focused financial technology company.
We have the scale, financial discipline and demonstrable success the needs of of a 30-year business, but the mind-set of a techstart-up.
a changing More than 60 clients have adopted our margin management service in anticipation of the market new variation margin regulations that became effective at the beginning of March 2017.
Our Regulatory Reporting platform brings How we deliver together a suite of services under a single We promote market liquidity by providing umbrella to offer our clients afullyresilient, robust trading platforms for the OTC markets cross-asset and cross-jurisdictional regulatory for a wide range of clients and products.
reporting solution to enable them to manage We provide flexible platforms and solutions the reporting challenges of today and which robustly integrate with our clients tomorrow.
This is a key component of the legacy systems.
various solutions we offer to enable our clients We provide our clients with a portfolio of to meet the challenges of MiFID II which services which optimise their risk and capital comes into effect on 1 January 2018. across the whole transaction lifecycle.
We help our clients reduce their costs andautomate their processes.
STRATEGIC PRIORITY In February 2017, we enhanced our EBS Live Ultradata feed to provide spot FX data at five To provide millisecond intervals, making it the fastest FXlive-streaming data feed available from aprimary market venue, significantly best-in-class improving price discovery and increasing market transparency, efficiency and liquidity.
financial Our NEX Infinity platform will provide our clients with a single sign-on to one unified technology front end for distribution of our services, aligning and simplifying on-boarding, solutions operations, technical supportand integration across allNEX Optimisation businesses.
How we deliver What weve achieved We retain a robust technology infrastructure.
We have invested more than 100 million to We supply market-leading electronic date innext generation financial technology executionplatforms to the professional companies that are focused on leading the trading community.
As well We are focused on innovating and evolving asthis years 48 million investment in ENSO themarket ecology.
and Abide Financial, we have stakes in eight We build next generation cloud-based further portfolio companies with exposure to technological solutions.
the fast growing areas of risk data analytics.
We have created an ecosystem of products One recent example is Axoni which serves and services that span the transaction lifecycle.
the worlds largest financial institutions and capital markets service providers with full stack blockchain solutions.
12 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions STRATEGIC PRIORITY How we deliver What weve achieved We understand that a strong corporate On Charity Day in December 2016, our To attract cultureand a commitment to our values employees, clients and suppliers raised arefundamental to our success.
8.2million for 200 charities around We know that a successful and rewarding theworld.
and retain working environment is achieved not only We are extending the number of senior byattracting themost talented individuals, employees who will receive part of their the best but also by understanding the motivation compensation in shares rather than cash, and andmindset of our employees.
ensuring that the Company Sharesave scheme talent We fully support our employees to enable is made available to as wide an employee them to pursue their personal volunteering base as possible across all Group businesses.
We have a strong internal communications We constantly learn from the unique and engagement strategy to ensure that our challenges presented by a highly technically employees understand NEX, are proud to work skilled employee base.
for us and are motivated for the business to Our leaders work as ambassadors, actively succeed.
This includes regular formal and encouraging all our employees to achieve a informal networking events and hackathons, cultureof mutual respect, partnership and in addition to newsletters with articles written collaboration.
byemployees from across the Group.
We are redesigning the reward framework to We have an ongoing commitment to training drive strong corporate behaviours, encourage and development with 190 employees over team dynamics and widen share ownership.
the past 12 months participating in We aim to break down barriers and build a management training programmes.
seamless client and employee experience We run an active and award-winning through greater cross-divisional co-operation.
apprenticeship programme across all our businesses.
STRATEGIC PRIORITY We will continue to augment our services that The client base for our portfolio reconciliation enable clients to fulfil their constantly evolving and counterparty exposure management To grow regulatory reporting obligations.
service has increased to more than 1,900 We will consolidate our networks to 2015 16: 1,680 with 476,000 party-to-party streamline connectivity.
We will enhance our solutions that enable NEX eFix, the matching service that enables clients to manage their margin and collateral clients to execute against daily benchmark calculations against ever increasing market rates electronically on the EBS Market platform, complexity.
has continued to demonstrate significant We will establish new indices based on growth.
Average daily volume has increased by more than 50% over the same period to more observable traded data as more trustworthy than $1.6 billion matched per day.
Our global pricing data and information What weve achieved solutions business, NEX Data, has agreed a NEX Markets is working with CFETS, Chinas distribution partnership with Tradition, one official interbank market trading platform, ofthe worlds largest interdealer brokers in todeliver the underlying technology for fixed OTC commodity and financial products.
It will How we deliver income and FX electronic execution services become a key distributor for Traditions market We will increase our share of the global inmainland China in a three-year deal worth data and information services division.
bankmarket on EBS Market and EBS Direct.
We will enable regional banks to create Our portfolio compression service eliminated uniquesources of liquidity in their local more than $191 trillion in notional principal in markets and currencies.
Since launch, We will facilitate professional trading firms see pages 14-15 more than 253 financial institutions have becoming liquidity providers over EBS Select.
participated in eliminating $959 trillion in We will provide progressive technology For risk management and total notional outstanding.
thatdelivers unique workflow and trading principal risks see pages 20-23 solutions for asset managers.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 13
