PIGIT pp01 16 01 06 2017 10:39 Page 07 STRATEGY STRATEGIC REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2017 PORTFOLIO MANAGERS REPORT Market Review The UK stock market rose strongly over the Companys financial year to 31 March 2017.
This was driven initially by rising commodity prices and a continued absence of inflationary pressures globally and then, following the EU referendum, by the sharp fall in the value of sterling.
August 2016 also marked a low point in 10 year government bond yields, as investors conviction that the US Federal Reserve was intent on tightening monetary policy increased in light of the persistence of positive US economic momentum and job creation.
The UK equity market rose in response to this economic outlook, a trend which accelerated following the election of Donald Trump as US President.
The Brexit vote and the consequent rise in the US dollar against sterling brought a significant divergence in sector performance with a rotation towards industries perceived as benefiting from a stronger global economic outlook.
Portfolio Review The Companys net asset value, including reinvested dividends, delivered a return of 9.6% over the year under review, compared with one of 22.0% total return by the FTSE All-Share Index, the Companys benchmark index.
The Companys performance was held back by not holding any mining sector stocks, HSBC or Royal Dutch Shell, which all performed particularly strongly.
The absence of mining stocks benefited the portfolios performance over the previous two years, but the recovery across the sector in the past year meant that the portfolio missed out on one of the major positive trends of the past twelve months.
Control of supply has improved following the shock of the 2011-2015 downturn, but demand growth in China remains under pressure and the sector, to my mind, now looks vulnerable to a fall in the prices of certain key commodities.
The holdings in the tobacco sector again delivered a strongly positive contribution to performance despite a lack of enthusiasm for bond proxies companies offering low stable growth, steady dividends and low volatility that prevailed for much of the period.
The sector was boosted by corporate transaction activity, with a proposed merger of two of the portfolios largest holdings.
Reynolds American accepted a cash and shares offer from British American Tobacco, creating a combined entity which is well positioned to exploit next generation products, particularly the US e-cigarette market.
The deal is expected to be concluded in the third quarter of 2017.
AstraZeneca also performed strongly over the period, boosted by its US dollar exposure.
Its chief executive Pascal Soriot characterised 2017 as a potential inflection point for the companys return to long-term growth, with the upcoming launch of several life-changing medicines for cancer, respiratory and metabolic diseases built on the solid foundations of a science-led pipeline.
The European pharmaceutical sector as a whole did not perform well in 2016, as the market focused increasingly on the risks associated with new product trials, the overall pricing environment in the US and the challenge of replacing mature drug portfolios.
My view on the long term outlook has not changed: the fide-rating of the sector suggests that major companies which succeed in bringing genuinely innovative drugs to market could see a meaningful boost to their prices and the performance of the portfolios holdings in the sector.
Other significant positive contributions to portfolio performance came from the holdings in BP, Compass, G4S, Homeserve, RELX and Rentokil Initial.
The portfolios holdings in companies particularly exposed to the fall in sterling and perceived challenges to the UK economy performed poorly in the aftermath of the referendum.
The stock market was also inclined to fide-rate companies which warned of lower profits.
Notable amongst these was the holding in Capita, which fell sharply in value as it downgraded full-year earnings forecasts, blaming a range of issues including delayed client decision-making since the EU referendum.
The company later confirmed the departure of its chief executive and expects 2017 to be a transitional year for the business, as it completes a number of disposals, embeds internal structural changes, and re-positions for a return to growth in 2018.
The projected disposal of Capita Asset Services should reduce balance sheet concerns and allow the business to focus on its fundamentally strong outsourcing business.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07 PIGIT pp01 16 01 06 2017 10:39 Page 08 STRATEGY STRATEGIC REPORT PORTFOLIO MANAGERS REPORT continued The holdings in the travel sector, easyJet and Thomas Cook, warned of the negative impact of weaker sterling and were additionally impacted over the period by concerns over terrorist activity and by air traffic control strikes.
The share prices of both companies rallied in the first quarter of 2017, as they confirmed more positive trading updates than had been feared by the market and on the back of some renewed sterling strength.
Its shares suffered a sharp sell-off after an update on accounting irregularities in its Italian division, further exacerbated by a profit warning from the company that highlighted a more challenged outlook for UK public services contracts.
Further, issues with Ofcom over its Openreach subsidiary and concerns over its pension fund deficit have distracted investors from the companys strengths notably the growth potential of its mobile business following the acquisition of EE and its consistent cash flow.
The portfolios new holding in Next also did not perform well, following a disappointing Christmas trading update.
However, towards the end of the period, its share price rose as it narrowed its profit guidance range for 2017 underlining the recovery potential in the shares following their fide-rating of the past year.
As reported at the half-year, the share price of Circassia fell sharply on news that its cat allergy drug had failed to meet the primary end point of phase 3 trials.
While this was very disappointing and surprising news the drug had performed well in phase 2 trials it is noteworthy that Circassia retains significant cash on its balance sheet and that, over the past year, the company has also made significant diversification into respiratory drugs, devices and technologies.
Confirming this, Circassia saw its share price rise in March as it confirmed a new strategic collaboration with AstraZeneca in combating respiratory disease.
Other domestically focused holdings to deliver negative share price performance included Derwent London, N. Brown, Game Digital, Secure Trust Bank and TalkTalk Telecom.
In terms of portfolio activity during the year, new investments were made in Aviva, Hadrians Wall, Next and Secure Trust Bank.
The holdings in Reckitt Benckiser and Smith & Nephew were sold.
Outlook The steady rise in the UK stock market over the last twelve months has created an environment where the valuation and, in consequence, the index level are vulnerable to disappointment: there is a sense of complacency in several areas.
The main driver of improved earnings growth has been a combination of a recovery in commodity prices and a collapse in sterling in the absence of a continuation in these trends the underlying earnings growth of the market remains lacklustre.
It is plausible to envisage an environment which is more positive towards sterling, given the pessimism the market has priced in over the last 12 months, and that factor alone may be sufficient to restrain further gains, particularly in the FTSE 100 index.
In addition, the change in the US interest rate environment may act as a headwind for the time being, although given the continued low inflation outlook it is unlikely that the US Federal Reserve will raise rates in big steps or more than four times this year.
The overall political backdrop remains the other major influence on equity markets.
There are elections in many major economies, including the UK again, accompanied by a heightened threat from geopolitics which may yet prove disruptive for business confidence.
For the foreseeable future it appears likely that the economic backdrop will remain more predictable than the political one.
In conclusion, it is expected that the stock market may struggle to make significant overall progress.
The portfolio is well positioned, invested in a diversified range of companies which have the scope to increase in value, driven either by sustainable dividend growth or from companies that can improve or transform their financial prospects regardless of the wider economic environment.
In addition, a number of holdings that have temporarily fallen out of favour have significant recovery potential.
Mark Barnett Portfolio Manager 31 May 2017 08
