Strategic Report Key Strategies PRODUCTIVE SPACE From new space to productive space.
Burberrys business model has evolved from being a Improve customer cultivation and retention predominantly wholesale to a predominantly retail model.
Burberry extended its Customer Value Management There is a significant opportunity to improve Burberrys outreach programme and expanded its Burberry end-to-end retail disciplines and to continue to evolve Private Client team by more than 50%.
This has enabled the omni-channel experience.
the delivery of exceptional service to these important customers and improved sales conversion, with an Alongside this initial emphasis on the retail business, average transaction value double the global average Burberry is sharpening its focus on how it inspires for the Company.
This includes working closely with its wholesale partners to create a stronger, A new and enhanced digital selling tool is being more carefully curated Burberry offer globally, to drive developed with a launch date planned for 2017 18. greater coherence and to support the brand perception.
Customer insight is a key component of Burberrys The initial focus for Productive Space is Burberrys multiCustomer Value Management outreach programme.
Key areas of focus for Customer insight uses data, including information on the retail excellence programme include the following.
buying behaviours, to define customer segments and enable Burberry to better understand its customers Elevate service and training: Elevating Burberrys and how best to target them.
global approach to service, supported by improved sales associate training.
Invest in in-store operations Burberry commenced an investment programme Improve customer cultivation and retention: Embedding to standardise and simplify Burberrys global retail a customer-centric mindset into all behaviours and operations.
A particular focus during 2016 17 was the decisions, supported by customer insight.
development of a new point of sale system, with the Invest in in-store operations: Improving store operations global rollout planned to continue through to 2018 19. to a single global standard, to enhance the customer Omni-channel customer preferences have been identified experience and streamline processes.
and processes developed to cater to these preferences Progress during the year including the rollout of store-based fulfilment, which Elevate service and training enables the shipment of products directly from store Burberry significantly increased its investment in globally to customers, starting in 2017. consistent training, including enhanced retail sales Burberry is designing and testing best practice backassociate conferences and field training.
and-front-of-house store operations including trialling A new service model was rolled out to all retail sales store staff scheduling software.
associates in 2016 17, supporting both conversion and repeat business through a standardised and more elevated approach to client engagement.
Burberry also designed and implemented a client feedback programme based on the net promoter score methodology which measures the quality of customer experience.
Initial results from the global launch are already being used to redefine processes and to evolve the approach to store management.
