66 ANNUAL STATEMENT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN CONTINUED For FY16, FY17 and FY18, cash EBITDA and billings were considered to be the best measures of the Groups performance given our current size and stage of growth.
The Committee is aware of some shareholders concerns regarding using the same measures for both the short-term and long-term incentives, and will keep the selection of measures under review.
We may make changes for future incentive cycles as the profile of the business changes.
With regards to our incentive opportunities, awards are calibrated to be competitive in the same market as other high-technology companies on the US West Coast, where a number of the Companys executives, including our CEO, are located.
The Committee has reviewed benchmarks against both US and UK companies, and believes incentive opportunities have been set at the appropriate level to be competitive in the relevant markets, balanced with the fact that we are UK-listed.
Whilst our Remuneration Policy is not due for renewal until the 2018 AGM, the Committee continues to monitor developments in remuneration governance, market practice and, most importantly, our shareholders views and will make adjustments to our remuneration arrangements, if appropriate.
The Committee is aware of recent developments in remuneration governance, including some shareholders preference for post-exit share ownership guidelines and the BEIS consultation on the CEO to employee pay ratios.
The Committee will continue to monitor market trends and developments over the next year in order to assess ongoing relevance for the Companys remuneration practices.
The Committee welcomes feedback from our shareholders, as we remain committed to an open and transparent dialogue, and hope to receive your support at the forthcoming AGM.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee Paul Walker Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 16 May 2017 This report, prepared by the Remuneration Committee the Committee on behalf of the Board, takes account of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the latest Investment Association, ISS and PLSA guidelines, and has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The Act requires the Auditor to report to the Companys Shareholders on the audited information within this report and to state whether in their opinion those parts of the report have been prepared in accordance with the Act.
The Auditors opinion is set out on pages 96 to 99 and those aspects of the report that have been subject to audit are clearly marked.
