12 BUSINESS MODEL SOPHOS PRINCIPALLY OPERATES AS A SUBSCRIPTIONBASED SOFTWARE BUSINESS, WITH A DIFFERENTIATED AND COMPELLING APPROACH TO ITS CHOSEN MARKET CUSTOMER SHAREHOLDER BENEFITS: BENEFITS: Best in class Scale, above security, easy market growth OUR FOCUS to manage Ongoing, Software focussed as-a-service OUR FINANCIAL investment in model provides MODEL innovation visibility over future revenues and cash flows Cloud-based, Strongly OUR highly effective, differentiated COMPETITIVE synchronized market leader ADVANTAGES security INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 13 Sophos is one of the worlds leading The Groups products and services Through Sophos Central, a single providers of cloud-enabled enduser and are suitable for businesses of any size integrated cloud-based management network security solutions, providing seeking enterprise-grade security platform, customers are able to manage customers with end-to-end protection combined with ease of use.
all their security needs from within a against known and unknown IT security unified view.
threats, through products that are easy to install, configure, update and maintain.
Enduser and network security solutions On average, subscription contracts The new business signed today feeds are sold primarily on a subscription basis, are typically three-year commitments, the future renewal base.
In addition to via a channel first sales model supported paid for upfront by the customer, which growing the customer base worldwide, a by over 30,000 partners worldwide.
provides ongoing updates over the course key element of the Groups strategy is to of the subscription, based on the evolving increase the product footprint within the The Groups scale is a significant threat landscape.
This is seen as a advantage, with over 100 million significant opportunity, with just 9.6% of endpoints protected and more than This  model customers using both endpoint and UTM 260,000 customers around the globe.
consequently provides significant products today.
The Groups security solutions are visibility over future revenues and cash underpinned by SophosLabs, a worldflows, founded upon a substantial and The strength and visibility inherent in the leading 24 7 threat intelligence operation, growing renewal book and  financial model is employing over 150 people across leading renewal rates, boosted by crossdelivering significant value four continents.
Sophos offers a highly differentiated array Sophos is a leader in next-generation Focused investment in innovation, of industry-leading IT security solutions.
endpoint security, with more than half a bolstered by selected technology The Group is the only security software million endpoints protected by , supports customers and vendor of scale with a strong presence in less anti-exploit technology.
The strongly partners over the long-term, confirming both enduser and network security.
This is differentiated products and strategy the Groups commitment to deliver the foundation for the Groups pioneering are enabling Sophos to deliver growth industry-leading, trusted,  security strategy, where the substantially ahead of the market in both grade IT security solutions.
products share contextual information enduser and network security.
and thus enhance the protection available to its customers.
