Strategic Report Burberry Group Overview BUSINESS MODEL Founded in 1856, Burberry is a global luxury brand with a distinctive British identity.
Since the invention of gabardine by Thomas Burberry more than 130 years ago, Burberry has built a reputation for design, innovation and craftsmanship.
Outerwear has been at the core of the business and remains so today bestexpressed through the iconic Burberry trench coat.
What Burberry does Burberry designs, develops, makes and sells luxury products under the Burberry brand.
Designs and develops: At Burberrys London headquarters the design studio acts as the creative hub of the Company, with creative talent and activities including product design and development centred there.
Makes: Fabrics, other materials and finished products are sourced and manufactured at Burberry-owned facilities in the UK and through an external supplier network, predominantly located in Europe.
This includes the Burberry Mill and Burberrys Castleford manufacturing facility, both of which are located in Yorkshire, England.
More information on Burberrys product mix is on page 26.
Sells: Creative and marketing content and programmes to engage consumers with the Burberry brand and its products are developed internally.
Burberry products are sold globally through its directly operated store network and online at Burberry.
com, as well as through franchisees and third-party retailers, both offline and online.
In a few selected areas such as Eyewear and Beauty from October 2017, Burberry uses the product and distribution expertise of licensing partners.
More information on Burberrys channel and regional mix is on pages 24 and 25.
How Burberry operates Burberrys business is structured by channel, region and product division, supported by corporate functions as set out inthe diagram below.
The Group prioritises its activities based on its key strategies assetout on pages 33 to 44, which are executed by a global team of over 10,000 employees.
Design Develop Make Sell Function Digital, Marketing, Design and Product Development and Sourcing, Supply Chain, Architecture, Creative Media Merchandising and Planning Customer Insight People, Operations, Information Technology, Finance, Corporate Affairs Product Accessories, Womens, Mens, Childrens, Beauty Region Asia Pacific, EMEIA, Americas Channel Retail online and offline, Wholesale, Licensing Value creation Engaged customers Shareholder value Inspired people Responsible approach Burberry entered into a strategic partnership for its Beauty business to commence from October 2017.
Europe, Middle East, India and Africa.
22 Strategic Report Burberry Group Overview How Burberry creates value For its customers: By creating beautifully made products, inspiring with its storytelling and shared experiences, delivering impeccable and distinctive services and continually innovating.
For its shareholders: By maximising shareholder value through executing on Burberrys strategies to deliver revenue growth and capital returns.
More information on the Groups Capital Allocation Framework is on page 59.
For its people and communities: By ensuring that employees are motivated and inspired and by adopting a responsible approach to everything it does, while investing inthe communities in which Burberry operates.
More information on Inspired People is on page 44 and Responsibility is on pages 47 to 51.
Burberrys business model is best illustrated through the iconic Burberry trench coat one of the many products Burberry designs, develops, makes and sells.
Design Burberry is committed to the creation of authentic and distinctive products and continuous innovation infashion, design and manufacturing.
The original trench coat was designed to serve the needs of the military intheearly 20th century.
Epaulettes displayed an officers rank, while the belts metal D-rings were used toattach equipment.
Today, all products are created and designed in Burberry's London studios byateam of dedicated designers, with the customer front of mind.
Develop Gabardine fabric was invented by Thomas Burberry more than 130 years ago.
Theinnovative cotton fabric, which is both breathable and weatherproof, revolutionised rainwear that hadbeenheavy and uncomfortable to wear.
Burberry gabardine was used by explorers such as Sir Ernest Shackleton, who wore Burberry gabardine for three Antarctic expeditions.
Burberrys Heritage trench coat continues to be made from gabardine and the design reflects the key features of the original.
Burberry continues to innovate with the recent introduction of tropical gabardine, wovenfor ultralightweight protection in mild weather.
Make Burberrys gabardine and tropical gabardine fabrics are dyed and woven at the Burberry Mill located in Keighley, Yorkshire.
The Burberry Mill produces the check lining fabrics used in theHeritage trench coat, as well as fabrics for accessories such as shoes and bags.
23% of the cotton used to create gabardine is sourced from Peru, where Burberry has been sourcing cotton for over 30 years.
The Heritage trench coat is made in Castleford, Yorkshire, by expert craftsmen and women combining traditional techniques with modern technology.
The coats are handmade using over 100 individual processes, with the most intricate of these being the crafting of the collar which takes more than 180 stitches to create a fluid curve.
It can take up to a year for an individual to learn the sewing technique alone, demonstrating the skill and craftsmanship which goes into creating the iconic trench coat.
Sell Once the Heritage trench coat has been finished the 'Burberry Made in England' label is applied and itisready for customers to purchase globally in-store and online at Burberry.
Monogramming is also availabletoenable customers to personalise their Heritage trench coat.
