32 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Underlying general finance and administration expenses of the Groups underlying operating performance.
The have increased by 10.1 percent YOY and have decreased Directors have chosen to disclose this alternative as a proportion of billings as the Group continued to performance measure in order to not only allow a focus leverage its strong back office function.
on underlying operating performance but also to aid comparability with other companies that disclose the The Groups exceptional items, included within general same measure.
The reconciliation of adjusted operating finance and administration expenses, decreased by loss to operating loss is included in note 6 of the $10.5 million to $31.4 million in the year-ended 31 Financial Statements.
Current-year exceptional items relate predominantly to expenses incurred connected with Adjusted operating profit decreased by $15.1 million the defence of certain claims brought against the Group to $38.3 million in the year-ended 31 March 2017.
The in relation to the previously announced intellectual Group continues to invest to drive billings growth.
The property litigation case brought by Finjan Inc. including majority of billings are from subscription contracts with both the costs of an omnibus agreement entered into the revenue benefit from increased subscription billings with Finjan Inc. on 30 March 2017 resolving all the being deferred into future periods.
Accordingly, strong parties disputes and associated legal costs.
It also subscription billings growth, whilst very positive for the includes acquisition costs incurred in relation to material long-term health of the business and cash generation, acquisitions in the year.
Prior-year exceptional items can actually show as a detriment to the short-term included $17.8 million incurred during the Initial Public income statement with most of the revenues deferred Offering of the Companys shares, as well as acquisition whilst all spending is recognised as incurred.
For this costs and expenses incurred in relation to the defence reason, the Group primarily focuses on billings, cash or settlement of claims brought against a number of the EBITDA and cash flow as the key leading indicators and Groups employees by their former employer and certain primary operating metrics of the business.
OPERATING LOSS AMORTISATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS The Groups operating loss was $44.3 million in the The Groups amortisation of intangible assets year-ended 31 March 2017, compared to a loss of $32.7 decreased by $9.3 million, or 31.8 percent, to $19.9 million in the prior year.
The increase was mainly due to million in the year-ended 31 March 2017.
The decrease an increased share-based payment expense, following was due to the Groups policy of amortising acquired the issue of equity instruments at the time of the Initial intangibles on a reducing balance basis.
In the current Public Offering, though this increase was partially offset year, the Groups largest acquisition, Invincea, Inc. was by decreases in exceptional costs and amortisation.
completed at the very end of the year, therefore limiting NET FINANCE COSTS amortisation in the period.
The Groups net finance costs decreased by $30.7 CURRENCY MOVEMENTS AND IMPACT million to $5.0 million in the year due to both the The Groups foreign exchange loss was $1.2 million in repayment in the prior year of the amounts due to the year-ended 31 March 2017, compared with a gain of the previous parent company and, at the time of the $0.2 million in the year-ended 31 March 2016.
The loss Companys Initial Public Offering of shares, an $87.7 arises as a result of the weakening of Sterling and the million repayment of bank debt.
In addition, foreign Euro against the US Dollar in the year, an impact which exchange losses on borrowings in the prior year have is mostly mitigated by the Groups largely naturallybecome gains in the current year as the US Dollar has hedged position.
strengthened and the prior year included a $5.9 million write-off of un-amortised finance fees that arose on the CASH EBITDA repaid external debt facility.
The reconciliation of cash EBITDA to operating loss is INCOME TAX included in note 6 of the Financial Statements.
The Groups tax credit for the year was $2.6 million On a reported basis, cash EBITDA increased by 24.2 FY16: $3.5 million charge with an effective tax rate percent to $150.1 million in the year-ended 31 March 2017. of 5.3 percent FY16: -5.1 percent.
The tax credit The Cash EBITDA margin increased YOY to 23.7 percent arises against a reported loss for the Group, however from 22.6 percent in the prior year mainly as the Group cash tax remains payable as a consequence of taxable leveraged sales, marketing and back office investments.
The Group also benefited from participation in the UK research and development ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT expense credit regime.
Adjusted operating profit provides a supplemental measure of earnings that facilitates review of operating performance on a period-to-period basis by excluding non-recurring and other items that are not indicative INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 33 LOSS FOR THE YEAR CAPITAL EXPENDITURE The Groups loss for the year decreased by $25.2 million, The Groups capital expenditure primarily comprises from a loss of $71.9 million in the year-ended 31 March property, plant and equipment as well as intangible 2016 to a loss of $46.7 million in the year-ended 31 assets.
In the year-ended 31 March 2017, net cash March 2017, predominantly reflecting the reduction in capital expenditure decreased marginally by $0.3 million finance expenses.
CASH FLOW CASH TAXATION Net cash flow from operating activities significantly Corporation tax paid is lower than in the comparative increased YOY to $118.5 million from $21.3 million in year due to the receipt of a research and development the prior year.
The increase was due to billings growth, expense credit of $5.5 million in the UK.
leverage of operating expenses and management of FINANCING working capital.
In the first half of FY17, the Group repaid its revolving FY17 FY16 credit facility which had been drawn to partially finance $m $m the acquisition of SurfRight in December FY16.
In the second half of FY17, the Group agreed an additional Cash EBITDA 150.1 120.9 revolving credit facility with its existing lenders in the Net deferral of revenue 102.4 56.7 amount of $40 million which at year-end was fully Foreign exchange 2.4 drawn along with $10 million from the original revolving Depreciation 9.4 8.4 credit facility in order to partially finance the acquisition of Invincea, Inc. At 31 March 2017 the ratio of net debt to Adjusted operating profit 38.3 53.4 cash EBITDA was 1.9 times, a decrease from 2.1 times Net deferral of revenue 102.4 56.7 as at 31 March 2016: reflecting the cash-generative Exceptional items 31.4 41.9 nature of the Group.
Depreciation 9.4 8.4 BREXIT Foreign exchange 2.4 Following the decision by the UK population to exit, in Change in working capital 19.0 32.5 due course, from the European Union Brexit, the Directors have considered whether or not this will Corporation tax paid 19.2 25.2 manifest itself as an additional risk to the Group.
The Net cash flow from 118.5 21.3 Groups operations are globally diverse with only 11 operating activities percent of the Groups revenue being sourced from Exceptional items 31.4 41.9 the UK and as the recent devaluation of the Sterling Net capital expenditure 16.5 16.8 exchange rates has a minor benefit to the Group, given more sterling denominated costs than revenues in a US Unlevered free cash flow 133.4 46.4 Dollar denominated functional currency Group.
As such, U nlevered free cash flow represented by the sum of marked rows Brexit is not considered a principal risk for the Group.
and has been presented to enhance understanding of the Groups DIVIDENDS cash generation capability.
The Directors propose to pay a final dividend for the Unlevered free cash flow increased threefold over year-ending 31 March 2017 of 3.3 US Cents per share the prior-year to $133.4 million due to billings growth, FY16: 1.1 US Cents, giving a total dividend for the year significant movements in working capital, reduced of 4.6 US Cents per share FY16: 1.8 US Cents.
The final year-over-year cash tax payments and flat net capital dividend, subject to shareholder approval, will be paid expenditure.
on 13 October 2017 to all shareholders on the register on 15 September 2017.
The Directors continue to adopt CHANGES IN WORKING CAPITAL a progressive dividend policy, reflecting the cashWorking capital movements result from an increase in generative nature of the Group: and accordingly intend creditors for activity in the final month of the year while to target continued dividend growth for the financial debtor days outstanding has decreased in the year to year-ending 31 March 2018.
Prior-year working capital changes included outflows for significant accrued and payable amounts expensed in FY15.
Nick Bray Chief Financial Officer 16 May 2017 T N E M SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM E G A N A M K S I R R O F Y T I L I B I S N O P S E R 34 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT PRINCIPAL RISKS ARE IDENTIFIED THROUGH A BUSINESS WIDE RISK ASSESSMENT PROCESS, ALONG WITH AN EVALUATION OF THE STRATEGY AND OPERATING ENVIRONMENT OF THE GROUP The risk review process encompasses the identification, The Audit and Risk Committee monitors and challenges management and monitoring of risks in each area of these processes, reviewing the Groups Consolidated Risk the business and this process includes an assessment Register and reporting material risks to the Board.
There of the risks to determine the likelihood of occurrence, may be other risks or uncertainties which could emerge potential impact and the adequacy of the mitigation or in the future, however, the Groups ongoing commitment controls already in place.
A full review is then undertaken to risk management will seek to address and mitigate the by the Risk and Compliance Committee RCC, which future risks, as and when they become apparent.
evaluates the principal risks of the Group with reference to its strategy and the operating environment.
STRUCTURE OF RISK MANAGEMENT SOPHOS GROUP PLC BOARD AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE RISK AND COMPLIANCE INTERNAL AUDIT COMMITTEE BUSINESS FUNCTIONS INTEGRATED BUSINESS RISK MANAGEMENT L O R T N O C E V I T C E F F E R O F Y T I L I B A T N U O C C A INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 35 THE DIRECTORS CONSIDER THE FOLLOWING MATTERS TO BE THE PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES IN NO SPECIFIC ORDER AFFECTING THE GROUP: RISK 1: RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION OF KEY PERSONNEL How it impacts us What we are doing about it Risk movement The ongoing success of Sophos is Making Sophos a great place to work is central to the dependent on attracting and retaining Groups strategy.
high quality employees at all levels Sophos are committed to strong recruitment processes in the business who can effectively supported by robust remuneration programs which are implement the Groups strategy.
Failure to attract, retain or develop high Additionally, Sophos has a commitment to all levels of quality employees across the business training throughout the organisation.
could limit the Groups ability to deliver its business plan commitments.
Reward schemes are continuously evaluated to drive and recognise performance and ensure retention of key talent.
Annual employee engagement surveys enable the progress of our people actions to be monitored, areas of improvement identified and necessary actions performed.
RISK 2: DEFECTS OR VULNERABILITIES IN PRODUCTS OR SERVICES What we are doing about it Risk How it impacts us movement The Groups products and services Sophos are committed to extensive test cycles and quality are complex, and as such they have procedures which are subject to continuous improvement.
contained, and may in the future Sophos employs combinations of internal and external contain, design or manufacturing quality reviews and testing of products, including source defects or errors that are not detected code reviews, public and private 3rd party efficacy testing, until after their commercial release automated code tests and various forms of penetration and deployment by end customers.
Sophos also encourages a healthy collaboration These defects could cause the Groups with the security research community, as described in the products or services to be vulnerable Responsible Disclosure Policy: to security attacks, cause them to fail www.
com security to help security networks, temporarily interrupt end customers networking In FY17, Sophos took the additional step of introducing traffic and fail to prevent or detect a Bug Bounty program to leverage the skills of thousands viruses or similar threats.
Further, due of individuals to help make our products and web to the evolving nature of threats and the properties more secure.
continual emergence of new threats, Further, the Group protects the privacy and security of the Group may fail to identify and its customers worldwide through the pledge to never update its threat intelligence or other engineer backdoors into its products as described here: virus databases in time to protect its www.
com nobackdoors end customers networks and devices.
As a result, actual or perceived defects or vulnerabilities in the Groups products or services and or the failure of the Groups products or services to prevent a security threat could harm the Groups reputation and divert the Groups resources.
