90 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED TRANSFER OF SHARES The transfer of shares is governed by the Articles which allows any member to transfer certificated shares in any usual form or in any other form for which the Board may approve.
The Board may, in its absolute discretion, refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings in the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Board may also refuse to register the transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is i lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the office or at another place appointed by the Board, accompanied by the certificate for the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: ii in respect of only one class of shares: and iii in favour of not more than four transferees.
APPOINTMENT AND RETIREMENT OF DIRECTORS Unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution, the number of Directors shall be no less than three but is not subject to any maximum number.
The Board may appoint a person who is willing to act to be a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
At every AGM all the Directors at the date of the notice convening the AGM shall retire from office, if the Company does not fill the vacancy at the meeting the retiring Director shall, if willing to act, be deemed to have been re-appointed unless at the meeting it is resolved not to fill the vacancy or unless a resolution for the re-appointment of the Director is put to the meeting and lost.
A person ceases to be a Director as soon as: i notification is received by the Company from the Director that they are resigning or retiring from office: ii that person has been absent for more than six consecutive months without permission of the Board and the Board resolves that their office be vacated: iii t he person has become physically or mentally incapable of acting as a Director and may remain so for more than three months: iv a bankruptcy order is made against that person: v a composition is made with that persons creditors generally in satisfaction of that persons debts: vi that person ceases to be a Director by virtue of any provision of the Act or is prohibited from being a Director by law: or vii that person is removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
POWERS OF THE BOARD Subject to provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Articles and to any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
DIVIDENDS The Directors have recommended that the Company pay a final dividend in relation to the year-ended 31 March 2017 of 3.3 US Cents per share.
Subject to shareholder approval, combined with the interim dividend announced of 1.3 US Cents per share, this gives a total dividend for the year of 4.6 US Cents per share.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The notice of the AGM which sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts.
The AGM will be held at 3:00 pm on 7 September 2017 at: The Pentagon, Abingdon Science Park, Abingdon, OX14 3YP.
EMPLOYEES The Group continues to invest to drive future growth.
A key objective of the Group is to achieve a shared commitment by all employees to the success of the business.
Throughout the Group there is consultation between employees and management on matters of mutual interest and information is disseminated through team and Company briefings, an intranet and individual development reviews.
Employees are encouraged to promote and participate in the progress and profitability of the Group through the share option plans and other incentive schemes.
The Group provides full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the requirements of the role can be adequately fulfilled by a disabled person.
Where existing employees become disabled it is the Groups policy, wherever practicable, to provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training and career development to disabled employees wherever appropriate.
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 91 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Group continues to undertake research and development activity relating to its principal activities.
In the yearended 31 March 2017, the Group spent 18.6 percent of its billings on research and development 2016: 18.6 percent.
POLITICAL DONATIONS The Groups policy is not to make any political donations.
Accordingly, no political donations have been made in either the year-ended 31 March 2017 or were made in the year-ended 31 March 2016.
SHARE OPTION PLANS The Group operates a number of share option plans to motivate and retain staff and align their interests with shareholders.
Details of these schemes are set out in note 30 to the Financial Statements.
BRANCHES The Group, through various subsidiaries, has established branches in a number of different countries in which the business operates.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Details of the Groups financial risk management policies and risks are set out in note 27 to the Financial Statements.
AUTHORITY TO ISSUE SHARES AND AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES The Company did not repurchase shares during the year or make any shares the subject of a charge.
At a general meeting held on 14 September 2016 the Company was authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of section 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 up to 45,236,013 of its own ordinary shares and to issue shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 4,523,149.
The Company is seeking to renew these authorities at the forthcoming AGM, within the limits set out in the AGM Notice.
SHARES HELD IN THE EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST The Trustees of the Employee Benefit Trust will abstain from voting or exercising any other rights in respect of any shares held by them and in which no beneficial interest is held by any beneficiary unless otherwise directed by the Company.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS The Greenhouse Gas Emissions GHG disclosures for the Group have been shown for the year-ended 31 March 2017, consistent with the Groups financial year.
The calculation of the disclosures has been performed in accordance with Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard and using the UK governments DEFRA conversion factor guidance for the year reported.
The Groups operations that primarily release GHG includes usage of electricity and gas of owned and leased offices, business travel and usage of vehicles.
The Group reported on its GHG emissions for the first time in the prior-year report and, as stated at the time, has been developing its GHG data gathering capabilities.
The prior-year reporting covered all material operations and locations that included the majority of employees.
In the current year the number of locations covered has been increased and estimates have been developed to enable reporting for sites where direct information was not available, including prior-year data.
As a result the information shown in the table below for the year-ended 31 March 2016 has been restated to be on a consistent basis with the current-year approach and methodology.
The Group will continue to build up its GHG reporting capabilities.
The Groups chosen intensity ratio is tonnes of CO2 equivalent per million US Dollars of billings as it reflects the impact of the growth of the business with emissions and with the strategy of the Group.
Year-ended Year-ended 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 tCO e tCO e 2 2 Usage of fuel and operation of buildings 219.6 192.9 Electricity purchased for own use 4,681.9 4,819.7 Business travel air and car 4,543.1 4,039.5 Total 9,444.6 9,052.1 Intensity ratio tCO2e per $M of billings 14.9 16.9 92 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED GOING CONCERN Having made appropriate enquiries and considered the Groups forecasts, the Directors consider that the Group has sufficient resources to continue for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Further details regarding the adoption of the going concern basis can be found in the viability statement below.
VIABILITY STATEMENT The Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three-year period, taking into account the Groups current position and the potential impacts of the principal risks documented on pages 34 to 37 of the Annual Report.
Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue to operate and to meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three years to 31 March 2020.
The Group prepares annually, and on a rolling basis, a strategic plan, which is predicated on a detailed year one budget and higher level forecasts thereafter.
The output of this plan is used to perform debt and associated covenant headroom profile analysis, which includes sensitivity to business as usual risks such as billings and profitability impacts.
A bottom-up operating plan is prepared on an annual basis for presentation to the Board.
Following assessment of the planning process, the Directors have determined that a three-year period is an appropriate period over which to assess the Groups viability.
Whilst the Directors have no reason to believe that the Group will not be viable over a longer period: the period of three years has been chosen to provide a greater degree of certainty and, in the view of the Directors, provides an appropriate long-term outlook.
In making this viability statement, the Board carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
Where individual principal risks did not impact the future viability of the Group, consideration was given to potential principal risk combinations.
The process of identifying, assessing and managing our principal risks is described in the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 57 to 63.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS There have been no material events from 31 March 2017 to the date of this report.
AUDITORS KPMG LLP has expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors of the Company and accordingly a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG LLP as auditors of the Company is to be proposed to the shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make them aware of any relevant audit information.
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 93 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 102, the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
We consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board Eleanor Lacey Company Secretary 16 May 2017 94 Our Team Sophos is a truly global company with more than 40 offices around the world, with major offices in the UK, USA, Canada, India and Germany.
Our values unite and drive us funds for homelessness in the to deliver on our promises for UK, and to encourage more girls security made simple.
We strive for simplicity in all we strive to innovate and challenge do.
Our leadership empowers the status quo in order to deliver employees to do the right thing, on our promise for security make the right choices, and take made simple it requires open the right risks for our customers.
minds and a true understanding We share a passion that extends of customer needs.
And we beyond our desire to deliver are authentic.
True to each quality products and customer other, true to our promises to satisfaction to support clean customers and acting with water and sanitation for Indian honesty and integrity in our villages, to raise awareness and working lives.
SOPHOS IS SUCCESSFUL BECAUSE OF ITS CULTURE, ITS PEOPLE AND ITS ABILITY TO DELIVER ON ITS PROMISES.
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 95 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report 96 Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes 100 Company Financial Statements and Notes 152 Glossary 156 Company Information 157 96 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Sophos Group plc only OPINIONS AND CONCLUSIONS ARISING FROM OUR AUDIT 1.
OUR OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IS UNMODIFIED We have audited the financial statements of Sophos Overview Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2017 set out on Materiality: $5.5m 2016:$4.78m pages 100 to 155.
In our opinion: group 1% 2016: 1% of Group Revenue the financial statements give a true and fair view of financial the state of the groups and of the parent companys statements affairs as at 31 March 2017 and of the groups loss for as a whole the year then ended: Coverage 93% 2016:89% of group loss before tax the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Risks of material misstatement vs 2016 Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union: Recurring Revenue the parent company financial statements have been risks properly prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Exceptional Standards, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Expenses & NonStandard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland: and GAAP Measures the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements, the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, in decreasing order of audit significance, were as follows the risk related to the carrying value of intangible assets and goodwill noted in our prior year audit opinion has been removed as we no longer considered this risk to be one of those having the greatest effect on our audit given the groups cash generation and trading performance in the year and forecast growth : The risk Our response Our procedures included: Revenue Multiple Element Arrangements: $529.7 million: As the Group expands and product portfolios Fair Value Allocation Control: We evaluated the 2016: $478.2m evolve, there can be considerable risk operating effectiveness of the revenue allocation Refer to page 59 associated with recognising revenue on control and assessed the appropriateness of the Audit Committee contracts containing multiple elements.
A Groups principles in determining the relative fair value Report, page 108 significant audit risk has been recognised of each separable element of the arrangement against accounting policy with regards to such multiple element applicable accounting standards: and page 116 arrangements as judgement is required Billings Substantive Sample: We selected a sample financial in allocating the consideration receivable of Group billings from throughout the year and with disclosures.
to each element of the arrangement.
This reference to list prices and discounts given, we requires the fair value for each separable recalculated the relative fair values of each element element of the arrangement to be estimated.
to assess if the determination of relative fair values of In estimating the relative fair values of each each separable element was in in line with Group Policy: element, management make reference Policy: We assessed the Groups policy in respect of to list prices of individual elements and fair value allocation and revenue recognition against discounts given on the total contract.
judgement could materially affect the Disclosure: We assessed the adequacy of the Groups timing and quantum of revenue and profit disclosure about estimation uncertainty regarding recognised in each period.
the determination of fair values of multiple element arrangements.
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 97 The risk Our response Exceptional Classification of Exceptional Expenses Our procedures included assessing and challenging Expenses & Nonand Presentation of Non-GAAP the judgements made by the Directors of the Group GAAP Measures Measures: regarding their determination of exceptional items and the presentation of Non-GAAP measures.
Exceptional The Group presents alternative income This included: Expenses: $31.4 statement measures to operating loss million: 2016: for the period within the consolidated Determination of Exceptional Items: We assessed $41.9m income statement and throughout the whether, in judging what to include in exceptional Annual Report.
The Directors believe that items, the Directors took appropriate regard to Refer to page 59 the separate identification of exceptional guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council Audit Committee items and the presentation of the on the reporting of exceptional items.
We also Report, page following Non-GAAP measures of Billings evaluated the presentation and completeness of 113 accounting $632.1m, Cash EBITDA $150.1m, material or unusual transactions for appropriate policy and page Adjusted operating profit $38.3m and classification within the financial statements by 117-119 financial Unlevered Free Cash Flow $133.4m, assessing whether these items fulfil the criteria to disclosures.
provides clear and useful information require separate disclosure in accordance with IAS 1 on the Groups underlying trading Presentation of financial statements, and whether performance.
However, when improperly they were consistent with the Groups definition used and presented, these kind of of exceptional items as set out in Note 7.
We then measures might prevent the Annual assessed the application of these principles by Report from being fair, balanced and assessing whether the approach taken to identify understandable by focusing on only part exceptional items was consistent between gains of the performance.
The determination and losses: assessing whether the same category of whether an item should be separately of material items are treated consistently each year: disclosed as an exceptional item requires assessing whether the tax effects of exceptional judgement on its nature and incidence, items are explained: by agreeing amounts incurred and its use along with presentation of in the year to underlying documentation and Non-GAAP measures requires judgement supporting information: and by using our knowledge as to whether they provide a better of the Groups transactions throughout the audit to understanding of the Groups underlying consider the completeness of exceptional items: trading performance.
Therefore, these Presentation and Prominence of Non-GAAP are key judgement areas on which our Measures: We assessed whether the separate audit is concentrated.
disclosure and related commentary of exceptional items and alternative Non-GAAP measures of Billings, Cash EBITDA, Adjusted operating profit and Unlevered Cash Flow throughout the Annual Report and Accounts placed disproportionate emphasis on those component of performance: whether such measures were given meaningful labels that are not GAAP terms: whether they were clearly described and explained: whether the alternative measures provided meaningful measures of trading performance: whether adjusted results and alternate measures were adequately reconciled to IFRS numbers with sufficient prominence given to that reconciliation: whether their presentation are in line with guidance issued by the FRC and European Securities and Markets Authority with respect to Alternative Performance Measures: and whether the underlying financial information is not other wise misleading.
