PIGIT pp17 34 01 06 2017 10:44 Page 17 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS Bill Alexander CBE, Chairman of the Board Richard Laing Chairman of the Audit Committee and of the Management Engagement Richard Laing was appointed to the Board on Committee Bill Alexander was appointed to the Board on 20 November 2012.
He was previously Chief 28 March 2006 and as Chairman on 19 July 2007.
Executive of CDC Group plc, formerly the He was previously non-executive Chairman of Commonwealth Development Corporation, from Wigborough Ltd, Chairman of Xansa plc and Chief 2004 to 2011, having joined the organisation in Executive of RWE Thames Water plc, and also held 2000 as Finance Director.
Prior to CDC, he spent non-executive appointments at RMC plc, GB Airways 15 years at fide La Rue, latterly as the Group Finance Ltd and Laporte plc.
Bill is a Chartered Engineer and a Director.
He previously worked in international Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
agribusiness, at  and Marks & Spencer.
He has had a number of Vivian Bazalgette Senior Independent non-executive positions across a range of sectors.
Director His current appointments include: Chairman of Vivian Bazalgette was appointed to the Board 3i Infrastructure plc and Miro Forestry Ltd, which on 21 May 2007.
He is non-executive Chairman of operates in West Africa: non-executive director of Fidelity European Values plc and a non-executive JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc: Director of Brunner Investment Trust plc.
He is also and a trustee of Plan UK, the international childrens an adviser to BAE Systems Pension Fund and a charity.
He obtained an MA from Cambridge Trustee of St. Christophers Hospice.
He previously University in Engineering and is a Fellow of the held the position of Chief Investment Officer of M&G Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and between 1996 and 2000 and, following the takeover Wales FCA.
of M&G by Prudential, was Chief Investment Officer of Prudential M&G from 2000 to 2002.
He holds Bob Yerbury an MA in English from Cambridge University.
Bob Yerbury was appointed to the Board on 4 December 2008.
His investment career spans Victoria Cochrane over 40 years, having led the North American team Victoria Cochrane was appointed to the Board on 28 October 2015.
She is also a non-executive director at Invesco Perpetual for 14 years, becoming Chief of Euroclear Bank SA NV and of HM Courts & Investment Officer in 1997 and Chief Executive Tribunals Service.
She is a former member of the Officer in 2004.
He handed over his CEO and CIO Global Executive Board of Ernst & Young, where she responsibilities in September 2008 and June 2010 was responsible for risk worldwide.
She stood down respectively, continuing as a Senior Managing from her executive career in 2013, having been a Director of Invesco Ltd until his retirement on Partner in the firm for 20 years.
Prior to the global 27 March 2013.
He holds an MA in Mathematics role, she spent two years as a Member of the UK from Cambridge University and qualified as an Executive, responsible for risk, and was Managing Actuary at Equity & Law Life Assurance Society.
Partner for Risk and General Counsel before that.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries FIA.
Victoria is a qualified solicitor and spent more than 10 years as a litigator.
Alan Giles Alan Giles was appointed to the Board on 6 November 2015.
He was Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the remuneration committee of Rentokil Initial until 10 May 2017, when he retired from that position.
He is Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the remuneration committee of the Competition and Markets Authority, Chairman of the Advisory Board at the Oxford Institute of Retail Management All Directors are non-executive.
and an Associate Fellow at Said Business School, University of Oxford as well as Honorary visiting All Directors are considered independent except for professor at Cass Business School.
He was formerly Bob Yerbury, as he was employed by Invesco Chairman of Fat Face Group Limited, Chief Executive Perpetual until 27 March 2013. of HMV Group Plc, Managing Director of Member of the Audit Committee.
Waterstones, and an executive director of WH Smith Plc.
He previously held non-executive directorships at Member of the Management Engagement The Office of Fair Trading, Somerfield Plc and Wilson Committee.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 17
