THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Wholesale Ethernet: presence in BT exchanges Ventures Products and services Several of our ventures provide well-known services nationwide: Broadband and Ethernet We provide CPs with broadband and Ethernet connections between 999: we handle the nations 999 calls on behalf of BT and all other their core network and their customers.
Connect can serve 96% of premises with copper-based broadband 2015 16: 95% and more than 26.5m premises with fibre.
Our Directory Enquiries: calling 118 500 gives people easy access to all older broadband network brings our total coverage to more than listed phone numbers.
Payphones: we provide most of the UKs payphones, whether in Wholesale Ethernet lets customers connect over 99% of business public places or on private premises.
premises at speeds of up to 10Gbps.
Wholesale Optical extends those speeds to 100Gbps.
This year we extended our own fibre-based The Phone Book: we deliver this to over 21m UK homes and Ethernet to many more exchanges and third-party datacentres.
Wholesale Ethernet: present in BT exchanges Other ventures are more enterprise-oriented: As at 31 March BT Cables: we manufacture, source and supply cabling for telcos, railways and other industries.
2,000 BT Fleet: we source, manage and maintain BTs fleet of 33,000 1,500 vehicles.
We manage a further 58,000 vehicles for external customers including the AA and National Grid.
1,000 This year we bought Pelipod, a dataBT Redcare: we provide secure signalling between on-site alarm Pelipod driven secure storage company.
Pelipod systems and central alarm receiving centres.
500 specialises in delivering items directly to a secure box thats easy to access and BT Supply Chain: we hold and dispatch products such as mobile 0 close to an engineers place of work.
If companies have a large field 2014 2015 2016 2017 engineering team we can manage their vehicles, supply their engineers, return any surplus supplies to base and provide real-time Our Managed Ethernet Access Service MEAS uses Ethernet data for route management.
Performance in the year strategic technology to carry mobile voice and data traffic to and from mobile operators transmission masts.
Tikit: we provide IT solutions to law and accountancy firms in the 1 UK, where we supply more than two-thirds of the top 100 law firms, Voice and across Europe, North America and Australia.
Delivering great customer experience CPs use our IP Exchange IPX platform to carry their customers Right First Time RFT tracks our ability to deliver orders and repair voice calls beyond the reach of their own voice network.
IPX is now Big data and messaging: our data scientists help companies and faults on time, every time.
used by over 170 CPs, including most of the UKs biggest operators.
local authorities planning and decision-making.
This year we achieved our best RFT result for many years, up 7.5%, CPs without their own voice network can use Wholesale Calls, Managed solutions including fulfilling 93% of broadband orders on time up from 91% which routes calls for them end to end.
The CP maintains the We combine our products with third-party components and our own last year.
customer relationship through its own sales, customer service professional services to create managed solutions that solve specific and billing.
We changed the way we measure customer satisfaction.
We now measure customers Net Satisfaction, as the difference between Hosted communications those who score us very high 9 and those who score us lower six Traditionally, businesses have made and received calls over phone or less.
Our score in the former BT Wholesale business was 36.6, lines via a switchboard.
Wholesale SIP-Trunking delivers the calls 33,000 up by 2.6.
During the year we extended the measure to include over broadband or Ethernet while Wholesale Hosted Centrex moves three of our ventures.
On this basis, our score overall was 44.8. the switchboard capability into BTs network.
Similarly, our Hosted vehicles sourced, managed and Contact Centres replace the systems and services needed to handle maintained for BT Fleet large numbers of inbound or outbound customer calls.
Were using 3D printing to improve the 3D customer experience in our Supply Chain printing Mobile Virtual Network Operator business.
3D printing shortens the time We were named Best Wholesale Operator at MVNO World Congress it takes to get practical ideas off the 2016.
Customers can use their brand, build their own retail drawing board and out into the field.
Now 58,000 propositions, sell mobile plans through their channels and own Openreach, a Supply Chain customer, is therelationship with the end customer, while we do the rest.
vehicles managed for trialling a range of 3D printed prototypes external customers for example, a cable-threading needle which makes it easier for engineers to add new circuits in a roadside cabinet without snagging other wires.
76 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 77 1,232 1,306 1,482 1,911 Lines of business continued Wholesale and Ventures continued Performance in the year operating 2 While usage of our more traditional products Investing for growth declined as expected, in other areas we were This year weve invested in both new connectivity options for able to drive revenue growth as well as a healthy wholesale networks and the services needed to run those networks.
Looking further ahead, were developing a new strategy for the order book.
Network services This year weve trialled two new access options from Openreach: G. fast and Single Order Generic Ethernet Access.
Were ready to offer them as soon as Openreach launches them.
Meanwhile weve been developing the capability to run Ethernet services over 4G mobile networks so we can provide them more quickly and switch over to 4G if the fixed network fails.
Weve also invested in a range of new features for our Hosted Communications Services which well launch during 2017 18.
We have a long track record of running networks on our customers behalf.
This year we created a new team to offer these services on a bigger scale.
These range from taking over a single function like order management, through to outsourcing and transforming a customers entire network.
Internet of Things IoT W&V leads strategy development for IoT across BT.
IoT is a network of connected objects that exchange data to drive insight and action.
Were involved in major IoT projects including MKSmart in Milton Keynes and CityVerve in Manchester.
In December we added 25 locations, including the BT Tower, to the London Things Connected network, which local communities can use to transform their business or daily lives.
3 In October we announced a deal with New BT two partners to replace hundreds of Transforming our costs digital street our phone boxes with new digital units Our many ongoing cost transformation projects continued to deliver which will offer free ultrafast wi-fi, savings through: units free phone calls and free mobile reduction in supplier cost by renegotiating better terms and phone charging.
changing or consolidating suppliers: lowering our network cost by re-engineering existing platforms The first units will be deployed in and improving their utilisation: London in 2017.
We expect them consolidation of legacy and end-of-life platforms: and to generate substantial advertising better productivity, together with rationalisation of support revenue while benefiting the functions and overheads.
communities in which they operate.
This year we signed almost 2bn of orders.
Deals included: extending our MVNO deals with Virgin Media and ASDA: supplying an Avaya Cloud Solution for thousands of contact centre staff at a major utility provider: re-signing a number of large Ethernet contracts, securing those circuits for the future: new IoT solutions for major corporate clients: and taking over management of the Environment Agencys 1,350 vehicles.
78 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 79 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our Ethernet base grew by 14% this year, well ahead of the market.
In last years report we set out our top priorities for this year.
Ethernet circuits are still replacing the shrinking number of Partial In the table below we report back on what weve achieved.
The number of broadband lines we provide over fibre grew by over 60,000: but our total broadband base fell Review of last years priorities by 25,000, mainly as a result of some customers own LLU network WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID expansion.
We said wed We launched the new W&V organisation Ethernet installed base integrate the various on 1 April 2016.
Year ended 31 March business units that now comprise W&V.
50,000 We said wed create The many services provided by our new, 40,000 revenue and cost digital street units page 78 draw on synergies as a a wide range of BT capabilities.
These 30,000 result of the new include payphone sites, BT Wi-fi, the fibre organisation.
networks that connect the payphone 20,000 to the internet and to the BT platform providing IP voice calls, BTs Next 10,000 Generation Text Service, and end-to-end service management.
And weve made 0 good progress in creating cost synergies 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 in our Supply Chain operations.
This was up 9% on last year, We said wed We achieved our best RFT result for excluding minutes carried for EE.
IPX growth has slowed now that continue to many years.
For Ethernet specifically we more of the UKs major operators have completed their transition improve customer implemented a new and much improved from Time-Division Multiplexing TDM to IP voice networks.
And we designed a new Meanwhile the number of voice minutes that we carried over especially in Ethernet service that will run over 4G: traditional TDM networks fell.
well be trialling this with customers early in the new financial year.
Our SIP Trunks and Hosted Centrex users grew by 24% and 40% respectively.
We said wed further We expanded our Ethernet network to expand our Ethernet another 429 exchanges.
In BT Fleet the number of vehicles under management grew network.
We implemented round-the-clock working in some garages, recruited over a hundred extra technicians and appointed We said wed Our fibre broadband base rose by over 47 Modern Apprentices.
increase the number 60,000 this year.
of customers using We provided professional services to help upgrade and or install over fibre rather than 5,000 4G basestation sites for mobile network operators.
We said wed further Weve upgraded many of our internetstrengthen our facing systems with additional firewall 22bn defences against protection.
attempted cyber voice minutes carried by IPX.
Up 9% on 2016 We said wed We further reduced our own network continue our cost costs and overheads, as well as thirdtransformation party supplier costs.
we helped upgrade and or install over 5,000 4G transmission sites 78 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 79 16,900 24,700 31,400 38,500 43,800 Lines of business continued Wholesale and Ventures continued EBITDA grew quarter on quarter throughout the year.
It was up on Performance in the year financial the prior year by 10% but down 6% adjusted for the acquisition Revenue was down 7%, or 3% adjusted for the of EE.
This reflected lower revenues and the continuing migration to lower-margin IP services, offset by growth in Wholesale Mobile acquisition of EE, compared with a 4% decline andVentures.
This included 30m or 37% less transit Depreciation and amortisation was up 21% 2015 16: 3%, revenue than the year before.
primarily due to the inclusion of Ventures assets such as BT Fleet vehicles.
Operating profit went up by 5% 2015 16: flat.
Last year our reported numbers included all revenues from EE as a customer until the end of January 2016.
Where appropriate, we give Capital expenditure was up 8% because of investment in new yearly comparisons both including and excluding those revenues.
Working capital was impacted by timing on managed solutions invoicing and VAT: this contributed to a 10% 2017 2016 2015 Year ended 31 March m m m increase in free cash flow.
Revenue 2,109 2,274 2,361 a Underlying revenue excluding transit Priorities for the year ahead adjusted for the acquisition of EE 3 % 0% n a Operating costs 1,275 1,519 1,615 Over the next 12 months well carry on EBITDA 834 755 746 investing for the future and further enhancing Depreciation and amortisation 306 253 245 our customer experience.
Operating profit 528 502 501 Capital expenditure 226 209 294 Our top priorities for 2017 18 are: Free cash flow 587 536 416 Roll out new services Revenue was down 7% or 3% adjusted for the acquisition of EE.
start to deploy our new digital street units: and This reflects the market decline in legacy products offset by growth expand our managed services capacity, to help customers in Ventures.
run their networks and operations.
MEAS saw a 6% fall: Develop new solutions mobile networks have now largely completed this phase of their helping mobile network operators prepare for the next network installation programme, so they added capacity at fewer generation of 5G mobile networks: sites and connected fewer new sites.
This was partially offset by adding 4G mobile access to our Hosted Communications growth in other contracts.
Portfolio: and for the Internet of Things.
Data and Broadband revenue was down 5%, driven largely by Partial Private Circuits, though there was good growth in fibre broadband.
Improve our customer experience Ethernet saw a 14% increase as the rental base grew to 43,800. in particular our RFT delivery for Wholesale Ethernet and Hosted Communications Services.
Voice revenue was down 22% due to the market decline in call volumes and the inclusion of ladder revenues in last years numbers.
Wholesale Mobile revenue was 223m, supported by growing data usage and more customers moving to 4G.
Ventures revenue of 312m was up 7% compared to last year.
This was driven by growth in BT Fleet, thanks to new strategic alliances, and in BT Supply Chain which enlarged its external customer base.
These were offset by a 6m reduction in BT Cables because of lower demand for copper cabling, and another 6m reduction as our Phone Book, Payphones and BT Redcare businesses declined in line with their markets.
Operating costs decreased 16%, while underlying operating costs excluding transit were down by 15%.
a Excludes specific items, foreign exchange movements and disposals and from 2016 17 is calculated as though EE had been part of the group from 1 April 2015.
80 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc PB THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Lines of business Technology, Service and Operations TSO TSO is our internal technology unit.
Its responsible for creating and operating our global networks, platforms and IT systems.
We work closely with each of our lines of business, creating new products for them and making sure that services evolve to reflect 2 the changing needs of their customers.
And we make sure that BTs Investing for growth networks and systems are reliable and resilient.
This year weve completed the rollout of our new Ethernet switches.
Theyre now installed in 585 exchanges so even more businesses can We manage BTs research and development and our worldwide access BT Ethernet services.
Were also embracing new technologies such as programmable There are more than 13,000 people in TSO, and this year we networks.
These deliver services faster and provide real-time visibility recruited over 220 graduates and apprentices.
TSO people work on and control of a customers network.
With the launch of Dynamic a wide variety of rapidly-changing technologies so weve developed Network Services were offering these capabilities to Global Services comprehensive training and career pathways to attract and retain the customers.
For example, we now offer Degree Apprenticeships that allow apprentices to achieve a full bachelors degree while training on Weve also completed the first voice calls on our single fixed and mobile the job.
infrastructure which enables us to offer new converged services such as high-definition voice calling.
Products and services 3 We manage the infrastructure for BTs products, Transforming our costs services and internal systems, such as our IT Following the acquisition of EE weve taken the opportunity to systems and voice, data and TV networks.
review and rationalise the number of applications we use.
BT manages networks for many of the worlds top companies.
Were also migrating applications onto our Enterprise Cloud, making Our people design and deliver the solutions that make this happen.
them easier to manage and lowering their running cost.
Performance in the year strategic Performance in the year operating Were always looking for new ways to maintain and refresh the technology in our networks and 1 service platforms.
Delivering great customer experience To overcome wi-fi problems that people can encounter in the Weve seen record levels of data traffic sustained throughout the year, and home, we developed and launched the BT Smart Hub.
This uses our investments have been focused to maintain high levels of performance.
smart technology such as improved antennas to improve wi-fi performance.
For example, we installed infrastructure that cuts congestion in the core network to improve the UK broadband experience.
See page 30 We also developed the systems behind the new BT Call Protect for more on the improvements weve been making to our networks.
service, designed to stop companies that regularly pester our customers with nuisance calls.
Weve improved the reliability of the IT systems we use to trade with our customers for the fourth year in a row.
Weve also continued to cut our costs and the groups energy consumption.
See page 42 for more details.
PB BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 81 Lines of business continued Technology, Service and Operations TSO continued The table below summarises the progress weve made on the top Priorities for the year ahead priorities we set out in last years report.
Review of last years priorities Over the next 12 months well carry on WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID improving our networks, platforms and IT We said wed develop We successfully trialled Long-Reach VDSL systems, and doing everything possible to technology solutions at Isfield, Sussex and North Tolsta on the help deliver a great customer experience.
that increase the Isle of Lewis.
broadband speeds for homes at the end of long copper lines.
Our top priorities for 2017 18 are: Enhance the UK broadband experience We said wed move Weve started running wholesale and deploy architectural and infrastructure improvements to cope from a technology communications provider trials of with broadband traffic growth and improve the quality of the trial to a live IPvoice.
customer trial of an all-IP voice service.
Extend 4G coverage deliver upgrades to existing mobile cell sites and deploy new We said wed Weve performed perception tests to cell sites to increase 4G coverage in support of the Emergency investigate see what viewers think of the latest Service Network contract.
technology that developments in TV technology.
could provide better Improve systems reliability picture quality on continue to improve the reliability of our IT and network our TV platform.
platforms, ensuring theyre as resilient as possible.
We said wed We added a new software-defined enhance the cloudWAN service to Global Services dynamic based services network services portfolio.
that we offer to businesses.
We said wed We turned off some of the equipment continue in our PSTN network that we no longer our network needed, saving over 1m in energy rationalisation.
By removing this older equipment, weve also released spares to avoid repair costs and help contribute to the best performance of the PSTN in eight years.
82 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc PB
