Strategic Report Key Strategies PRODUCT FOCUS From product breadth to product focus.
Great product is the foundation of Burberrys growth Burberry announced its strategic partnership with Coty and productivity goals.
Burberry has a broad product offer, in April 2017 to accelerate the growth and development with strength in both heritage and fashion across genders of its Beauty business, through an exclusive licensing and categories.
However, Burberry has generally a wider agreement to take effect from October 2017.
Leveraging product assortment than its peers.
Simplifying the product the strengths of each partner, Burberry will lead on offer will enable the customer to discover fashion and creative elements of the business while benefiting from newness more easily.
It will also provide the opportunity Cotys industry expertise and global distribution platform.
to tailor the assortment more effectively for local In the coming year, Burberry will continue to develop customer needs.
and execute on its product category strategies Key enablers of future growth include the following.
including building on its tradition in outerwear, heritage in cashmere and developing small leather goods to Build a strategic approach to core product categories: add innovation at the entry price offering.
Developing mid to long-term strategies for Burberrys core product categories to simplify the offer, reduce Implement end-to-end category management assortments, and to improve the visibility of fashion Burberry is implementing new ways of working and newness.
across all product functions including merchandising, planning, design, product development, supply chain Implement end-to-end category management: and marketing.
The aim is to improve collaboration Introducing new ways of working across all product and customer product focus throughout the productfunctions to align category performance, enhance development life cycle.
Initial organisational changes accountability and ensure customers remain front have been implemented in the central teams, the of mind during the product development life cycle.
Americas and EMEIA, with Asia to follow.
This end-toEnhance store assortments and simplify the product end product focused approach will ensure that Burberry offer: Using a centrally directed buying process to ensure delivers inspirational products and brand experiences the consistency and relevance of the global product offer, to its customers.
while also simplifying the customer shopping experience Enhance store assortments and simplify the product offer and reducing back-of-house complexity.
In November, Burberry successfully implemented its Progress during the year move to one label across its retail network.
This has Build a strategic approach to core product categories simplified the customer shopping experience as well A comprehensive strategy is being developed to grow as reducing back-of-house complexity, with stores each core product category taking into account target merchandised by product rather than label.
The one customers, price points and product icons based label roll-out was supported by a comprehensive training around key pillars and shapes.
The aim is to respond programme for retail staff and visual merchandising.
to demand for Burberrys most luxurious products Burberry reduced its product option count by 1520% while also introducing more innovation and creativity over the year.
This has simplified its product offering at opening price points.
while balancing stronger focus on fashion and newness During the year, the initial focus was on evolving in-store.
Burberrys bag offer around a new pillar and shape Burberry has also developed a new store profiling model strategy.
New launches included the DK88 signature to support the evolved buying process.
This tailors the collection, the Bridle bag and the Buckle bag family, product offer to reflect the particular store profile.
In which resulted from the commercialisation of last years particular, this model classifies stores in greater detail, Patchwork bag.
The new shapes have been successful using a combination of in-house and local data sources, with womens bag sales outperforming other categories such as customer demographics and product purchasing during the year.
behaviours, as well as data such as climate.
