THE S THE STRA TRATE TEGIC REPOR GIC REPORT T GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL S FINANCIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S ADDITIONAL INF ADDITIONAL INFORMA ORMATION TION Review of the year We announced that Jan du Plessis will join our Board on 1 June 2017 and become chairman of BT Group with effect from 1 November 2017.
PG106 to read more about our Board Strategic progress F ocused on improving customer experience across the group.
EE in tegration is going well, were ahead of target on first-year cost synergies.
Restructuring announced, accelerating our cost transformation.
Continued investment for growth and aspiration to become the UKs digital champion.
PG16 to read more about our strategy Openreach Enduring and comprehensive agreement reached with Ofcom on future Openreach governance.
Openreach board created with Mike McTighe appointed as Openreach chairman.
Ofcoms investigation into the historical use of Deemed Consent by Openreach resulted in a 42m fine and c300m of compensation payments that will be paid in 2017 18.
PG83 to read more about Openreach Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 3 Review of the year continued Adjustments relating to the investigation of our Italian business amount to Our investigation into our 268m for errors in prior years, for which weve revised prior periods, and Italian business a specific item charge of 245m for changes in accounting estimates and investigation costs of 15m.
To respond, our actions have included: 268m detailed balance sheet reviews in seven selected country operations in prior years adjustments Global Services.
Issue isolated to Italy: appointed a new CEO and CFO of our Italian business, as well as a new president of European operations: and reviewed and improved financial processes, systems and controls across the group.
260m specific item charge PG6 to read more Headwinds in the UK public sector and Low interest rate environment Market environment international corporate markets.
increasing our IAS 19 pension deficit by 2.4bn net of tax.
EE integration Cross-selling opportunities being realised Business mobile net adds up strongly over the year.
Hundreds of thousands of EE customers taking BT Sport.
T rial of selling BT products in EE stores has gone well.
c150m per annum run-rate cost synergies achieved in first year Ahead of 100m target due to synergies being realised early.
Early focus on renegotiating supplier terms, insourcing and estate rationalisation.
Taking the best of both cultures PG93 to read more about the EE integration 4 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 5 THE S THE STRA TRATE TEGIC REPOR GIC REPORT T GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL S FINANCIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S ADDITIONAL INF ADDITIONAL INFORMA ORMATION TION 100% 100% of EE calls now handled in UK and Ireland contact centres, and Consumer now at 86% 7.7m premises connected to fibre broadband, 29% of those passed 53% BT Sport won exclusive rights to UEFA Champions BT Sport League and UEFA Europa League until the end of of retail broadband 2020 21 season.
customers now on fibre 500,000 around the world, creating the Global Services premises now built to opportunity to reposition Global with ultrafast broadband strategic review Services as a more focused digital business.
We will prioritise innovation We have undertaken a strategic review of cloud-based platforms that deliver of Global Services, with the objectives our products and services, with of improving its market and financial 30m BTs global network at the core, to performance, its risk profile, and the support the digital transformation long-term value that it delivers to BT.
mobile customers using of our customers.
As we implement Global Services is most differentiated our network this strategy, we will ensure that we with large, multinational customers, optimise the value of our global and who demand high-quality, secure our local network assets.
Its product portfolio is industry-leading across a range of 18.6m To enable this strategic repositioning, areas, including networking, security, we are restructuring our Global cloud collaboration and contact mobile customers Services organisation to a simpler centres.
This will involve a two-year restructuring of our Technology trends mean that we operations, the costs of which will are now less dependent on owning be treated as a specific item.
physical local network access assets 80% UKs land mass now covered by 4G 4 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 5 Review of the year continued Our investigation into our Italian business What we found BTGroup chairman, conducted an investigation of the systems and In the summer of 2016 we received a whistle-blower report of controls relating to our Italian business.
We also conducted a broader inappropriate behaviours in our Italian business.
We instigated an review of financial processes, systems and controls across the group.
investigation, which included an independent review by KPMG We are acting on both the recommendations of KPMG and our own LLP, with support and oversight from our Legal, Governance & observations and have taken steps to improve our controls within Compliance function and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, reporting Italy.
We have also taken steps to enhance the wider controls that directly to both the chair of the Audit & Risk Committee and BT monitor our overseas operations in our shared service centres, Group chairman, and our own comprehensive balance sheet review, Global Services and at a group level.
which revealed improper accounting practices and a complex set of improper sales, purchase, factoring and leasing transactions in our Beyond Italy, we have completed detailed balance sheet reviews in Italian business.
The investigation identified collusion, circumvention seven selected country operations in Global Services outside of the and override of controls within our Italian business that was not UK.
These thorough reviews were supported by EY.
Together with identified by our monitoring controls thereby resulting in the the investigation in Italy these covered around two-thirds by asset misstatement of results going undetected for a number of years.
value of the operations outside the UK, representing 4% of the groups total assets.
Our review did not identify any similar issues or These activities resulted in the overstatement of profits amounting areas of concern elsewhere giving us comfort that the inappropriate to 268m in our Italian business over a number of years.
We behaviours were isolated to Italy.
This along with other additional concluded that the errors were not individually material to any of substantive assurance activities that we have undertaken enables the groups previously issued financial statements: however, we us to conclude that the financial results and balance sheet as of did conclude that the correction of the full 268m in the current 31 March 2017 position give a true and fair view of the group.
year would materially misstate the current year.
To avoid this we corrected the errors by revising prior year income statements, As a result of our US listing we are required to make certain balance sheets and cash flow statements.
The effect of these assessments of our controls as of 31 March 2017 for the purposes revisions is set out in note 1 to the financial statements.
of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley.
Despite the remediation steps we took, the controls had not operated The findings from the investigation in Italy led us to review the for sufficient time to allow assurance testing to confirm their carrying value of the assets and liabilities on the balance sheet, effectiveness under Sarbanes-Oxley.
We have therefore concluded taking into account changes in facts or circumstances since 31 for these purposes that our controls were ineffective as of March 2016 and whether additional exposures had arisen due 31 March 2017 due to a material weakness with regards to to events in the current year.
This exercise required a level of our Italian business.
judgement, in many cases taking a more cautious view based on our current understanding of circumstances surrounding each item.
The BT Group Remuneration Committee has also considered the This exercise concluded that it was appropriate to write-down the wider implications of the BT Italy investigation: see page 122 for value of our balance sheet assets and increase our balance sheet further details.
The resulting charge of 245m is presented as a specific item in the current year.
What we will do going forward While we have taken steps to improve our control environment, Changes in facts or circumstance of items arising in the current year we recognise we have more to do.
We will continue to take steps have been recorded in Global Services current year trading results.
to improve further our control, governance and compliance environment.
These steps include increasing the resources and How we responded improving the capabilities of the controlling function and the audit The inappropriate behaviour in our Italian business is an extremely function outside the UK, and further developing our integrated serious matter.
It has no place in BT and we took immediate steps risk and assurance reporting processes.
We are also enhancing our to improve the financial processes and controls in that business.
controls and compliance programme to strengthen awareness of the We suspended a number of BT Italys senior management team standards we expect, the capabilities of our people, and to reinforce who have now left the business.
The president of our European the importance of doing business in an ethical, disciplined and operations has also left the business.
We have appointed a new president of our European operations and The new CEO and CFO of BT Italy will continue to review the Italian a new CEO and CFO of BT Italy, from outside the Italian executive management and finance teams and work with BT Group Ethics management team, and they are working hard to reposition and and Compliance to improve the governance, compliance and restructure the business for the future including implementing financial safeguards.
Going forward, we will also continue to rotate improvements to the governance, compliance and control culture senior management among countries to ensure an independently and the capabilities of our people in the organisation.
governed and rigorously controlled organisation throughout all parts of Global Services.
To ensure independence, KPMG and our internal investigation team, with support and oversight from the Legal, Governance & Compliance function and Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, reporting directly to both the chair of the Audit & Risk Committee and 6 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 7 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Deemed Consent On 26 March 2017, Ofcom published the findings of its investigation As a result of the findings, Openreach has agreed to compensate CPs into the historical use of Deemed Consent by Openreach.
Deemed and Ofcom has imposed a fine of 42m, reflecting the seriousness Consent is an agreed process between Openreach and its of the failings.
This includes a 30% maximum discount for BT Communications Provider CP customers, which allows Openreach admitting its liabilities and agreeing to compensate the affected to halt the installation and reschedule the delivery date for providing CPs in full.
The precise amount of these compensation payments dedicated business services known as Ethernet in a number of will result from discussions with the affected parties and is currently specific circumstances which are beyond its control.
Ofcom found that estimated at 300m.
The fine and associated compensation Openreach had breached its contractual and regulatory obligations payments are treated as a specific item charge in this years income by inadequately and retrospectively applying Deemed Consent to statement, with the cash expected to be paid in 2017 18. reduce compensation payments to CPs between January 2013 and December 2014.
We take this matter very seriously and weve put in place additional controls to safeguard against this happening again and to make sure that were providing the highest standards in serving our customers.
Financial results Year to Proposed final dividend of 10.55p, up 10%, 31 March 2017 giving a full year dividend of 15.40p, also up 10% a, b m Change Reported measures Revenue 24,062 27% Profit before tax 2,354 19 % Basic earnings per share 19.2p 33 % Adjusted measures c Change in underlying revenue excluding transit adjusted for the acquisition of EE 0.2 % d Adjusted EBITDA 7,645 18% c Change in underlying EBITDA adjusted for the acquisition of EE 2.9 % d Adjusted profit before tax 3,532 5% d Adjusted basic earnings per share 28.9p 9 % e Normalised free cash flow 2,782 316 m Net debt 8,932 906 m PG91 to read the Group Performance PG20 to read our KPIs Performance against 2016 17 outlook Outlook In January we revised our outlook as a result of the pressures in the UK public sector and Our outlook for international corporate markets and the outcome of the investigation into our Italian business.
2017 18 is now as follows: 2016 17 2016 17 2016 17 2017 18 initial outlook revised outlook performance outlook Change in underlying c revenue excluding transit Growth Broadly flat 0.2 % Broadly flat d Adjusted EBITDA c7.9bn c7.6bn 7,645m 7.5bn - 7.6bn e Normalised free cash flow 3.1bn - 3.2bn c2.5bn 2,782m 2.7bn - 2.9bn Dividend per share 10% growth 10% growth 15.40p, 10% Progressive Share buyback c200m 206m 206m c100m a The results for the period include EE which we acquired on 29 January 2016.
Unless referred to as underlying adjusted for the acquisition of EE, comparatives only include EE from the date of acquisition.
b Certain prior year results have been revised to reflect the outcome of the investigation into our Italian business.
See note 1. c Excludes specific items, foreign exchange movements and disposals and is calculated as though EE had been part of the group from 1 April 2015.
This differs from how we usually adjust for acquisitions as explained on page 252. d Before specific items, which are defined on page 252. e Before specific items, pension deficit payments and the cash tax benefit of pension deficit payments.
6 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 7
