Governance and directors report DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES Background NEX Group plc was incorporated in February 2016 and, pursuant to the Scheme of Arrangement, became the listed holding company of ICAP plc and its subsidiaries on 15 December 2016.
Charles Gregson, Michael Spencer and Stuart Bridges were appointed directors of NEX Group plc onitsincorporation in February 2016.
John Sievwright, Ivan Ritossa andRobertStanding were appointed to the board of NEX Group plc on 15December 2016.
All directors will seek appointment or re-election, asrequired under the articles of association of the Company, at the 2017 annual general meeting.
NEX board Charles Gregson Committees: NEX understands the importance of having a board with the right balance Chairman age 69 G N of skills, experience and diversity.
All NEX directors have extensive knowledge of the financial markets, regions and regulatory frameworks in Skills and experience which NEX operates and our non-executive directors have global experience Charles brings considerable senior board, committee and chairman level expertise.
of each of NEXs business divisions.
The biographies of the current directors He has a track record of progressive leadership and a good rapport with senior set out their skills, experience, committee membership and other principal management teams in each of NEXs divisions.
With more than 20 years of listed appointments.
company experience, Charles also understands the importance of maintaining effective relationships with the institutional investor community, media and Throughout the year, more than half the board, excluding the Chairman, regulatory bodies.
He has served on a number of boards in the financial services comprised independent non-executive directors.
The balance of the andmedia sectors, including as non-executive chairman of St Jamess Place plc boardas at 31 March 2017 is illustrated below.
Further details of the andCPP Group plc and as deputy chairman of Provident Financial plc.
Charles was non-executive directors independence are provided on page 43. chairman of ICAP plc from 1999 to 2016.
Charles holds a degree in Law from the University of Cambridge and qualified as asolicitor.
BALANCE OF THE BOARD AS AT 31 MARCH 2017 Other appointments 1 Chairman Charles is the non-executive chairman of Non-Standard Finance plc and the senior independent director of Caledonia Investments plc.
3 Non-executive directors 2 Executive directors CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TENURE AS AT 31 MARCH 2017 0 0 3 years 1 3 6 years 3 6 years Tenure includes time spent as directors of ICAP plc Michael Spencer Committees: Group Chief Executive Officer age 61 G N Skills and experience Having worked in financial services for more than 30 years, Michael is well respected within the industry.
He founded Intercapital in 1986 and became its chairman and Chief Executive in October 1998.
Michael brings immense knowledge and insight ofsuccessfully growing a complex international business and a deep understanding of the markets in which NEX operates.
Michael, together with IPGL and its subsidiary companies, is a substantial shareholder in the Company.
He chairs the GEMG and was the Group Chief Executive Officer of ICAP plc from 1999 to 2016.
Michael holds a degree in Physics from the University of Oxford.
Key to board committee membership Other appointments G Governance Member Michael is chairman of IPGL and is on the boards of many of its investments.
N Nomination He is the chairman of The Conservative Party Foundation Limited.
A Audit Chairman R Risk Re Remuneration 36 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Stuart Bridges Committees: Ivan Ritossa Committees: Group Chief Financial Officer age 56 Non-executive director age 55 G N A R Re Skills and experience Skills and experience Stuart brings many years of listed company, international and financial expertise Ivan has a strong and varied global investment banking background and extensive tothe board having been the chief financial officer of Hiscox Limited for 16 years.
electronic market experience in foreign exchange, commodities, credit, prime Hehas a strong background in strategy and execution and brings particular focus services and equities.
He previously served on the executive committee for Barclays oncapital management.
Stuart chairs the GFC and is responsible for the Groups Investment Bank, as a non-executive director of ABSA Group and an executive finance, internal audit, company secretarial, investor relations and regulatory director of Barclays Saudi Arabia board.
Ivan has been a member of numerous affairsfunctions.
He was appointed Group Finance Director of ICAP plc in 2015. industry committees including the New York Federal Reserve Foreign Exchange Committee, the Bank of England Foreign Exchange Joint Standing Committee Stuart holds a degree in Engineering from the University of Cambridge and is andtheSingapore Foreign Exchange Markets Committee.
He was a non-executive a Chartered Accountant.
director of ICAP plc from 2013 to 2016.
Other appointments Ivan holds an honours degree in Finance from the University of New South Wales, Stuart is a non-executive director of Caledonia Investments plc, a member of the Australia.
Audit Committee of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales anda member of the Finance Committee of The Royal Institution.
Other appointments Ivan is a non-executive director of NEX SEF Limited.
John Sievwright Committees: Robert Standing Committees: Senior independent director age 62 Non-executive director age 57 Re G N A R A R G N Re Skills and experience Skills and experience John has almost 30 years of broad financial services experience with significant Robert has extensive knowledge of the hedge fund industry and is a founder exposure to operating at board level.
John was previously senior independent director oftheHedge Fund Standards Board.
He also brings more than 20 years of senior of FirstGroup plc and chairman of its audit committee.
Following a 20-year career management, financial and product development expertise having worked in with Bank of America Merrill Lynch formerly Merrill Lynch, where he held a number anumber of roles and senior positions at Chemical Bank and JPMorgan.
Robert of senior management positions based in New York, Tokyo and London, John brings co-founded London Diversified Fund Management within the JPMorgan group significant international, financial and operational experience to the board.
He was in 1995 before its spin out in 2002.
He was a non-executive director of ICAP plc appointed a non-executive director of ICAP plc in 2009 and the senior independent from 2010 to 2016. director of ICAP plc from 2012 to 2016.
Robert holds a degree in Engineering from the University of Cambridge.
John holds a degree in Accounting and Economics from the University of Aberdeen Other appointments and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Scotland.
Robert is a director of DG Partners Services Limited and chief investment officer Other appointments ofNeuron Advisers LLP both part of the London Diversified Fund group.
John has no other appointments.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 37
