BOARD OF DIRECTORS Leading with integrity Paul Roy David Lockhart Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Experience Experience Paul Roy has over 40 years experience in the banking, brokerage and David Lockhart is a qualified Solicitor and Chartered Accountant and asset management industries.
In 2003, he co-founded NewSmith has over 35 years operating experience in the UK real estate market.
Capital Partners LLP, an independent investment management David is an experienced and successful entrepreneur, having founded company which was acquired by Man Group in 2015.
Prior to founding several property businesses across the United Kingdom.
He practised NewSmith, he was Co-President of the Global Markets and Investment law in his family law firm until 1981 when he resigned to found Caltrust Banking division at Merrill Lynch & Co and had responsibility for Limited, a property development company based in Scotland.
David worldwide Investment Banking, Debt and Equity Markets.
Paul joined served as Executive Chairman of Caltrust Limited until 1987 when the Merrill Lynch in 1995 when it acquired Smith New Court Plc a leading company was acquired by Sheraton Securities International plc, market making and brokerage firm on the London Stock Exchange following which he served as managing director of newly formed where he was Chief Executive Officer.
He joined Smith New Court in Sheraton Caltrust plc until 1990.
In 1991, David founded Halladale, 1988, having previously been a Senior Partner in the leading stock a business which he ran as CEO.
Halladale floated on AIM in 2001 broking firm Citicorp Scrimgeour Vickers.
and was acquired by Stockland Corporation in 2007.
In 2009, he co-founded NewRiver and has served as its Chief Executive since Between 2007 and 2013, Paul served as Chairman of the British its IPO that year.
Horseracing Authority responsible for governance and regulation of the sport and is now Chairman of Retraining of Racehorses, racings main equine charity.
In 2015, he became Chairman of Sky Bet after CVC acquired a majority stake in the company from SKY PLC.
He has a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics honours and a Doctor Kay Chaldecott of Laws from the University of Liverpool.
Non-Executive Director Independent Committees Chairman of the Nomination Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Experience Kay Chaldecott has over 25 years experience of developing and managing regional shopping centres throughout the UK from having worked with Capital Shopping Centres Group plc now Intu Properties plc.
Kay was appointed Managing Director of the Shopping Centre business and served as a main Board Director from 2005 to 2011.
Since then, Kay has pursued her Non-Executive Directors career and is a member of the boards of St. Modwen Properties PLC and Lichfields planning and development consultancy, and is a member of the Advisory Board of Next Leadership.
Kay is a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and has a breadth of industry knowledge covering the retail development process, retail mix and leasing and shopping centre operations.
Committees Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 64 64 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Mark Davies Allan Lockhart Chief Financial Officer Property Director Experience Experience Mark Davies is a Chartered Accountant who joined the Company at its Allan Lockhart has over 25 years experience in the UK real estate inception in 2009.
Mark has over 20 years experience in Finance, market specialising in the retail sector.
He started his career with Strutt including over 10 years in the UK real estate sector.
He started his & Parker in 1988 advising major property companies and institutions on property finance career with Grant Thornton before joining BDO LLP retail investment and development.
Allan was appointed as retail as an Audit and Corporate Finance Partner and Head of Real Estate.
director to the principal trading subsidiary of Halladale now Stockland Prior to joining NewRiver, Mark was Chief Financial Officer of Exemplar in January 2002 and was responsible for co-ordinating the acquisition Properties and Omega Land, a property investment and development of, and implementation of the asset management strategies in respect company which was owned by Morgan Stanley Real Estate Funds.
of, over 20 shopping centres as well as acquiring and completing several profitable retail developments.
In 2009, he co-founded Mark has experience in many areas of property and Corporate Finance NewRiver and has served as Property Director since its IPO that year.
including debt and equity capital markets.
Alastair Miller Chris Taylor Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Experience Experience Alastair Miller was Chief Financial Officer of New Look Group plc Chris Taylor was a Non-Executive Director during the financial year from 2000 until 2014 and during that period had a range of other and also acted as the Senior Independent Director.
responsibilities in addition to finance including property, systems, Chris stepped down from the Board on 9 April 2017 and a search to company secretariat and investor relations.
He was one of the MBO replace him is ongoing.
team who helped take the company private in 2004 and led a number of subsequent refinancings.
Committees Previously, he was the Group Finance Director at RAC for 11 years, Former Chairman of the Audit Committee having joined from Price Waterhouse in 1988 where he was a Former Member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees management consultant.
Prior to that, he was Finance Director of a company within the BTR Group.
Alastair qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Deloitte Haskins and Sells now part of  LLP and holds a BSc in Economics.
Matthew Jones Company Secretary Committees Chairman of the Audit Committee Member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees Matthew Jones is a chartered secretary with over 25 years experience in the profession and has been company secretary to both Main Market and AIM listed companies, as well as private group companies, He has worked across a number of sectors, including finance, private equity, consumer goods and real estate.
Matthew is a Fellow of the ICSA: The Governance Institute.
NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65
