DIRECTORS REPORT Directors report For the year ended 31 March 2017 The Directors present their report and Group financial The Board has determined that a major part of its role is the statements for the year ended 31 March 2017. overall strategy of the Group and to consider the following matters which are key to the performance of the Group: Principal activities and status implementation of the agreed business strategy to focus NewRiver REIT plc the Company is a premium listed REIT on on value creating retail and leisure property opportunities: the London Stock Exchange and a constituent of the FTSE250 ensuring adequate funding is in place to implement the and EPRA Indices.
The Company is a specialist real estate Groups business model: investor, asset manager and developer focused solely on the UK retail and leisure sector.
monitoring of cash management policies and cash flow forecasts: On 16 August 2016, the Group completed its move from AIM to the methodology and results of three year business plans the premium listing segment of the official list, trading on the for each asset held: Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
responsibility for the financial reporting procedures and NewRiver REIT plc became the ultimate parent company, safeguarding the Groups assets and those held in with the former parent company, NewRiver Retail Limited, joint ventures: becoming a direct subsidiary of NewRiver REIT plc, via a approval of the annual and interim financial statements and Scheme of Arrangement.
For further details about the Scheme annual budget: of Arrangement, see page 119. review of quarterly management accounts including Strategic Report forecasts: The Strategic Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 is set dividend policy and approval of all dividend payments: out on pages 14 to 63 and contains a fair review of the the performance of and relationships with key service business of the Group during the year including a description providers including corporate brokers and advisers: of the principal risks and uncertainties, an indication of likely any significant fees payable to any related party: future developments in the business on pages 20 to 21 and disclosures concerning Greenhouse Gas Emissions on page 61. monitoring key performance indicators: and establishing and maintaining appropriate delegated Results and dividend authorities and internal controls and risk management The results for the year are set out in the Financial Statements.
During the year the Group paid quarterly interim dividends totalling 46.1 million 2016: 28.2 million.
Further details on Articles of Association the dividend payments are set out in Note 11 to the The rules governing the appointment and replacement of Financial Statements.
Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
Changes to the Articles of Association must be The Board approved by shareholders in accordance with legislation in The Directors, who served throughout the year unless stated force from time to time.
A copy of the Companys Articles of otherwise, are detailed below: Association can be found on the Companys website, www.
Paul Roy Non-Executive Chairman David Lockhart Chief Executive Officer Substantial shareholdings Mark Davies Chief Financial Officer As at 31 March 2017, the Company has been advised under DTR5 by shareholders with holdings of more than 3% of the Allan Lockhart Property Director total voting rights of the Company as follows: Chris Taylor Senior Independent Non-Executive Number of % of Issued Director resigned 9 April 2017 Shareholder ordinary shares Share Capital Kay Chaldecott Non-Executive Director Woodford Investment Alastair Miller Non-Executive Director 1 Management LLP 58,840,369 25.19 Invesco Limited 35,050,682 14.98 The Board recognises the requirement of the UK Corporate 2 Blackrock Inc. 15,461,238 6.60 Governance Code the UK Code regarding the segregation of roles and division of responsibilities between the Chairman Standard Life Investments 7,643,831 3.27 and Chief Executive and has complied with this requirement AXA Framlington 7,131,840 3.05 during the year.
On 18 April 2017, the Company was advised that Woodford Investment Management LLP had increased its holding to 27.27% of the total voting rights.
On 21 April 2017, the Company was advised that Blackrock Inc. had increased its holding to 6.75% of the total voting rights.
NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 102 102 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Directors interests Disclosure of information to Auditors Directors in the shares of the Company as at 31 March 2017 were: The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, 31 March 2017 31 March 2016 there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Number of Number of Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares Auditor is unaware and that each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make Paul Roy 240,000 240,000 themselves aware of any relevant audit information and David Lockhart 1,554,600 1,497,000 ensure that the Auditor is aware of such information.
Mark Davies 124,838 69,545 Auditor Allan Lockhart 277,944 277,944 Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office 1 Chris Taylor 10,000 10,000 as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed Kay Chaldecott 3,774 3,774 at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
As at the date of his resignation, 9 April 2017 No political donations were made by the Company or its subsidiaries during the year 2016: Nil.
There were no changes in their holdings between 31 March 2017 and the date of this report.
Post Balance Sheet Events All related party transactions are disclosed in Note 25 on For details of post balance sheet events, see Note 26 page 144. on page 144.
Financial instruments Annual General Meeting The Groups exposure to and management of capital risk, The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12.00 noon market risk and liquidity risk is set out in Note 24 to the Groups on 14 July 2017 at the offices of Eversheds Sutherland financial statements.
International LLP, One Wood Street, London EC2V 7WS.
At the meeting, resolutions will be proposed to receive the Directors indemnification and insurance Annual Report and financial statements, approve the Directors The Companys articles of association provide for the Directors remuneration and remuneration policy, re-elect Directors and and officers of the Company to be appropriately indemnified, reappoint and determine the remuneration of Deloitte LLP.
In subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The addition, it will be proposed that expiring authorities to allot Company purchases and maintains insurance for the Directors shares and to repurchase shares are extended.
and officers of the Company in performing their duties, as permitted by section 233 Companies Act 2006.
Internal controls review Taking into account the principal risks provided on pages 56 to Share Capital 57 and the ongoing work of the Audit Committee in monitoring The Company only has one class of share capital, being the risk management and internal control systems on behalf of ordinary shares with a nominal value of one pence each.
the Board as described on pages 72 to 75, the Directors: Details of the share capital, including the rights and obligations are satisfied that they have carried out a robust assessment attached to the ordinary shares issued during the year ended of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that 31 March 2017, are summarised in Note 21 of the financial would threaten its business model, future performance, statements.
solvency or liquidity: and At the Annual General Meeting held in 2016, shareholders have reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management authorised market purchases of the Companys ordinary and internal control systems and no significant failings shares, limited to 14.99% of the issued share capital at that were identified.
time, as well as the allotment of new shares within certain limits approved by shareholders.
These authorities expire are the AGM in 2017 and appropriate renewals will be sought.
The Company also has 376,849 warrants to subscribe for ordinary shares in issue.
These warrants were issued when NewRiver Retail Limited listed in 2009 and were converted across on the same terms and conditions to warrants in NewRiver REIT plc when the Company listed on the Main Market in August 2016.
Each warrant can be surrendered for one ordinary share at a current subscription price of 142p per share.
The warrants in issue have to be exercised by 1 September 2019 otherwise they will lapse.
There are no securities of the Company carrying special rights with regards to the control of the Company in issue.
NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 103 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 103 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Viability Statement For the year ended 31 March 2017 In accordance with provision C2.2 of the 2016 revision of the On the basis of this and other matters considered by the Board UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board has assessed during the year, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the prospects of the Group over a longer period than the the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its 12 months that has in practice been the focus of the Going liabilities as they fall due over the three year period of their Concern provision.
The Board, as part of its strategy process, has assessed the Going concern viability of the Group over a three year period to March 2020 The Directors of NewRiver REIT plc have reviewed the current as this timeframe gives greater certainty over the forecasting and projected financial position of the Group making used.
When assessing the Groups long-term viability, the reasonable assumptions about future trading and performance.
Board considered the Groups existing investment Further details of the process followed are on page 120. commitments, available financial resources and long-term The Directors Report was approved by the Board of Directors financing arrangements.
They also considered profits: the and is signed on its behalf by: three year cash flow forecast for the portfolio, the Groups funding requirements, REIT compliance and other key financial ratios over the period, as well as the headroom in the financial Matthew Jones covenants contained in our various loan agreements.
Company Secretary In making their assessment, the Directors assessed the 15 May 2017 potential impacts, in severe but plausible scenarios, of the principal risks as set out on pages 56 and 57 together with the likely degree of effectiveness of mitigating actions reasonably expected to be available to the Group.
The most relevant, with the highest potential impact, of these risks on viability were considered to be: market economic changes such as higher interest rates, reduced availability of credit and increasing investment yields restricting development and causing valuation falls: a decline in property valuations as a result of investment decisions could result in lower income and capital returns to shareholders than forecast and expose them to unforeseen risks and liabilities: and poor control of development projects could lead to inadequate returns on investment and over exposure to developments could put pressure on cash flow and debt financing.
the Group has a significant portion of borrowings that fall due within one year of the balance sheet date.
The Directors are currently in advanced negotiations with the existing lenders and with some new lenders to agree facilities to refinance the existing borrowings.
The Directors are confident that these bank facilities can be refinanced, or in the absence of available bank finance that the properties could be sold at a value significantly above the associate borrowing.
The nature of the Groups business as the owner and asset manager of a diverse income producing portfolio of shopping centres, retail warehouses, high street assets, and public houses located throughout the UK and let to a wide variety of national tenants reduces the impact of adverse changes in the general economic environment or market conditions in any one sector on the Group.
NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 104 104 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 GOVERNANCE Directors Responsibilities Statement The Groups annual report for the year ended 31 March 2017 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and contains the following statement of Directors responsibilities.
integrity of the corporate and financial information included Certain parts of the annual report are not included within this on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom announcement.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial We confirm that, to the best of our knowledge: Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, have prepared the Groups financial statements in accordance liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the a whole: Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are the strategic report includes a fair review of the satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of development and performance of the business and the affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for position of the Company and the undertakings included that period.
in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are they face: and required by International Accounting Standard 1 to: the annual report and financial statements, taken as a properly select and apply accounting policies: whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide present information, including accounting policies, in a the information necessary for shareholders to assess the manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and Companys position and performance, business model understandable information: and strategy.
provide additional disclosures when compliance with the This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of specific requirements in IRFSs are insufficient to enable Directors on 15 May 2017 and is signed on its behalf by: users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the David Lockhart Mark Davies Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the 15 May 2017 Groups transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 105 NewRiver REIT plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 105
