44 BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED RICK MEDLOCK STEVE MUNFORD VIN MURRIA Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Experience: Rick joined the Sophos Experience: Steve served as Experience: Vin joined the Board in April 2017.
Rick has 30 Sophos CEO from 2006 to 2012 Sophos Board in January 2017. years of experience in the financial prior to which he had been COO, as She was founder and CEO at management of large international well as president of Sophos, North Advanced Computer Software technology companies.
Steve led the company and CEO of Computer Software the CFO at Worldpay, Rick was through a period of dramatic Group.
Previously, Vin was also a CFO of Misys until December growth, more than tripling billings.
non-executive director of Chime 2013 prior to which, he spent nine Previously, he was President of Communications, Greenko Group years as CFO of Inmarsat plc and ActiveState before its acquisition and Concateno.
Vin was named seven years as CFO and company by Sophos.
Ciscos Woman of the Year and secretary of NDS Group plc.
He was Tech Entrepreneur of the Year in Qualifications: BA in Economics, also a non-executive director and 2012 and in addition, Advanced University of Western Ontario chairman of the audit committee of Computer Software was named and MBA from Queens University, Edwards Vacuum Edwards Group Tech Company of the Year in 2014.
He spent the early part of his Qualifications: BSc Hons, an career in a variety of roles as CFO of Other current roles: Chairman MBA, and a Doctorate business a number of private equity backed of Carbonite, Inc. and Elastic administration Honorary, technology companies in the UK Path Software, Inc. and also Edinburgh Napier University.
serves on the boards of Actenum Corporation, Alert Logic, Inc. Apica, Other current roles: Independent Qualifications: MA in Economics, Inc. NetMotion, Inc, QuickMobile non-executive director at Softcat University of Cambridge and a Inc. and Teradici Corporation.
plc and Zoopla Property Group plc, qualified Chartered Accountant.
Senior Advisor - Rothschild Global Other current roles: Chief financial Advisory team, and a partner at officer at Worldpay Group plc.
INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 45 SALIM NATHOO PAUL WALKER ELEANOR LACEY Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director General Counsel and Company Secretary Experience: Salim joined the Experience: Paul joined the Sophos Experience: Eleanor joined Sophos Sophos Board in 2010.
Paul brings more in 2016 as SVP General Counsel partner and co-head of Apax than 30 years of technology and and Company Secretary.
Most Partners technology and telecoms senior leadership experience, recently, Eleanor had been SVP, team.
He joined Apax Partners in having served for 16 years as General Counsel and Corporate 1999 and has been involved in a CEO of Sage Group plc.
Paul has Secretary at SurveyMonkey Inc. variety of technology-focussed previously served on the Boards of Prior to SurveyMonkey she has held investments including EVRY, WANdisco plc, Diageo plc, My Travel the roles of General Counsel and Global Logic, Orange Switzerland, Group plc and Ernst & Young.
VP of Business Development at iGATE, Weather Investments, Tim Corel Corporation, VP of Corporate Qualifications: BA in Economics, Hellas and SMART Technologies.
Development at SupportSoft, Inc. York University, and a qualified Previously, Salim worked at and VP and General Counsel at Niku Chartered Accountant having McKinsey & Company, Inc.
Corporation, prior to its acquisition trained at Ernst & Young.
where he focused extensively on by Computer Associates.
Salim also Other current roles: Non-executive Qualifications: J. D. Yale Law held sales, marketing and technical chairman of Halma plc and Perform School and BA in History positions at NYNEX CableComms Group Ltd, and a non-executive and English, University of Ltd. and IBM.
Qualifications: MA in Mathematics, Other current roles: None St. Johns College, Cambridge and an MBA, INSEAD.
Other current roles: Non-executive chairman of Evry ASA, and a director of Global Logic.
Key to Committee Membership: Audit and Risk Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Disclosure Committee 46 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT and professionalism to the Board throughout his tenure, for which we are all very grateful.
Rick Medlock will assume the role of chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee at the time of Eds retirement.
Following Eds retirement, the Board with the Nomination Committee will keep the Boards overall composition under review and in particular, the proportion comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER, FY17 has been a year of continued successful progress BOARD EVALUATION in our business, as well as in strengthening our status Sophos supports the Code principle that each FTSE 350 as a UK public listed company.
The Board has kept company should undertake a thorough review of Board under review its policies and procedures created to process, practice and culture on an annual basis: with meet the various corporate governance and regulatory the input of an external facilitator at least once every requirements applicable to the Company following its three years.
The Board considers such annual reviews Initial Public Offering IPO and built upon them in as an essential part of good corporate governance.
order to take in to account new regulations, including During the year, we assessed the effectiveness of the EU Market Abuse Regulation MAR and the UK the Board externally for the first time, building on the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
In response to MAR, the findings from the previous years internal exercise.
We Board approved the adoption of a new Sophos Dealing focused on our effectiveness as a Board as a whole, on Code, established a Disclosure Committee of the Board each committees effectiveness and the performance and implemented accompanying internal processes.
In of each individual Director.
The evaluation concluded respect of the Modern Slavery Act, the Board approved that the Board continued to operate in a functional, the adoption of the Sophos Anti-Slavery and Human collegiate way which is committed, effective and Trafficking policy, together with associated internal purposeful in seeking to deliver value to shareholders.
processes, and published the Sophos Modern Slavery In addition, the committee structure in place, together Act Transparency Statement on its website, accessible with orderly and thoughtful refreshment of the Board from the homepage.
in the past year, has ensured that an appropriate level of specialist support and assurance is available to the BOARD COMPOSITION AND COMPLIANCE main Board.
The review is discussed in more detail on The Board has forged ahead with its plan to further pages 52 to 53 of this Report.
strengthen its composition and to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code by SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT successfully welcoming two new independent NonAt Sophos, all our shareholders are important to us Executive Directors in early 2017.
I, and my fellow and the Board looks to encourage and maintain an Board members, were delighted to welcome Vin Murria open dialogue with them.
The design and operation on 3 January 2017 and Rick Medlock, shortly after the of a robust, yet evolving governance structure end of the financial year on 3 April 2017.
Vin Murria is appropriate for a group of the scale and ambition of a successful entrepreneur with a strong background Sophos remains critical to meeting their needs.
The in both building and advising technology-based Companys approach to governance is based firmly companies in the UK, and in growing shareholder on the concept that good corporate governance value.
Vin was previously named Quoted Company enhances long-term shareholder value and sets the Entrepreneur of the year and Woman of The Year culture, ethics and values for the rest of the Group.
in the Cisco Everywoman Technology Awards.
Rick Medlock has 30 years of experience in the financial The Board has ultimate responsibility for reviewing management of large international technology and approving the Annual Report and Accounts and companies.
His deep understanding and knowledge it has considered and endorsed the arrangements of financial management in the technology industry, for their preparation, under the guidance of its Audit and extensive experience with global businesses and Risk Committee.
The Directors confirm the listed in both the UK and the US will be of great benefit Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is to the Board.
fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the In addition, Ed Gillis announced his intention to retire Groups position and performance, business model as an independent Non-Executive Director and and strategy.
chairman of our Audit and Risk Committee, with effect from the conclusion of the Companys 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Ed has been a member of Peter Gyenes the Board for eight years, leading the Audit and Risk Committee, including seeing the Company through its Non-Executive Chairman IPO and he has brought considerable insight, diligence INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 47 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE COMPLIANCE This report, which is available on the Companys website, explains the key features of the Companys governance structure to provide a greater understanding of how the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code have been applied and to highlight areas of focus during the year.
The Code can be found on the FRCs website at www.
uk During the year, the Company complied with all the principles and provisions of the Code, except for Code provision B.
1.2 which recommends that at least half of the Board of Directors of a UK-listed company, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent Non-Executive Directors.
Following the appointment of Vin Murria, 44 percent of the Board were considered to be independent at the end of the financial year.
Notwithstanding the appointment of Rick Medlock in April 2017, the Board recognises that the Company will no longer comply with this provision following Ed Gilliss retirement at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
The Board will keep this position under review, and it is their intention to comply in due course.
Full details of independence can be found in the Board of Directors section on pages 50 and 51.
THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES The Board is responsible for the effective oversight of the Company.
It also agrees the strategic direction and governance structure that will help achieve the long-term success of the Company and deliver shareholder value.
The Board takes the lead in areas such as strategy, financial policy and making sure a sound system of internal control is maintained.
The Boards full responsibilities are set out in the schedule of matters reserved for the Board described below.
The Board delegates authority to its Committees to carry out certain tasks on its behalf, so that it can operate efficiently and give the right level of attention and consideration to relevant matters.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD The Board has approved and keeps under review, the schedule of matters reserved for its decision: specifically, taking in to account the recommendations of the relevant Board Committees, the Board is responsible for: Guiding the Groups long-term strategic aims, leading to its approval of the Groups strategy and its budgetary and business plans Approval of significant investments and capital expenditure Approval of annual and half-year results Approval of the dividend policy, payment of the interim dividend and the recommendation of final dividends Ensuring maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management Ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board and senior management Determining the remuneration policy for the Directors and the senior management team BOARD FOCUS DURING THE YEAR Strategy: During the year the Board held a Board Strategy event and worked with management to: discuss the changing business environment for the Company: review the Companys strategy and growth plans and consider the key risks: discuss in detail the performance of the Companys existing portfolio of products, key risks to delivery for the portfolio, together with the ongoing portfolio management strategy and different portfolio scenarios: and integration of completed acquisitions and potential future acquisition opportunities to advance the Companys strategy, following three acquisitions executed during FY17.
Financial statements: During FY17, the Board reviewed the Companys operating results and financial statements with management and the Companys external auditors.
The Board also reviewed and approved the operating plan for the fiscal year.
Business performance: In FY17, the Board received and reviewed reports from management on the performance of the Companys business.
The Board engaged in discussions with management on various aspects of business performance, including business drivers, industry trends, risks, opportunities and the competitive landscape.
