Resources, relationships and sustainability In this section we describe the key resources and relationships that underpin our business model.
We also report on how our purpose can help to protect the environment.
Financial strength Our people Our financial strength means we can take a Our people help shape the modern world.
The products and services they create and manage underpin everything from global trade Our goal is to deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth.
Together with further cost transformation, we aim to grow our and industry, to economic growth and social EBITDA and cash flow over the long term.
Our financial strategy has been consistent for a number of years: Our people are a vital part of our ambition to deliver a great customer experience and sustainable, profitable revenue growth.
Our people strategy supports this ambition by creating an Deliver sustainable profitable revenue growth environment where great people can do brilliant things as part of a dynamic business.
Grow EBITDA Grow free cash flow Support Pay Invest in Reduce net pension progressive business debt fund dividends We have a prudent financial policy and strong governance, both of which help us make the right decisions in terms of planning investments, managing our debt and growing our business.
Strategic investment, based on our financial strength, will ensure the long-term growth and health of our business.
At the same time, were working hard to reduce our net debt, support our pension fund in a responsible way and pay progressive dividends to our shareholders.
We recruited 3,600 new people into customer-facing Our financial strength also means we can support the business in roles at our BT UK contact centres other ways, for example by making sure we continue to innovate and stay at the forefront of a rapidly-changing industry, and by investing in the training, development and support of our people.
How our people make a difference Our success isnt just about what we do: its how we do things that really makes the difference.
We want great people to work for BT.
We want them to feel engaged and inspired to be the best they can be.
Together we create a highperforming, thriving organisation, where difference is celebrated and innovation is a big part of who we are.
At the heart of this are our people values.
Theyre aspirational, but realistic, capturing the spirit of BT at our best and reflecting how our customers want us to understand their needs, be easy to deal with and show we care.
26 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 27 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION This led us to three words: Weve recruited more than 1,500 people into Openreach and 3,600 new people into customer-facing roles at our BT UK contact centres.
Weve also hired 1,400 people into EE stores and filled more than 1,700 positions in EE contact centres.
Allowing for people leaving, the result is a net increase of 200 FTE employees across EE.
Personal Finally, we continue to recognise the importance of retaining experience by converting almost 1,600 skilled agency workers to permanent employees.
Hiring more graduates In 2016 17 we hired 300 graduates globally.
We have plans to hire Simple more than 450 in 2017 18 our highest-ever intake.
Once again were in the top half of The Times Top 100 Graduate Employers.
Were one of only Brilliant five companies in the IT and telecoms sector to feature in the top 100.
Everyone in BT has a role to play in bringing these values to life.
Thats how well deliver on our purpose and use the power of communications to make the world a better place, every single day.
This year we were deeply disappointed with the improper practices of a few individuals in our Italian business and the investigation into historical Deemed Consent which identified poor processes at Openreach.
We know the vast majority of our people want to do, and will do the right thing, but this highlights the necessity to live our new values and work in an ethical way at all times.
Our workforce At 31 March 2017 we had 106,400 full-time equivalent FTE employees in 63 countries, with 82,800 based in the UK.
Like any successful business, we continually redeploy our people to meet the needs of our customers and ensure they get a first-class experience long into the future.
Last year in the UK we redeployed 1,070 people, avoiding the need for redundancy.
An integrated workforce Following the acquisition of EE were harmonising our policies, cultures and working practices to achieve our goal of becoming a truly integrated organisation.
Weve identified examples of best practice from both organisations that will act as building blocks for our better than both ambition.
Our new values reflect this.
Recruiting talented people In December 2016 we launched an exciting new career website, We hired 900 new apprentices across the Hiring more showing the world what makes BT such a great place to work.
Our contribution to apprentices the new Apprenticeship Levy Fund means This year, excluding acquisitions, we recruited nearly 17,500 were able to offer more apprenticeship people, almost 10,500 of whom are UK-based.
opportunities than ever before over 2,000 next year.
A customer-connected workforce Improving the quality of our customer relationships remains central to our people strategy.
900 new apprentices hired across the group 26 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 27 Resources, relationships and sustainability continued Investing for growth Leadership At BT, we never stop learning whether thats on the job, with Were still investing in our leadership capability, developing effective colleagues or in a formal training environment.
Its how we adapt to leaders at all levels and in all parts of our business.
Our main a changing world and rise to the challenges of tomorrow.
leadership programmes, Challenging Leadership in Action and Pioneers have reached 1,400 leaders globally over 2016 17.
Around 25,000 of our people use our interactive Academy website every month and 7,000 of our EE employees used the EE Digital As well as welcoming EE to the BT family and introducing our Academy this year.
Its a great way to build online learning communities new values, weve created two new leadership development where learning materials and events can be easily shared.
programmes: Future Leaders and Connected Leaders.
FUTURE LEADERS CONNECTED LEADERS Develops high-potential people, Launching in 2017 18, enabling them to become leaders Connected Leaders emphasises for the first time.
the importance of connection with our customers, our people and different parts of our organisation as the key to creating a truly aligned BT.
Engaging our people During the year we revised our employee survey and approach: the result called Your Say is shorter and features questions clearly linked to our strategy and values.
Weve made our report simpler for managers and their teams to understand so they can take action on the key priorities that will improve levels of engagement and better serve our customers.
The first full Your Say survey using the revised format attracted over 85,000 responses, representing around 80% of our people.
Almost 93,400 people 86% responded to the January 2017 Your Say survey.
EE was voted in the Top 3 in The Sunday Times Top 30 Best The r esult has generated momentum in every engagement Big Companies to Work For awards 2017 driver category, with 18 of the 20 driver items starting to move in the right direction: the following table provides a snapshot of this: Awards won this year PERCENTAGE CHANGE SINCE Our Academy won a Silver Award at this years PREVIOUS Learning Awards for its social and collaborative DRIVER SCORE SURVEY learning.
Engagement outcome 71% -1% EE won a Princess Royal Training Award in Leading our people 53% -1% 2016, training 358 employees over eight days following our takeover of 58 stores.
Managing our people 78% 3% EEs Priority Launch programme which is Empowering and 58% 3% equipping our people dedicated to improving employee performance Enabling outstanding won another Princess Royal Training Award 59% 3% customer experience in 2016.
Working together 60% 4% Personal growth 69% 3% We keep our people informed about company results, major business decisions and other things that affect them using a variety of digital channels.
Leaders regularly connect with their teams through roundtable meetings, town hall debates, site visits, webcasts and blogs.
28 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 29 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Weve run recruitment campaigns for graduates and apprentices that aim to attract more women and black and minority ethnic background BAME candidates.
Weve also rolled out unconscious bias training for all those involved in recruitment.
Were proud that BT was named in The Times Top 50 Employers for Women awards 2017.
Over 27,000 women now work for us, thats 25% of our entire workforce.
Our management team includes more than 10,000 women, representing 26% of the total, while our Board is now 27% female, with women accounting for three out of 11 Board members.
We want to create an environment where our people can feel open about being themselves at work.
As part of this, our LGBT Challenge Cup is our flagship people employee network is asking people across the business to stand by Challenge engagement programme.
Its an annual LGBT colleagues to create a respectful and supportive working Cup competition that encourages people to environment.
The LGBT Allies programme calls on them to be work as a team to develop new ideas visible and vocal in their support, and take an active interest in that improve customer experience, LGBT topics.
save money and create innovation.
Our people genuinely love it.
The number of Were a founder member of the Equality & Human Rights people taking part increases every year Commission Working Forward initiative, and our maternity handbook this year more than 5,500 people came is being widely used as an example of best practice.
Our maternity together to form over 1,100 teams return rate continues to improve and currently stands well above the across 28 countries, including people industry average at 88%, measured one year after women returned.
entering the competition for the first time.
Along with Business in the Community, we sponsored The Race a at Work report that informs the development of our diversity initiatives.
Weve also appointed a Race Champion to oversee this work and have seen a rise in BAME employees to 12%.
5,500 participants this year b We are a Disability Confident employer and we actively encourage the recruitment, development and retention of disabled people.
Volunteering Well automatically put an applicant with a disability or long-term Our people can use up to three working days a year for volunteering health condition, who meets the minimum criteria for a vacancy, activities.
Some choose to help charities with particular challenges through to the first stage of a recruitment process.
that need their expert input and knowledge.
Others use their energy and enthusiasm to make a practical difference in their An inclusive culture is fundamental to ensuring our diverse local communities.
workforce can develop and thrive.
Weve focused on embedding themes of inclusivity within all our leadership development This year more than 31% of our people spent over 39,000 days programmes for senior management teams, with a specific focus volunteering their time, with more than 2,000 people helping on developing diverse future talent.
children and young adults improve their skills through our Tech Literacy and Work Ready programmes see page 35.
Promoting wellbeing We recognise that the wellbeing of our people feeds directly into Our 2020 ambition our customers experience of BT and helps ensure the ongoing profitability of our business.
Weve looked at what we can do to Inspire two-thirds 66% increase wellbeing through our refreshed people strategy, drawing of our people to volunteer on the latest scientific evidence.
their time and skills 66% Were working hard to eliminate all avoidable health and safety incidents by investing in improved training and equipment.
A safe work environment is fundamental to our success, and were pleased to say weve cut our accident rate even further this year by 18%.
Our sickness absence rate was rising but weve turned that around 11,000 5.1m this year and its now dropped by 6%.
Weve made particular progress in reducing mental ill health, which is down by 13% volunteers took part in our excluding EE.
Our other main sickness area is musculoskeletal Stand Up To Cancer and helping to raise 1.3m disorders: in response weve developed a major initiative to help Comic Relief campaigns and 3.8m respectively people avoid strains thats part of our wider Fit for Life campaign.
Were pleased to say that in January we hit our five-year target of Diversity at work getting 10,000 people more active three years early.
Diversifying the mix of our people continues to be a priority within our people strategy.
Were particularly keen to encourage women a into technology careers through our Tech Women programme.
uk all-resources research-articles race-work-report b Disability Confident is an accreditation which includes Two Ticks that is given to organisations that are committed to employing disabled people.
28 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 29 Resources, relationships and sustainability continued Weve extended our programmes to EE which has already helped Our networks and physical assets bring sickness absence down across the group.
Were always looking Our network, service and IT platforms support for ways to improve, and have introduced  to shorten recovery time for our people undergoing surgery.
In short, the products our customers rely on around we know that keeping our people healthy and happy is good for the world.
them, good for business and good for society.
Network platforms Pay and benefits Our UK fixed-line network is one of our most valuable assets and We regularly review our pay and benefits to make sure our our investment in fibre broadband is key to providing services to UK remuneration is competitive when compared to other companies consumers.
Our fibre broadband network now passes more than of a similar size and complexity.
26.5m UK premises, and we provide FTTP to more customers than any other UK service provider.
To meet the demand from businesses, Most of our UK-based engineering and support people are paid were continuing to expand the availability of Ethernet.
using terms and conditions negotiated through collective bargaining with our recognised trade unions, ensuring fairness for all.
Our This year weve had record levels of traffic across our UK network, yet managers pay ranges are also set at competitive levels.
Bonuses are the investments weve made in broadband technology mean that determined through a combination of business performance and more customers continue to get faster speeds over our network.
their personal contribution to the company.
Our global reach Our global network is supported by in-country networks and infrastructure.
We offer our widest range of network services, access technologies and coverage in the UK, with extensive networks in Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, the Republic of Ireland and Spain.
The scale and reach of our global multi-protocol label switching MPLS network is a key competitive differentiator, and weve enhanced it this year with the launch of a software-defined wide area network capability.
Were selectively expanding the reach of our network to support multinational companies in other regions.
Virtual private network VPN services are integral to our Cloud of Clouds vision see page 71.
They provide the convenience and security of a private network but over the public internet.
We use our MPLS network together with a combination of owned and leased fibre connections to connect our points of presence PoPs around the world.
For the final connection into the customers premises, we either use our own circuits, or lease connections from telecoms operators in that country.
Where we need to serve customers in very remote locations, we make use of our extensive satellite connections.
Our executives may also get long-term share awards to reward the creation of shareholder value.
The value they ultimately get is Security is an important part of our business.
The expertise weve determined by the groups performance over a three-year period.
gained from protecting our own networks helps us secure our Executive directors must retain incentive shares for a further twocustomers networks.
In line with regulatory obligations, incentives for people in Openreach The EE network are tied to a combination of personal contribution and Openreachs is the UKs largest performance, rather than that of the wider group.
These incentives are paid in cash, as opposed to BT shares.
4G network, now covering 80% of the We support our people by providing a range of retirement savings plans and country-specific benefits.
In the UK, our main defined UKs geography and benefit scheme is the BT Pension Scheme, while our main defined reaching over 99% contribution scheme is the BT Retirement Saving Scheme.
You can read more about these on page 101. of the population Sharing in success Around 52% of our people take part in one or more of our savingsrelated share option plans known as saveshare, which operate in over 25 countries.
In August 2016 almost 9,000 people in our 2011 saveshare plan were able to buy shares at 156p, representing an average gain of around 5,000 each.
30 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 31 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Mobile network IT systems platforms Well keep investing in 4G geographic coverage and capability, Our IT systems let us manage our processes, handle customer consolidating the EE networks position as the biggest and fastest information and deliver our products and services.
Theyre critical in the UK.
Specifically we aim to expand 4G to reach 95% of the to serving our customers and running our business.
UKs geography by the end of 2020.
EE customers already enjoy the fastest 4G speeds in the UK, while technology such as LTE Advanced Weve been simplifying the different technologies we use across BT.
Pro gives them much greater capacity.
For example weve been migrating EE people to BT systems so we can all benefit from using a single, consistent set of applications.
We have 120MHz of paired mobile spectrum.
This means were able to offer speeds of up to 360Mbps in areas served by our Progress this year 4G network.
This year weve: introduced systems and processes that mean we can sell BT We have access to over 18,500 basestation sites including those via products to EE customers: and the MBNL joint operation between EE and Hutchison 3G UK.
delivered the technology behind the new BT Call Protect Service page 57.
And weve improved the way we maintain and manage key mobile sites.
By insourcing work and integrating the EE and BT Properties engineering workforce weve achieved real service and productivity improvements.
We have around 7,000 properties in the UK and 1,700 across the rest of the world.
Wi-fi We run one of the worlds biggest wi-fi networks, with around 5.6m We lease the majority of our UK properties from Telereal Trillium, BT Wi-fi hotspots.
part of the William Pears group, as part of a sale and leaseback arrangement we signed with them in 2001.
88% of our UK Progress this year properties are operational sites housing fixed and mobile telecoms This year weve: and broadband equipment.
The rest are retail outlets, offices, upgraded almost 500 mobile basestations to offer up to contact centres, depots and data centres.
We also have our BT Sport 360Mbps.
Weve also switched on our first Gigabit-enabled TV studios in London.
basestations in London, with Cardiff following in April 2017: addressed the growing demand for digital transformation through In the UK, weve been busy rationalising office space, vacating offices the introduction of a cloud-based unified communications service in Belfast, Darlington, Langley, Leeds, Newcastle-under-Lyme and for business customers offering voice, messaging, conferencing the former EE headquarters building in Paddington.
and presence: demonstrated a world-record speed of 2Tbps over a 700km Outside the UK, weve consolidated a number of our key office live network fibre between London and Dublin.
This gives us locations in Amsterdam, Hong Kong, Madrid and Sydney to improve confidence that our core network will be able to cope with the operational efficiency.
growth of data traffic: and demonstrated the first live customer trial in Europe delivering a increased capacity by using three different passive optical network BT property portfolio UK technologies over the same fibre.
6,126 operational sites Service platforms 21 data centres We run a number of service platforms that combine our network and IT resources.
They underpin many of the key products we offer.
268 oces and depots Our BT TV platform supports a growing number of customers and 574 retail outlets were increasing the range of services it delivers.
We support BT Mobile, Plusnet Mobile and EE with our Mobile platform: it also underpins the Emergency Services Network ESN.
Progress this year This year weve: extended our BT Sport app to provide extra features during Premier League and FA Cup matches: added Dolby Atmos surround sound to Ultra HD football matches: and carried over one billion minutes per month on our BT a Excludes leased cell sites, retail concessions within other retailers premises and Conferencing service platform.
30 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 31 Resources, relationships and sustainability continued This year we invested around 520m 2015 16: around 470m Research and development inR&D.
Over the last ten years weve been one of the largest a Commercial success increasingly depends on investors in R&D both in the UK, and globally in the telecoms sector.
innovation thats why we invest so much in Our research activities keep producing new inventions.
The result we filed patent applications for 102 inventions 2015 16: 97, and as of 31 March 2017 had a worldwide portfolio of more than is a track record of scientific breakthroughs, 4,900 patents and applications.
engineering successes and commercial progress.
Open innovation Our proud history of innovation No-one has a monopoly on good ideas.
Thats why were always keen We can trace our origins back to 1837, when Sir William Fothergill to work with partners, universities and customers from around the Cooke and Sir Charles Wheatstone filed a patent for the worlds first world.
We call it our open innovation model.
From this they founded The Electric Telegraph Company, the seed business that eventually grew into BT.
We have eight global development centres including Adastral Park, And weve kept innovating ever since you can read more about our our UK technology headquarters.
Its an innovation campus we share innovation story here: with over 90 high-tech companies, and is a workplace for around 3,800 people.
This year we continued to grow our development www.
You can also see some of our past innovations in the Science Weve extensive, long-standing, joint-research programmes with Museum, including Cooke and Wheatstones electric telegraph and Cambridge University UK, Massachusetts Institute of Technology parts from Colossus, the worlds first programmable computer.
US, Tsinghua University China, Khalifa University UAE and over 30 other universities globally.
102 4,900 patent applications for patents and applications in inventions filed in 2016 17 our worldwide portfolio Innovation milestones 1926 1943 1968 We established the worlds Tommy Flowers, working in The worlds first digital first two-way, Trans-Atlantic the telecoms division of the telephone exchange was conversation by radio GPO, developed the worlds installed by us in London.
telephone, from our wireless first programmable electronic station near Rugby.
1984 1980 We installed the worlds first We laid the worlds first, 140Mbps commercial  optical fibre mode optical fibre link between submarine cable in Loch Fyne.
1999 2013 2016 Our live data call over a GPRS We conducted the worlds first Our super-channel speed of network was a world first.
G. fast trial in Ipswich, with our 5.6Tbps in our core network partner Huawei.
G. fast is one of set the record for the fastest the technologies that underpins data transmission over an our ultrafast broadband vision.
a C omparison based on total R&D spend 2006 07 to 2015 16.
Source: EU Industrial R&D Investment Scoreboard, http: iri.
html 32 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 33 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tommy Flowers Institute Examples of our R&D activities this year include: This year we launched the Tommy Flowers Institute, a new Higher Education ICT training institute at Adastral Park.
Long-reach VDSL trial Building on last years lab tests, were trialling long-reach VDSL in Working with partners from across the ICT sector, weve designed the Isfield, Sussex and on the Isle of Lewis.
Institute to create world-class research leaders who can collaborate across multiple academic disciplines.
Theyll focus on solving some of the challenges facing UK businesses, exploring areas such as cybersecurity, Big Data, autonomics and converged networks.
EAD Rapid Ethernet Access Direct EAD is Openreachs Ethernet product, offering data rates from 100Mbps to 10Gbps on a single fibre seepage 86.
Weve developed EAD Rapid, a method to quickly provision a second Tommy Flowers was an engineer who Who was EAD circuit where one already exists using the same fibre.
This means joined the General Post Office research that customers dont have to wait for a second fibre to be installed Tommy station at Dollis Hill in London in 1930. before their new service will work.
Hehad a particular interest in the use Flowers?
of electronics for telephone exchanges.
Customer Exchange In November 1943 Flowers developed premises Filter Filter Colossus at the Ministry of Defences Standard circuit code-breaking facility in Bletchley Installed fibre Park.
The worlds first programmable EAD Rapid computer, Colossus was designed to circuit counter the reputedly unbreakable Lorenz cipher.
The thermionic valve-based, programmable Colossus Self-organising networks interworking successfully broke the Lorenz cipher Self-organising network SON technology automates the and went on to provide information planning, set up, management and repair of mobile networks.
critical to the success of the D-Day Weve established a test lab at Adastral Park to test SON equipment.
landings and Allied war effort.
This led to a world-first demonstration of SON interoperation between different vendors 4G products.
After the war, Flowers went on to direct ground-breaking research in the field of telecommunications, including the development of the first all-electronic telephone exchange.
5G Were working with a range of Macrocells partners to deliver Macrocells our 5G service ambitions, conducting trials of 5G-ready radio equipment at BT labs.
Small cells Interference coordination Interference coordination 32 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 33 Resources, relationships and sustainability continued Brand and reputation Stakeholders Our organisation is made up of three strong As well as our own people, BTs main stakeholders brands: BT, EE and Plusnet.
Between them, are our customers, communities, shareholders, theycover UK and global markets for consumers, lenders, pension schemes, suppliers, government businesses and the public sector.
Weve worked and regulatory authorities.
hard to position all three so they maximise Our customers their reach while minimising overlap with Our customers include individuals, households, businesses of all sizes and public sector organisations.
This multi-brand approach gives usgreater agility in the market and increases You can read about our markets, customers and the services we offer them in our Lines of Business section, from page 56. our overallconsideration.
Interestingly, some of our customers are also our competitors.
Thats because we sell wholesale products and services to other BT communications providers in the UK and overseas.
BT is the biggest of our three brands in terms of overall brand value.
It stretches across consumer, Communities and society business and public sector markets and operates in Our purpose influences our decisions and actions.
invested 35.6m to help a number of initiatives that deliver social and environmental benefits, as well as stimulating economic growth.
This year, BT Sport continued to grow its viewership and win awards.
These included the best TV or This investment is a mixture of cash, time volunteered, and in-kind media innovation award for the BT Sport app at the contributions.
Over the past five years weve invested over 157m, Broadband World Forum.
an average of 1.08% of our adjusted profit before tax.
In the UK business market, BT has the highest Total investment in society awareness of any telecoms, networks and IT services Year ended 31 March brand.
We kept up the pace with strong business wins such as network and ICT services for Royal m 1.15% 1.12% 1.10% 1.01% 1.03% Mail Group and network infrastructure for the Cooperative Group.
BT was also positioned by Gartner, 40 Inc, as a Leader in the Magic Quadrant for Network Services, Global for the 13th consecutive time see 30 page 72.
20 Research company Millward Brown valued the BT brand at $18.6 billion in 2016.
Its possible that the 10 impact of our Italian investigation may cause this to decline when the 2017 valuation is published.
We 0 describe what were doing toredress this on page 6.
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 EE Percentage of previous years adjusted profit before taxation EE is the UKs biggest mobile operator, positioned Investment time, cash and in-kind support firmly at the cutting edge of technology.
EE is also number one for spontaneous brand awareness, Connecting society despite being almost a decade younger than any other major UK mobile brand.
Our 2020 ambitions Plusnet More than 9 out of 10 people Plusnet has a distinctive market position, offering in the UK will have access UK consumers brilliant service at a great price.
to our fibre-based products 9 10 andservices This year, Plusnet won 21 awards, including the uSwitch awards for Best Customer Service and We will help 10m people Best Home Broadband, and a Silver at the IPA overcome social disadvantage, Effectiveness Awards for effective advertising through the benefits our 10m andbrand-building.
products and services canbring Working together We will help 5m children Were working on synergies and opportunities for our three big brands to receive better teaching in support each other wherever possible.
You can read more about this in computing and tech skills 5m the Consumer and EE sections on pages 56 and 62.
34 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 35 27.1 27.2 32.5 35.0 35.6 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION in India thats reached over 700,000 people.
Weve also delivered wi-fi connectivity and services to refugee centres in Serbia, reaching 317,000 people.
Building a culture of tech literacy for the next generation Today the UK faces a major challenge.
The next generation are great tech consumers, but few are active creators.
In a world where so much of our life and work depends on technology, that may be the difference between getting ahead or being left behind.
The answer is to build a culture of tech literacy, so that young people grow up with the tech know-how to step up to the jobs of the future and to shape a more inclusive society that works for them.
Were helping to do that by championing tech literacy as a new cornerstone of modern education in primary schools, and by connecting to popular culture to inspire young people about the relevance of tech.
We believe that tech literacy is a fundamental skill for young minds, as important as reading and writing.
Thats why the Barefoot Computing Project helps primary school teachers get confident with tech literacy concepts such as computational thinking which provides the building blocks of the digital world: like logic, sequencing, abstraction and Providing access to fast broadband programming.
Weve been providing a combination of free teaching We recognise how important it is for everyone to have access to fast materials and volunteer-led, face-to-face training.
We continue to progress towards our 2020 ambition, more than 39,000 teachers, and through them more than a million with 88% of UK premises now able to access our fibre-based children.
And we know its having a positive impact: products and services.
The acquisition of EE gives us the opportunity to extend our reach even further through mobile broadband.
Teachers are more confident after using Barefoot resources: Promoting digital inclusion Digital transformation has the power to improve our quality of life, % boost the economy and protect the environment.
Research we 100 published last year suggests that access to e-health applications could provide better healthcare for nearly 20m more people in the a 80 UK by 2030.
60 Its always been our aim to make sure no-one is left out, especially vulnerable groups like the elderly, disabled or financially 40 disadvantaged.
We continue to develop products and services to help people overcome barriers to inclusion, such as BT Basic 20 Broadband, 4GEEWiFi, and our social housing proposition.
0 We also create awareness and collaboration through our presence on confident Understand Use computational with computing computational thinking in the UK Governments Council for Digital Inclusion.
Our partnership curriculum thinking computing lessons with Doteveryone is offering skills training to homeless people in the London Borough of Croydon.
The BT and Barclays Wi-Fi in our All teachers community programme now supports 100 libraries and community Teachers who accessed Barefoot resources centres across the UK.
The Tech4Good awards that we co-founded are now in their sixth year and still recognise organisations and Teachers who use computational thinking in lessons see positive individuals who use technology to improve the lives of others.
impacts on pupils learning: Our EE stores run Techy Tea Parties to help boost peoples confidence in going online.
And because we want to make sure children use the internet safely, were working with partners like 82% 99% Internet Matters and Unicef UK through our programme The Right Click: Internet Safety Matters.
say it helps pupils say it helps pupils work together solve problems more collaboratively Outside the UK, weve completed the implementation of the healthcare management system within our Connecting Africa programme, winning the Changing Lives award at the Broadband World Forum.
Our insight is helping shape the World Economic 96% 69% Forums Internet4All initiative in Sub-Saharan Africa.
As a partner in One Million Community Health Workers 1mCHW, were providing say it improves pupils say it improves pupils mobile health tools in Ghana.
And weve helped provide IT training numeracy skills literacy skills a The role of ICT in Reducing Carbon Emissions in the UK, BT, 2016 available at www.
com deliveringourpurpose 34 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 35 81% 92% 57% 84% 67% 82% Resources, relationships and sustainability continued Were also focusing on the transition to work, so that the next As well as creating scaleable opportunities to put something back generation can fulfil future job needs.
Work Ready gives 16-24 into the community, this can also provide great content for our TV year olds, particularly from disadvantaged backgrounds, skills channels and improve public perception of our company.
development and hands-on work experience of what it takes to thrive in a world of work powered by tech.
So far more than 2,000 We again used MyDonate and our communications technology young people have taken part in this initiative.
with help from our volunteers to support various large telethons.
These included Stand Up To Cancer, Comic Relief and Children in Need.
In the UK, we supported a number of smaller charities by providing discounted calls and line rental charges to members of The Charities Club, saving those charities almost 1.3m on their phone bills.
We see sport as a positive vehicle for change in young peoples lives.
This year we launched a new programme, in partnership with the Premier League, to help disabled people become more active in the sport of their choice, creating opportunities for them to develop the skills and build the confidence needed to realise their potential.
Our shareholders We have more than 790,000 shareholders.
As well as the Annual Report and Annual General Meeting, we keep our shareholders up to date with how were doing through regular mailings.
These often Research shows that interest drops off Manchester include offers on our products and services that are only available and career aspirations narrow in the to shareholders.
Our website includes press releases, newsletters, Community early years of secondary school.
Using presentations and webcasts that also keep our shareholders informed.
the power of BT Sport, we delivered Academy a a pilot project at the Manchester Most of our shares are held by institutional investors.
We have an Communication Academy to bring extensive investor relations programme aimed at keeping existing alive the tech behind the things investors informed and attracting new ones.
This programme young people love using an Outside includes: Broadcast truck to lift the lid on how r eporting quarterly results, accompanied by a conference call or much tech it takes to bring the best presentation from senior management: sporting action to their screens.
Were site visits and teach-ins on key topics: and now working on plans for a national mee tings and conference calls with investors both in the UK and rollout to help more young people think around the world.
again about how tech might show up in their futures.
In 2016 17, we held 507 meetings or events with institutional investors.
Supporting charities and communities We were voted the best company for investor Our 2020 ambition relations in England for the third year running in the Extel Survey 2016.
We also maintained our Use our skills and technology to help generate more than 1bn second place in the European telecoms sector of for good causes the same survey.
1bn Our lenders Our lenders, mainly banking institutions and bondholders, play an This year we helped generate 95m towards good causes, in support important role in our treasury and funding strategy.
62.6m of this was raised via MyDonate, our commission-free online fundraising and donations platform.
That These relationships are vital for funding our business and meeting means weve now helped to generate 422m for good causes since our liquidity needs.
You can find out more about this on page 97. we set ourselves this ambition in 2012.
Our pension schemes We operate defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes.
The largest by membership is the BT Pension Scheme BTPS which has around 300,000 members.
You can read more about this on page 204. a www.
co. uk 36 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 37 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our suppliers Number of on-site supplier assessments Our suppliers provide the products and services that are so important in executing our strategy.
We source from across the world and currently have suppliers in over 150 countries.
We spent 70 around 14.1bn with our suppliers this year 2015 16: 10.2bn.
Around 65% of our spend is with our top 100 suppliers.
60 50 This year we consolidated the EE and BT supplier base.
As part 40 of the EE integration, weve combined the best practices and processes from both procurement teams to remove duplication 30 and support synergies.
20 10 Our approach to procurement We have around 360 BT people in 27 countries working with 0 suppliers.
As part of our cost transformation activities we aim to 2015 2016 2017 make the most of our relationships with our largest suppliers, demonstrating our commitment to them by establishing a specialist We continued our compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act and our in-life contract management team.
In-life contract management of Security and Exchange Commission SEC obligations by asking our top 130 suppliers has helped us save around 10m.
suppliers whether their products contained certain minerals that may have been sourced from conflict areas.
In June 2016 we filed a report covering 2015 with the SEC, which described our conflict minerals approach and reflected the responses we got from our Our Central Business Services Centre reviewed suppliers.
around 80,000 purchase orders accounting Paying our suppliers for3.8bn of spend, helping us save more This year the average time between invoice date and supplier than 15m.
payment was 67 days globally 2015 16: 62 days with 50 days for UK invoices.
Weve worked with other companies through our membership of Suppliers can choose to use the BT Supplier Finance scheme which an industry-recognised thought-leadership organisation.
This gives offers contracted suppliers the chance to be paid early.
This cuts us the peer benchmarking support, market insight and innovative financing costs for participating suppliers, large or small, and is techniques we need to optimise our procurement strategy.
particularly attractive for SMEs who make up around 48% of our supply base.
We remain a signatory of the UK Prompt Payment Choosing our suppliers Code, and are supporting Government initiatives to encourage small We want to know who were doing business with and whos acting on business growth.
So we: choo se suppliers using principles that make sure we act ethically Human rights and responsibly: Were committed to respecting human rights.
Were steered by the check tha t the goods and services we buy are made, delivered and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights UN Guiding disposed of in a socially and environmentally responsible way: and Principles.
measur e things like suppliers energy use, environmental impact and labour standards, as well as working with them to improve these.
We believe our communications services have a positive impact on society, empowering people to exercise their rights and freedoms.
You can find out more at: www.
com At the same time we recognise that as a global company our work could adversely impact human rights, either directly or through our Ethical standards in our supply chain wider business relationships.
We want our suppliers employees to experience working conditions that are safe and fair.
To help us assess the risks, we send an ethical The importance of privacy and free expression standards questionnaire to suppliers of higher and medium-risk Privacy and free expression are still the rights most at risk from products and services.
We follow up with suppliers identified as communication services.
The Investigatory Powers Act 2016 IPA high or medium risk, based on their responses.
This year we met made significant changes to the investigatory powers regime in the our target of 100% follow-up within three months.
We also visit UK, in a way that could have a considerable impact on the privacy supplier sites to make sure they meet our standards.
This year we of customer communications.
We want our customers to know they visited 63 sites 2015 16: 47 sites around the world.
can trust us with their information, which is why we played a central role in lobbying for changes to the IPA before it became We published our first Modern Slavery Act Statement this year.
To enhance our own processes, weve created a formal board conducted a detailed risk assessment of our categories of spend, committee the Investigatory Powers Governance Committee, and as a result, engaged with more than 500 suppliers to improve chaired by Sir Michael Rake, to oversee the role we play in the use of our understanding of forced labour and human trafficking in our investigatory powers.
36 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 37 47 47 63 Resources, relationships and sustainability continued What weve been doing The directives include rules covering: Weve continued to champion free expression through our discussions access and interconnection: with the Government on the Digital Economy Act.
Weve also universal service obligations: and a reviewed our Acceptable Use Policy to make it easier for customers a r equirement for national regulators to review markets for to understand how they should use our online services to express significant market power SMP every three years and to put themselves.
appropriate and proportionate SMP remedies in place.
We continue to review our processes, including our approach to Companies with SMP typically have a market share of 40% or more human rights in our global activities.
Weve launched our enhanced and could, without regulation, be able to do things such as increase human rights due diligence tool.
And were leading the broadcast prices without losing business to competitors as would happen in a element of an international initiative looking at the impact of largefully competitive market.
b scale sporting events on human rights.
Weve also joined The Global Network Initiative on privacy and free expression as an observer.
In September 2016, the EC published Review c proposals for its review of the European Our first Modern Slavery Act statement describes our approach to of the Common Regulatory Framework.
As part preventing modern slavery in our supply chain and our business.
We of this review, the EC will assess how to want to play our part in tackling this so were proud to be partnering European encourage investment in infrastructure with the charity Unseen to set up and resource the Modern Slavery Common d and how to make current telecoms and Helpline and Resource Centre.
media rules fit for new challenges and Regulatory new types of service provider.
The EC is Our relationship with HM Government Framework also reviewing copyright and content Were one of the largest suppliers of networked IT services to the UK policy.
A directive embodying the new public sector.
We work with almost 1,800 organisations across central, code is expected to be adopted in midlocal and devolved government, supporting some of the UKs most 2018, taking effect midto late-2019.
vital services including health and social care, police and defence.
One of our most important contributions is helping organisations deliver better public services while keeping data secure.
When the UK leaves the EU, depending The UKs on the nature of any trade agreement For example: exit from reached, the UK may no longer be in Islington were linking up information systems to improve required to abide by the EU Regulatory theEU health and social care for the boroughs residents in a way that Framework and other relevant EU rules.
enables them to access their personal electronic health record.
The existing regulations are widely in Essex, thanks to new smartphones supplied by BT, police recognised as having helped make the are spending more time fighting crime and being visible in UK communications market one of the their communities.
most competitive in the world, providing consumers with low prices and the best Another aspect of our relationship with government is that we can coverage of superfast broadband in the be required by law to do certain things and provide certain services.
Therefore, while the For example, under the Communications Act, we and others can existing regulations could be fine-tuned be required to provide or restore services during disasters.
The to suit specific UK market conditions, we Civil Contingencies Act 2004 also states that the Government can do not expect fundamental changes.
impose obligations on us and others at times of emergency or in connection with civil contingency planning.
UK regulation The Secretary of State for the Home Department can also require us The UK telecoms and broadcasting industries are regulated primarily to take certain actions in the interests of national security.
by Ofcom the UKs independent regulator within the framework set by the various European directives, the Communications Act 2003 Regulation the Communications Act and other UK and EU regulations and Communications and TV services are regulated in the UK and recommendations.
This is to make sure that CPs and broadcasters comply with common standards and rules, and that nobody is The Communications Act and Ofcom disadvantaged by providers with strong positions in their markets.
The Communications Act gives Ofcom legal powers and sets out how electronic communications and broadcasting services should European Union EU regulation beregulated in the UK.
It includes the conditions set by the In EU countries, electronic communications networks and services European directives.
are governed by directives and regulations set by the European Commission EC.
These create a Europe-wide framework known Under the powers of the Communications Act, Ofcom sets as the European Common Regulatory Framework covering services conditions that CPs must comply with.
Some conditions, known as such as fixed and mobile voice, broadband, cable and satellite General Conditions, apply to all CPs.
These mainly deal with issues transmission.
such as protecting consumers, access and interconnection, and allocating and transferring phone numbers.
com products static terms b www.
com Thegroup Ourcompany Ourvalues ModernSlaveryAct .
org 38 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 39 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CPs affected by Ofcom decisions can appeal them through a number To further the interests of citizens in Ofcoms of routes, including the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT and the relation .
main duties To further the interests of consumers in relevant markets, BTs Undertakings where appropriate, by promoting In response to Ofcoms 2005 Strategic Review of Telecommunications competition.
we gave some legally-binding undertakings under the Enterprise Act 2002.
These Undertakings which included the creation of Openreach began in September 2005.
They aim to give the UK telecoms industry Other conditions apply to certain companies that are universal clarity and certainty about the way we provide wholesale regulated service providers or which Ofcom has decided have SMP in a products.
This in turn supports effective and fair competition in related particular market.
Were the designated universal service provider for retail markets.
Ofcom has published a consultation proposing to the UK except for the Hull area where that role is taken by KCOM release BT from the Undertakings in light of the new Commitments Group and so we have certain obligations.
The main one is to make we made to Ofcom on 10 March 2017. sure that basic fixed-line services are available at an affordable price to all consumers.
Were also obliged to provide public payphones.
Overseas regulation We have SMP in a number of markets including Business Connectivity The degree of regulation in international markets varies widely.
such as Ethernet and backhaul, Fixed Access including LLU, GEA and This can hinder our ability to compete and provide the services our WLR and Wholesale Narrowband such as Call Origination.
We keep pressing incumbent operators around Ofcoms market reviews are so important for us.
the world, and their national regulatory authorities, for fairer, cost-related wholesale access to their networks.
Following a market review, if Ofcom decides that a CP has SMP, it can put controls in place, typically on the prices which the CP can charge.
In March 2015 Ofcom announced it would At the same time, we announced that as the Ofcoms Strategic carry out a strategic review of the digital first step in the delivery of our changes, we had review of Digital communications industry, looking at ways appointed Mike McTighe as the first chairman to improve investment, innovation and of the Openreach board.
We said we were Communications competition across fixed-line, broadband also continuing to seek to reach a voluntary and mobile markets.
agreement with Ofcom that would avoid the lengthy and complex processes involved in a In February 2016 Ofcom published its initial notification to the Commission.
These covered the wide range of issues originally flagged by Ofcom, as well Following further discussions, BT and Ofcom as a conclusion that BTs model of functional agreed a new settlement, announced on separation should be strengthened to allow 10 March 2017.
This agreement, based Openreach to take its own decisions on budget, on voluntary commitments by BT, will see investment and strategy, in consultation with Openreach become a distinct, legally separate its communications provider customers.
This company within the BT Group.
We will consult became the focus of the review, with the other all Openreach employees on the transfer of issues taken forward through separate Ofcom their employment to Openreach Limited once initiatives.
all the necessary pensions protections and arrangements have been put in place.
Once the In July 2016 Ofcom consulted on proposed agreement is implemented: reforms of Openreach, including Openreach Openreach Limited will have its own becoming a distinct legal entity.
Also in July branding, which will not feature the BT logo.
2016, we announced that we intended The Openreach CEO will report to the to implement changes to address Ofcoms Openreach chairman with accountability concerns, including: to the BT Group, as the CEO of a a new Openreach board as a board wholly-owned subsidiary.
This includes committee of BT plc, with a majority of accountability to the BT Group chief independent members including the executive with regards to certain legal and chairman: fiduciary duties that are consistent with BTs greater delegation of strategic, operational responsibilities as a listed company.
and budgetary responsibilities to Openreach: and The agreement is intended to be comprehensive an enhanced process for industry and enduring.
It will provide BT and other consultation on large investment plans.
companies with greater regulatory clarity and certainty which is vital for investment.
This On 29 November 2016 Ofcom announced it will help the UK retain its position as a leading was planning to make a formal notification to the digital economy, with the largest superfast European Commission in 2017 seeking approval network among major European nations.
to mandate legal separation of Openreach, stating that the changes we announced in July would not fully address its concerns.
38 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 39 Resources, relationships and sustainability continued Price regulation of our main wholesale products speed GEA 40 10 service.
Ofcom expects to publish its final decision The following table shows the main wholesale products provided to in early 2018 with new measures taking effect from 1 April 2018.
CPs which are subject to price controls in markets where weve been On 31 March 2017, Ofcom also published a consultation on a new found to have SMP.
fair and reasonable charge for MPF rental at service level 1 for the period 1 April 2017 to 31March 2018.
Annual charge Current charge control Product control ends Wholesale broadband access WBA market review a Fixed call origination RPI3.6% 30 September 2016 The current control set by Ofcom for the WBA market ie IPStream expired on 31 March 2017.
Ofcom is expected to undertake a a Fixed call termination RPI3.1% 30 September 2016 review of this market in calendar Q2 2017.
Meanwhile we gave Mobile call termination CPI3.1% 31 March 2018 Ofcom a commitment to maintain a cap on the relevant price baskets of CPI-CPI until 31 December 2017, or the conclusion a Wholesale Line Rental WLR CPI3.0% 31 March 2017 of Ofcoms review if earlier.
a b IPStream rental in Market A only CPI10.7% 31 March 2017 Narrowband market review a Metallic Path Facility rental MPF CPI 0.3% 31 March 2017 Ofcom is currently reviewing the narrowband market that covers a Shared Metallic Path Facility rental fixed call origination, call termination and WLR, and published a SMPF CPI33.4% 31 March 2017 consultation in December 2016.
This review was delayed and had not been completed by the time the existing charge control was c Ethernet CPI13.5% 31 March 2019 due to end.
We gave Ofcom a commitment to maintain a cap on d Partial Private Circuits PPCs CPI3.5% 31 March 2019 the relevant price baskets of CPI-CPI until 31 December 2017, a or the conclusion of Ofcoms review if earlier.
See WLA, WBA and Narrowband market reviews in the next section Other regulatory decisions and activities.
b Wholesale broadband services are regulated in Market A which covers 9.5% of UK premises.
Mobile regulation Market B covers the remaining premises and is competitive and unregulated.
The current charge control on mobile call termination applies until c Outside central London and 1Gbps.
d 31 March 2018 and Ofcom intends to review the market again in 8Mbps.
the coming year and will set new regulation, if required.
We are also subject to regulation when our customers travel within the European Other regulatory decisions and activities Union, for the retail prices we charge our customers and the Business connectivity market and cost attribution wholesale prices between operators.
The EU regulations cover voice, In April 2016 Ofcom published its Final Statement on its Business text and data prices, with a cut to the retail price caps on 30April Connectivity Market Review, Leased Lines Charge Control and Cost 2016.
From 15 June 2017, under EU regulations, customers will Attribution Review.
This broadly confirmed Ofcoms proposals set out be able to Roam like home within the EU, paying domestic prices in its Draft Statement published in March, including: when travelling with no extra fees.
At the wholesale level, price caps the char ge controls that apply from 1 May 2016 until will remain in place, on an agreed glide path, reducing to 1 January 31 March 2019: 2022. the in troduction of minimum service levels for Openreach relating to the installation and repair of Ethernet services: and Standalone landline telephone services a requirement for Openreach to provide access to its fibre network On 1 December 2016 Ofcom announced a review of the retail for providers of high-speed services to businesses known as dark market for consumers who buy telephone services in a standalone fibre from 1 October 2017. contract and not part of a bundle with other services such as broadband or pay-TV.
This affects around 2.9m UK households.
We disagree with some aspects of Ofcoms BCMR statement, Ofcom has provisionally concluded that this is a separate retail including Ofcoms proposals on Dark Fibre and have appealed these market in which BT has SMP.
Ofcom has consulted on a number of points to the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT.
We expect Ofcoms possible remedies including requiring us to cut the line rental charge Cost Attribution Review assessment to also have an effect on other by between 5 and 7 per month for customers taking these future price controls.
Wholesale local access market review The current charge control set by Ofcom for the WLA market ieMPF and SMPF expired on 31 March 2017.
Ofcom is currently undertaking a review of this market, but was not able to complete it by that date.
As a result, we gave Ofcom a commitment to maintain a cap on the relevant price baskets of CPI-CPI until 31December 2017, or the conclusion of Ofcoms review ifearlier.
Generic Ethernet Access GEA rental has not previously been subject to price regulation but Ofcoms consultation proposals, published on 31March 2017, include introducing price regulation on the lower 40 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 41 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Margin squeeze test Protecting the environment In May 2015 we made an appeal to the CAT on Ofcoms decision We believe that the Information and to introduce the VULA margin squeeze test.
In March 2016 the CAT found that Ofcom was entitled to impose a regulatory margin Communications Technology ICT industry plays squeeze test.
In June 2016 the CMA published its determination a vital and ever-growing role in tackling climate on the remaining pricing grounds.
It agreed with us that Ofcom had made an error in setting the relevant compliance period and a change.
We continue to participate in UN determined that this should be extended to six months from the climate negotiations eg COP22 in Marrakech, current one month.
It dismissed our other grounds.
On 25 July 2016 the CAT completed its appeals process by issuing directions sharing our research and highlighting that to Ofcom to amend the VULA margin squeeze test in line with the investment in ICT can cut carbon emissions while CMA determination.
creating social and economic value.
Broadband USO The UK Government has continued with its plans for a broadband Our #go100percent campaign aims to inspire people to act more Universal Service Obligation USO that includes a minimum line sustainably.
In partnership with Sir Ben Ainslie and Land Rover BAR, speed.
The Digital Economy Act which includes the provisions for we encouraged spectators at the Americas Cup World Series sailing the USO gained Royal Assent on 27 April 2017.
Weve proposed event in Portsmouth to make pledges and to share their stories on an alternative approach to achieving universal 10Mbps broadband sustainable ways of living, working and playing.
coverage and continue to discuss this with the UK Government.
Deemed Consent Our 2020 ambition On 26 March 2017 Ofcom published the findings of its investigation into the historical use of Deemed Consent by Openreach.
Enable customers to reduce their Deemed Consent is an agreed process between Openreach and its carbon emissions by at least communications provider CP customers, which allows Openreach three times the end-to-end to halt the installation and reschedule the delivery date for providing 3:1 carbon impact of our business dedicated business services known as Ethernet in a number of specific circumstances which are beyond its control.
Ofcom found that Openreach had breached its contractual and regulatory obligations by inadequately and retrospectively applying Deemed 3:1 ambition 2015 16 2016 17 Consent to reduce compensation payments to CPs between January 2013 and December 2014.
Customer savings Mt CO e 7.6 10.0 2 Our impact Mt CO e 4.8 5.5 As a result of the findings, Openreach has agreed to compensate CPs 2 and Ofcom has imposed a fine of 42m, reflecting the seriousness Ratio 1.6:1 1.8:1 of the failings.
This includes a 30% maximum discount for BT admitting its liabilities and agreeing to compensate the affected Reducing our customers carbon footprint CPs in full.
The precise amount of these compensation payments Adding EE to our carbon footprint has impacted progress towards will result from discussions with the affected parties and is currently our 2020 ambition see below : nevertheless our underlying estimated at 300m.
The fine and associated compensation performance is still strong.
Revenue from products contributing to payments are treated as a specific item charge in this years income carbon abatement totalled 5.3bn this year.
This represents 22% statement, with the cash expected to be paid in 2017 18. of our total revenue.
We take this matter very seriously and weve put in place additional Reducing our own carbon footprint controls to safeguard against this happening again and to make sure We report all the greenhouse gas GHG emission sources required that were providing the highest standards in serving our customers.
The following chart shows the increase this year in our total operational worldwide CO equivalent 2 CO e emissions due to the inclusion of EE.
2 a As a signatory to the Climate Disclosure Standards Boards CDSB fiduciary duty and climate change disclosure, we summarise our response to climate change through this Annual Report with more details in our Delivering our Purpose report, available at www.
com deliveringourpurpose 40 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 41 Resources, relationships and sustainability continued Last year we reported the early achievement of our science-based a Our worldwide energy use climate stabilisation intensity CSI target: that by 2020 wed cut our Year ended 31 March operational worldwide carbon emissions per unit of value-added our contribution to GDP by 80% compared to 1996 97.
Were currently GWh exploring a new target that includes EE.
2,700 On our second intensity measure, our scope 1 & 2 emissions this year 2,600 totalled 12.3 tonnes CO e per m revenue.
This is a decrease of 2 1.5% from last year, and of 86% since our base year of 1996 97.
2,500 a Our worldwide greenhouse gas emissions 2,400 Year ended 31 March CO e 2 Ktonnes 2,300 2,000 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 1,628 Key: Addition due to EE 117 1,500 a Conserving natural resources Reducing water usage 1,000 1,097 Most of our direct water usage is for office and catering facilities, or to cool equipment for example, in telephone exchanges.
We ask all our suppliers what actions theyre taking to cut water usage, as one 428 500 391 387 343 of the improvement areas we look for through the Better Future 132 147 148 119 Supplier Forum.
We continue to target and reduce leaks, using 414 121 62 65 51 174 175 182 172 half-hourly meter readings through our automatic monitoring and 0 1997 2014 2015 2016 2017 reporting programme.
This has reduced our water consumption by Base more than 5% compared to last year but, including EE, our overall Scope 3: Other operational indirect emissions eg air and rail travel consumption has risen by nearly 17% compared to last year.
Scope 2 : Indirect emissions from the generation of our purchased energy mainly electricity Scope 1 : Direct emissions from our own operations eg fuel combustion Managing waste products Figures exclude third-party consumption.
Scope 2 data uses market-based calculation.
Supporting the principles of the circular economy, we work with For full methodology, see www.
com deliveringourpurpose our suppliers to minimise the materials we use, and we reuse or recycle equipment and materials wherever possible.
We also offer Reducing our energy use take-back schemes, both for consumer products like our BT Hub, We estimate that our energy savings programme has saved nearly and for mobile handsets.
Weve achieved our UK target, to send zero 25m on our overall energy bill this year, contributing a total of qualifying waste directly to landfill by year-end.
We use specialist 221m savings since 2009 10.
This has helped us cut consumption contractors to manage hazardous waste responsibly, complying with by 2.7% this year, but is offset by the addition of EEs energy use: relevant regulations.
overall, our consumption has risen by 12.5%.
In Great Britain, we spent around 341m on energy and fuel 2015 16: 307m.
We maintain our commitment to buy our electricity from 100% renewable sources, in the UK and globally, where markets allow.
This year, our acquisition of EE has reduced the UK figure from 100% to 84% and our worldwide figure from 95% to 82%.
Weve plans in place to move over 98% of EEs directly-billed electricity supply onto renewables during 2017 and have increased our renewable contracts outside of the UK.
a W e restate previous years data when subsequent information is deemed to be materially significant, such as replacing previous estimates with measured figures.
42 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 43 2,616 2,526 2,412 2,338 2,630 EE 358 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our performance as a sustainable and responsible business The first table below demonstrates our performance against our six 2020ambitions.
Below that, we report progress against seven foundation measures.
Next year, we aim to maintain or improve on each of our ambitions and measures.
Target met Target failed Ongoing Our 2020 ambitions 2015 16 performance 2016 17 performance Status Page Supporting Use our skills and technology to helpgenerate more than 94m raised for 95m raised for 36 charities and 1bn forgood causes good causes good causes communities Cumulative total: Cumulative total: 327m since 2012 422m since 2012 Inspire 66% two-thirds of our people to volunteer 27% of BT people 31% of BT people 29 volunteering volunteering Creating a More than 9 10 people in the UK will have access to our 8.5 out of 10 8.8 out of 10 34 connected fibre-based products and services UK premises passed UK premises passed society Help 10m people overcome social disadvantage through 2.6m 3.9m 34 the benefits our products and services can bring people reached people reached Creating a culture Help 5m children to receive better teaching in computer skills 344,000 1.1m 35 of tech literacy children reached children reached Delivering Enable customers to reduce their carbon emissions by atleast 1.6:1 achieved 1.8:1 achieved 41 environmental three times the end-to-end carbon impact of our business benefits Our foundation measures 2015 16 performance 2016 17 performance Status Page Our investment Investment to accelerate our purposeful business approach: 1.10% of PBT invested 1.03% of PBT invested 34 to be more than 1% of adjusted profit before tax PBT Our customers Customer service: to consistently improve RFT across our 3.0% reduction 6.4% improvement 17 entire customer base a Our employees Employee engagement index: to maintain or improve our 3.81 5 achieved 71% favourable 28 relationship with ouremployees Sickness absence rate: to maintain or reduce % of 2.33% calendar days 2.32% calendar days 29 calendar days lost to sickness lost to sickness lost to sickness a Ethical performance: to maintain or improve our 4.31 5 achieved 76% favourable 45 employees perception Our suppliers Ethical trading: across our supply chain, with focus on 100% follow-up 100% follow-up 37 human rights.
Achieve 100% follow-up within three within three months within three months months, for all suppliers identified as high or medium risk, through our ethical standards questionnaire Our environmental CO e emissions: a measure of our climate change impact.
81% reduction in net n a new target being 41 2 impact Well reduce our worldwide CO e emission intensity by 80% CO e emission intensity developed 2 2 b by December 2020 vs base levels 1996 97 T o find out more about our 2020 ambitions, our methodologies and how our results are calculated, take a look at www.
com deliveringourpurpose a From our new employee survey January 2017 : not comparable with last years result.
b After achieving our 2020 target last year, were currently developing a new target to include EE.
42 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 43 Our approach to risk management How we manage risk Like any business, we face a number To meet our objectives, build shareholder value and promote our stakeholders interests, its essential we manage risk.
To help us weve of risks and uncertainties.
Some developed a group-wide risk management process with four stages: come from outside our organisation, others from within.
Some we cant Identification control, some we can.
Many of our risks are similar to those felt by similar Monitoring Evaluation Business activities businesses.
Response Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks and uncertainties that affect us could have an impact on our business, brand, assets, revenue, profits, liquidity or Changes over the year capital resources.
The principal risks we described last year have In 2015 16 we improved the way we manage risk through our evolved, and so has our response to them.
response to the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code, trialling the use of risk modelling software, and providing risk Our Enterprise Risk Management framework gives reasonable but management training to colleagues.
Specific improvements for cannot give absolute assurance that weve identified and addressed 2016 17 included: our biggest risks.
However, there may be some risks that are either currently unknown, or currently seen as less important but with the Investment cases potential to become more so in the future.
Weve been helping our colleagues understand the risks linked to their investment cases.
In doing so, were helping our investment Events outside BT present both risks and opportunities.
We focus committees make better decisions on where to invest and how we our efforts on predicting and reducing risks while aiming to take can keep any risks linked to those investments to a minimum.
advantage of any opportunities that may emerge.
Root cause analysis This year weve trialled a new way of learning from incidents and Weve also seen more interaction between our risks.
We believe it will help us learn some important risk increased costs of regulation, coupled with the risk of increased management lessons, which we can then use to stop other risks pension deficit payments, could impact our ability to invest to improve materialising in the future.
customer experience and drive revenue growth.
Weve also seen a growing interplay between our regulation and political risks.
Sharing good practice In May we held a conference for everybody involved in the BT In the section below, we explain what were doing to prevent our main risk management process, introduced by Gavin Patterson.
risks from materialising, or to limit their impact if theyre unavoidable.
Were now exploring other ways of sharing good practice Our biggest risks and uncertainties should be considered alongside across our risk community.
the risk management process, the forward-looking statements in this document and the associated cautionary statement see page 260.
Enterprise risk framework Line of business and TSO Audit and Risk audit and risk committees Committee Line of business and Group Risk Panel Operating Committee Board TSO leadership teams The Group Risk Panel supports the The Operating Committee identifies, The Board has overall responsibility Our lines of business and TSO follow Board and the Operating Committee.
evaluates, responds to and monitors for making sure we manage risks our process for managing risk as part Every three months it reviews the risks.
Significant risks are reported and appropriately.
It regularly reviews, of our Enterprise Risk Management Group Risk Register which summarises monitored through the Group Risk either directly or through the Audit framework.
That means identifying those risks of greatest significance Register.
The Operating Committee & Risk Committee, how were doing and responding to the key risks across our business, considers the assigns a management owner to take across the group, in our lines of affecting their business.
They record inclusion of new or emerging risks, and charge of monitoring and managing business and in TSO.
the risks for their leadership teams recommends ways to tackle them.
It monitors risks through to review.
Audit & risk committees also oversees the work of the group risk regular, detailed reviews as well in each line of business, TSO and management function.
Geo-political as six-monthly reviews of the our group functions, make sure this risks are reviewed by a sub-committee Group Risk Register.
44 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 45 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Trend indicates our perception Increasing worsening of pre-mitigation risk Lessening improving Our principal risks At a similar level Compliance risks Whats changed over the last year?
Ethical culture and controls During the year we identified inappropriate behaviour in our Italian business.
Our investigation identified collusion and override of Link to strategy 1 controls within our Italian business and that our monitoring controls Deliver great customer experience 2 did not identify the circumvention and override, resulting in the Transform our costs Trend misstatement of results going undetected for a number of years.
As a result of our US listing we are required to make certain assessments Link to business model of our controls as of 31 March 2017 for the purposes of SarbanesFinancial capital Oxley.
Despite the remediation steps we took, the controls had not Human capital operated for sufficient time to allow assurance testing to confirm Social capital their effectiveness under Sarbanes-Oxley.
We have therefore concluded for these purposes that our controls were ineffective as Its crucial that we maintain high ethical standards.
We dont tolerate of 31 March 2017 due to a material control weakness with regard fraud, bribery, any form of corruption or any illegal or unethical to our Italian business.
For further details of what we found, how weve responded, and We follow local and international law, including anti-corruption and what our ongoing plans are, see page 6. bribery laws.
The UK Bribery Act and US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA have extraterritorial reach, so cover our global operations.
Our acquisition of EE has grown our UK business, and weve made As we expand globally, were increasingly operating in countries seen EE a part of our ACB compliance programme and financial and as having a higher risk of bribery and corruption.
We also have to disclosure control environment.
In terms of ACB enforcement make sure we follow trade sanctions and import and export controls.
generally, weve seen the first significant cases stemming from the UK Bribery Act, and in the US 27 companies paid about $2.5 billion We also face the risks associated with inappropriate and unethical to resolve FCPA cases.
2016 was the biggest enforcement year in behaviour in local and other markets by our people or associates, FCPA history both the number of enforcement actions and the such as suppliers or agents, which can be difficult to detect as well overall amounts paid to resolve them.
as facing the risks that our controls are designed to prevent, detect and correct such behaviour may be circumvented.
Controls and How were mitigating the risks procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide Weve put a number of controls in place to address risk in this area.
only reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and there can These include the steps we have taken to improve our controls within be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated Italy.
We have also taken steps to enhance our wider controls that goals under all potential conditions, regardless of how remote.
monitor our overseas operations in our shared service centres, Global Services and at a group level.
While we have taken steps to improve Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial our control environment, we recognise we have more to do.
Further reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Therefore activities will include increasing and improving the capabilities of even those systems determined to be effective can provide only the controlling function and the audit function outside the UK, reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and further developing our integrated risk and assurance reporting and presentation.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness processes.
We are also enhancing our controls and compliance to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become programme to strengthen awareness of the standards we expect, inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of the capabilities of our people, and to reinforce the importance of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
doing business in an ethical, disciplined and standardised way.
Impact Our relevant controls include an anti-corruption and bribery If our people, or associates like suppliers or agents, breach antiprogramme and The Way We Work, our ethical code, available in 14 corruption, bribery, sanctions or other legislation there could languages.
We ask all our people to complete training and sign up to be significant penalties, criminal prosecution and damage to our The Way We Work which includes our zero tolerance to bribery and brand.
This could have an impact on future revenue and cash flow corruption.
We have policies covering gifts, hospitality, charitable depending on the nature of the breach, the legislation concerned donations and sponsorship.
We run tailored training for people in and any penalties.
If we were accused of corruption, bribery, higher-risk roles like procurement and sales.
violating sanctions regulations or other laws, that could lead to reputational damage with investors, regulators and customers.
If We regularly weigh up our business integrity risks to make sure weve fraud is committed, there is a risk of financial misstatement which got the right mitigation in place.
All Speak Up reports are passed if undetected can have a material financial impact and potential to the director of ethics and compliance for action.
Our confidential litigation and regulatory consequences.
hotline is operated by a third party and is available to employees and third-party contractors who can remain anonymous if they Financial and other controls play an important part in our ability choose to.
Any reports received direct by BT are also dealt with in to prevent and detect inappropriate and unethical behaviour.
This accordance with our Speak Up procedures.
includes fraud, deliberate financial misstatement and improper accounting practices, as well as breaches of anti-corruption, bribery, Our internal audit team regularly runs checks on our business.
If the design, operation or the assurance providers also assess areas we think are higher risk such as the use of over these controls is ineffective or they are circumvented, there is agents, to make sure people understand our policies and that controls a greater risk that the impacts described above may materialise, as are working.
We do due diligence checks on third parties like suppliers, they did this year with respect to our Italian business.
Our policy is that procurement contracts include anti-corruption and bribery clauses.
44 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 45
