Lines of business continued Global Services continued BT for Industries Were also recognised as a Leader in the IDC ITMarketScape: Asia Our industry-specific solutions help customers overcome particular Pacific Managed Security Services 2016 Vendor Assessment.
Our cloud collaboration portfolio is now being used by more than For example: one million employees of global organisations.
our Digital Consumer solution enables retailers to provide an online experience to shoppers in physical stores: Performance in the year strategic our Field Force Automation solutions provide mobile workers with access to corporate applications regardless of their location: and BT Radianz, the worlds largest secure, financial services cloud 1 community, helps customers cut costs, get to market faster and Delivering great customer experience perform the best trading options.
Were using customer feedback and insight to inform our decisions and enhance our customers experience.
We implemented the Net Promoter Score NPS system in April 2016, so we conduct monthly online surveys to gauge Our footprint and product portfolio Supporting customer loyalty and identify actionable insight.
mean we can take the role of our customers We also use Customer Thermometer, our transactional survey leader and trusted partner to our programme, to regularly gauge customer experience at key customers, helping them at every digital points of interaction.
stage of their digital transformation transformation Finally, we use Right First Time RFT measures and operational journey.
We support that journey in KPIs, such as speed of delivery and repair, billing and product three areas: quality to provide a snapshot of how were performing.
Digital customer creating a richer experience for end During the year we improved: customers.
IP Connect Global on-time delivery by 18%: the performance of our complex contracts by 22%: Digital business increasing business agility and innovation baseline NPS by 13 percentage points: and through cloud-based solutions.
Digital employee creating a productive business At the same time we recognise theres more to be done, so weve environment through seamless employee collaboration.
put a rigorous plan in place to help us continually improve.
This plan addresses key areas of focus, such as lead times, on-time delivery, We do this by providing high-performance, integrated project management skills and service delivery communications.
and secure network and IT infrastructure services to global customers our Cloud of Clouds portfolio strategy.
2 Investing for growth Performance in the year Weve invested in a new generation of networking technologies, giving us an innovative way to build and manage corporate Were a global leader for managed networked networks.
Our network In the last year weve been named as: Were investing in dynamic network services to give our customers a Leader in Gartners February 2017 Magic Quadrant for greater choice, security, resilience, service and agility in the rollout a Network Services, Global : of high-performance networks.
Were using our expertise in SDN a Leader in the August 2016 Gartner Global Magic Quadrant for and NFV technology, as well as our global infrastructure, to further a Unified Communications as a Service, Worldwide : improve our portfolio of network services.
a Leader in the October 2016 Gartner Magic Quadrant for a Contact Center as a Service, Western Europe : and We work with a range of organisations to deliver our dynamic a Leader in the June 2016 Gartner Magic Quadrant for network services, including Cisco and Nokia, who will contribute a Managed Hybrid Cloud Hosting, Europe.
technology to our software-defined WAN service.
a Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation.
Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartners research organisation and should not be construed as statements of fact.
Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
The Gartner Report s described herein, the Gartner Report s represent s research opinion or viewpoints published, as part of a syndicated subscription service, by Gartner, Inc. Gartner, and are not representations of fact.
Each Gartner Report speaks as of its original publication date and not as of the date of this Annual Report and the opinions expressed in the Gartner Report s are subject to change without notice.
72 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 73 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our products and services Performance in the year operating We completed the acquisition of IP Trade SA, a provider of We achieved a total order intake of 4.6bn, unified communications and collaboration solutions for trading floor environments.
down 10% reflecting challenging international We launched a mobile collaboration service in the UK as well as corporate market conditions.
a new mobile roaming service for our global customers, building on our acquisition of EE.
The table below summarises the progress weve made on the top Were accelerating our efforts to be the worlds leading cloud priorities we set out in last years report.
services integrator, and expanded our network of partners to include Oracle, Microsoft and T-Systems.
Review of last years priorities Were helping our customers understand what digital can mean WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID for their organisation and how best to use it as an enabler for growth and change through an Advise two-day workshop.
We said wed Were on track to achieve this ambition.
We introduced Trend Micros Deep Security protection for grow our share of Weve been focusing on deepening physical, virtual, and cloud servers on our Cloud Compute spending with our customer relationships and cross-selling platform.
Global Accounts by our portfolio.
We also integrated Zscaler cloud security access points into 10% over the next our global network, and Symantecs latest technology into our three years.
We said wed We achieved double-digit growth across High-growth regions achieve doublecloud unified communications and Were continuing to invest for our customers across Latin America, digit percentage Cloud Compute.
Excluding the delay of helping them increase productivity and become more competitive.
annual growth milestone-related revenue with a major For example, weve opened a contract design hub in Brazil and rates in the revenue customer, we also achieved double-digit added a unified communications service node in So Paulo.
we generate from growth across security.
security, cloud unified communications and 3 Cloud Compute over Transforming our costs the next three years.
Weve continued to focus on reducing our costs, with underlying operating costs excluding transit adjusted for the acquisition of EE We said wed We raised our baseline net promoter score down 1%.
increase our net by 13 percentage points in 2016 17. promoter score by at Our cost transformation programme uses our tried-and-tested least ten points over approach to improve process efficiency, reduce the cost of failure, the next three years.
enhance the network and improve the value for money we get from our suppliers.
For example: Contracts we won this year include: Operating model review in AMEA.
Weve established a CUSTOMER CONTRACT consistent and standardised set of principles to improve our Alstom Unified communications and performance in countries where we have a low number of BT One.
Weve combined our design and delivery functions to enable faster, more consistent delivery of services at lower cost.
Bridgestone Europe Network infrastructure and managed Contract reviews.
Weve reviewed opportunities across BT Connect, BT One, cloud services connecting more than shared services and third-party costs.
Weve also introduced BT Contact.
200 sites across 20 countries in Europe, improvements in the delivery and in-life support stages of Middle East and Africa.
contracts to improve their profitability.
Were evaluating our existing global data centre Grupo Santander We consolidated our relationship with estate and consolidating our sites to lower our cost base while BT Connect.
International Network outsourcing contract to help Airlines Group the company simplify its IT systems and BT Connect.
Komatsu Global IT infrastructure covering 26 sites BT Connect, across 15 countries in Europe, AsiaBT Compute.
Michelin Comprehensive managed network services BT Connect.
Randstad Global IT infrastructure providing cloud BT Connect, connectivity to more than 3,500 sites BT One.
72 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 73 Lines of business continued Global Services continued c EBITDA increased 3% 2015 16: 3%.
Underlying EBITDA adjusted Performance in the year financial for the acquisition of EE was down 11% and excluding the results of Revenue went up by 8% 2015 16: decreased our Italian business was up 1%.
We have described the issues in Italy on page 6.
Depreciation and amortisation was up 4% 3% including a 470m positive impact from 2015 16: down 5%.
Operating profit decreased by 1m foreign exchange movements and a 17m 2015 16: up 36m.
Our key revenue Capital expenditure went up by 2% 2015 16: down 13%.
EBITDA measure, underlying revenue excluding transit less capital expenditure increased by 10m to 134m compared with an increase of 65m last year.
adjusted for the acquisition of EE, decreased by 2% 2015 16: was flat, and excluding the Our operating cash outflow of 245m was 396m worse than last year, as we have unwound the effects of improper working capital revenue of our Italian business was flat.
transactions in our Italian business.
a a 2017 2016 2015 Priorities for the year ahead Year ended 31 March m m m Revenue 5,479 5,074 5,218 Over the next 12 months well continue to Underlying revenue excluding transit focus on delivering improved operational adjusted for the acquisition of EE 2 % 0% n a efficiency and great customer experience.
Operating costs 4,984 4,595 4,753 EBITDA 495 479 465 Depreciation and amortisation 439 422 444 Our top priorities for 2017 18 are: Operating profit 56 57 21 implement a leaner and more customer-focused operating Capital expenditure 361 355 406 model: grow our cloud-based services and our security portfolio at Free cash flow 245 151 28 double-digit rates: and launch a new digital customer experience, leveraging b c automation and portfolio innovation eg NFV SDN.
In AMEA underlying revenue decreased by 4% 2015 16: up 10% due to milestone-related revenue in the prior year.
In c Continental Europe, underlying revenue excluding transit decreased 5% 2015 16: down 1% and, excluding the revenues of our Italian business, was up 3% see page 6.
Underlying revenue excluding transit adjusted for the acquisition of d EE in the UK was up 5% 2015 16: 2%.
The Americas decreased 6% 2015 16: decreased 10% due to the ongoing impact of a major customer insourcing services.
a Operating costs went up by 8% 2015 16: down 3% reflecting EE, the impact of foreign exchange movements and the impact of our investigation into our Italian business.
Underlying net operating costs excluding transit adjusted for the acquisition of EE were down 1%.
a Revised to reflect the outcome of the investigation into our Italian business and reorganisation of our segments, see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
b Asia Pacific, the Middle East and Africa AMEA.
c Excludes specific items, foreign exchange movements and disposals and for 2016 17 is calculated as though EE had been part of the group from 1 April 2015. d United States & Canada and Latin America Americas.
74 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Lines of business Wholesale and Ventures At Wholesale and Ventures W&V we help other companies provide fixed or mobile telephony services, as well as running a number of BTs specialist business units.
On 1 April 2016 we integrated BT Wholesale with EEs wholesale Ventures team and some of BTs specialist business units to form Wholesale Our ventures provide a range of solutions to over 1,000 enterprise and Ventures.
Weve 3,800 people, including 900 in BT Fleet and customers including law firms, energy providers and mobile payment 700 in BT Supply Chain.
We also handle millions of directory enquiries and 999 calls, and deliver the Phone Book to over 21m homes and businesses.
Markets and customers Our wholesale business helps communications Market trends The key wholesale market trends this year were: providers CPs and other organisations to fewer calls, more IP voice services.
This year people made provide fixed or mobile telephony services.
But takeup of business-grade IP voice services is accelerating: ventures provide mass-market services such bandwidth in demand.
46% of all our wholesale broadband as directory enquiries and payphones, and lines ordered this year were delivered over fibre, while average data usage over our fibre lines rose by 18%: and enterprise services including BT Fleet and BT more mobile.
The MVNO market is expanding as existing Redcare.
MVNOs add 4G and new MVNOs launch.
Wholesale: Fixed network services We provide wholesale fixed network services to over 1,400 customers including Sky, TalkTalk, Telefonica O2, Three and Virgin Media, as well as overseas CPs operating in Great Britain.
We also provide specialist media and broadcast services to 1,000 organisations including the BBC, Channel 4, ITV, Sky, Premier League we provide a range of solutions to Productions and Viacom18.
over 1,000 enterprise customers Wholesale: Mobile network services We help Mobile Virtual Network Operators MVNOs that want to offer own-brand mobile plans but dont own a mobile network.
We support 30 MVNO brands with 3.8m mobile customers between 21m them.
we deliver the Phone Book We also use the EE network to provide machine-to-machine services, to over 21m homes and businesses as explained on page 76.
1,400 46% we provide wholesale fixed network wholesale broadband lines services to over 1,400 customers delivered over fibre 3.8m 18% data usage over fibre lines rose we support MVNOs with 3.8m by 18% mobile customers between them PB BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 75 Lines of business continued Wholesale and Ventures continued Wholesale Ethernet: presence in BT exchanges Products and services Broadband and Ethernet In December we announced a fiveVirgin We provide CPs with broadband and Ethernet connections between year deal to provide wholesale mobile Mobile their core network and their customers.
Wholesale Broadband network services to Virgin Media, whose Connect can serve 96% of premises with copper-based broadband Virgin Mobile service has more than 3m 2015 16: 95% and more than 26.5m premises with fibre.
This replaces an existing older broadband network brings our total coverage to more than MVNO agreement between EE and 99% of all premises.
Virgin Media and extends its exclusivity to 2021.
Wholesale Ethernet lets customers connect over 99% of business premises at speeds of up to 10Gbps.
Wholesale Optical extends those speeds to 100Gbps.
This year we extended our own fibre-based Machine-to-machine Ethernet to many more exchanges and third-party datacentres.
Machine-to-machine services support the exchange of information between devices.
Companies can securely communicate with their Wholesale Ethernet: present in BT exchanges devices and improve their services features and reliability using our As at 31 March mobile and fixed networks.
Media services 2,000 Our media network connects major locations around the world where broadcast or film content is created or distributed.
1,500 In the UK it carries all of the nations digital terrestrial TV, as well as TV broadcasts from more than 150 sports and news locations.
1,000 Elsewhere, local partners help us link TV stations to major sports venues worldwide.
500 We also offer media services such as cloud-based content playout and media file acceleration.
0 2014 2015 2016 2017 Our Managed Ethernet Access Service MEAS uses Ethernet technology to carry mobile voice and data traffic to and from mobile operators transmission masts.
Voice CPs use our IP Exchange IPX platform to carry their customers voice calls beyond the reach of their own voice network.
IPX is now used by over 170 CPs, including most of the UKs biggest operators.
CPs without their own voice network can use Wholesale Calls, which routes calls for them end to end.
The CP maintains the customer relationship through its own sales, customer service and billing.
Hosted communications Traditionally, businesses have made and received calls over phone lines via a switchboard.
Wholesale SIP-Trunking delivers the calls This year we installed the UKs first over broadband or Ethernet while Wholesale Hosted Centrex moves Premier uncompressed outside broadcast the switchboard capability into BTs network.
Similarly, our Hosted League network for Premier League Contact Centres replace the systems and services needed to handle Productions PLP, a partnership large numbers of inbound or outbound customer calls.
Productions between the Premier League and international sports production Mobile Virtual Network Operator company IMG.
We were named Best Wholesale Operator at MVNO World Congress 2016.
Customers can use their brand, build their own retail We now provide live HD video feeds propositions, sell mobile plans through their channels and own between all 20 Premier League therelationship with the end customer, while we do the rest.
football stadiums and IMGs studios in London.
This means IMG can move its production facilities from the stadium to its studios: while PLP can eliminate the issues associated with distributing compressed video, such as delays and reduced image quality.
