Strategic Report Responsibility Responsibility Ensure responsible mindset and actions.
Burberry has worked towards completion of its 20122017 Number of audits and assessments responsibility strategy.
Key focus areas and activities over 477 the last year are outlined in this section and a five-year summary report will be available at www.
2016 17 477 2015 16 548 While closing the old strategy, Burberry has also finalised 2014 15 541 ambitious new goals for the next five years, building on strong foundations, addressing key community, social With Burberrys Ethical Programme evolving year-on-year, and environmental challenges and opportunities, theCompany has focused on how it can make the most and leveraging Burberrys unique assets in the most meaningful, positive impacts on the lives of people impactful way.
Key areas of focus for the new strategy throughout its supply chain, rather than increasing the include the following.
Auditing remains, however, an important Fostering resilient communities.
tool to help Burberry and its manufacturers identify areas that are in need of improvement.
Creating positive change through sourcing and production.
Number of training and engagement activities Utilising key operational resources to reduce climate change impacts.
234 More details on Burberrys new responsibility strategy 2016 17 234 will be available at www.
2015 16 217 2014 15 205 Promoting responsible employment practices The Companys trading activities are guided by its Programmes have been implemented across the supply Responsible Business Principles, which are underpinned chain to support factories to build stronger human resource by the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human management systems, reduce working hours, sustain and Rights, the Fundamental Conventions of the International enhance unique knowledge, skills and expertise and Labour Organisation and the Ethical Trading Initiative provide access to confidential grievance mechanisms.
Targets to promote and build fair and responsible employment practices are integrated into Ready to Wear, Accessories and Shoe Supply Chain the performance objectives of the Companys sourcing teams as well as at an individual level.
2016 17 second half Burberrys Ethical Trading Programme consists of 2016 17 first half announced and unannounced supply chain audits, 2015 16 second half ongoing monitoring and engagement, as well as focused 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% improvement programmes.
The Company continued to Rejected Acceptable with improvements Satisfactory support factories in its supply chain through a number I nformation denoted by this symbol has received limited assurance ofengagement activities and new training programmes.
Where access to grievance mechanisms is a particular challenge, confidential hotlines run by non-governmental Results of the FY 2017 audits show an overall positive shift organisations provide over 27,000 workers across 53 in ethical trading performance by the Companys apparel factories with confidential support.
New manufacturers who did not meet key requirements as outlined in Burberrys Ethical Trading Code of Conduct were not accepted into the Companys supply chain, others were found to meetkey requirements but were asked to implement furtherimprovements.
48 Strategic Report Responsibility Burberry completed its biennial Human Rights Impact Burberry continued to donate 1% of Group adjusted Assessment and has set a number of mitigation actions, profits before tax 4.6 million in FY 2017 to charitable which have been reviewed by Ergon, a specialist causes around the world, with a significant proportion consultancy in the field of human rights, and discussed with going to the Burberry Foundation UK registered charity Oxfam, a globally renowned aid and development charity.
Other charitable investments included supporting the establishment of a new facility for the The Company also published its first statement in line Defence and National Rehabilitation Centre, donating with the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, detailing the steps to disaster relief efforts and nurturing emerging creative Burberry is taking to mitigate the risk of modern slavery talent through scholarships at the Royal College of occurring in its supply chain and business operations.
Bespoke training was delivered to key teams and supply chain partners globally in order to build awareness and The first cohort of Burberry Apprentices graduated in strengthen due diligence processes.
This statement can September 2016, with 90% of participants completing be found at www.
The Company expanded the programme in August when a second cohort joined the business, with Continuing its support for the Living Wage Foundation, new opportunities opening in the London headquarters Burberry joined the steering group of the Global Living and at the Burberry Mill in Yorkshire.
Wage Initiative to discuss harnessing the increasing interest to address in-work poverty across all sectors The Company expanded its volunteering programme, and multiple geographies, as part of a unified, global enabling all its employees worldwide to dedicate up approach with multi-stakeholder participation.
to three working days a year to impactful community projects, seeing volunteering as an opportunity to Human Rights Statement make a difference while strengthening teams, enhancing The Group recognises its responsibility to respect human workplace skills and building employee engagement and rights wherever it operates and conducted a Human Rights motivation.
Activities included career mentoring events, Impact Assessment in 2015 to identify the most salient risks employability workshops, community revitalisation and in this area.
This assessment was reviewed and updated in fundraising projects.
The Group believes that potential risks arise inrelation In-kind donations ranged from one-off gifts of nonto its own workforce, its supply chain and communities, trade mark fabric and materials to assist young people and its customers.
Burberrys Human Rights Policy sets on creative courses, to donations of smart business out the Companys commitments to respecting these clothing to support over 1,000 people enrolledin stakeholders human rights.
The Policy is informed by employability programmes.
the International Bill of Human Rights and reflects the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Driving environmental sustainability framework to Protect, Respect and Remedy.
Responsibility Burberry is strongly committed to reducing environmental for the Policy lies with Burberrys Chief Creative and impacts globally across its supply chain and internal Chief Executive Officer.
Burberry has an established global team who work to Cotton, cashmere and leather are three of the Companys promote human rights and good labour practices in the key raw materials, representing around 30% of its Burberry workplace as well as in the Companys supply greenhouse gas emissions.
Burberry has focused chain, as identified and prioritised through Human Rights onimproving the traceability and sourcing of these Impact Assessments.
Burberry provides grievance materials, further deepening partnerships with its mechanisms for its global employees, as well as confidential supply chain and industry stakeholders.
As part of its hotlines in its supply chain where local labour laws are commitment to more sustainable raw materials, Burberry weak, absent or poorly enforced.
Burberry publishes began procuring cotton through the Better Cotton its Modern Slavery Statement in line with theUKModern Initiative.
In addition, in Peru, where the Company has Slavery Act.
been sourcing cotton for over 30 years, a three-year farmers engagement programme has helped to achieve Investing in our communities a 14% increase in yields with lower environmental While conducting an in-depth review of its charitable giving impacts such as a 69% reduction in chemical pesticide activities over the last year, Burberry continued to support use.
Burberry seed funded and continues to support the communities where its employees live and work through Sustainable Fibre Alliance to help promote sustainable financial grants, employee time and in-kind donations.
Burberry is committed to encouraging environmental best practice at leather tanneries and collaborating with industry stakeholders to better understand challenges beyond tanneries.
49 Strategic Report Responsibility Burberry increased its efforts to reduce energy yarns in Italy, repurposing damaged garment waste into and water use in the supply chain, including the insulation and using textile waste for home furnishings implementation of a Natural Resource Defence Council in the UK.
Additionally, over 87% of construction assured impact reduction programme at key mills.
waste from major projects globally was recycled.
To eliminate the release of chemicals thatmay have Burberry remains committed to reducing environmental an adverse environmental impact, the Company impacts from energy consumption at its offices, continued to work with its partners to improve stores, manufacturing and distribution sites.
53% of chemical management practices in the supply chain the Companys electricity use was generated on site andsupport extensive research into new technology.
or sourced through green tariffs, an increase from 37% Recognising that waste plays a key role in resource in FY 2016.
Over the same period, Burberry distribution depletion and climate change, Burberry is prioritising centres achieved an absolute energy reduction of 11%, the reduction and repurposing of waste.
Examples while energy consumption at the Companys London include recycling pre-consumer textile waste into new headquarters reduced by 14%.
Progress against targets Following an independent baseline assessment in 2012, Burberry set itself five-year targets to reduce environmental impacts arising from materials, energy, water, chemicals and waste.
Over the years, all targets have been owned andmonitored by members of the Senior Leadership Team.
The Companys five-year environmental strategy concluded in March 2017 and achievements are outlined in the table below.
Whilst some targets have not been fully achieved, key successes and learnings from the last five years have proven invaluable in shaping the Companys new responsibility strategy and goals for 2022, with a focus on addressing the most material issues, evolving internal governance, developing innovative partnerships and demonstrating real impacts on workers, communities and the environment.
Further details on the new strategy will be available at www.
20122017 Targets Results Product Raw materials Burberry continues Improve the environmental and social impacts of how we source: to invest in the design Cotton Achieved and quality of every Cashmere Achieved product and is Reduce the environmental impact of: committed to dramatically Leather Achieved reducing the impact PVC Not of itsproducts.
achieved Chemical use in manufacturing Take steps to eliminate chemicals from use that have a negative impact on the environment, beyond legal limits Achieved Packaging 100% of point of sale packaging to be sustainably sourced where alternatives are available Achieved Process Internal manufacturing Not Burberry is Reduce the energy use from Burberrys two UK manufacturing sites by 25% achieved committed to Suppliers Not ensuring its future Work with key suppliers to assist them in reducing their energy use by up to 20% achieved resilience by Mills Not integrating Work with key mills to assist them to reduce their water consumption by up to 20% achieved sustainability Transport Not decisions across Reduce carbon emissions from the transport of Burberry products by 10% achieved the business andcollaborating Distribution centres withsuppliers.
Reduce energy use in Burberrys five third-party distribution centres by 10% Achieved 50 Strategic Report Responsibility 20122017 Targets Results Property Energy use reduction Not Burberry continues Reduce Burberry controlled store and office energy usage by up to 15% achieved toexpand its global Sustainable consumables Not footprint in existing 60% of office consumables to be sustainably sourced where available achieved andnew markets to Renewable energy enable the growth All Burberry controlled stores and offices to be powered either by on-site or green Not ofthebusiness tariff renewable energy where available achieved andiscommitted to Build certifications minimising the impact All new builds will be sustainable build certified LEED silver, BREEAM very good ofthis expansion.
or Greenmark silver Achieved Sustainable construction materials 30% of wood by spend is either recycled materials or sourced from certified supplychains Achieved Construction waste recycling 30% of construction waste to be recycled for global major projects Achieved LED lighting 75% of lighting is LED or energy efficient in new concept stores Achieved Selected information denoted by this symbol has received limited assurance by Ernst & Young LLP.
Carried forward with increased ambition in new strategy.
Other targets have been incorporated into the Companys ways of working.
When normalised by a relevant productivity factor.
Energy and global greenhouse gas emissions External assurance of corporate responsibility The disclosures required by the Companies Act 2006 disclosures Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations Burberry appointed Ernst & Young LLP to provide 2013 are included below.
limited external assurance over reported performance against selected environmental targets, and selected Year to 31 March Current FY 2017 environmental and ethical trading performance reporting Comparison Comparison data.
The statements and data that formed part of Emissions from: year FY 17 year FY 16 year FY 15 the review are denoted with a on pages 48, 50 and 51.
Combustion of fuel and 2,126,413 2,141,106 2,336,520 operation of facilities The full independent assurance statement and Burberrys Scope 1 Kg CO2e basis of reporting are available at www.
Electricity, heat, steam and 37,053,321 39,314,125 40,451,532 cooling purchased for own use Scope 2 External recognition Kg CO2e Burberry was recognised externally for its responsibility Total emissions 39,179,734 41,455,231 42,788,052 performance.
Key accolades included: Scope 1 & 2 Kg CO2e Electricity, heat, steam and 25,466,295 Recognised as an industry leader in the Textiles, cooling purchased for own use Scope 2 Kg CO e MARKET Apparel and Luxury Goods sector in the 2016 Dow 2 BASED APPROACH Jones Sustainability Indices.
This is the second Intensity measurement 14 16 17 consecutive year that Burberry has been included in Kg CO2e per 1,000 the Index, reflecting the Companys strong commitment sales revenue Renewable energy 1,218,096 1,266,062 1,247,270 to continuously explore more productive and sustainable produced on site KWH ways of working.
Note: Awarded Gold Class distinction in the Textiles, Apparel Burberry applies an operational control approach to defining its organisational boundaries.
Data is reported for sites where it is considered that Burberry and Luxury Goods sector in RobecoSAMs 2017 has the ability to influence energy management.
Data is not reported for Sustainability Yearbook.
sites where Burberry has a physical presence, but does not influence the energy management for those sites, such as a concession within a department store.
Overall, the emissions inventory reported equates to 96% of our sq.
ft net selling Achieved top score for Water in CDPs annual assessment, space.
The Company uses the Greenhouse Gas Protocol using a location and for managing water-related risks in both its own operations market-based approach to reporting Scope 2 emissions to estimate emissions and applies conversion factors from Defra and IEA guidance.
All material and the supply chain.
sources of emissions are reported.
Refrigerant gases and fuels consumed in Company vehicles were deemed not material and are not reported.
Burberry has updated greenhouse gas data for FY 2015 and FY 2016 to account for improvements in data availability and estimation methods.
Further detail is available within Burberrys basis of reporting at www.
51 Strategic Report Strategic Report Performance The following pages set out the highlights of the Groups financial performance during the year to 31 March 2017, the Capital Allocation Framework and the outlook for the coming financial year.
The principal risks facing the Group during the year, including the nature and extent of these risks, are also set out in this section.
