Governance and directors report OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Set out below is additional statutory information that NEX is required to Articles of association disclose in its directors report.
Some of the matters normally included in The Companys articles of association are available on the Companys the directors report have instead been included in the strategic report on website at www.
com and may be amended by special resolution at a pages 1 to 33 as the board considers these to be of strategic importance.
No changes to the articles of association of the Company will be proposed at the 2017 annual general meeting.
Related party transactions Share capital Details of related party transactions are set out in note 29 to the financialstatements.
31 March 2017 31 March 2016 Issued share capital 379,735,432 1 ordinary share Environment ordinary shares of 10p each Details of the Groups environmental policy are given on page 17 of the of 17.5p each 499,999 redeemable strategic report.
preference shares of 10p each Employees Details of the Groups policies in respect of employee involvement, diversity On completion of the Transaction, the Company undertook a share and human rights are given on pages 16 and 17 of the strategicreport.
consolidation whereby shareholders of the Company received four ordinary shares in NEX Group plc for every seven ordinary shares held previously.
All Post balance sheet events changes in the share capital of the Company during the year are detailed in There have been no post balance sheet events.
note 26 to the financial statements.
Dividends Each ordinary share in issue carries equal rights including one vote per share The directors recommend a final dividend of 27.0p per share to be paid on on a poll at general meetings of the Company.
There are no restrictions on 21 July 2017 to shareholders on the register on 30 June 2017.
The shares will the transfer of ordinary shares.
be quoted ex-dividend from 29 June 2017.
As at 31 March 2017, the NEX Trust held 7,457,286 ordinary shares.
The voting rights of ordinary shares held in the NEX Trust are exercisable by the Political donations trustees in accordance with their fiduciary duties.
No political donations were made during the year 2015 16: nil.
Powers of directors to issue or buy back the Companys shares Directors indemnities The powers of the directors are determined by the Companies Act and the Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of Companys articles of association.
The directors are authorised to issue and the Companies Act were in force during the year ended 31 March 2017 and allot shares and to buy back shares subject to annual shareholder approval remain in force as at the date of this report, for the benefit of directors of the at the annual general meeting.
Company in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur when acting intheir capacity as a director or officer of any Group company.
Repurchase of shares The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance in respect The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during the year.
As of itself and its directors and officers, when acting in their capacity as a at31 March 2017, and at 10 May 2017, the Company had an unexpired director or officer of any Group company.
authority to repurchase shares up to a maximum of 66,453,700 ordinary shares of 10p each being 10% of the issued share capital of the Company Appointment and retirement of directors on the Scheme Effective Date.
Authority will be sought at the 2017 annual The appointment and retirement of directors is governed by the Companys general meeting to repurchase shares up to a maximum of 37,973,543 articles of association, the Code, the Companies Act and related legislation.
The board has the power to appoint additional directors or to fill a casual vacancy among the directors.
Any such director holds office only until the next annual general meeting, when that director will stand for appointment by shareholders.
In accordance with the Code, the articles of association also provide that all directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
52 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Employee share trust FCA Listing Rules compliance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4C On the Scheme Effective Date, all share awards and options over ICAP plc The majority of the disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 are not shares became share awards and options over NEX Group shares on a applicable to NEX.
The table below sets out the location of the disclosures one-for-one basis.
Awards granted under the Groups share plans are expected to be satisfied Applicable sub-paragraph within Listing Rule 9.8.
4C Disclosure provided by ordinary shares held in the NEX Trust or new issues of shares.
As at 5 details of any arrangements under which a See page 71 31 March 2017, employee share awards and options existed over 10,087,589 directorofthe Company has waived or agreed to of the Companys ordinary shares and 7,457,286 ordinary shares were held in waiveanyemoluments from the Company or any the NEX Trust.
subsidiary undertaking The voting rights of ordinary shares held in the NEX Trust are exercisable by 6 where a director has agreed to waive future See page 71 the trustees in accordance with their fiduciary duties.
The right to receive emoluments, details of such waiver together dividends has been waived in respect of the shares held in the NEX Trust.
withthoserelating to emoluments which were waivedduringthe period under review The rules of the Groups share plans contain provisions which may cause 12 details of any arrangements under which a See page 53 options and awards granted to employees under the schemes to veston shareholderhas waived or agreed to waive any dividends a change of control.
13 where a shareholder has agreed to waive future See page 53 Substantial shareholders dividends, details of such waiver together with those The Companys substantial shareholders do not have different voting rights relating to all dividends which are payable during the from those of other shareholders.
As at 31 March 2017, the Company had period under review been notified under the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares.
Percentage of voting rights attaching to issued share capital Person interested Indirect Direct Other Total Michael Spencer together with IPGL, IPGL Limited, INFBV and INCAP Overseas BV 16.30 1.00 0.07 17.37 Silchester International Investors LLP 8.25 8.25 Marathon Asset Management LLP 5.05 5.05 Michael Spencer owns a majority shareholding in IPGL, of which IPGL Limited and INFBV are wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Michael Spencer is deemed to be interested in all the shares in NEX Group plc held by INFBV and its indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, INCAP Overseas BV, totalling 61,546,806 shares.
IPGL Limited holds 384,187 shares in NEX Group plc and 199,999 shares acquired via a contract for difference.
A further 3,516,558 shares are held by Sanne Fiduciary Services Limited as trustee of the NEX Trust.
The shares held in the NEX Trust include basic awards to Michael Spencer under the BSMP and matching awards under the BSMP in respect of which there are no unsatisfied performance or continuity of employment conditions.
Michael Spencer hasa personal interest in 213,042 shares in NEX Group plc and holds 57,142 shares acquired via acontract for difference.
Michael Spencers spouse holds 53,000 shares in NEX Group plc On 5 April 2017, the Company was notified that Schroders plc held 12.95% of the voting rights in the Companys issued share capital.
NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 53 Governance and directors report OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED Statement of directors responsibilities for the Annual Report Directors statement pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the strategic andTransparency Rules report, the remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance The directors are required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules to with applicable law and regulations.
include a management report containing a fair review of the business and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and the Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for Company.
The directors of the Company who were in office during the year, eachfinancial year.
Under that law the directors have elected to prepare and up to the date of signing the Annual Report, were Charles Gregson, the Groups and Companys financial statements in accordance with IFRS as Michael Spencer, Stuart Bridges, Ivan Ritossa, John Sievwright and Robert adopted by the EU.
Under company law the directors must not approve the Standing.
Each of these directors, whose function is listed in the directors financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair biographies, confirms to the best of their knowledge that: view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit orloss of the Group for that period.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: includedin the consolidation taken as a whole: and make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable the management report disclosures which are contained in the strategic and prudent: report include a fair review of the development and performance of the state whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the EU have been followed, business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the financial statements: and principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue Going concern in business.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the strategic The directors are responsible for ensuring that the Group and the Company report.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flow, liquidity position, keep adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain facilities and borrowing position are described in the financial review.
Notes the Groups and the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable 11, 13 and 28 to the financial statements provide further detail on the accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company Groups borrowings and management of financial risks.
The strategic report and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the includes an analysis of the principal risks facing the Group and the Groups remuneration report comply with the Companies Act and, as regards approach to risk management.
the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
After reviewing the Groups annual budget, liquidity requirements, plans The directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and financing arrangements, the directors are satisfied that the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and the Company have adequate resources to continue to operate and and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
confirm that the Group and the Company are going concerns.
For this Having taken all the matters considered by the board and brought to reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these theattention of the board during the year into account, the directors are financial statements.
satisfied that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the information on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing thepreparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ fromlegislation in other jurisdictions.
54 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Governance and directors report Financial statements Definitions Viability statement In addition to the requirement to consider the appropriateness of preparing the Groups financial statements on a going concern basis, the directors have an obligation under the Code to make a statement in the Annual Report with regard to the viability of the Group, including explaining how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, the period of time for whichthey have made the assessment and why they consider that period tobe appropriate.
The Groups viability assessment has been made over a period of three financial years up to 31 March 2020.
The directors are satisfied that a three-year period is sufficient to enable a reasonable assessment of the Groups viability to be made.
In addition, this period is covered by the Groups medium-term plan.
The board reviewed the plan in detail, challenged assumptions made in the forecasts and assessed the attainability of the forward projections.
In making this assessment, the directors have considered a wide range of information relating to present and future conditions, including future projections of profitability, cash flows and capital resources.
They also assessed the potential financial and operational impacts, in severe but plausible scenarios, of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties.
Based on these assessments, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due up to 31 March 2020.
Disclosure of information to the auditor So far as each person who was a director at the date of approving this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being information needed by the Companys auditor in connection with preparing its report, of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps that he is obliged to take as a director in order to make him aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation isgiven and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act.
By order of the board Stuart Bridges Group Chief Financial Officer NEX Group plc 2 Broadgate London EC2M 7UR Company number 10013770 15 May 2017 NEX Group plc Annual Report 2017 55
