14 FOCUS ON STRATEGIC PRIORITIES SOPHOS CONTINUES TO CONSOLIDATE ITS POSITION AS A LEADING VENDOR OF INNOVATIVE, SIMPLE AND HIGHLY EFFECTIVE IT SECURITY STRATEGIC GOALS Sophos will continue to prioritise its investment in technology and in consolidating Focus on its leadership position as the only security vendor with a balanced business spanning IT security both enduser and network security.
As the Group is committed to IT security, it solutions believes it has an advantage over competitors who often seek to address disparate and unrelated areas of technology.
The Groups industry-leading technologies are amongst the most innovative, Innovative, advanced and effective available in the market, but are simple and easy to deploy, simple, manage and use.
Sophos believes that simple, integrated solutions deliver better effective security that is easier to manage for organisations of any size and particularly those in security its chosen markets.
Deliver The Sophos cybersecurity portfolio is comprehensive and spans endpoint, mobile, server, encryption, web, email, Wi-Fi and UTM Next-gen firewall.
Sophos continues complete, to make progress on its multi-year strategy to integrate these different products and end-to-end enable a synchronized security approach for its customers.
Synchronized security cybersecurity delivers added protection for customers and eliminates manual tasks.
capabilities The cloud is The Groups customers derive significant benefits from Sophos Central, the single, integrated cloud-based management and reporting platform.
Cloud technology at the core of underpins the channel strategy and it continues to enhance Sophos partner-centric the Groups management console, enabling partners to easily manage, update and configure the strategy Groups products, and to drive cross-sell and upsell opportunities from within the Sophos IT security portfolio.
Channel first Sophos is committed to its highly successful channel-only sales strategy.
The Group has grown its partner ecosystem to more than 30,000 partners during the sales strategy course of FY17, and is seeing considerable success in helping partners to crosssell and upsell to existing end users and 6,100 of the partners are now blue-chip partners, demonstrating higher levels of productivity.
The Group is also helping a growing number of partners as they develop Managed Service Provider MSP businesses built around the Sophos product portfolio.
