THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION How were doing 1 Deliver a consistent and reliable service All our Consumer customers have been given an improved level Delivering great of care and on average, have landline faults fixed 24 hours quicker than last year.
Consumer has created more than 2,200 new roles to help customer experience answer 90% of customer calls in the UK and Ireland by Spring of 2017.
They are on track to meet this target, with around 86% of calls now answered in the UK and Ireland.
EE now handles 100% of its customer service calls in the UK Everything we do influences our customers and Ireland.
Whether its fixing a fault, Openreach achieved or is on track to achieve all of Ofcoms copper Minimum Service Levels MSLs.
marketing a new product or fulfilling a new Theres been a material improvement in how we deliver Ethernet contract, its the total customer experience that with Openreach achieving five of the six Ofcom MSL targets.
Openreach has recruited over 1,500 people, mostly engineers.
Thats why its so important we work It also halved its number of missed customer appointments by together across our entire business to improve our the end of the financial year.
Weve made it even easier to interact with us online, for example customers experience.
As a result our strategy 9m customers have signed up to My EE via the app or online.
now emphasises the importance of improving A great customer experience from our network every aspect of the customer experience.
Weve improved the weather proofing of our networks.
This year weve halted the growth in network faults following six Customer service is at the heart of this goal.
Weve really improved consecutive years of increasing faults.
our service levels this year, but we can do more.
Our focus on Global Services is enabling better monitoring of network, IT and customer experience means that everyone in BT, from marketing applications.
to contact centre, and front-line engineer to senior executive, has Openreach is offering to connect  for free a a role to play and this includes the digital experience offered by to all developments of new sites with over 30 plots.
online, apps and social media.
Products that improve customer experience We believe that improving our customers experience will create Consumer upgraded all its superfast broadband Infinity 1 more growth.
Thats why its such an important part of how we judge customers from 38Mbps to 52Mbps where available.
Our key measures of customer experience Business and Public Sector upgraded over 80,000 UK Business include customer perception based mainly on the industry standard Fibre broadband customers from up to 38Mbps to speeds of up of Net Promoter Score and getting things done Right First Time.
We launched BT Call Protect to divert nuisance and unwanted How we did in the year calls to junk voicemail.
Its free to all our customers.
Weve seen a steady improvement in our customers perception of us, increasing by five points since last year, with improvements across all lines of business.
Our top priorities Looking ahead, were focused on: Our Right First Time performance has also improved, by 6.4% compared to -3.0% last year.
EE and our corporate businesses impr oving every interaction between our contact centre performed particularly well and weve prepared and responded advisers and customers, with further investment in skills much better to difficult weather conditions in the UK.
and tools: dev eloping all our digital channels to enable more customers What difference did our customers see?
to adopt online as the best method of interacting with us: Customers judge us on their day-to-day interaction with BT.
They ex tending the reach of our fibre and mobile networks, and want a consistent, reliable service, a network that offers a great reducing network faults: experience and products that improve their lives.
Its in these impr oving our Ethernet delivery processes, enhancing the three areas service, network and products where we can most experience for our business and corporate customers: and clearly see the progress were making, progress were committed to enabling all our people t o put customers needs at the continuing over the coming year.
heart of their decision making.
a New sites with over 30 plots registered from 10 November 2016.
16 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 17 How were doing continued 2 Investing for growth Were putting money and resources in five strategic areas that we believe will deliver sustainable, profitable revenue growth.
They underpin our strategy and our operational and financial performance, which in turn contribute to our KPIs on page 20.
Differentiated Best network Fully Market Focus on content, in the UK converged leadership in all multinational services and service UK segments companies applications provider globally Launch of BT Smart Hub 26.5m 150m 37% 180 premises passed cost synergies in the first retail broadband countries with fibre year of EE integration share PG88 PG93 PG56 PG70 Launch of Cloud of Clouds BT Family SIM G. fast 29% pilots in 17 made available to EE mobile market locations customers share PG88 PG62 PG71 BT Sport daily viewing up 12% 80% NFV 1.6bn W&V of UK landmass now target Net Present Value W&V named Best Network Function a covered by 4G of revenue synergies Wholesale Operator Virtualisation from EE acquisition PG63 PG76 PG71 Trial of selling BT My BT, My EE app products in EE shops improvements 5G 3.8m SDN research with a range mobile customers of Software Defined of partners Mobile Virtual Network Networking PHOTO Operators we support PG33 PG75 PG71 a MVNO World Congress 2016.
18 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 19 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Weve insourced engineering roles in IT and networks 3 Transforming our costs Programmes this year included: Our approach to cost transformation r ealising the cost synergies created by bringing together BT and Operating as cost efficiently as possible is at EE, including buying synergies, rationalising our property estate, insourcing roles in both IT and networks, and creating a shared the heart of our strategy.
Weve honed our call centre planning function for the group: approach and methodology over the past r e-engineering important processes to improve our delivery of Ethernet, which has led to shorter lead times, higher output and decade.
Its focused on simultaneously driving improved quality of delivery: customer experience improvement and cost r educing our network costs in the UK and overseas by consolidating our technical facilities and deploying tools to better transformation, and its underpinned by rigorous manage third-party costs: and analysis, operating management leadership and r eviewing the operating model for main areas of our business, see pages 70 and 93. strong governance.
We still benchmark our cost of doing business against other Our top priorities companies inside and outside our sector to see where we can do even better.
Looking ahead, were focused on: Our largest programmes span multiple lines of business or complex establishing a new unit tha t brings together our customer changes within a single line of business.
Continuous Improvement experience and our group transformation teams.
The new unit CI provides a complementary bottom-up approach, empowering will enable us to make investments and take decisions about our people to make small but significant changes to how we do business performance that are more clearly aligned with our things every day.
The result improves customer service and employee customer experience and productivity priorities: engagement while reducing the cost of failure.
c ontinuing to create synergies from the integration of BT and EE by sharing best practice on cost transformation: Training is an important part of our approach, led by our in-house gaining gr eater efficiency from our shared service functions Cost Transformation Faculty, part of the BT Academy page 53.
The and operating model in the UK and internationally: and faculty is responsible for the continued development of both our addr essing the customer experience and cost of failure change methodology and our change professionals.
impacts in our consumer and business products.
This year alone we trained and coached more than 1,000 people.
Restructuring BT is the only UK organisation licensed by the British Quality Foundation to certify qualifications on such a scale at the most We are also expanding and accelerating areas of our cost a b advanced levels in Lean, Six Sigma and Change & Project transformation programme.
We are simplifying our central Group Management methodologies.
Were now sharing our approach with Functions and our internal service unit, Technology, Service & other organisations.
Operations to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the services and infrastructure delivered to our lines of business.
How we did in the year We are also restructuring the Global Services organisation and Weve continued to pursue opportunities to further transform our accelerating ongoing transformation programmes in other lines costs.
Despite this, our underlying operating costs excluding transit of business.
We anticipate that these transformation programmes were up 1%, reflecting our investments in mobile, BT Sport and will save in total around 300m over two years, with a customer experience.
restructuring charge of around 300m over the next two years, with most of this being incurred in 2017 18.
This restructuring cost will be treated as a specific item.
These changes will clarify accountabilities, remove duplication and improve efficiencies, You can read about cost transformation within Our lines of business removing around 4,000 roles mainly from managerial and from page 56, and the groups operating costs on page 94. back-office areas.
The cost savings will provide headroom to offset market and regulatory pressures and support increased investment in delivering great customer experience and leading networks.
a Lean is a methodology for achieving small, incremental changes in processes in order to eliminate waste and improve efficiency and quality.
b Six Sigma is a data-driven methodology for eliminating defects in processes.
18 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 19 Key performance indicators Progress against our KPIs Weve achieved our customer service We use four key performance indicators KPIs to measure how were doing against our strategy.
Our financial KPIs include: the trend in performance goal for the year, but underlying revenue excluding transit adjusted for the acquisition of EE: our adjusted earnings per share: and normalised free cash flow.
We hit our revised Customer service improvement is the key non-financial KPI for us.
financial guidance set in January Our KPIs are chosen because they reflect the key elements of our strategy.
We use these to measure the variable elements of our 2017, but fell short of our financial senior executives pay each year, as weve explained in the Report targets set at the start of the year on Directors Remuneration see page 122.
Weve outlined our performance against each KPI here, together due to the issues in our Italian business with an explanation of how we define each measure.
and headwinds in UK public sector You can find reconciliations of the financial measures to the closest IFRS measure in the Additional information section on and international corporate markets.
Our key measure of the groups revenue trend, underlying Performance revenue excluding transit adjusted for the acquisition of EE, Our revenue performance has been heavily impacted by the c was down 0.2% 2015 16: up 1.9% which is broadly challenging conditions weve seen in the UK public sector and consistent with our revised outlook.
This was offset by strong performance in our customer-facing lines of business driven by EE and Consumer.
We explain more about the performance of our lines of business from Trend in underlying revenue excluding transit page 56.
Year ended 31 March % Definition 3 Underlying revenue reflects the overall performance of the group that will contribute to sustainable profitable revenue growth.
We 2 exclude the impact of specific items, foreign exchange movements 1 and disposals and from 2016 17 this measure is calculated as though 0 EE had been part of the group from 1 April 2015.
This differs from how we usually adjust for acquisitions as explained on page 252.
We 1 focus on the trend in underlying revenue excluding transit because 2 transit traffic is low margin and is affected by reductions in mobile termination rates, which are outside our control.
3 4 a a a a b 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Our customer service measure Right First Time was up 6.4% Performance compared with down 3.0% last year.
Improving the service we deliver is key.
Our Right First Time measure was up 6.4% 2015 16: down 3.0%.
Were making good progress in some areas.
Openreach achieved or is on track for all 60 of Customer service improvement the minimum service levels MSLs set by Ofcom for copper, but At 31 March disappointingly we missed one of the six MSLs for Ethernet.
Despite these improvements, were not where we want to be, across all of our % 25 lines of business.
You can read more about our customer service on page 17.
20 Definition 15 Right First Time is our key measure of customer service.
This tracks how often we keep the promises we make to our customers.
This could 10 be about keeping to appointment times, completing orders when we agreed or fixing faults within an agreed period.
As well as improving 5 service and the customer experience, keeping our promises should mean that there is less work to do to correct our mistakes, and so 0 reduces our costs.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2017 Cumulative improvement from 1 April 2009. a Calculated as though EE was not part of the group until 1 April 2016. b Calculated as through EE had been part of the group from 1 April 2015. c Certain prior year results have been revised to reflect the outcome of the investigation into our Italian business.
See note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
