PIGIT pp17 34 01 06 2017 10:44 Page 23 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2017 Business and Status The Company was incorporated in England and Wales on 2 February 1996 as a public limited company, registered number 3156676.
It is an investment company as defined by section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as an investment trust within the meaning of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011.
HM Revenue & Customs have approved the Companys status as an investment trust and, in the opinion of the Directors, the Company has conducted its affairs so as to enable it to maintain such approval.
Life of the Company The Companys Articles of Association require that every five years the Directors will propose an ordinary resolution to approve the continuation of the Company as an investment trust.
The next such resolution will be proposed at the 2021 AGM, the last having been passed in 2016.
Performance and Dividends Details of the Companys performance and proposed dividend are shown in the Strategic Report on pages 10 and 11.
The Board The Company has a Board of six non-executive Directors who oversee and monitor the activities of the Manager and other service providers on behalf of shareholders and ensure that the investment policy is adhered to.
Details of the Boards responsibilities and the number of meetings it holds are set out on the following pages.
Certain aspects of the Companys affairs are dealt with by the Directors sitting as the Audit Committee see pages 20 and 21 and the Management Engagement Committee see page 24.
Each committee has written terms of reference which are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company, at the Companys correspondence address see page 62, on the Companys section of the Managers website and will be available at the AGM.
The Board has resolved that a remuneration committee is not appropriate for a company of this size and nature.
Remuneration is therefore regarded as part of the Boards responsibilities.
For information on the Directors remuneration, please refer to the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 31 and 32.
Five of the six Directors are considered independent.
Bob Yerbury was a Senior Managing Director of Invesco Limited and a Director of Invesco Asset Management Limited until his retirement on 27 March 2013.
In accordance with the AIC Code, as an employee of the Manager within the last five years, he is not considered independent.
The Directors have a range of investment, commercial and professional experience relevant to their positions as Directors as can be seen from the biographical details on page 17.
Chairman The Chairman of the Board is Bill Alexander, a non-executive and independent Director who has no conflicting relationships.
Mr Alexander will retire at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM and will be succeeded by Richard Laing, who is also a non-executive and independent Director who has no conflicting relationships.
Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Director SID is Vivian Bazalgette.
The SID provides a sounding board for the Chairman, serves as an intermediary for the other Directors if necessary and provides a channel of communication for shareholders where contact through the Chairman or Company Secretary have failed to resolve the issue or where that channel of communication is inappropriate.
Board Responsibilities The Directors have a duty to promote the success of the Company taking into consideration the likely consequences of any decision in the long-term, the need to foster the Companys business relationships with its Manager and advisers, the impact of the Companys operations on the community and the environment, the desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct and the need to act fairly as between stakeholders of the Company.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 PIGIT pp17 34 01 06 2017 10:44 Page 24 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT continued In order to promote the success of the Company, the Board directs and supervises its affairs within a framework of effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board has been established.
The schedule is reviewed annually to ensure compliance with the latest regulatory requirements, best practice and the AIC Code and is available for inspection at the registered office of the Company, at the Companys correspondence address see page 62, on the Companys section of the Managers website www.
co. uk pigit and will be available at the AGM.
The main responsibilities of the Board include: setting policies and standards, ensuring that the Companys obligations to shareholders and others are understood and complied with, approving accounting and dividend policies, managing the capital structure, setting long-term objectives and strategy, assessing risk, reviewing investment performance, approving loans and borrowing, approving recommendations presented by the Companys respective Committees, mitigating risks and the ongoing assessment of the Manager.
The Board also seeks to ensure that shareholders are provided with sufficient information in order to understand the risk reward balance to which they are exposed by holding their shares, through the details given in the annual and half-yearly financial reports, fact sheets and regulatory information service announcements including daily NAV disclosures.
The Board is committed to the prevention of corruption in the conduct of the Companys affairs and, taking account of the nature of the Companys business and operations, has put in place procedures that the Board considers adequate to prevent persons associated with it from engaging in or accepting bribery for and on behalf of the Company.
To enable the Directors of the Board to fulfil their roles, the Manager ensures that all Directors have timely access to all relevant management, financial and regulatory information.
There is an agreed procedure for the Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take legal advice at the Companys expense up to an initial cost of 10,000 having first consulted with the Chairman.
Remuneration The Board as a whole operates as a Remuneration Committee, including determining the Companys remuneration policy.
The Board takes into account all factors which are deemed necessary in order to ensure that members of the Board are provided with appropriate compensation and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Company.
The remuneration of Directors is reviewed periodically and reported on in more detail in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 33.
Nominations The Board as a whole operates as a Nominations Committee.
This includes regularly reviewing the composition of the Board and its committees and evaluating whether they have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence, diversity and knowledge of the Company, and identifying suitable candidates when required.
The appointment, re-election and tenure of Directors is explained on page 25.
The Audit Committee The composition and activities of the Audit Committee are summarised in the Audit Committee Report on pages 20 to 22, which is included in this Directors Report by reference.
The Management Engagement Committee MEC The MEC comprises Bill Alexander, Vivian Bazalgette, Victoria Cochrane, Alan Giles and Richard Laing, all of whom are independent Directors.
The Chairman of the MEC is Bill Alexander.
On his retirement at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM, he will be succeeded by Richard Laing.
The MEC has written terms of reference which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
The terms of reference are reviewed at least annually to ensure compliance with the latest regulatory requirements, best practice and the AIC Code.
The MEC meets at least annually to review the investment management agreement with the Companys Manager and to review the services provided by the Manager and Company Secretary.
The MECs assessment of the Manager can be found on page 27.
24 PIGIT pp17 34 01 06 2017 10:44 Page 25 GOVERNANCE Appointment, Re-election and Tenure of Directors The Directors are responsible for reviewing the size, structure and skills of the Board and for considering any necessary changes or new appointments.
The Board has a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the selection and appointment of Directors.
In this regard, the Board adheres to the diversity policy set out on page 13.
The Board also considers the ability of any new director to devote sufficient time to the Company to carry out his or her duties effectively.
The Board may consider using an executive search consultancy or open advertising when seeking new candidates for appointment, or they may alternatively decide that candidates found from sources within the Company and through its advisers are of a sufficiently high quality.
Accordingly, the Board has engaged the Miles Partnership, an independent consultancy, to assist in the recruitment of a new director in 2017.
On being appointed to the Board, Directors are fully briefed as to their responsibilities and are continually updated throughout their term in office on industry and regulatory matters.
The Manager and the Board have formulated a programme of induction training for newly appointed Directors.
They have also put arrangements in place to address ongoing training requirements of Directors which include briefings from key members of the Managers staff and which ensure that Directors can keep up to date with new legislation and changing risks.
No Director has a formal contract of employment with the Company.
Directors terms and conditions of appointment are set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company, at the Companys correspondence address see page 62, on the Companys section of the Managers website www.
A Directors normal tenure of office will be for three terms of three years, except that the Board may determine otherwise if it is considered that the continued participation on the Board of an individual Director is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
This is subject to the Directors re-election by shareholders.
In accordance with the UK Code of Corporate Governance, at every AGM all Directors retire and, subject to any directors not seeking re-election, offer themselves for re-election.
Bill Alexander is retiring from the Board at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM and consequently is not seeking re-election.
The Board has considered the continued appointment of Vivian Bazalgette in light of him having served on the Board for over nine years, and has concluded that he continues to be effective in the discharge of his duties and responsibilities to the Board.
Notwithstanding his length of service, the Board consider that he remains independent, a view which has been demonstrated by his actions on behalf of the Company and his other business interests.
The Board confirms that the performance of the Directors continues to be effective and each Director demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Board therefore recommends to shareholders their support for resolutions 2 to 6 relating to the re-election of Directors.
Board, Committees and Directors Performance Appraisal The Board, Committees and Directors undertake a formal performance evaluation process annually.
The Boards policy is that, in accordance with the UK Code, this evaluation should be externally facilitated every third year.
The last externally facilitated evaluation was conducted by Trust Associates Limited in 2014 and the evaluations in 2015 and 2016 were conducted internally using questionnaires.
The results of each of these were satisfactory.
In view of the continuing Board refreshment process the Board resolved to defer the externally facilitated evaluation that was due to be conducted in 2017 to 2018.
Accordingly the 2017 evaluation was conducted internally using questionnaires.
The findings confirmed that the Directors individually, the Board as a whole and its committees continued to function efficiently, that the composition of the Board is appropriately aligned to the Companys activities, that the Directors are able to effectively discharge their responsibilities to the Company and its members and that the majority of the Directors are independent.
Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings The Board meets on a regular basis at least five times each year.
The following table sets out the number of scheduled meetings held during the year and the number of meetings attended by each Director or member of each Committee.
In addition, Directors also attended several ad-hoc meetings between scheduled meetings.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 25 PIGIT pp17 34 01 06 2017 10:44 Page 26 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT continued MANAGEMENT AUDIT ENGAGEMENT BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MEETINGS MEETINGS MEETINGS Number of meetings: 53 2 Meetings attended: Bill Alexander 53 2 Vivian Bazalgette 53 2 Victoria Cochrane5 3 2 Alan Giles5 3 2 Richard Laing 53 2 Bob Yerbury 5 n a 2 Mr Yerbury is not a member of the Management Engagement Committee but attended by invitation.
Corporate Governance The Corporate Governance Statement set out on page 19 is included in this Directors Report by reference.
Directors Directors Remuneration and Disclosable Interests The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 33 provides information on the remuneration and interests of the Directors.
No Director was a party to, or had interests in, any contract or arrangement with the Company during the year or at the year end other than in respect of indemnification and insurance as set out below.
Conflicts of Interest A Director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or has the potential to conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Articles of Association of the Company give the Directors authority to authorise potential conflicts of interest and there are safeguards in place which will apply when Directors decide whether to do so.
First, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to take the relevant decision, and second, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors can impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Directors are obliged to declare any potential conflicts of interest to the Company and these are recorded in the Companys register of potential conflicts.
This is reviewed regularly by the Board.
Directors Indemnification and Insurance The Company maintains a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy.
A Deed of Indemnity has been executed by the Company under the terms of which, to the extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association, the Company will indemnify the Directors against liabilities incurred in connection with their office as Directors of the Company and fund reasonable expenditure incurred by them in defending proceedings brought against them in connection with their position as Directors of the Company.
The indemnity does not apply in certain circumstances, including to the extent that the costs are recoverable under the Directors and Officers liability insurance policy maintained by the Company or from any other insurance maintained by the Director.
The Manager Investment Management Agreement and Management Fees Invesco Fund Managers Limited acts as Manager and provides administration services to the Company under an Investment Management Agreement IMA dated 22 July 2014 and three supplemental agreements.
The IMA is terminable by either party giving not less than six months notice.
For the year under review the agreement provided for the Manager to receive a quarterly management fee based on the Companys funds under management at each quarter end of 0.15% to 500 million and 0.10% in excess of 500 million, together with a performance-related fee that is 26 PIGIT pp17 34 01 06 2017 10:44 Page 27 GOVERNANCE payable to the Manager annually in arrears if the Companys performance exceeds that of the FTSE All-Share Index, including any brought forward underperformance.
This performance-related fee is equal to 10% of the value of any outperformance, but may not exceed 0.5% of the value of the Companys funds under management at the balance sheet date, before deduction of the current years performance fee.
No performance-related fee was payable for the year 2016: 4,040,000.
Pursuant to a third supplemental agreement dated 25 May 2017, with effect from 1 April 2017 the Manager will no longer be entitled to a performance-related fee and the management fee, which continues to be based on funds under management, will be 0.15% per quarter up to and including 900 million and 0.10% per quarter above that level.
The Managers Responsibilities The Manager is generally responsible for the day-to-day investment management activities of the Company, seeking and evaluating investment opportunities and analysing the results of investee companies.
The Manager has full discretion to manage the assets of the Company in accordance with the Companys stated Investment Policy as determined from time to time by the Board and approved by shareholders.
The Manager also advises on currency and borrowings.
The Manager provides full company secretarial and administration services ensuring that the Company complies with all legal, regulatory and corporate governance requirements and attending on the Directors at Board meetings and shareholders meetings.
The Manager also maintains records of the Companys investment transactions and portfolio and all monetary transactions, from which the Manager prepares annual and half-yearly financial statements on behalf of the Company and various statistical reports and information throughout the year.
Assessment of the Manager The performance of the Manager in the roles of investment manager, company secretary and administrator is subject to continual review by the Board and an annual review of the management contract is undertaken by the Management Engagement Committee.
The Board has formally reviewed the Managers performance for the year ended 31 March 2017 and, taking into account the long-term performance of the portfolio, the other services provided by the Manager and the risk and corporate governance environment in which the Company operates, the Board considers that the continuation of the management contract is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Company Secretary The Board has direct access to the advice and services of the corporate company secretary, Invesco Asset Management Limited, which is responsible for ensuring that the Board and Committee procedures are followed, that applicable rules and regulations are complied with and for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
The Company Secretary is also responsible to the Board for ensuring timely delivery of information and reports, that the statutory obligations of the Company are met and acts as a contact for shareholders.
The appointment and ongoing assessment and review of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
Stewardship The Board considers that the Company has a responsibility as a shareholder towards ensuring that high standards of corporate governance are maintained in the companies in which it invests.
To achieve this, the Board does not seek to intervene in daily management decisions, but aims to support high standards of governance and, where necessary, will take the initiative to ensure those standards are met.
The principal means of putting shareholder responsibility into practice is through the exercise of voting rights.
The Companys voting rights are exercised on an informed and independent basis.
The Companys stewardship functions have been delegated to the Manager.
The Manager has adopted a clear and considered policy towards its responsibility as a shareholder on behalf of the Company.
As part of this policy, the Manager takes steps to satisfy itself about the extent to which the companies in which it invests look after shareholders value and comply with local recommendations PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 27 PIGIT pp17 34 01 06 2017 10:44 Page 28 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT continued and practices, such as the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A copy of the Managers Stewardship Policy, which is updated annually, can be found at www.
Relations with Shareholders Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Board and the Manager.
The prime medium by which the Company communicates with shareholders is through the annual and half-yearly financial reports, which aim to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Companys activities and its results.
This information is supplemented by the publication of monthly factsheets and the NAV of the Companys ordinary shares, which is published daily via the London Stock Exchange and on the Companys section of the Managers website at www.
A presentation is made by the Manager following the main business of the AGM each year.
Shareholders have the opportunity to communicate directly with the Directors at the AGM.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
It is the intention of the Board that the annual financial report and the notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders so as to provide twenty working days notice of the AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the AGM are invited to do so, either on the reverse of the proxy card, via the Managers website or in writing to the Company Secretary at the address given on page 62.
At other times the Company responds to queries from shareholders on a range of issues.
There is a clear channel of communication between the Board and the Companys shareholders via the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary has no express authority to respond to enquiries addressed to the Board and all communication, other than junk mail, is redirected to the Chairman or SID as appropriate.
There is a regular dialogue with individual major shareholders to discuss aspects of investment performance, governance and strategy and to listen to shareholder views in order to develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
General presentations to both institutional shareholders and analysts follow the publication of the annual financial results.
All meetings between the Manager and major shareholders are reported to the Board.
Shareholders can visit the Companys section of the Managers website in order to access copies of annual and half-yearly financial reports, pre-investment information, shareholder circulars, factsheets, Stock Exchange announcements, schedule of matters reserved for the Board, terms of reference of Board Committees, Directors letters of appointment, the Companys share price and any proxy voting results.
Disclosures Required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 The above rule requires listed companies to report certain information in a single identifiable section of their annual financial reports.
None of the prescribed information is applicable to the Company in the year under review.
Going Concern The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors consider this is the appropriate basis as they have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being taken as 12 months after the signing of the balance sheet for the same reasons as set out in the Viability Statement on page 13.
In considering this, the Directors took into account the diversified portfolio of readily realisable securities which can be used to meet funding commitments: the ability of the Company to meet all of its liabilities including the 60 million senior secured notes, repayable in May 2029 and ongoing expenses from its assets: revenue forecasts: and future dividend payments.
Individual Savings Account ISA The ordinary shares of the Company are qualifying investments under applicable ISA regulations.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions As an externally managed investment company, the Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
28 PIGIT pp17 34 01 06 2017 10:44 Page 29 GOVERNANCE Share Capital Capital Structure As at 31 March 2017, the Companys share capital consisted of 240,432,350 ordinary shares of 10p each.
No shares were issued or bought back during the year or up to the date of this report.
Restrictions There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company, no special rights with regard to control attached to said securities, no agreements between holders regarding their transfer known to the Company, no restrictions on the distribution of dividends and the repayment of capital, and no agreements to which the Company is a party that might affect its control following a successful takeover bid.
Voting At a general meeting of the Company every ordinary shareholder present in person or by proxy has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each ordinary share held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights.
Repurchase Powers The power to repurchase up to 36,040,809 14.99% of shares in issue granted at the last annual general meeting has not been utilised.
A resolution to renew this authority will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Annual General Meeting AGM The following summarises the business of the forthcoming AGM of the Company, which is to be held at 1st Floor, 43-45 Portman Square, London W1H 6LY at 11.00am on 11 July 2017.
The Notice of the AGM and related notes can be found on pages 57 to 60.
Ordinary Business: Resolution 1 is for members to receive this Annual Financial Report, including the financial statements and Auditors Report.
Resolutions 2 to 6 are to re-elect all of the Directors except for Bill Alexander, who will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM.
Biographical details of all of the Directors are set out on page 17.
Resolution 7 is to approve the Companys dividend policy, which is set out on page 10.
This resolution, which is advisory, is being proposed to answer concerns raised by certain voting agencies that shareholders would not otherwise have the opportunity to vote on dividends since all are declared as interim dividends in order for them to be paid according to the established quarterly PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 29 PIGIT pp17 34 01 06 2017 12:07 Page 30 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT continued timeframe.
Resolution 8 is to approve the Annual Statement and Report on Remuneration.
It is mandatory for listed companies to put their Annual Statement and Report on Remuneration to an advisory shareholder vote.
The Annual Statement and Report on Remuneration are set out on pages 31 to 33 of this Annual Financial Report.
Resolution 9 and 10 are to approve the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditor and to authorise the Audit Committee to fix their remuneration.
Special Business: Three resolutions are being proposed in relation to share issuance and buybacks, which are all to renew authorities previously granted.
These will, if passed, expire at the AGM in 2018, or 15 months after the resolution is passed if that is earlier.
The first of these will be proposed as an ordinary resolution, so will be passed if more than 50% of the votes cast are in favour.
The other two will be proposed as special resolutions, which means at least 75% of the votes cast must be in favour for them to pass.
These authorities provide the Board with flexibility to deal with share overhangs or shortages in the market.
Resolution 11 ordinary is to renew the Directors authority to allot shares subject to pre-emption, which means that they must be first offered to all existing shareholders, such as by means of a rights issue, up to an aggregate nominal value of 2,404,323 10% of the Companys issued share capital at 30 May 2017.
Resolution 12 special is to renew the Directors authority to disapply pre-emption rights on shares issued for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 2,404,323 10% of the Companys issued share capital at 30 May 2017.
This will allow shares to be issued to new shareholders without them first having to be offered to existing shareholders, thus broadening the shareholder base of the Company.
This authority will not be exercised at a price below NAV so the interests of existing shareholders are not diluted.
Resolution 13 special is to renew the authority for the Company to purchase its own shares up to 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital as at the date of the AGM, subject to the restrictions referred to in the notice of the AGM equivalent to 36,040,809 shares at 30 May 2017, either to be cancelled or, alternatively, to be held as treasury shares with a view to their resale, if appropriate, or later cancellation.
Any resale of treasury shares will be on terms that are in the best interests of shareholders.
Resolution 14 special is to renew the Companys permission to hold general meetings other than annual general meetings on 14 days notice, which is the minimum notice period permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
The EU Shareholder Rights Directive increases the minimum notice period to 21 days unless two conditions are met.
The first condition is that the Company offers facilities for shareholders to vote by electronic means.
The second condition is that there is an annual resolution of shareholders approving the reduction in the minimum notice period from 21 days to 14 days, hence this resolution being proposed.
It is intended that this flexibility will be used only where the Board believes it is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
The Directors have carefully considered all resolutions proposed in the Notice of AGM set out on pages 57 to 60 and, in their opinion, consider them to be in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
The Directors therefore recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all the resolutions.
By order of the Board Invesco Asset Management Limited Company Secretary 31 May 2017 30
