Our business model and strategy As a market leader in five segments of the Our strategic objectives passenger transport industry, our unique We aim to deliver our vision and execute our strategy in our scale and diversity is our competitive markets by focusing our experience and energy at key advantage.
Our overall strategy is to points in the transport service value chain, which we leverage this scale and the breadth of recognise in our five strategic objectives: ourglobal expertise for the benefit of our local markets, in support of our vision Approximately 52% of our revenues are derived Focused and toprovide solutions for an increasingly from around 1,400 contracts competitively disciplined procured on behalf of passengers by congested world keeping people government bodies and other parties.
bidding in moving and communities prospering.
Formulating innovative and attractive bids ourcontract with appropriate levels of risk and managing the delivery of our commitments in a range businesses of constantly changing circumstances is a core strength of the Group.
Our markets Our other main source of revenues is directly Driving growth Our divisions are exposed to a diverse range of from our passengers, who represent a broad through demand drivers, revenue models and geographies demographic mix and use our services for a variety of business, commuting, social and within the overall passenger transport industry.
Understanding and our services are critical enablers of strong economies commercial responding to the changing needs of our local and vibrant, successful and inclusive communities.
customers is therefore critical to our success.
propositions in A key part of our strategy is to use technology Demographic change, environmental sustainability, our passenger to innovate for our customers in the areas of congestion and the search for greater efficiency are ticketing, real-time information and to enhance revenue our ability to offer value for money.
key challenges for our customers and opportunities businesses for us in each market.
Everywhere we operate, our customers are looking for better information, more Our goal is to operate reliable, convenient and Continuous safe transport services on comfortable vehicles convenience and more flexible ticket options.
Driver improvement staffed by helpful and qualified employees, shortages remain a key challenge in North America, every day, in all weathers, and despite sharing in operating while economic uncertainty has affected demand increasingly congested road and rail infrastructure and financial inthe UK.
World oil prices that fell sharply in recent with other users.
To do so we must constantly reinforce standards and seek out best practice years have stabilised somewhat.
performance from across the Group and beyond.
We bring the same focus on discipline and continuous Whilst our home markets in the UK and North improvement to our financial performance, America have been at the forefront of outsourcing managing employee productivity, asset fuel transport solutions, there are increasing efficiency, procurement, overheads, insurance opportunities worldwide.
and other costs to ensure efficient use of our resources and best value for our customers.
See pages 10-13 for more information on To continue to deliver over the longer term, using Prudent ourmarkets.
the considerable cash generated from operating investment activities to reinvest appropriately in our key assets is vital.
Our most important assets are inour fleets, our people we invest substantial sums in systems supporting and developing our employees, and recently have enhanced our recruitment andpeople processes in response to shifts in employment markets.
The more than 50,000 vehicles we own Key inputs across the Group are our most significant capital assets, which we must invest in to offer the reliability and comfort our customers want.
Our people We also invest in our systems and processes Our vehicle fleets and terminals to support our other strategic objectives.
Our international experience By its nature, the transport industry involves the Maintain andexpertise risk of injury to passengers, employees and third responsible parties, which is why it is central to our culture Our relationships with key to keep safety front of mind, and which we have partnerships localauthority and national been reinforcing with our Be Safe behaviour with our government stakeholders change programme.
We aim to build long term, responsible partnerships with our customers customers and Our reputation for safe and and communities, including by managing our communities reliableservices impact on the environment.
Ultimately the sustainability of our business is tightly entwined A strong and stable financial with the aspirations, opportunities and success platform.
of our customers and communities.
08 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report responsible for setting overall incentive Our five divisions targets and determining remuneration.
Our values First Student For more information on the overall Committed to our customers The largest provider of student governance of the Group see pages 46-62. transportation in North We keep our customers at the America twice the size of Key performance indicators KPIs heart of everything we do.
The Group focuses on financial and non-financial KPIs which align to our Dedicated to safety First Transit strategic objectives.
Always front of mind, safety is One of the largest private sector providers of public our way of life.
Financial KPIs are Group revenue, transit management and adjusted operating profit, adjusted EPS, contracting in North America.
Supportive of each other and ROCE, which together drive our cash We trust each other to deliver and flow and value creation.
Greyhound work to help one another succeed.
Non-financial KPIs include contract The only national operator of retention, like-for-like revenue growth, scheduled intercity coaches Accountable for performance in the US and Canada, with punctuality, safety, employee engagement, a unique nationwide network Every decision matters, we do the average fleet age, customer and passenger and iconic brand.
right thing toachieve our goals.
satisfaction, community investment and greenhouse gas emissions.
Setting the highest standards First Bus Metrics which form part of the performance One of the largest bus operators We want to be the best, continually measures used to assess executive in the UK, transporting 1.6m remuneration.
seeking abetter way to do things.
passengers a day, with a fifth of the market outside London.
See pages 28-31 for more information onour KPIs.
How we manage First Rail Remuneration policy One of the UKs most thebusiness experienced rail operators, A key principle underpinning the executive carrying around 130m remuneration policy is to ensure it is aligned Leadership and governance passengers last year across with the strategy of the Group.
In addition, our two franchises and our Each of our five divisions is run in a itprovides a strong and demonstrable link open access operation.
decentralised way so as to be responsive between incentives and performance to the needs of our local customers.
All, delivery in a consistent and responsible however, are managed in compliance with way, enables senior management to share the Groups overall vision and values, and in the long term success of the Group with regard to the strategic direction set without delivering over-generous benefits bythe corporate centre.
orencouraging short term measures or Our lean corporate centre focuses on excessive risk taking, and is competitive, fostering a high performance culture, sets simple and transparent.
the strategic direction, raises and allocates Creating value for capital, develops and manages our talent, See pages 63-79 for our remuneration establishes key targets and standards, report.
Passengers monitors performance and provides Safe, convenient and reliable travel Principal risks challenge.
The corporate centre focuses on foraround two billion passengers Our risk management methodology is monitoring performance and maintaining eachyear.
aimed at identifying the principal risks that stewardship of the divisions through KPIs.
could adversely impact the safety or security Communities and government Whilst some risks, such as treasury risk, of our employees, customers and assets, Stronger economies and more vibrant are managed at a Group level, all of our have a material impact on the financial or local communities whilst providing businesses own and manage the risks operational performance of the Group, adeliverable response to congestion theyface with appropriate assistance from impede achievement of the Groups and air quality concerns.
the Group functions as necessary.
strategic objectives and financial targets, Employees and or adversely impact our reputation Good corporate governance by the Rewarding long term professional orstakeholder expectations.
Boardis based on the appropriate level careers with opportunities to develop ofoversight, good communication and and grow.
See pages 32-37 for more information afocus on risks, transparency in how onour principal risks and uncertainties.
Shareholders weoperate and a culture of continuous Sustainable cash generation and improvement.
The Board oversees the valuecreation for investors.
Group and amongst other things is FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 09
