Directors report and additional disclosures The Directors present their report on the affairs The performance of each Director was explanatory notes, are set out in a separate of the Group, together with the audited reviewed and it was found that each of them Notice of AGM which accompanies the Annual financial statements and the report of the continues to make an effective and valuable Report and Accounts.
auditor for the year ended 31 March 2017. contribution to the deliberations of the Board A summary of the business carried out at the Information required to be disclosed in the and demonstrate commitment to the role.
The AGM will be published on the Companys Directors Report may be found below and in performance evaluation of the Chairman was website www.
the following sections of the Annual Report led by the Senior Independent Director.
and Accounts, in accordance with the Share capital During the year, no Director had any interest in Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act and As at 31 March 2017, the Companys issued any shares or debentures in the Companys Listing Rule 9.8.
4R of the Financial Conduct share capital was 1,207,695,812 ordinary subsidiaries, or any material interest in any Authority FCA : shares of 5 pence, each credited as fully paid.
contract with the Company or a subsidiary As at the date of this report, the Company Information Section Page being a contract of significance in relation to holds 157,229 ordinary shares in treasury, and the Companys business.
Sustainability the issued share capital of the Company which governance and Powers of the Directors carries voting rights of one vote per share greenhouse gas Corporate The Directors are responsible for the comprises 1,207,914,353 ordinary shares emissions responsibility 38 management of the business of the Company excluding treasury shares.
Further details of Likely future Chief and may exercise all powers of the Company the Companys issued share capital are shown developments Executives subject to applicable legislation and regulation in note 28 to the Companys financial statements.
inthe business report 6 and the Companys Articles.
The Companys shares are listed on the Risk factors and Directors indemnities London Stock Exchange.
principal risks: Principal risks  going concern and and A list of subsidiary undertakings is given in FirstGroup maintains liability insurance for its viability statements uncertainties 32 note36 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Company has also Governance granted indemnities to each of the Directors as Substantial shareholdings arrangements: well as the General Counsel & Company As at 1 June 2017, the Company had been human rights and Corporate Secretary, the Group Director of Finance, the notified under the FCAs Disclosure, Guidance anti-corruption and Governance Group Financial Controller, the Group Treasury and Transparency Rule 5 of the following bribery matters Report 48 & Tax Director, the Chief Information Officer, interests in its total voting rights of 3% or more: Directors the Greyhound President and an Officer of FGI Long-term Remuneration Number of % of total Canada to the extent permitted by law.
These incentive schemes Report 63 ordinary voting indemnities are uncapped in amount, in Name of holder shares rights Financial relation to certain losses and liabilities which Vidacos Nominees instruments and they may incur to third parties in the course of Ltd HSBC related market Financial acting as a Director or Officer or Company Custody Nominees transactions statements 114-118 Secretary as the case may be of the Australia Ltd 71,695,290 5.95 Company or any of its associated companies.
Directors Schroders plc 64,283,712 5.33 In the case of Group Director of Finance, the The Directors of the Company who served Jupiter Asset Group Financial Controller, the Group Treasury during the year and their biographical details Management & Tax Director, the Chief Information Officer, are shown on pages 44 and 45.
Mick Barker Limited 60,603,024 5.03 the Greyhound President and an Officer of and Brian Wallace stood down from the Board West Face FGICanada the indemnities are limited to their on 17 and 24 February 2017 respectively.
CapitalInc 60,500,000 5.00 actions as Directors of specific associated Details of Directors interests in shares can companies.
Neither the indemnity nor insurance Vidacos befound in the Directors Remuneration NomineesLtd 59,397,756 4.93 cover provides cover in the event that a Report on page 63.
Director or Officer or Company Secretary The Companys Articles provide that each Results asthe case may be is proved to have acted Director who has been appointed by the Board The results for the year are set out in the fraudulently or dishonestly.
The indemnity since the last AGM must retire from office and consolidated income statement on page 86. iscategorised as a qualifying third-party stand for election by the shareholders at the indemnity for the purposes of the 2006 Act first AGM after their appointment.
Richard and will continue in force for the benefit of Adam, Jimmy Groombridge and Martha Directors or Officers or Company Secretary Poulter, having been appointed to the Board as the case may be on an ongoing basis.
on 24 February and 26 May 2017 respectively, Annual General Meeting will be seeking election as Directors at the The Companys AGM will be held at 1.30pm forthcoming AGM.
In accordance with the on Tuesday 18 July 2017 at the Aberdeen Code, all other Directors will retire and submit Exhibition and Conference Centre, Exhibition themselves for re-election at the Companys Avenue, Bridge of Don, Aberdeen, AB23 8BL.
Details of Directors contracts or letters Details of the meeting venue and the of appointment are included in the Directors resolutions to be proposed, together with Remuneration Report on page 63.
80 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance plc Employee Benefit Trust EBT, holds shares not the policy of the Company to make Articles of Association in the Company in trust in order to satisfy donations to EU political organisations or to The description in this section summarises awards made to participants under the incur other political expenditure in the EU.
certain provisions of the Companys Articles Companys employee share plans.
The EBT and applicable Scottish law concerning In the US it is far more common for businesses waives its rights to vote and to dividends on companies.
Thissummary isqualified in to participate in the political process through the shares it holds which are unallocated.
itsentirety by referenceto thisCompanys avariety of methods.
During the year the Articles and the2006 Act.
TheCompanys Under the rules of the FirstGroup plc Share Groups US businesses incurred political Articles may beamended bya special Incentive Plan BAYE, employees buy shares expenditure in the US of $67,748 2015 16: resolution of the Companys shareholders.
and receive free matching shares in the $26,250 in the support of their business goals.
In order to preserve certain tax The Group has fully complied with jurisdictional Shares benefits these shares are held in a trust by reporting of these contributions.
The rights attached to the ordinary shares of Computershare for employees.
Whilst these the Company are defined in the Companys No other political donations or expenditure shares are held in trust, the voting rights Articles.
No person has any special rights of was incurred by the Company and its attached to them are exercised by the trustee, control over the Companys share capital and subsidiaries during 2016 17. but only at the direction of the employees.
all issued shares are fully paid.
Details of the Employee involvement Companys issued share capital are set out in All of the Companys employee share plans We are committed to keeping our employees note 8 to the Company financial statements.
contain provisions relating to change of informed about the progress of the business control.
On a change of control, options and Voting rights and developments affecting them at work.
awards granted to employees may vest and Shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at Aswell as more traditional forms of become exercisable, subject to the satisfaction any general meeting of the Company.
It is the communication, employees can also access of any applicable performance conditions at Companys practice to hold a poll on every online facilities.
The employee portal provides the time.
Every member an opportunity for employees to share present in person or by proxy has, upon a poll, Further details on the Companys employee information and work in collaboration with one vote for every share held.
In the case of share plans can be found in the Directors other Group employees on areas of mutual joint holders of a share the vote of the senior Remuneration Report on page 63. interest and benefit to the Group.
In addition, who tenders a vote, whether in person or by management teams work to ensure that Purchase of own shares proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of communication is cascaded face to face At the AGM of the Company in 2016 authority thevotes of the other joint holders and, for this throughout their business areas and was granted for the Company to purchase up purpose, seniority shall be determined by the employees are encouraged to discuss any to 10% of its ordinary shares.
During the year order in which the names stand in the Register issues with management at any time and no ordinary shares were purchased.
Under of Members in respect of the joint holding.
The events, such as executive roadshows, are theexisting authority the Company may Notice of the 2017 AGM accompanying this arranged periodically to allow employees the purchase up to 120,400,000 ordinary shares.
document specifies the deadlines for chance to feed back to senior management.
This authority remains in place until the AGM exercising voting rights.
on18July 2017 when it is intended to seek Throughout the Group, regular dialogue with Dividend rights arenewal.
employee representatives, such as trade Shareholders may by ordinary resolution unions, is maintained.
Each division has its Political donations declare dividends but the amount of the own information and consultation At the 2016 AGM, shareholders passed a dividend may not exceed the amount arrangements.
A significant proportion of the resolution to authorise the Company and its recommended by the Board.
The Directors workforce belongs to trade unions, with our subsidiaries to make political donations to are not recommending the payment of a final employees represented by more than 30 political parties or independent election dividend this year.
The majority of our employees candidates, to other political organisations, or in North America, First Bus, and First Rail are Transfer of shares to incur political expenditure as such terms represented by unions.
There are no specific restrictions on the size are defined in sections 362 to 379 of the 2006 ofa holding nor on the transfer of shares which Act, in each case in amounts not exceeding As well as gathering feedback through formal are both governed by the general provisions 100,000 in aggregate.
As the authority and informal channels throughout the year, all ofthe Companys Articles and prevailing granted will expire at the 2017 AGM, renewal employees are also given the opportunity to legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any of this authority will be sought at this years make their voice heard through regular agreements between holders ofthe Companys AGM.
Further details are available in the Notice employee surveys.
These surveys at Group, shares that may result in restrictions on the of AGM.
However, as a result of the broad divisional and local level provide a useful transfer of securities or on voting rights at any definition used in the 2006 Act of matters insight into what employees think about the meeting of the Company.
constituting political donations, it is possible Company and the way they are managed.
The that normal business activities, which might priorities identified by employees help to shape Employee share plans not be thought to be political expenditure in our people strategies.
The Company operates a number of the usual sense, could be caught.
Accordingly, employee share plans, details of which are set Further information is available in the authority is being sought as a precaution to out in note 33 to the consolidated financial Corporate responsibility section on page 38. ensure that the Companys normal business statements.
Kleinwort Benson Guernsey activities do not infringe the 2006 Act but it is Trustees Limited, as trustee of the FirstGroup FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 81 Directors report and additional disclosures continued b First Rail Policies concerning disabled Financial risk management The Groups franchised passenger rail employees The Companys policies on financial risk operators, First TransPennine Express Limited Full and fair consideration is given to management, including the Companys and First Greater Western Limited, are each applications for employment by people with exposure to liquidity risk, credit risk and party to a franchise agreement with the disabilities.
We are committed to supporting certainmarket-based risks including foreign Secretary of State for Transport, as is First disabled employees, including employees who exchange rates, interest rates and fuel prices, MTR South Western Trains Limited jointly become disabled during their employment, can be found in note 24 to the consolidated owned with MTR Corporation, scheduled with regards to training, career development financial statements.
tostart operating the South Western rail and promotion.
These franchise Change of control significant Having reviewed the independence, agreements are subject to termination clauses agreements objectivityand performance of the auditor, which may apply on a change of control.
a Financing agreements theAudit Committee has recommended to FirstTransPennine Express Limited and The Group has a 800m multi-currency theBoardthat the existing auditor, Deloitte, FirstGreater Western Limited and the Groups revolving credit and guarantee facility between, bere-appointed.
Ordinary resolutions non-franchised rail operator, Hull Trains amongst others, the Company and The Royal re-appointing Deloitte as auditor and Company Limited, each hold railway licences Bank of Scotland plc dated 22 March 2017. authorising the Directors to set their as required by the Railways Act 1993 as This refinanced the Groups existing revolving remuneration will be proposed at the amended : these licences may be revoked on credit and guarantee facility.
three months notice if a change of control change of control of the Company, individual occurs without the approval of the Office of Audit information lenders may negotiate with the Company with Rail and Road.
All of these operators also The Directors who held office at 1 June 2017 a view to resolving any concerns arising from require and hold track access agreements confirm that so far as they each are aware, such change of control.
If the matter has not with Network Rail Infrastructure Limited under there is no relevant audit information being been resolved within 30 days an individual which they are permitted to access railway information needed by the auditor in bank may cancel its commitment and the infrastructure.
Failure by any of the operators connection with preparing their audit report, Company must repay the relevant proportion to maintain its railway licence is a potential ofwhich the Companys auditor is unaware, of any drawdown.
termination event under the terms of the track and each of the Directors has taken all the access agreements.
The Groups railway The US$100m 4.26% notes due in two steps that they ought to have taken as a operators also lease rolling stock from instalments of US$50m during 2017, the Director in order to make themselves aware specialist rolling stock leasing companies such 250m 6.125% bonds due 2019, the 300m ofany relevant audit information and to as Eversholt Rail Group, Porterbrook Leasing 8.125% bonds due 2018, the 350m 8.750% establish that the Companys auditor is aware Company Limited and Angel Trains Limited.
bonds due 2021, the 200m 6.875% bonds of that information.
Amaterial number of the individual leasing due 2024 and the 325m 5.250% bonds due This confirmation is given and should be agreements include change of control 2022 issued by the Company may also be interpreted in accordance with the provisions provisions.
First MTR South Western Trains affected by a change of control of the of section 418 of the 2006 Act.
Limited will also hold a railway licence, and Company.
A change of control in respect of bea party to track access and rolling stock the 250m 6.125% bonds due 2019 may result Payments policy agreements, each with comparable change of in an increase of 1.5% per annum in the We recognise the importance of good supplier control provisions, by the time it commences interest rate payable on those bonds.
relationships to the overall success of our operations in August 2017.
The Group is However, the interest rate on the bonds will business.
We manage dealings with suppliers alsoinvolved from time to time in bidding only be so increased if certain further in a fair, consistent and transparent manner processes for UK rail franchises and transport thresholds in relation to the credit rating of the and the Group has controls in place to ensure contracts further afield which customarily bonds are also met.
In respect of the 300m that all payments are made within the include change in circumstance provisions 8.125% bonds due 2018, the 350m 8.750% appropriate credit timeframe.
The average which would be triggered on a change of bonds due 2021, the 200m 6.875% bonds credit period taken for trade purchases is control and could result in termination or due 2024 and the 325m 5.250% bonds due 32days 2016: 34 days.
rejection from further participation in the 2022, upon a change of control of the Post-balance sheet events relevant competitions.
Company, provided that certain further There have been no material post-balance thresholds in relation to the credit rating of the c Significant shareholders agreements sheet events as at the date of this report.
bonds are met, the bondholders have the The Group, through First Rail Holdings Limited, option to require the Company to redeem the Management Report has shareholders agreements governing its bonds.
In respect of the US$100m 4.26% The Strategic report and the Directors report relationship with MTR Corporation in relation notes due from 2016 to 2017, upon a change together are the management report for the tothe recently awarded South Western rail of control, the Company must make an offer to purposes of the FCAs Disclosure, Guidance franchise and with Trenitalia for the purposes noteholders to prepay the entire unpaid and Transparency Rule 4.1.
of bidding for and, if successful, operating principal amount of the notes held by each theWest Coast Partnership and East bondholder at par together with interest Midlands franchises.
As is customary, these accrued thereon but without any yield agreements include provisions addressing maintenance amount.
82 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance The Groups corporate planning processes likely degree of effectiveness of current and Viability Statement include completion of a strategic review, available mitigating actions that could be In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the preparation of a medium-term business plan takento avoid or reduce the impact or Code, the Directors have assessed the and a quarterly re-forecast of current year occurrence of such risks.
The scenarios viability of the Group over a three-year business performance.
The plans and considered were: 1 a weak economy and period, taking into account the Groups projections prepared as part of these adverse operating environment reflecting a current position and thepotential impact of corporate planning processes consider the hard Brexit : 2 a weak economy, the principal risks setout above.
Based on Groups cash flows, committed funding and heightened terrorism and increased this assessment, the Directors confirm that liquidity positions, forecast future funding environmental pressures: and 3 a situation they have a reasonable expectation that the requirements, banking covenants and other where credit markets are effectively closed.
Group will be able to continue in operation key financial ratios, including those relevant and meet itsliabilities as they fall due over The Board confirms that in making this to maintaining the Groups existing theperiod to31 March 2020. statement it carried out a robust assessment investment grade status.
It also considers of the principal risks facing the Group, Whilst the Directors have no reason to the ability of the Group to deploy capital.
including those that would threaten its believe the Group will not be viable over Akey assumption underpinning these business model, future performance, alonger period, the period over which the corporate planning processes are that solvency or liquidity.
Directors consider it possible to form a creditmarkets will be sufficiently fluid to reasonable expectation as to the Groups enable the Group to refinance its bonds.
longer-term isthe three-year period to In making their assessment, the Directors 31March 2020.
Thisperiod reflects the tookaccount of the potential financial and Groups corporate planning processes operational impacts, in severe but plausible andisconsidered appropriate for a fast scenarios, of the principal risks which might moving competitive environment such threaten the Groups viability during the aspassenger transport.
three-year period to 31 March 2020 and the Going Concern Statement unsecured bond debt.
The Group has an on this review, the Directors believe that the The Group has established a strong 800m committed revolving banking facility Company and the Group have adequate balanced portfolio of businesses with of which 800m 2016: 800m was resources to continue in operational approximately 50% of Group revenues undrawn at the year end.
This facility has existence for the foreseeable future.
secured under medium-term contracts amaturity of July 2021.
Accordingly, the financial statements have withgovernment agencies and other large been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors have carried out a detailed organisations in the UK and North America.
review of the Groups budget for the year to The Group has a diversified funding structure 31 March 2018 and medium-term plans, with with average debt duration at 31 March 2017 due regard for the risks and uncertainties to of 3.6 years 2016: 4.4 years and which is which the Group is exposed, the uncertain largely represented by medium-term economic climate and the impact that this unsecured bank facilities and long-term could have on trading performance.
Based The Directors Report was approved on behalf of the Board on 1 June 2017.
Michael Hampson General Counsel & Company Secretary 1 June 2017 395 King Street, Aberdeen AB24 5RP FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 83
