Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive Chief Financial officer Chairman Appointed: May 2015 and became Chairman Appointed: 2009 and became Chief Executive Appointed: 2015 inJuly 2015 in2010 Key areas of prior expertise: Finance, M&A Key areas of prior expertise: Governance, Key areas of prior expertise: Transportation, Skills and experience: Matthew has strong Strategy Strategy financial and operational expertise, including Skills and experience: Starting his career with Skills and experience: Tim brings to the Board strategic and financial planning and control, as various research activities covering also road trafc awealth of international transport management wellas extensive international experience of driving safety, Wolfhart went on to establish and lead a experience gained over a number of years in the performance improvement and restructuring.
broad range of successful international service sector.
Prior to joining the Company, he was Former Group Finance Director of Essentra plc, industry businesses.
He was Chief Executive of Managing Director, London Underground, having having previously been Director of Corporate Intertek Group plc for ten years until he retired previously been at Transport for London.
He was Development as well as having held a number inMay2015.
He was previously Chief Executive President and Chief Executive of Consolidated Rail ofsenior finance roles.
His early career was officer CEO and President of TV Sddeutschland Corporation and a Non-Executive Director of CSX spentat Rank Group plc and Ernst & Young.
AG for four years and CEO of TV product services Corporation until March 2017.
Nationality: British for ten years.
Nationality: American British Other appointments: independent Non-Executive Director of Associated British Foods plc and Senior Independent Director of RELX Group plc.
Martha Poulter Group Employee Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 26 May 2017 Appointed: 2014 Appointed: 26 May 2017 Key areas of prior expertise: Bus Industry, Key areas of prior expertise: Marketing, Strategy Key areas of prior expertise: IT, Business Employee Relations, Employee Engagement, Safety Skills and experience: Drummond brings to the Process Transformation Skills and experience: Jimmy has been a Board a wealth of experience gained across a Skills and experience: Marthas experience busdriver for almost 40 years and is currently number of customer-focused businesses in the intechnology spans the telecommunications, employed as a bus driver for First Eastern UK, Europe and the US.
He was formerly Chief financial services, and hospitality industries.
She Counties, one of the Groups bus operations.
An Executive of Dairy Crest Group plc, prior to which was most recently the Executive Vice President Employee Director for First Eastern Counties Buses his career was spent mainly with Procter & Gamble, andChief Information officer CIO of Starwood Ltd. for more than a decade, he was also elected Mars and PepsiCo.
He has also been Chairman Hotels& Resorts Worldwide and, prior to that, as the regional Employee Director for Norfolk and and a Non-Executive Director of Mitchells & Butlers shewas Vice President of General Electric and Essex.
Safety is a passion for Jimmy and as such plc and a Non-Executive Director of Taylor Nelson CIOof GECapital with global responsibility for IT he is aBe Safe champion.
experience working on projects for different Other appointments: Senior Independent Other appointments: Board Director of Norwalk departments within FirstGroup, he has a unique Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Community College Foundation wealth of experience of employee engagement.
Remuneration Committee of WH Smith plc Nationality: American Nationality: British andofTheSage Group plc.
Nationality: British 44 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Board Committees A R A 4.
Warwick Brady A Audit Committee Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director R Remuneration Committee Appointed: 24 February 2017 Appointed: 2014 N Nomination Committee Key areas of prior expertise: Finance, M&A, Key areas of prior expertise: Transportation International Business Skills and experience: Warwick has a strong B Board Safety Committee Skills and experience: Richard has served as track record of delivering restructuring, cost Chair Finance Director of private and listed businesses reduction and modernisation programmes.
From 2007 until retiring in 2016 previous roles include Chief Executive of Mandala he was Group Finance Director of Carillion plc.
Prior Airlines in Asia, Deputy Operations Director at to this he was Group Finance Director of Associated Ryanair plc and Chief Operating officer at Air Executive Committee: British Ports Holdings plc for seven years.
He was also Deccan Kingsher in India and easyJet plc.
previously Non-Executive Director and Chair ofthe Warwick also held board positions at Airline Group supports the Chief Audit Committee of SSL International plc.
Hequalied and NATS, the UKs airspace provider, and was Executive inthe day-to-day as a chartered accountant with KPMG in 1982.
running of the Group Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of Other appointments: Deputy Chief Executive Countryside Properties plc, Countrywide plc and officer CEO of Stobart Group Ltd until 1 July 2017 In addition to the Chief Executive, who BMT Group Ltd: Chair of the Audit Committee of when he will become CEO and strategic Board chairsit, and the Chief Financial officer, Countryside Properties plc and Countrywide plc: Advisor at Vistair Systems Ltd. itsmembers are: Chair designate of the Audit Committee of BMT Nationality: British Constance Baroudel Group Ltd: Senior Independent Director of Director of Strategy & Operational Performance Countryside Properties plc.
Nationality: British Rachael Borthwick Group Corporate Services Director Giles Fearnley Managing Director, First Bus Michael Hampson General Counsel & Company Secretary Dave Leach President, Greyhound Dennis Maple President, First Student Steve Montgomery R N B Managing Director, First Rail 9.
Jim Winestock B N A Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Brad Thomas President, First Transit Appointed: 2014 Appointed: 2012 Key areas of prior expertise: Remuneration, HR Key areas of prior expertise: Distribution Skills and experience: Imelda brings Skills and experience: Jim brings to the Board considerable experience to the Board gained considerable operational experience gained within across a number of sectors, as well as a large complex organisation, together with a  practice skills.
He has served in a wasformerly Non-Executive Director and Chair number of senior roles and was a member of the ofthe Remuneration Committee of Sainsburys management committee during his career at Bank plc and Mothercare plc and has held senior United Parcel Service, Inc, latterly as Senior Vice executive roles at JSainsbury plc where she President and Director of US operations and global wasGroup HR Director, Barclays Bank plc and security with responsibility for all US operations and Coca-Cola & Schweppes Beverages Limited.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of and Chair of the Remuneration Committees of YRC Worldwide, Inc: also serves on the Board of William Hill plc and Mitchells & Butlers plc.
two not-for-profit organisations in the US.
Nationality: British Nationality: American FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 45
