Our market 4.9bn Invested in office transactions in Q1 2017.
1m Small or Medium-Sized Enterprises in London.
London Bridge: well connected 2016: The impact of political change It is vital for our properties to 2016 was one of the most politically turbulent be well connected and many are years of the last decade, thanks in no small part situated in clusters around major transport hubs.
Within walking to Britains vote to leave the EU.
The property distance of London Bridge, one market was not immune and London commercial of the busiest commuter areas of London, we have four business and residential property prices fell as an centres, including the Metal Box immediate reaction to the EU vote, while listed Factory and The Leather Market.
London office companies saw share price falls.
Looking up However, investors seem to have warmed to commercial property in London once again as they see that it can offer stability in this politically challenging time, particularly with further political uncertainty emerging in other international markets.
A return to commercial property investment in the first quarter of 1 2017 a total of 4.9bn worth of transactions shows investors have not been deterred in the longer term.
In London, a total of 13 deals of more than 100m transacted in Q1 2017 compared with 11 in Q4 2016.
Overseas investors once again dominated these deals: accounting for 80% 2 of all transactions by volume in Q1 2017.
The Central London office market remains an attractive option for investors as prime West End and City yields remained stable 3 at 3.50% and 4.25% respectively in Q1 2017.
4Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Passenger journeys in London What this means for Workspace Londons opportunity London continues to be a The resilience of the flexible London office vibrant cultural and business market is clear.
The Capital continues to be a centre, where companies want 279.1m to be based.
vibrant home for business, with a growing base 12-month moving average of London Underground and bus of more than one million Small or Medium-Sized passenger journeys.
Furthermore, a survey conducted in 2015 found that more than 90% of jobs in millions London were in the service sectors that primarily fill Workspace business centres.
200 175 As companies embrace collaboration, agility, 150 networking and state-of-the-art design, Workspace is well positioned to capitalise on 125 the opportunities presented by Londons real 100 estate market.
As information technology rapidly advances, technology that supports knowledge 75 2007 08 2008 09 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 sharing and connectivity is now the most London Underground Bus 5 important factor in workplace performance.
Mobile devices and applications have enabled high mobility and continuous remote access to networks and data, raising expectations of workplace connectivity.
Workspaces worldJob creation at private What this means for Workspace sector firms We continue to see strong class technology infrastructure tailored to demand for our space from individual business needs with unlimited data Londons businesses, the majority of which are privately usage and connectivity speed continues to 52.8 owned.
drive repeat business with existing tenants.
Purchasing Managers Index, Employment Index.
Seasonally adjusted index 50 indicates no change on previous month 65 60 55 50 45 40 35 Jan 09 Jan 10 Jan 11 Jan 12 Jan 13 Jan 14 Jan 15 Jan 16 Jan 17 Source: IHS Markit.
Source: Knight Frank Central London Offices Q1 2017.
Source: House of Commons Briefing Paper on Business statistics.
Source: The Workplace Performance Survey, Cushman & Wakefields The Occupier Edge 2017 report.
5Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our market continued The Workspace Advantage As more companies seek to reduce overheads Amidst the shifting economic climate, and grow, the movement towards flexibility Workspaces leading-edge offering is proving offers an attractive opportunity.
Now, larger increasingly appealing to small and growing companies are embracing new ways of working, businesses looking for stability and commercial prioritising flexible and co-working spaces to advantage in London.
This year the real estate help drive growth while avoiding getting tied market has seen an even greater demand for into longer leases.
By the end of this year, nearly the principles that underpin the Workspace 1.2 million people worldwide will have worked in Advantage: greater flexibility: technology a co-working space rising to an expected four 1 infrastructure without limits: and dynamic million by 2020. environments that encourage networking and knowledge exchange.
Responding to market trends Market trend Workspace response The number of small businesses is expanding.
We have an established brand and unique offer, allowing us to capitalise on this growing pool of prospective customers.
We continue to add business centre space across London and expect to deliver more than one million sq.
ft. of new and upgraded space over the next three years.
Market trend Workspace response Expectations for commercial property rental growth are tapering.
Our completed refurbishments and redevelopments are continuing to attract strong customer demand and delivered double-digit rental growth this year.
We have a pipeline of refurbishments and redevelopments to meet the ongoing demand and are targeting acquisitions in areas where we expect to see robust growth.
Market trend Workspace response The business rates revaluation saw rates in many sub-markets More than half of our customers may qualify for Small Business significantly increase.
Rates Relief given their size and that they pay rates directly to the local council.
In addition, we could see increased demand for our space in areas of London with lower business rates.
Market trend Workspace response The continued growth of the digital economy and rapid technological We offer best-in-class technology infrastructure to suit our digitally advancements are driving demand for cutting-edge connected disruptive customers.
Ownership of the buildings allows constant services infrastructure in the workplace.
evolution of the model in order to meet changing customer requirements, including installation of technology infrastructure that places no limits on customers business activity.
Market trend Workspace response Sustainability both environmental and social is increasingly We are driving employee and customer engagement on embraced by all businesses, who want to ensure they are having a sustainability through a variety of initiatives, such as waste positive impact on their environment and on the wider community.
We are part of the Better Building Partnership, helping to share industry best practice and ideas via quarterly working groups.
In addition, we have set a number of robust new environmental targets this year, including to reduce energy and water consumption in our building operations and to further enhance customer engagement to improve the environmental performance of our buildings.
Market trend Workspace response Office occupiers are expressing an interest in healthy workplaces, Our offer is personalised, with each space tailored to the individual which increase staff engagement and productivity whilst reducing customers needs.
Staff wellbeing is central to the Workspace absenteeism.
product with office space designed with natural light, clean air and agile co-working spaces to encourage movement, social interaction and to deter sedentary working.
6Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
