Our business model Key inputs How we create and capture value 1.
What we need to be able Financial strength Add value to our properties Acquisition and ongoing to create value Strong cash flow and prudent We own all our properties ownership of freehold Workspace has a number of balance sheet management and operate them to generate Workspace acquires the freehold key resources and relationships allow us to execute our strategy.
income over the long term.
that enable us to do business We have a strong pipeline Owning the freehold enables and deliver value to all our The right people of refurbishment and us to constantly upgrade and stakeholders.
Workspace employees have a redevelopment projects transform our properties to customer-first mentality and and will also take advantage increase their value and drive For more on our resources specialist expertise in their fields.
of acquisition opportunities rental growth.
We will dispose of and relationships, see pages to further grow the business.
properties where we believe we 26 to 31.
Our properties can no longer add value or if the We have a portfolio of high For more on how we property falls below our robust have added value to our quality, well-located assets return targets.
properties over the last year, turn to our Business Review We reposition Market insight on pages 41 to 47.
We carry out light internal Our 30-year history provides refurbishments to enhance both deep knowledge of London pricing and property values.
real estate and customer insight.
We refurbish Sustainable approach We have a rolling programme We work hard to improve our of refurbishments to upgrade or practices internally and actively expand our existing properties encourage contractors and and grow our footprint in customers to do the same.
A thriving community We redevelop Our success is dependent on We generate value through the strong relationships we build intensifying use at existing with our customers, suppliers sites, often creating brand new and partners and our local business centres in partnership communities.
Centre Managers Our Centre Managers play a crucial Clerkenwell Workshops role in building a community in our We are carrying out refurbishment business centres, this year hosting works, upgrading both the internal 180 customer events.
14Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Value creation for all stakeholders 3.
Adding value for Creating value for Investors Connectivity our customers Workspace invests in all stakeholders Sustainable operating income Workspace markets to all kinds In executing our strategy, and capital value enhancement state-of-the-art technology of businesses across London infrastructure to ensure we aim to generate positive driven by rental growth has lead and our unique customer offer outcomes for all our to a 40% dividend increase and customers can work how is a key differentiator.
Workspace Advantage has three core elements.
Personalisation For more on how we protect People our resources and build We are committed to the There are no constraints placed For more information on the on our customers, with flexible mutually beneficial constant development of our Workspace Advantage, see relationships, see pages lease terms, a range of spaces people to ensure that we attract, pages 7 to 13. and secure, unlimited data 26 to 31. motivate and retain talented and downloads and uploads.
For more on dividend growth, turn to our Business Review Communities Customers Workspace customers are on pages 41 to 47.
Direct contact ensures better connected to each other via understanding of our customers, a range of networking and allowing us to meet their needs.
business insight events run by our Centre Managers.
Suppliers and partners Being part of a neighbourhood We carefully select partners who community provides a range of add value to our customer offer, benefits, from social connections while they benefit from building to insights that support relationships with Londons business growth.
Communities We play a strong and responsible role in our local communities who benefit from our desire to do the right thing.
Partners that add value The Workspace Advantage Alongside Excell, our preferred digital Julia Janosa, Interior Designer at partner, we are constantly investing Jigsaw Interior Architecture, based at in our infrastructure to deliver award Kennington Park, was featured in our winning, fast and secure connected creative advertising campaign.
15Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
