Strategic report B usiness model and strategy Simple, affordable, reliable and fairconnectivity for everyone Market opportunity supported by regulation The UKs fixed line market is structurally attractive for an existing There is also a clear history of pro-competition regulation in our scale value for money connectivity provider such as TalkTalk.
industry in the last decade.
Such regulation has been targeted atcurtailing the powers of BT as the incumbent provider andhas It would require a sizeable investment, in time and money, to roll promoted development of retail competitors on a national scale.
outanew nationwide unbundled architecture comparable with Webelieve that Ofcom will continue its policy to restrain BTsability ours.
Anysuch development would be extremely technologically to abuse its dominant market position, which will ensureaccess to challenging given, among other things, physical constraints in its core infrastructure on fair terms.
BTORsexchanges where our network equipment ishoused andBTORs capacity to deliver connections in thoseexchanges.
Against this backdrop, there has been a trend towards product bundling over the last decade, with fixed line connectivity the At present, the only technological substitute for fixed line connectivity dominant anchor product to which customers have added TV 04 is wireless data and voice traffic through a mobile network.
In 2016, 68% of UK households subscribed data transportation via a mobile network is significantly more tobundled services.
The vast majority of these were fixed voice and expensive, radio spectrum availability is constrained and finite broadband 29% of households and fixed voice, broadband and TV andthere is no evidence that such technological and economic 28% of households.
The proportion of households subscribing to impediments could easily be overcome in the near future.
This is bundled services increased significantly from 29%in 2005 and from against a backdrop ofexponentially growing data usage, driven by 50% in 2010, driven by the growth insupply of triple play bundled device proliferation andvideo consumption, where mobile users are services Source: Ofcom: The Communications Market Report expected to increase their data traffic from 0.96gb month in2015 to August 2016.
However, the UKcontinues to lag behind other 5.6gb month in 2020, and households to increase their fixed line European countries in the take-up ofbundled products, in part traffic from 84.5gb month in 2015 to 202.1gb month in2020 because of the historic separation offixed and mobile network Source: Cisco.
The acquisition by BT ofEE in 2016 is expected to accelerate the trend for bundling fixedand mobile propositions, withTalkTalk well placed to deliver such propositions in the value formoney segment.
As a result of these characteristics, whilst the market for our 202.1gb services is promotionally intense, it is fundamentally rational month interms of price setting, allowing for simple and clear pricing.
estimated fixed line traffic by 2020 68% of UK households subscribed tobundled services in 2016 08 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Our strategy Our purpose is to offer simple, affordable, reliable and fair connectivity for everyone, andto drive profitable growth in the customer base and revenues within a framework of disciplined capital expenditure, cash generation and leverage reduction.
We will do this by: Growing our Retail proposition 1 Driving sustained momentum in TTB 2 Improving our operating efficiency through a customer-focused operating structure 3 4 Leveraging and expanding our network capability Simple, affordable, reliable and fair connectivity Profitable growth Sustained momentum inRetail inTTB Customer experience and  Network capability For more information on how we manage 27 our business, see our values For more information on our 10 strategy, see over the page Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 09 Strategic report B usiness model and strategy continued Profitable growth in Retail Sustained momentum in TTB 1 2 Network capability, cost advantage and the ability to offer The same network cost advantage that underpins our Retail multiple value for money services has enabled us to build a business has also allowed us to build and scale a growing B2B large and sustainable share approximately 16% of the UK fixed business with revenues of over 624m in the year ended line broadband market source: Ofcom.
TTB offers an extensive range position to drive growth in our TV approximately 35% of phone offixed line services to our B2B customers, and is a significant and broadband base, Mobile approximately 25% of phone and and fast growing part of the business.
We serve the connectivity broadband base and FTTC approximately 25% of phone and needs ofover 180,000 businesses, from national retailers, to broadband base bases.
sole traders and public sector customers nationwide.
We offer awiderange of voice and data solutions to customers ranging We offer a clear and simple tariff structure, low prices, flexibility from small office home office and SME customers, through and the ability to take additional services such as Mobile and TV.
We have a clear strategy Atthe beginning of October 2016, we launched a radically simpler offocusing only on connectivity which allows us to work with range of FLPP inclusive of line rental: Fast Broadband and Faster partners such as consumer-facing resellers and large systems Fibre Broadband.
These new plans give customers the freedom integrators.
Thus, while we access the market directly and tochoose and fix their own package for 12, 18 or 24 months by through partner channels, approximately 80% of TTBs tailoring mix-and-match broadband, mobile, TV and landline calls revenues are generated through wholesale partners.
Through to suit their needs.
Uniquely in the market, we also made these new the partner channel, we are one of only three network providers plans available to all of our existing customers on legacy tariffs in the UK to offer wholesale phone and broadband services to such as Simply Broadband, Essentials TV and Plus TV.
Existing independent internet service providers such as the Post Office and new customers have responded extremely well to the new and Utility Warehouse, for whom in total we service nearly plans, reflecting the attractiveness of our simple and clear pricing.
900,000 end customers on our network.
TTBs growth strategy Atthe end of March 2017 nearly 1 million out of 2.9 million Retail is primarily focused on its suite of high-speed Ethernet products, customers were onFLPP.
which have delivered strong growth in revenues for the division There is compelling evidence that FLPP is delivering not only over the last three years.
reduced churn, but happier, more satisfied customers.
The vast Our market share of Ethernet circuits 10%12% offers significant majority of customers are signing up to 24 month contracts, wanting further opportunities for growth, supported by the pricing certainty in pricing and services: early life churn on the FLPP optionality from favourable Ethernet and dark fibre regulation.
base is less than 1% compared to much higher levels on the We are seeing an increasing number of small businesses in our legacy base: FLPP customers' reported Net Promoter Score is future pipeline of high-speed Ethernet products as they transition significantly higher than for non-FLPP customers: and TalkTalk to hosted voice products.
We are also growing the pipeline with brand satisfaction has grown in each of the last four months large corporates looking to take advantage of our new managed Source:GfKCustomer Experience Tracker March 2017. network products.
Having expanded our portfolio of data products This, coupled with simpler, better value propositions for new to offer a complete portfolio of FTTC and Ethernet products, customers, materially improving customer service and reducing we expect to see strong demand from both our partners and costs per add, underpins our confidence in driving subscriber direct customers.
The number of partners wholesaling FTTC growth in our Retail base through gross adds activity in FY18.
from us has grown in the last year and we expect continued growth in this area, including from new dark fibre-based We currently provide mobile services to our phone and broadband products that we will develop in line with our network strategy.
customers through a Mobile Virtual Network Operator agreement with Vodafone, that we were due to transition to Telefnica UK during 2017.
As we reorganise the business under our new leadership team to focus on fewer, clearer priorities that are focused on investment in our core fixed network, we have decided not to pursue a capital intensive mobile network strategy, and instead will work with Telefnica UK onthe right platform and customer offering.
Our TV proposition has been built on the YouView platform ajoint venture between the Group, BT, Arqiva and the UKs public service broadcasters BBC, ITV, Channel 4 and Channel 5, an internetenabled television service delivered via a dedicated set top box with differentiated catch-up and on-demand services, and an open platform for future application-driven innovation.
We also provide access to content for broadband customers without a set top box, through the TalkTalk TV App.
Our TV offer is unique in the market for the breadth of our content offer and the flexibility of access that customers enjoy, without any mandatory subscription or buy-through requirements.
10 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017 Customer experience and Network capability operational excellence 3 4 We have a proven track record of operational improvement.
Our fixed line network currently covers approximately 96% Since the Demerger in 2010, we have delivered over 230m ofthe UKs homes.
The only comparable fixed line unbundled ofcost savings through integration, back-office and systems, network is operated by Sky, which covers approximately 90% andprocess simplification programmes.
This began with the ofthe UKs population.
Virgin Medias and Vodafones fixed line integration of the Tiscali business in 2010, and culminated in unbundled networks only cover approximately 55% and 60% ourmost wide-ranging operational improvement programme, ofthe countrys population respectively.
MTTS was launched in 2013 to deliver material customer network is the unbundling equipment digital subscriber line service improvements, drive operating cost savings, reduce access multiplexers, multi-service access nodes and Ethernet subscriber acquisition costs and, ultimately, create a simpler switches that we have installed in over 3,000 BT exchanges business.
The programme isnowsubstantially complete with the largest such deployment in the UK.
This allows us to utilise total cost savings of over 87m from its introduction in 2013 to the copper line that connects customer premises to the March 2017.
These savings have helped us to mitigate underlying exchange.
The exchanges are connected via collector nodes cost increases from the growing demands on our network as and 10Gbps collector rings to more than 4,000 miles of our customers data usage hasgrown.
dark fibre core optical network a high-speed, high-capacity all-IP national backbone that enables efficient and flexible Delivering better quality at a reduced cost of operation is routing of voice and data traffic.
The size and all-IP nature of fundamental to our growth expectations.
Further simplifying our network also allows us to scale it very efficiently for growing ourservice footprint and customer insight systems: reducing usage, while driving down unit costs.
thecosts of failure: and better leveraging our procurement and cost assurance processes will allow us to continue investing in In 2016, we completed the first phase of our backhaul upgrade our network and customer propositions.
Over the medium from 1gb to 10gb circuits to deliver significant improvements term, this will result in a fundamentally higher quality of in network performance for our FTTC customers.
We also operation and reduce our cost revenue ratio, whilst also completed our Next Generation Edge NGE programme of allowing us to reinvest efficiencies into further customer upgrading all regional nodes within our fixed line network, and experience improvements.
up-weighted 90 exchanges onthe new Next Generation Access NGA architecture by the end of March 2017.
Weexpect another 1,000 exchanges to be completed overthenext 1218 months.
We have made excellent progress with our FTTP trial in York.
Theinitial roll-out to over 14,000 homes was completed in March 2017, with penetration of serviceable homes at c. 27% c. 2,500 of whom are TalkTalk customers.
Build costs were under our 500 per home target, with take-up and customer satisfaction also ahead of targets.
Following the success of this first phase, work has now begun on the planning work to extend the network to a further 40,000 premises across the rest of York.
Continuing investment in the network over the next two years will focus on delivering a simpler, more resilient architecture that will future-proof the network and allow us to support the expected increase in capacity utilisation at reduced unit costs, and significantly mitigate future network operating costs that otherwise would grow substantially as we expand our Ethernet, FTTC and FTTP bases.
We expect this investment to fall within our normalised 6%7% of revenue commitment and will include a fully upgraded access layer switches and backhaul with over1,000 exchanges equipped with 10gb backhaul circuits.
We also plan to scale dark fibre deployment across the entirenetwork, helped by a more favourable regulatory pricingenvironment.
Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 11
