Overview Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report How we differentiate ourselves in the market ADVERT TO GO HERE A unique customer offer.
Welcome to the Workspace Advantage.
7Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 How we differentiate ourselves in the market continued How it works: Connectivity Powering all businesses Workspace customers are wired differently.
Their attitude to office space is that it can be an asset to their business and can deliver long-term growth and success.
At Workspace, we share that attitude and are wired to heed customer needs, which is why the business has invested in We are given the freedom to make the space productive.
equipping our business centres with a state-ofWe want people to enjoy work.
The onsite caf stocks Jing products, which adds to the community feeling.
Jamie Haselhurst Jing Tea, based at Kennington Park, SW9 Personalisation Customers choose what they need to grow There are no limits placed on our customers.
We understand that businesses are dynamic and require tailored business environments.
We dont constrain customers within the four walls of their office Workspace business centres are equipped with well-designed breakout areas, co-working lounges and meeting rooms, ideal for brainstorming or networking.
Unlimited data downloads and uploads, at superfast speeds, allow customers to work however they choose.
Communities Open to all of London Businesses choose Workspace to be super connected.
Our customers have access to a range of networking and social events and opportunities to meet the neighbours often lead to business growth and fruitful partnerships.
In addition, our dedicated Wi-Fi network installed throughout our portfolio keeps customers connected wherever and however they choose to work.
8Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report Who its for: A broad appeal The Workspace Advantage can apply to every type of business.
For freelancers and start-ups, for established small companies and larger corporates, Workspace provides a tailored offer that allows our customers to focus on running their business.
Under one umbrella, there are so many different companies.
For us, it was all about the diversity and versatility.
It feels like a mini-Google and... we really loved how interactive it felt.
Brian Wade TF Associates, based at Metal Box Factory, SE1 9Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 How we differentiate ourselves in the market continued ISLINGTON The opportunity: 100% ownership allows us to deliver the Workspace Advantage across our portfolio.
SHOREDITCH Our portfolio KINGS CROSS 68 properties across London provide a strong pipeline of refurbishment and redevelopment STRATFORD BETHNAL projects to be delivered in the medium term.
GREEN OLD STREET FARRINGDON PADDINGTON WEST END THE CITY LONDON CANARY BRIDGE WHARF WATERLOO VICTORIA EARLS COURT KENNINGTON BATTERSEA 10Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report ISLINGTON SHOREDITCH KINGS CROSS STRATFORD BETHNAL GREEN OLD STREET FARRINGDON PADDINGTON WEST END THE CITY LONDON CANARY BRIDGE WHARF WATERLOO VICTORIA EARLS COURT KENNINGTON Like-for-like Acquisitions Redevelopments BATTERSEA Refurbishments Crossrail Northern Line extension 11Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 How we differentiate ourselves in the market continued The Workspace Advantage in numbers: The Workspace Advantage has not only enabled us to deliver strong financial results over the year but also entails a huge amount of operational activity at our headquarters and across our portfolio, as well as the work we do to support the wider communities in which we operate.
12Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview Our Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Report 68 1,187 Properties in London.
0.85m 889 Hits on our customer website.
31,489 79 Raised by Workspace staff and customers InspiresMe students given work for charity.
38,000 20,000 Mobile devices connected on our managed Users on our managed Wi-Fi infrastructure Wi-Fi infrastructure installed at 16 of our centres.
installed at 16 of our centres.
13Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
