Directors report Dairy Crest Group plc Company is the holding company of the The assumption has been made that the Group will be able to Dairy Crest Group of Companies Group.
The Directors report source an appropriate level of funding following the cessation of for the year ended 31 March 2017 comprises the Strategic report the 80 million bank facility in October 2018. found at pages 2 to 27, the details of Directors at pages 28 to 29 and the Corporate Governance report at pages 30 to 61.
The Future developments: Future developments are described in the above-mentioned sections are expressly incorporated by reference Strategic report at pages 2 to 21. into this, the Directors report.
Group results: The Groups consolidated income statement is Going concern: The Group and Companys business activities, set out on page 70 and shows a profit for the financial year of together with factors likely to affect future development, 38.3 million compared with a loss of 113.0 million in 2015 16. performance and position are set out in the Strategic report from pages 2 to 21.
The financial position, cash flows, liquidity position Dividends: The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 16.3p 2015 16: 16.0p per ordinary share which, if approved, will and borrowing facilities are described in the financial review on be paid to members whose name appears on the register at the pages 12 to 15 which also form part of the Strategic report.
In close of business on 7 July 2017.
Together, the final dividend and addition, Notes 31 and 32 to the Accounts include the Group and interim dividend 6.2p per ordinary share paid on 28 January 2017 Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its make total dividends for the year of 22.5p per ordinary share capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its 2015 2016: 22.1p.
financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
As highlighted in Note 31, the Directors: Details of the Directors of the Company are set out at Company and Group meet day-to-day working capital pages 28 to 29. requirements through syndicated revolving credit facilities and cash to ensure that forecast net borrowings plus reasonable operating Directors interests: Details of the Directors interests in the headroom are covered by committed facilities which mature at shares of the Company, including those of their immediate families, least 12 months after the year end.
At 31 March 2017, effective appear in the Directors Remuneration report on page 56.
There were no breaches of bank Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and officers covenants in the year ended 31 March 2017 and projections do not and those of its subsidiaries.
The Directors, Company Secretary indicate any breaches in the foreseeable future.
Having reviewed and other officers of the Company and those of its subsidiaries are and taken into account Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: indemnified by the Company to the extent permitted by company Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, published by the law.
That indemnity provision has been in place during the year Financial Reporting Council in October 2009, the Directors are and remains in force.
satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
For this Disclosure of information to the Auditor: Each Director reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing confirms that as far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit the financial statements.
information of which the Companys external auditor, EY, is unaware and that each Director has taken all steps he or she ought Viability statement: In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any Corporate Governance Code 2014, the Directors have assessed relevant audit information and to establish that the external auditor the viability of the Group over a three year period.
The Directors is aware of that information.
have determined that a three year period to 31 March 2020 is an appropriate period over which to provide its viability statement.
political Donations: No political donations or expenditures were This is the period reviewed by the Board in the strategic planning made during the year ended 31 March 2017. process where assumptions are made around future growth for the existing business, new market opportunities, investment needs Financial instruments: Information relating to financial and funding requirements of the Group.
A robust financial model of instruments is at pages 113 to 117. the Group is built by product and the metrics for the Groups KPIs and bank covenants are reviewed.
post balance sheet events: Maturity of Fixed Coupon Loan Notes on 4 April 2017 the Group repaid 10.7 million 9.2 million Taking into account the Groups current position and potential Sterling equivalent and 2.8 million of 2007 fixed coupon loan impact of the principal risks documented on pages 16 and 17 of notes on their maturity.
the Annual Report and Accounts, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to research and development: Relevant information is set out in continue to operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the the Strategic report on pages 10 to 11. period to 31 March 2020. employees: We remain committed to employee involvement In making this statement the Board carried out a robust throughout the business.
Employees are kept well informed on the assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those performance and strategy of the Group through a variety of that would threaten its business model, future performance, communication tools, including personal briefings, regular solvency or liquidity.
The Board considers all of the principal risks, meetings, and the Groups intranet.
The Chief Executive and the the likelihood of crystallisation, the potential net profit impact and Executive Committee have held roadshows and employee lunches the mitigating controls.
In assessing the impact of a risk on the at each site during the year.
All employees are invited to attend viability of the Group, the Board has considered the potential these forums to receive an update on the businesss performance impact that the crystallisation of a severe but plausible risk may and its priorities and to ask any questions.
have on the Group meeting its bank covenants.
62 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 The Groups principles of equal opportunities mean that the purchase of own shares: At the AGM on 19 July 2016, training, career development and promotion of disabled persons, shareholders granted the Company authority to make market should as far as possible, be the same as for other employees.
purchases of up to 14,072,690 of its issued ordinary shares of 25 pence each, provided that i the minimum price which may be paid The Group has well-established consultation and negotiating for any such ordinary share is 25 pence exclusive of expenses and arrangements with established trade unions.
appropriate taxes and ii the maximum price exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes which may be paid for any such Share schemes are a long established and successful part of our ordinary share shall be not more than 5% above the average of the total reward package, encouraging and supporting employee share middle market prices for an ordinary share in the Company, as ownership.
Details of the savings-related share option scheme taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the Sharesave Scheme are set out in Note 27 to the financial five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase.
The Company did not exercise this authority during the year and made no market purchases.
issued share capital: The authorised and issued share capital of substantial shareholdings: As far as the Company is aware, the the Company together with details of movements in the Companys only holder of more than 3% of, or 3% of voting rights attributable issued share capital during 2016 17 are shown in Note 25 to the to, the Companys issued ordinary share capital on 31 March 2017, financial statements at page 105.
At the date of this Directors is indicated in the table below: report there were 141,072,297 ordinary shares of 25 pence each in issue, all of which are fully paid up and quoted on the London Notified Stock Exchange with an aggregate nominal value of 35,268,074. percentage of Notified No.
of issued share rights and obligations attaching to shares: The holders of shares capital ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Report and Black Rock, Inc. 7,729,917 5.47 Accounts: to attend and speak at General Meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
To be No disclosable changes in interests in the share capital of the effective, electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting Company have been notified to the Company between 1 April 2017 instructions must be received at the Companys registered office, to 17 May 2017. or such other place in the United Kingdom specified in the relevant notice of meeting, not later than 48 hours before a General Articles of association: Changes to the Articles must be Meeting.
None of the shares carry any special rights with regard to approved by the shareholders in accordance with applicable control of the Company.
There are no known arrangements under legislation.
The Articles are available on our website.
which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share significant agreements change of control: There are a transfers or on voting rights.
Shares acquired through company number of agreements to which the Company or its subsidiaries is share schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control and have no special rights.
of the Company following a takeover bid.
Details of the significant agreements of this kind are as follows: purchase of shares: The Directors have the authority to purchase up to 14,072,690 million of the Companys ordinary Borrowing facilities Non-compliance with the change of control shares.
The authority remains valid until the AGM in 2017. clauses in the Groups funding arrangements, or failure to reach agreement with the parties on revised terms, would require any transfer of shares: Subject to applicable laws and regulations, acquirer to put in place replacement facilities.
there are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of any class of shares and no requirements for prior approval of any Supply agreements Certain supply agreements contain transfers.
provisions whereby on a change of control of the Group, they may be terminable.
Accordingly, a change of control of the Group could share schemes: Details of the employee Sharesave Scheme are result in the need for the Group to source alternative supply for set out in Note 27 to the financial statements.
The Company has a certain materials or services.
discretionary employees benefit trust, The Dairy Crest Employees Share Ownership Plan Trust ESOPT funded by gifts to acquire No compensation for loss of office: The Company does not shares for the potential benefit of employees.
Details of shares held have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide by the ESOPT at 31 March 2017 are set out on page 106.
During compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a the year shares have been released by the ESOPT in respect of takeover, except that provisions of the Companys share schemes share schemes for employees.
The trustee of the ESOPT has the and plans may cause options and awards granted to employees power to exercise all voting rights in relation to any investment under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
including ordinary shares held within the ESOPT.
issue of shares: At the AGM on 19 July 2016, shareholders renewed the authority for the Board under the Articles to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 23,454,480.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 63 Governance DIRECTORS' REPORT CONTINUED pensions: The Company employs only the Executive Directors.
Most employees in the Group are employed by the Companys main subsidiary, Dairy Crest Limited.
Relevant companies within the Group became subject to the automatic enrolment regulations on 1 April 2013.
Depending on their grade, effective from 1 April 2013 employees either enter the auto enrolled pension arrangements for the Group which are provided by Zurich or into the Groups defined contribution pension scheme also provided by Zurich.
The Groups defined benefit pension fund is closed to future accrual and is now in run-off.
It remains under the control of a corporate trustee, Dairy Crest Pension Trustees Limited, the board of which comprises four directors nominated by Dairy Crest Limited and three directors elected by all members.
Its assets are held separately from those of the Group and can only be used in accordance with the rules of the fund.
Greenhouse gas emissions: The Company is required to report annually on the quantity of carbon dioxide equivalent emissions in tonnes emitted as a result of activities for which it is responsible.
Details of our emissions during the year ended 31 March 2017 and the actions which the Group has taken to reduce them are set out on pages 22 to 23 and form part of the Directors report disclosures.
Directors responsibility statement: The responsibility statement required under DTR 4.1 is set out on page 65.
Branch offices outside the UK: The Company has no branch offices.
Annual general meeting: The AGM will be held at Eversheds Sutherland International LLP, One Wood Street, London, EC2V 7WS on Tuesday, 18 July 2017 at 12pm.
The Notice of Meeting will be issued separately, together with details of the business to be considered and explanatory notes relating to each of the resolutions being proposed.
Auditor: The Group has appointed Deloitte LLP as the external auditor for the year commencing 1 April 2017.
A resolution to appoint Deloitte LLP as the Groups auditor will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
The Groups current auditor, EY, will retire by rotation.
The Directors report from pages 62 to 64 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by robin Miller Company Secretary & General Counsel 17 May 2017 Dairy Crest Group plc Company No: 3162897 64 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017
