Directors report Reporting requirements Share capital The Group is required to produce a Strategic Report complying The rights and obligations relating to the Companys shares are set withthe requirements of Section 414A of the Companies Act 2006 out in the Articles of Association.
The Articles of Association can the Act.
The Group has complied with this requirement and berequested from the Company Secretary at the Companys incorporates a detailed review of the Groups activities, business registered office.
performance and developments during the year and an indication There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the oflikely future developments on pages 1 to 31. capital of the Company other than those which may be imposed The Corporate Governance Statement, as required by Rule 7.2.
1 of bylaw from time to time.
In accordance with the Disclosure and theFinancial Conduct Authority FCA Disclosure and Transparency Transparency Rules, certain employees are required to seek Rules, is set out on pages 36 to 40 of the Corporate Governance approval to deal in the Companys shares.
The Company is not Report and forms part of the Directors Report.
awareof any agreements between shareholders that may result inrestrictions on the transfers of securities and or voting rights.
Suppliers payment policy There is a general right of the Company to purchase its own shares, It is the Companys policy to develop and maintain key commercial as set out in Article 16 of the Companys Articles of Association.
relationships with its suppliers, one aspect of which is payment timing, to obtain mutually agreed payment terms.
The Company Shares held by the Group Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT hascommercially agreed longer credit terms with one of its larger abstain from voting.
Excluding this supplier, the underlying average In addition, at the AGM in 2016, the Company was granted the right credit period taken on trade payables was 50 days 2016: 40 days.
This right expires on the date of the Including this supplier, the average credit period taken was 57 days 2017 AGM or 20 October 2017 whichever is sooner.
The Articles of Association may be changed by special resolution.
Contracts with controlling shareholders Details in the movements in authorised and issued share capital Sir Charles Dunstone is a controlling shareholder within the definition duringthe period are provided in notes 21 and 22 to the consolidated set out in the Listing Rules.
In compliance with Listing Rule 9.2.
the Company has entered into a written and legally binding agreement with Sir Charles Dunstone under which he has agreed to comply with Borrowings and financial instruments the independence provisions set out in Listing Rule 6.1.
4DR by giving The disclosures required in relation to the use of financial instruments the following undertakings to the Company: that any transactions by the Company, including the financial risk management objectives and arrangements with him or his associates will be conducted at and policies including in relation to hedging of the Company: specific arms length and on normal commercial terms, and that neither he quantitative information on borrowings and financial instruments: nor his associates will take any action that would have the effect and the exposure of the Company to foreign exchange risk, interest ofpreventing the Company from complying with the Listing Rules rate risk, liquidity risk, credit risk, can be found in notes 18 and 19 to orpropose a shareholder resolution which is intended or appears the financial statements and the risks and uncertainties section tobe intended to circumvent the proper application of the Listing ofthe Strategic Report on page 25, which are incorporated by Rules.
The Company also confirms that its Articles of Association do reference tothis report.
not prevent the election and re-election of independent Directors to be conducted in accordance with the election provisions set out Appointment of Directors in Listing Rule 9.2.
The rules relating to the appointment and or removal of Directors There are no material contracts with controlling shareholders, arecontained in the Companys Articles of Association.
except as set out above and disclosed in the Directors The powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 62. ofAssociation.
No Director is entitled to any compensation for loss of office onatakeover or change of control of the Company.
Details of Property, plant and equipment employee share schemes are set out in note 5 to the consolidated Movements in property, plant and equipment are set out in note 12 financial statements.
Results and dividends The Group results and dividends for the year ended 31 March 2017 areset out in the consolidated income statement and note 8 on pages 73 and 91 respectively.
The Company may, byresolution inageneral meeting, declare dividends in accordance with the respective rights of the members, but no dividend can exceed theamount recommended by the Board.
Annual Report 2017 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 63 Corporate governance Directors report continued Significant shareholdings Gender pay reporting At 18 April 2017, the Company had been notified of the following We are keen to ensure that employees are paid appropriately for interests in the Companys shares: thework that they do.
We undertook a gender pay audit in the year ended 31 March 2017 and we intend to do so on an annual basis.
Number % of Name of shares share capital Weare committed to complying with the mandatory gender pay reporting regulations when they come into force in April 2018.
Sir Charles Dunstone 294,059,396 30.77 Capital Research Global Investors 146,735,891 15.36 Audit information INVESCO Asset Management Limited 122,149,607 12.78 Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this David Ross 114,129,028 11.94 Annual Report confirms that: Toscafund Asset Management LLP 40,027,650 4.19 so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Jupiter Asset Management Ltd 33,982,110 3.56 information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have The total interests of the Directors are detailed in the Directors taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any Remuneration Report on page 59. relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of the information.
Directors indemnities Directors liability insurance is provided for Directors.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R By order of the Board Other than the following, no further information is required to be disclosed by the Company in respect of Listing Rule 9.8.
4R: details of the incentive plans, which are set out on pages 56 to 59 of the Directors Remuneration Report and note 5 to the consolidated financial statements incorporated by reference intothis report.
Tim Morris TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Company Secretary 11 Evesham Street Greenhouse gas emissions reporting 10 May 2017 London W11 4AR Details of the Groups greenhouse emissions can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility section on page 31.
Charitable donations Charitable donations paid during the year are disclosed on page 30 of the strategic report.
Market Abuse Regulation Following the introduction of the Market Abuse Regulation on 3 July 2016, the Company updated its processes including those relating to persons discharging managerial responsibilities and its share dealing policy and provides mandatory training to certain of its employees.
Equal opportunities We celebrate diversity and we have an equality policy that ensures that everyone is provided with the same opportunities for employment, career development, training and promotion.
We are committed to providing equal opportunities and avoiding unlawful discrimination by further developing our diversity and inclusion strategy over the coming year.
64 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2017
