Going Concern and Viability Statement Going Concern The key assumptions The Group continually reviews b O ur current project pipeline The Groups activities, strategy underpinning the plan are: funding requirements and spans five years.
This covers and performance are explained Conservative growth in pricing maintains a close relationship the time for the currently in the Strategic Report on pages with stable occupancy levels with existing and potential planned major refurbishments 2 to 47. for the like-for-like properties.
funding partners to ensure the and redevelopments to Refurbishment and continuing availability of debt progress from initiation Further detail on the financial redevelopment schemes are finance.
In addition, there are to completion.
performance and financial delivered in line with current a number of mitigating factors c T he average period to maturity position of the Group is provided plans and reach stabilised that were not considered in the of the Groups committed in the financial statements on occupancy levels within scenarios tested but which could facilities is 5.2 years.
pages 121 to 163. one to two years at current be actioned: market-based pricing levels.
Disposal of assets The conclusion of these The Directors, having made The Retail Bond, which Reduction in dividend sensitivity analyses is that the appropriate enquiries, have a becomes repayable in Reduction in refurbishment Group would have adequate reasonable expectation that October 2019 and revolver programme means to maintain headroom the Group and the Company bank facilities of 150m, which in its facilities and covenants have adequate resources and become repayable in June The Board conducted this to continue operations for the sufficient headroom on the 2022, can be extended on review for the five-year period period under review.
On this Groups bank loan facilities acceptable terms.
to 31 March 2022 which was basis, the Directors have a to continue in operational selected for the following reasonable expectation that the existence.
For this reason, The Groups Strategy and reasons: Group will be able to continue in the Directors believe that it is business model are described a T he Groups strategic review operation and meet its liabilities appropriate to continue to adopt on pages 18 to 23 and on pages covers a five-year period.
as they fall due over the five-year the Going Concern basis in 14 and 15. period stated above.
The Board has considered the Viability Statement key risks and mitigating factors In accordance with provision C. 2.2 that could impact the Group, Risk sensitivity analyses of the 2014 revision of the Code, details of which can be found on Specific risk Risk category Sensitivity analysis the Board has assessed the pages 32 to 39.
Those risks that prospects of the Group over a could have an impact on the A decline in demand Valuation: Reductions in pricing for space which Customer: and occupancy as longer period than the 12 months ongoing success of the Groups that has in practice been the focus strategy were identified and the impacts on occupancy London: experienced during and pricing levels.
the last recession of the Going Concern statement.
resilience of the Group to the impact of these risks in severe over a two-year The assessment is based on the yet plausible scenarios has been period.
Groups Strategic Review which evaluated.
is performed on an annual basis Changes in the Valuation: London Expansion in yields by the Board and Executive Sensitivity analyses are prepared London real estate as experienced Committee.
The Strategic to understand the impact of the environment which during the last Review includes a debate of the identified risks on solvency and impact on commercial recession over a Groups strategy and business liquidity.
The specific risks which property yields.
model, which are central to were evaluated are shown in the understanding the future table on the right.
Terrorist events in London: Reduction of 10% prospects of the business and London impacting Business interruption in pricing and a review of the Groups five-year The Group benefits from having on the infrastructure 10% reduction in plan.
Particular attention is given some 4,000 customers spread and attractiveness of occupancy within to existing development and across 68 locations in London.
London as a global one year and redevelopment commitments, These customers are in a wide centre for business expansion in yields long-term financing arrangements, range of sectors with no sector and culture.
as experienced compliance with financing and representing more than 10% of during the last REIT covenants and existing total rent roll and no individual recession over a macro-economic factors.
customer representing more than one-year period.
For this The latest strategy day was held reason, the highest risk to the Changes in the Financing Inability to refinance in September 2016 and reviewed group is an event or series of economic and debt facilities falling the detailed business plan for the events that would impact on the UK regulatory due in the five-year five years to 2021.
The plan was London economy and property environment period.
updated in April 2017 to extend it market.
impacting on the to 2022 and to include the Fitzroy availability and Street acquisition.
This plan was Of the scenarios tested, the most pricing of debt.
reviewed at the Audit Committee significant impact would be to meeting on 24 May 2016. the level of available facilities Changes in the Valuation: Reduction in cash resulting from either an inability London residential Development: proceeds from The business plan is underpinned to refinance existing facilities or a market which impacts London non-contracted by a detailed financial model significant reduction in proceeds on ability to realise redevelopment based on assumptions around from redevelopments.
the key drivers of revenue, profit, redevelopment capital expenditure and cash flow.
40Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017
