Congestion and the environment Service standards and responding Our markets With 1.5m people moving to urban areas each to complexity week worldwide, maintaining mobility within Customers requirements for safety, comfort cities despite this increasing population and convenience continue to increase.
The density is a key priority, and it is clear that multiplication of potential transport modes and anapproach based primarily on the car is competition between operators continues to nolonger sufficient.
Some estimates put the drive up quality and performance standards annual cost of congestion to the average throughout the industry.
Our customers requirements are complex The cost is also counted in air quality andconstantly evolving, and responding to degradation and higher carbon emissions.
It is theirneeds is critical.
Interconnectivity between clear that increasing use of public transport different transport modes is increasingly systems is vital to the continued prosperity of important, as is the provision of the real-time cities.
Whilst our businesses can also be information necessary to make best use of affected by congestion day-to-day, they clearly them.
In all of our divisions we are rolling out form part of the long term solution by allowing more convenient services through smarter Transport links are essential travellers to leave their cars behind.
We also andmore flexible ticketing, improved onboard for economic growth and for strive to be at the forefront of technologies to amenities such as Wi-Fi and we are getting minimise our own environmental footprint, as toknow our customers needs better through communities to flourish.
outlined in the corporate responsibility section customer relationship management techniques.
All of our services are critical enablers of on pages 38-42. economic growth and improving quality of life Demographic change and social for people and communities.
People need to inclusion travel for a wide range of reasons business, Transport solutions also need to take account education, healthcare, social and recreation of demographic changes.
Many segments and across our five divisions, FirstGroup ofour communities such as thosein responds to these needs for our customers.
education, retired or unable to drive While each of our markets has some unique themselves have always been more reliant characteristics, several key themes are Congestion costs the US on mass transportation and with a rapidly important to each of them.
2 economy $300bn a year aging population in many parts of the world, Urbanisation this proportion is set to increase.
Increasing The world is becoming increasingly urbanised numbers of particularly young urban dwellers Meanwhile the growth of transport as and globalised.
The falling cost and increasing are also choosing not to drive at all, given the aservice models, such as ridesharing, efficiency of transport links have created costs of buying and maintaining a car and the represents both an opportunity for our aglobal interconnected economy, even as issues of parking and sustainability.
There is a businesses as well as a source of more people and economic activity move growing demographic which is open to using potentialcompetition.
More than half of global GDP our services provided we meet its needs, Our geographic markets is already generated in the largest 600 cities, and we are specifically targeting these Our core markets in the UK and North and more than half the worlds population customers, particularly in Greyhound and America share several demographic, social today already live in urban areas and both FirstBus.
and political characteristics which make them trends are set toincrease.
Despite ever more Working with local and national attractive for transport operators.
Both are sophisticated forms of long distance authorities heavily and increasingly urbanised just over communication, the rapid rise of cities globally As good transportation services deliver such a 80% of the population in the UK and North is expected to continue, given the importance wide range of social and economic benefits, America live in urban areas today, increasing of face-to-face interactions in increasingly 3 many of our services are mandated or to nearly 90% by 2050.
High and increasing knowledge-based economies.
Transport links financially supported by the communities they proportions of both populations are either in within cities such as those provided by First serve.
Indeed, all of our divisions either education or retirement age, demographic Transit and First Bus and between them such emerged from, or compete alongside, publicly bands where use of our services is as provided byGreyhound and First Rail will funded models of transport provision.
In all proportionately higher, and although car continue tobean important driver and cases, private sector operators such as ownership is relatively high in both markets, beneficiary of thesetrends.
FirstGroup have been given the opportunity national and local authorities actively seek tooperate services commercially in order to toencourage greater use of alternatives.
increase competition improving value for Bothmarkets also have long histories of money and efficiency and bring innovation deregulating and outsourcing transport and agility in an increasingly fast-moving and solutions, with mature business models complex environment.
Across the Group a andregulatory frameworks that encourage variety of funding and specification models partnering with the private sector for transport exist, with varying degrees of reliance on local infrastructure and services.
In the longer term, and national authorities.
Offering value for we believe there is significant opportunity money, ensuring we are good partners for our globally for the services we provide, and communities and listening to our customers weare actively monitoring a range of markets are critical success factors across the Group.
1 Poor air quality costs the DEFRA, Valuing impacts on air quality 2015.
UK up to 2.7bn a year in 2 INRIX Global Traffic Scorecard 2016.
1 lower productivity 3 UN Population Division, World Urbanization Prospects 2013.
10 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report the outsourced market operated by several Our North American markets thousand smaller companies, often termed mom and pop operators.
These operators continue to be robust in their pricing to retain contracts.
Share shift, or winning contracts previously managed by other providers, together with acquisitions, provide additional Puerto Rico growth opportunities.
Puerto Rico Market attractions Contracts with public sector customers, typically low credit risk Typically high levels of contract retention Customer service, security and safety track Alaska record often as important as price Alaska Established relationships with local communities a barrier to entry First Student Fragmented marketplace long term First Transit acquisition opportunities.
Greyhound network Greyhound Express Affiliated Greyhound carriers in Mexico First Transit Approximate First Student share of outsourced market First Transit is one of the largest First Student around 38% of total market private sector providers of public First Student 22% transit management and First Student is the largest provider National Express 11% contracting in North America.
of student transportation in North Student Transportation America with a fleet of around of America 7% Market review and trends Illinois Central, 44,000 yellow school buses The transit market is worth around $30bn per Cook Illinois, annum in North America, of which around twicethe size of the next Krapf 3% 30% is outsourced.
Private providers manage, Others 57% largestcompetitor.
operate, maintain and organise transportation aggregate have returned to levels seen before Market review and trends services for clients under contracts which the recession, though school boards remain School buses provide home to school typically last for three to five years or longer.
focused on ensuring quality of execution transportation for millions of students in the US The market includes the provision of fixed andvalue for money.
There are around 14,000 school route bus services approximately $20bn outsourced providers with strong safety districts in North America, which deploy segment, of which more than 10% is credentials have been able to achieve approximately 530,000 buses.
The total North outsourced, paratransit bus services meaningful price increases during contract American market is estimated to be worth approximately $5bn segment, three-quarters renewals in recent years, in part reflecting the around $25bn per annum, of which 38% outsourced, private shuttle services cost inflation associated with shortages of isoutsourced to private operators, with the approximately $2bn segment, around 90% drivers in certain regions.
remainder directly operated by school districts.
outsourced and vehicle maintenance services Charter services are also operated, either for approximately $3bn segment, more than 30% Customers school customers separate from scheduled outsourced.
Internationally, the outsourced School districts obligations to provide student school runs or for other customers such as market for transit management is at an earlier transportation are determined by criteria set at church and community groups or businesses.
stage of development, though opportunities state level.
Contracts usually specify fixed or are increasing.
annually indexed pricing, meaning that private Demand for school bus services is principally operators bear cost risk.
These contracts are driven by the size of the school-age With aging populations and increasing urban typically three to five years in duration, after population.
School districts receive their congestion, the range and sophistication which they are often competitively re-tendered.
funding from state and local sources, including oftransportation services that municipal In addition to school districts outsourcing property tax receipts, and their budgets for all authorities seek or in some cases are student transportation for the first time expenditure, including transportation, tend mandated to provide is rising.
Experienced conversion, growth is driven by additional therefore to be linked to the macroeconomic private sector contractors with relevant routes for a given school due to population climate.
The likelihood of school districts to expertise are well placed to enhance fleet growth or other factors organic growth, as outsource and changes in local criteria for productivity, deliver innovation to improve well as inflation-related price indexation built service provision can also play a part in the passenger experience and provide an into some contracts.
size of the addressable market.
efficientalternative to in-house provision, which results in the continued growth of Competitors Market conditions in recent years have theoutsourced market.
The private outsourced market is highly supported positive but limited organic growth fragmented, with only three companies and modest levels of conversion to outsourced Meanwhile the shuttle segment continues including First Student operating fleets providers, after a period when the economic togrow, with private companies, universities ofmore than 10,000 buses: together they downturn put significant pressure on school and airports seeking to offer improved services account for around 40% of the outsourced board budgets, which had led to organic to their own customers and employees.
14 other operators have fleets of more retraction, price pressure and atypical levels than 1,000 buses, with the remaining half of ofcontract churn.
School district budgets in FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11 Competitors Our markets Intercity coach services compete with many continued Greyhound other modes of midto long-distance travel across North America, including budget airlines and the private car.
The intercity coach market Greyhound is the only national is highly competitive in dense travel corridors operator of scheduled intercity such as the US north east and north west, coaches intheUS and Canada, where coach also competes with air and rail.
Customers with a uniquenationwide network A wide range of customers contract out and iconic brand.
Distribution of Greyhound passengers fixedroute and paratransit services, including by mileage band municipal transit authorities, federal, state and Market review and trends local agencies: and these contracts typically In the last ten years the US intercity coach are to operate and manage vehicle fleets industry has enhanced its relevance to owned by the client.
Institutions such as potential passengers through improvements in 1-200 miles 47% universities, hospitals, airports and private the onboard experience and new or improved 201-450 miles 36% companies are the main clients for the shuttle offerings such as point-to-point express 451-1,000 miles 12% 1,000 miles 5% segment, and usually require provision of the services on high density routes.
Vehicle maintenance services market size remains a significant opportunity, include contracts for private and public sector with 42m people considering coach travel clients, including municipalities, and fire and every year, of whom a quarter currently use police departments.
Even regular coach users choose Market attractions competing modes 75% of the time, but a Competitors Private car use becoming less attractive combination of convenient city centre First Transit has around 15% of the outsourced particularly to younger customers, due to destinations, tailored services and price has market in North America, which accounts increasing urbanisation, congestion and the potential to grow ridership and frequency forapproximately 30% of the total market.
Theoutsourced transit market is fragmented, Target demographic segments responsive to though First Transit has two large competitors, The substantial and rapid fall in at-pump fuel innovation through technology and value-forMV Transportation, Inc. and Transdev North prices in the final months of 2014 resulted in money offering America.
Our First Vehicle Services business is coach passenger demand reductions as the Opportunities to expand penetration and estimated to be one of the largest providers in cost of other forms of transport became more footprint in US and Mexico the outsourced fleet maintenance market, with attractive compared with the coach.
More Penske and Ryder being the main competitors.
recently, US coach passenger demand has Under-utilised services may be part-funded A number of small and medium sized begun to stabilise with the global oil price and by transport authorities.
companies represent a significant proportion improving economic conditions.
Demand of the outsourced market.
The market trends will continue to depend in part on future continues to attract new entrants, though fuel price movements.
reputation and track record remain important As well as passenger revenues, income is differentiators in the bidding process.
generated from package express services, charter and tour organisation and also Approximate First Transit share of terminalcatering outlets.
Partnerships c. $30bn North American transit market between Greyhound and independent bus of which c. 30% is outsourced lines interlining, extend the reach of our national network.
In-house 70% Customers First Transit 5% North American intercity coach firms serve Other outsourced awide range of customers, many of whom providers 25% prioritise value and whose primary purpose is to visit friends and family.
Direct point-to-point services such as Greyhound Express and BoltBus have begun to attract a younger, urban demographic with less interest in Market attractions maintaining a private car.
Historically customers Contracts mainly with public sector typically bought tickets at terminals on their customers, low credit risk day of travel, but increasingly customers Typically high levels of contract retention purchase in advance online or on smartphones.
Low levels of capital investment required apart from in shuttle Aging population and congestion trends provide support for continued growth through further outsourcing.
12 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report the process of exercising franchising powers service provided to customers are mandated Our UK markets for qualifying local authorities, though it also as part of the franchise contract and others enhances the range of partnership models are left to commercial judgment.
Total available to local authorities, which First Bus franchised passenger revenues in the UK already supports in areas such as Sheffield, aremore than 9bn per annum.
Rail tracks Doncaster, Hampshire, the West of England, and infrastructure signalling and stations Cornwall and most recently Leeds.
areowned and managed by Network Rail, Aberdeen andTOCs typically lease most stations Customers fromNetwork Rail and rolling stock from Stirling Bus market revenues principally comprise Glasgow leasing companies.
Edinburgh passenger ticket sales and concessionary fare schemes reimbursements by local authorities Passenger numbers have more than doubled Newcastle for passengers entitled to free or reduced since privatisation, recently reaching a Belfast fares.
A significant proportion of customers post-war high of 1.7bn, though the rate of York Bradford Leeds Hull use bus services to commute to work or growth has recently slowed.
The Government Dublin Manchester Shefeld education, to go shopping and for leisure.
continues to invest in upgrades to the rail Stoke-on-Trent Income is also generated through tendered infrastructure across the UK.
Closer working Leicester Norwich Worcester Cork local bus services and bespoke contracts relationships between Network Rail, regulators Ipswich Swansea Reading Chelmsford such as Park & Ride schemes.
and TOCs continue to be encouraged by Bristol Cardiff London Weston-super-Mare Government in order to facilitate these Bath Southampton Competitors Brighton Weymouth infrastructure upgrades and innovations.
The UK bus market outside London is Plymouth Penzance deregulated and highly competitive with more Customers Great Western Railway than 1,000 bus operators: we face competition Rail markets are generally categorised Hull Trains TransPennine Express in all markets in which we operate.
Through the intothree sectors: London and south east First Bus operations year operators have both entered and left the commuter services: regional: and long distance.
The main competitor is the private car.
Certain networks also offer sleeper services.
Parts of GWR fall into all four categories, whileTPE is mainly a long distance intercity Approximate First Bus share First Bus operation, and Hull Trains caters principally of UK market outside London tolong distance and leisure travellers.
First Bus is one of the largest bus Competitors The main competitor to rail in the UK is the operators in the UK, transporting First Bus 20% private car.
On some passenger flows there 1.6m passengers a day, with a fifth Others 80% iscompetition from other rail services and, of the market outside London.
toalesser extent, from long distance coach services and airlines.
First Rail bids for Market review and trends franchises against other operators of current Local bus services in the UK outside London UK rail franchises and public transport have been deregulated since the 1980s, with operators from other countries.
most services provided by private operators, Market attractions though a small number of local authorityGrowth potential from strategies tailored to owned operators still exist.
In local bus Passenger revenue base specific customer segments or to enhance markets, operators set fares, frequencies and of First Rail operations convenience: opportunity in youth routes commercially while operating some demographic, where car ownership is falling socially necessary services under local authority contracts.
Around 2.7bn passenger Local bus trips account for 65% of all Leisure 58% journeys are made on bus services outside of journeys by public transport in England Business 29% London, generating revenues of approximately andform an important component of Commuter 13% 4.3bn a year.
localauthorities ability to fulfil their air qualityobligations Partnerships between operators and local authorities are a core principle for the industry Bus travel diversified by journey type.
and central government, to support service delivery, minimise congestion and drive Market attractions innovation and investment.
The Department More than 9bn of long term contract-backed First Rail for Transport DfT promotes this through passenger revenue available through 19 major initiatives such as Better Bus Area grants franchise opportunities, of which more than and the Green Bus Fund.
In recent years, One of the UKs most experienced half by revenue will be let by 2020 operators have improved their offering to rail operators, carrying around passengers through smart and multi-operator New franchises typically have significant 130m passengers across our ticketing, more flexible fare options, real-time revenue opportunity risk with some revenue passenger information and increasingly twofranchises and our open protection, clear contingent capital tailored local services.
requirements but low overall capital intensity Since deregulation, local authorities have had Regulated environment, including Market review and trends the ability to regulate services in their area if government-capped regulated fare increases Passenger rail services are primarily provided they demonstrate the existing model is failing by private train operating companies TOCs Historically high levels of passenger numbers to deliver for passengers, though such powers through franchises awarded by the relevant across the UK.
have not been exercised anywhere to date.
authority, but may also be provided on an The Bus Services Act, which received royal open access basis.
Many elements of the assent in April 2017, has somewhat simplified FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13
