BoARD of DiRECtoRS, ExECutivE CoMMittEE AND ADviSERS Board of Directors Dairy Crest is led by an experienced Board of Directors, which comprises three Executive Directors, one Non-executive Chairman and three independent Nonexecutive Directors.
Together, the Executive Directors have over 50 years experience of the business.
Stephen Alexander Richard Macdonald Chairman Non-Executive Director the Board sets strategy and Appointed as a Non-executive Director in Appointed as a Non-executive Director in monitors progress.
Day-to-day January 2011, as Chairman in September November 2010, as Senior Independent matters are the responsibility of 2014 and Chairman of the Nomination Director in May 2012 and as Chairman of the Executive Committee, which Committee in March 2015.
He is an Operating the Remuneration Committee in November comprises the three Executive Partner at OpCapita LLP and Chairman of 2014, prior to which he was Chairman of the Directors, the Company Secretary the charitable organisation Look Ahead Care, Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Richard & General Counsel, the Group Support and Housing.
Stephen was Chairman had a 30 year career with the National Supply Chain Director and the of Immediate Media Company Ltd until Farmers Union, serving as Director General Group HR Director.
other senior January 2017 and Chairman of Rhubarb Food for 13 years.
He is a Non-executive Director managers attend by invitation.
Previously of Moy Park Limited, Vice Chairman of the the Executive Committee normally he was Chairman of Maltby Capital Ltd National Institute of Agricultural Botany and parent company of EMI Group, Chairman of Chairman of Farm Africa.
Odeon Cinemas, Chief Executive of Hillsdown executive Director and Deputy Chairman of Holdings Ltd and held senior positions with the Environment Agency.
Allied Domecq PLC and Imperial Foods.
He was also Senior Independent Director at Devro plc.
Audit Committee Member Remuneration Committee Member Nomination Committee Member Corporate Responsibility CommitteeMember Executive Committee Member # Not a Board Member Andrew Carr-Locke Sue farr Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Non-executive Director and Appointed as a Non-executive Director Chairman of the Audit Committee in August in November 2011 and Chairman of the 2009.
A Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Corporate Responsibility Committee in Management Accountants, he has previously November 2014.
She is a special advisor held senior finance positions at Courtaulds to Chime Communications plc, having Textiles, Diageo, Bowater Scott and Kodak previously been a member of the Executive Advisers and was Group Finance Director at George Management team.
Sue has extensive Wimpey plc until 2007.
More recently he marketing communications experience having Auditor Corporate Brokers was Executive Chairman of Countryside served as Marketing Director of the BBC Ernst & Young LLP Shore Capital Properties.
He is a Non-executive Director of for 7 years, Director of Corporate Affairs, Group Ltd Solicitors Grainger plc and has previously held NonThames Television for 3 years and Director of Eversheds Peel Hunt LLP executive directorships at Royal Mail Holdings, Corporate Communications, Vauxhall Motors.
Sutherland Registered Office Venture Production and AWG.
Sue is a Non-executive Director of Millennium international LLP Claygate House, & Copthorne Hotels plc, Accsys Technologies Principal Bankers Littleworth Road, PLC and British American Tobacco p. l. c. She the Royal Bank of Esher, Surrey has previously held positions as a Trustee Scotland plc Kt10 9PN of the Historic Royal Palaces and as a NonRabobank London Registered in executive Director of Motivcom Limited.
She England was appointed as a Non-executive Director of Lloyds Bank plc No.
3162897 Dolphin Capital Investors Limited in July 2016.
Santander uK plc 28 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 Board of Directors Mark Allen tom Atherton Adam Braithwaite Chief Executive Group finance Director Executive Director Appointed as an Executive Director in 2002 Appointed as an Executive Director in May Appointed as an Executive Director in July and became Chief Executive in January 2007.
Adam joined Dairy Crest in 2002 and Mark joined Dairy Crest in August 1991. worked for Dairy Crest since 2005.
Prior to has held a number of senior management He was formerly with Shell UK Ltd.
He is a his appointment to the Board Tom served as positions within the business.
He was Trustee for The Princes Countryside Fund Director of Financial Control.
He is a member appointed Group Commercial Director in and a Non-executive Director of Howdens of the Board of Dairy UK and a member of April 2013.
He was appointed a NonBiTCs Finance and Risk Committee.
He has executive Director of Warburtons Limited in previously held senior finance positions in January 2017.
Non-board Executive Committee members Robin Miller Mike Barrington Robert Willock Company Secretary & General Group Supply Chain Director # Group HR Director # Counsel # Before joining Dairy Crest in 2011, Mike Robert joined Dairy Crest 11 years ago held senior management positions with as HR Director, Dairies from The Maersk Appointed in April 2008.
Robin is a solicitor Cadbury Schweppes and Kraft Foods, Company where he was Director of having worked in private practice and latterly Manufacturing Director for Human Resources.
He was appointed to in-house in both retail and international Cadbury in the UK & Ireland.
Mike joined his current role in April 2013. manufacturing.
Dairy Crest as Supply Chain Director, Dairies and was appointed to his current role in April 2013.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 29 Governance
