PeRFORMANCe Cheese & functional ingredients million 2016 17 2015 16 Revenue 254.8 263.7 Product group profit 42.8 36.4 Margin % 16.8 13.8 Dairy Crest Share of retail branded everyday cheese Others 46% 54% Source: IRI 52 weeks ended 25 March 2017 Dairy Crest produces and markets Cathedral City, the the category we decided not to discount too aggressively.
UKs leading cheese brand, and the premium Davidstow Consequently, Cathedral City slightly underperformed the market cheddar brand.
and volumes were down 3% for the year.
However volumes Our world-class supply chain starts with milk collected improved in the second half and we expect this performance to from around 360 farmers in the dairy heartlands of Cornwall continue during 2017 18. and Devon.
This top quality milk is made into cheddar During the early part of the year we successfully rolled out cheese at our highly-automated creamery in Davidstow, a new master brand identity for Cathedral City.
The cheese then matures for around a year at our simplifies the brand, improves visibility on shelf and strengthens purpose-built Nuneaton facility before being cut, packed our range.
This allows our brand investment to work better across and distributed.
We have a second packing site in Frome, the whole of the growing cheese category.
It was supported by Somerset, for more complex and innovative packaging.
significant investment including a successful new TV advertisement, Whey is a by-product of the cheese making process.
We have seen a positive consumer reaction new state of the art facility at Davidstow demineralises this both to the new packaging and the marketing campaign.
whey to supply the high-growth, high-margin global infant Innovation remains at the heart of what we do and 2016 17 saw formula market.
Additionally we produce GOS, a lactosethe relaunch of Cathedral City spreadable in three flavours: Mature, based prebiotic, which is also an ingredient for infant Extra Mature and Garlic & Herb.
We have launched a new flavour, formula, but has potential applications in other human life Lighter Mature, and towards the end of the year our new snack bar stages as well as in animal husbandry.
was launched in front of store.
This is an important development for the long-term expansion of the brand into the on-the-go food Market background section.
Innovation will remain key to our future growth.
2016 17 was a turning point in the UK dairy market.
Having fallen for three years, prices paid to farmers for milk started to rise in A world-class supply chain the summer and then rose quickly through the autumn and winter Our farmers play a vital role in our world-class cheese supply before stabilising in the spring.
The price we pay to farmers for chain, with 100% of the milk we buy coming direct from around the milk we use to make cheese rose from a low of 21.7p per litre 360 farmers in the South West of England.
We pride ourselves in July to 30p per litre in February, although in April 2017 we did on the close working relationship with our farmers, through both announce a 1p reduction from 1 June and another 1p reduction our Farm Business Team and Dairy Crest Direct DCD, the from 1 July.
The maturation process means we sell cheese made independently elected body which represents Dairy Crest farmers.
with milk purchased around a year before the sale takes place.
Thanks to our Davidstow Farm Standards, all milk supplied to us Therefore the effect of these higher milk prices will not be seen meets the strict international standards for the production of infant in the profit and loss account until later in 2017 18, although the formula and in 2016 17 we have further developed and enhanced effect was seen in higher working capital balances for cheese at our Davidstow farm audits.
Meanwhile year-on-year cheese retail prices were falling in New infant formula ingredients come on stream 2016 17 and only just started rising on a quarter-on-quarter basis During the year we completed our investment at the Davidstow in January.
Market cheese volumes have been reasonably robust creamery in Cornwall to make demineralised whey and GOS.
The during the year, rising by 2%, with little change throughout the year.
quality targets for infant formula grade demineralised whey are Global whey prices have also started to rise over the last six demanding.
We have been continually improving the quality of our months.
product so that by the year end we had met our target of more than 80% of our whey being of infant formula grade.
In partnership Cathedral City: A true market leader with Fonterra we are building our sales relationships with infant It is the UKs 18th largest grocery brand, bigger than all other formula producers in both GOS and demineralised whey and competitor cheddar brands combined and accounts for 54% of all expect strong growth in sales of these products during the coming branded everyday cheese sold by UK retailers.
These added value products give Dairy Crest access to new For much of the year there were high levels of cheese stocks sales channels in fast growing global markets.
across the market, driven by high milk supply in the preceding year.
In order to maintain the brands premium positioning within 18 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 GROWING Potentially exciting new applications for GOS We are investigating some potential further applications for GOS.
Promovita is the new brand name of our GOS for use in food applications.
In animal nutrition, where we use the brand name Nutrabiotic, the product may improve food uptake but also animal Cathedral City is the UKs 18th largest grocery health, potentially leading to the need for lower levels of antibiotics brand, bigger than all other competitor cheddar in the animal husbandry industry.
During the year we signed an brands combined and accounts for 54% of all agreement with Danisco Animal Nutrition, part of DuPont, which branded everyday cheese sold by UK retailers.
will provide an extensive level of research into the benefits of GOS.
A business with huge potential Our cheese and functional ingredients business has state of the art facilities, strong brands with market-leading positions and opportunities within new and exciting markets.
It remains well placed to generate attractive growth in the future.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 19 Strategic report PERFORMANCE CONTINUED Butters, spreads & oils million 2016 17 2015 16 Revenue 150.7 152.6 Product group profit 25.5 29.6 Margin % 16.9 19.4 Dairy Crest Share of retail Others 16% butter and spreads market by value Retailer own 14% label Source: IRI 52 weeks ended 25 March 2017 19% Arla 34% Unilever 17% Dairy Crest manufactures a number of leading butters, share loss in this sector.
Overall, Country Life volumes were flat and spreads and oil brands in the UK.
The key brands are the higher input prices for butter have had a negative impact on Country Life butter, Clover spread and Frylight spray oil.
Our secondary spreads brands are Vitalite, Utterly Butterly and Willow.
All the butter and spreads brands are produced Frylight: another strong year at a single facility in Kirkby, Merseyside, whilst Frylight is Frylight has been a phenomenal success ever since Dairy Crest manufactured at our facility in erith, Kent.
acquired the brand in 2011 and last year was no different.
During the year it was successfully re-launched with a new packaging Butters and spreads market remains challenging design, which emphasises Frylights no artificial ingredients The butters and spreads market has continued to see overall credentials.
This was supported by a new TV advertising volume decline, but price inflation during the second half resulted campaign across the important fourth quarter period, which in the market reporting some value growth.
Within the category encompasses both the start of the New Year and Pancake the long-term trend of butter gaining volume share was maintained Day.
Sales during the campaign and around Pancake Day both and butter volumes were up 2% whilst spreads volumes declined increased by over 25%.
Innovation also continued, with a new 7%.
However, during the second half of the year there was avocado variant launched early in 2017.
This follows on from the considerable inflation in butter prices and this has widened the launch of a coconut variant last year, which has already become price gap between the two categories.
Partly as a result butter our third biggest selling line.
All this has resulted in volume growth volumes fell by 5% in the final quarter and spreads volume decline of 23% and a penetration rate of 23% of UK households.
This year has already seen the launch of the new cap design and the business is also exploring export opportunities Dairy Crest gaining share in Europe to support its medium-term growth ambitions.
We are Clover is well placed to meet consumer needs within the changing also delighted that Frylight has been singled out by the industry, market.
Over the past eighteen months we have re-launched winning the Institute of Grocery and Distribution IGD Health and and advertised Clover with no artificial ingredients, positioning Wellness product award in October 2016. it as a dairy spread made with buttermilk.
The improved Clover original recipe was introduced in late 2015 and Clover lighter Simplified supply chain, generating cash is due to be re-formulated this year.
This positioning has been All our butters and spreads manufacturing has been consolidated further reinforced by the launch of new packaging in late 2016 and on one site at Kirkby for the last two years.
We are well positioned an extensive marketing campaign, which has resulted in Clover to continue driving efficiency and to further lower manufacturing costs.
The simplified supply chain, combined with improvements gaining another 1.1 percentage points of share during the year.
In in brand performance, will enable continued investment into this recognition of our work in launching the improved recipe, Clover high-margin category and underpin on-going cash generation.
won the spreads category Product of the Year 2017 award in the worlds largest consumer survey award for product innovation.
Our other spreads brands have all performed well and together Dairy Crest spreads have increased share by 2.2 percentage points.
Total spreads volumes are up 4% and Clover volumes are up 1% in a market that has declined by 7%, a fantastic performance.
During the year we also launched a new Vitalite coconut variant, which contributes to our share of the All our butter and spreads manufacturing growing dairy free market.
has been consolidated on one site at Country Life has performed well against a backdrop of high input cost inflation.
The British themed packaging introduced Kirkby for the last two years.
We are well last year resonates well with consumers and our new spreadable positioned to continue driving efficiency formulation has helped that product grow volumes by 6% to and to lower manufacturing costs further.
become the fastest growing major spreadable brand.
Managing this inflation and volatility resulted in us reducing the amount of block butter promotions during the second half and has led to some 20 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 GROWING Dairy Crest Annual Report 2017 21 Strategic report
