RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT INNOVATING IN A GLOBAL MARKET Our business model The core of all the businesses which make up the RPC Group is designing, engineeringand manufacturing innovative plastic products for packaging and  markets.
The non-packaging businesses also design andmanufacture moulds which are primarily used in polymer conversion.
Ouroperationshave influence through every stage of the product lifecycle.
OUR INNOVATIVE OPERATIONS INPUTS Strategic Innovation and scale Manufacturing 3 Financial capital 3 Innovation centres 3 Water 3 Human capital 3 Technological expertise 3 Energy 3 Customer relationships 3 Geographical coverage 3 Resin 3 Sustainability principles 3 Recyclate DESIGN & MANUFACTURING DEVELOPMENT 3 Lightweighting REDUCE 3 Use of post-consumer 3 Energy consumption recyclate 3 Waste 3 Product protection 3 Water consumption 3 Carbon emissions 3 Responsible procurement 3 Research & RAW development of MATERIALS new materials such as biopolymers OUTPUTS Innovative design Innovative engineering Innovative products Our award-winning innovation teams The designers and engineers at these We are able to devise single process based in 31 centres of excellence centres of excellence have experience of and material solutions and also mix ensureour product design, in-house all the plastic conversion technologies manufacturing techniques as required in mould making and processing expertise is and work together as a concept-to-reality order to achieve the best result.
at the forefront of innovation at the design team, taking customers needs and stage and beyond.
making them into finished products.
12 STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 OUR TECHNOLOGIES Injection Blow moulding Thermoforming Rotational Blown film moulding moulding extrusion The process by The process where a which hollow plastic plastic sheet is heated The process for The process uses a The process involves parts are formed.
It is to a pliable forming producing parts by hollow mould which is conveying a blended the ideal application temperature and injecting polymer filled with a measured mix of resins through for reclosable shaped in a mould resin into a mould.
quantity of resin and acircular die.
Once containers and and trimmed.
It is the Itis optimal for then rotated in a extruded, the mix is particularly for most efficient process highadded value, heated chamber so inflated with air to narrow necks and for high-volume, complex designs that the plastified form a film bubble pouring purposes.
low-cost packaging thatmay have a high material solidifies to that is drawn to a materials and barrier level of decoration.
height to allow applications, such as It is a versatile process sufficient cooling.
and its low tooling Used in the production costs make it ideal for of flexible film.
hollow plastic parts with lower production run quantities.
REUSE INCINERATION DISPOSAL FILLING & USAGE RETAIL RECYCLING DISTRIBUTION DISPOSAL COLLECTION 3 Product protection 3 Increased shelf-life 3 Consideration of 3 Closed loop target demographic process reduction 3 Efficient 3 Product protection in waste to landfill transportation 3 Reduction in product waste 3 Sustainable raw material source 3 Recyclability More on: Page 44 THE RISKS WE MITIGATE OUR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES As part of our business model we have Our business model combined with our Vision to mitigate key risks at each stage.
2020 strategy allows the Group to exploit its scale.
3 Polymer price and availability 3 Loss of essential supplies 3 Global network of 185 operating sites across 33 countries 3 Safeguarding of physical property and people 3 Technological breadth 3 Energy costs 3 Polymer purchasing efficiency 3 Supply of faulty products 3 Devolved divisional structure 3 Contamination during processing 3 Process and engineering excellence 3 Established customer relationships 3 Strong balance sheet 13 WWW.
