OUR VALUES AND SERVICES FIXED TELEPHONY BROADBAND Our fixed-line telephony service gives Members A choice of high-quality broadband services offering guaranteed savings on the cost of their line rental great value, fast speeds and outstanding technical and call costs compared with all the major providers.
support, for the vast majority of domestic internet users.
INSURANCE We have recently started providing a CASHBACK CARD branded home insurance service to Members, offering competitive pricing and An exclusive pre-paid Mastercard giving the convenience of paying their premiums our Members between 3% and 7% CashBack monthly at no extra charge alongside all the at a wide range of leading national retailers.
utility services we are providing to them.
BILL ONE MONTHLY BILL ONLINE SHOPPING MOBILE We have over 3,000 online shopping With a wide choice of handsets and partners offering attractive extra savings competitive price plans, our mobile phone of up to 20%.
Members choosing to take service provides outstanding value and advantage of these offers by purchasing great savings.
We also offer a unique through our online Clubhouse, will receive the budget control option, a loyalty discount, extra discount as CashBack on their free handset protection against loss or GAS AND ELECTRICITY bill - irrespective of the means of payment damage, and a range of other benefits.
We provide consistently fair prices, with guaranteed savings for Members in residential properties compared with the average of the cheapest standard variable tariffs charged by the Big 6.
2 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements OUR APPROACH Our lowest prices and most attractive benefits are reserved for Members who switch all their services to us, with most new Members taking one of the following Gold bundles: Double Gold: Energy, Broadband and Mobile Gold Energy: Energy and Broadband Gold Talk: Broadband and Mobile Notes: i Where a customer uses both Gas and Electricity in their home approximately 80% of UK households, then they will almost invariably switch both of these to us i. e. Dual Fuel : otherwise, Energy will generally consist of Electricity alone.
ii Broadband includes landline rental.
iii Mobile consists of at least one connected mobile handset.
Our mission is to be the Nations most trusted utility supplier... the one youd recommend to your Mum Welcome to the Club Youre a Although were a major British business, were not like other utility suppliers.
Member not Were a Discount Club, 100% focused on helping our Members save money a number on energy, telecoms and other household bills.
Switch more, save more Guaranteed By bundling different services together, and cutting out expensive value overheads, we can pass savings directly onto our Members.
The more services you take, the more you can save.
One bill, one contact Making life We make life easier for you with one clear, simple monthly bill for all the simple services you take.
It shows you where you make extra savings and get more value.
And with only one supplier, you have a single contact to deal with.
CashBack card It really does pay to be a Member of Utility Warehouse.
Not only can Exclusive you save on energy and phone bills, but there are lots of other exclusive club benefits Member benefits like our CashBack card that saves you money on your everyday shopping.
5 star customer service We really care about our Members.
In fact, great customer service is at the Taking care heart of everything we do.
When you switch your services to us, we handle of you it all for you.
And our award-winning UK call centre is always here when you need us.
2017 Best Telecom Services Provider Friendly, fair, ethical with an absolute commitment to being the Nations Trusted and most trusted utility provider.
People come to us because their family and recommended friends recommend us.
recommend us too time and time again.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2017 3
