44 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Board of Directors Simon Laffin Jonathan Murphy Andrew Darke Non-Executive Chairman CEO Property Director Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Simon has served as Chairman Jonathan is the CEO of Assura Andrew is a Chartered Surveyor ofAssura since 2011 and is andwas previously the Finance and has been with Assura since Chairman of Flybe Group plc, a Director, having joined the Group flotation having acquired the seed Non-Executive Director at Watkin inJanuary 2013.
He has significant portfolio in 2003.
He has led the Jones plc and Chairman of the experience in real estate, capital property team through its growth Audit Committee of Dentsu Aegis markets and investment gained since 2003 and been instrumental Network.
Previously he served during his time as Finance Director in all aspects of the property asChairman of Hozelock Group and Interim CEO of the Group development, investment and anda Non-Executive Director of andin his previous position as portfolio management.
Quintain Estates and Development Managing Director for the property plc, Mitchells & Butlers plc, Aegis management business of Brooks Prior to joining Assura, Andrew Group plc and Northern Rock plc Macdonald Group plc.
Jonathan held investment and development as part of the rescue team.
was previously Finance Director roles at Barlows plc, Rowlinson for the fund management Securities plc and Royal & Sun Between 1995 and 2004 he was business of Brooks Macdonald Alliance.
He started his career Group Chief Financial Officer of UK and Braemar Group plc.
atthe District Valuers Office grocery retailer Safeway plc which following graduation from he joined in 1990 and waslatterly His earlier career included Liverpool University.
Prior commercial and strategic roles to that, he helda variety of finance atSpirit Group and Vodafone.
and management roles in Mars Jonathan qualified as a Confectionery, Rank Xerox andBP.
CharteredAccountant with He is a qualified accountant.
, holding management roles in both the UK and Asia.
He holds an MBA from IESE, the European Business School in Barcelona.
Appointed Appointed Appointed August 2011 February 2017 October 2016 Other current appointments Other current appointments Other current appointments Simon is also Non-Executive None None Chairman of Flybe Group plc, a Non-Executive Director of Watkin Jones plc and Chairman of the Audit Committee at Dentsu AegisNetwork.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 45 David Richardson Jenefer Greenwood OBE Orla Ball Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience David is a Non-Executive Director of Jenefer is a Chartered Surveyor Orla qualified as a solicitor with Assura whose skills and experience who started her career at Hillier Eversheds Manchester and gained include finance andaccounting, Parker in 1978, becoming significant corporate governance mergers and acquisitions and Executive Director and Head of and mergers and acquisitions corporate governance.
Previously Retail on merger with CBRE.
She experience working as a corporate he spent 22 years at Whitbread Plc worked for Grosvenor Estate from lawyer for over 14 years.
where he was the Strategic Planning 2003 until 2012.
Jenefers skills Director for eight years and the include real estate, customer Her move in-house to Braemar Finance Director for four years.
Group plc, subsequently acquired by Brooks Macdonald plc, provided At Whitbread he played a Jenefer has previously served on her with further property skills as pivotalrole in transforming the theBoard of The Crown Estate she looked after the legal matters Group from a brewing and pubs and chaired its Remuneration for its property management and company into a market leader Committee.
She has held property funds business.
inhotels, restaurants and leisure positions as Chair of the National clubs.
Following this he has held a Skills Academy for Retail and Orla is Head of Legal for the Group number of Non-Executive roles in President of the British Council and Chair of the Risk Committee.
FTSE listed companies, including ofShopping Centres.
Serco Group plc, Forth Ports plc now called Forth Ports Ltd, Tomkins plc now called Gates Worldwide Limited, Dairy Crest plc and fide Vere Group plc.
Appointed Appointed Appointed January 2012 May 2012 April 2015 Other current appointments Other current appointments Other current appointments David is currently Chairman of BBGI Jenefer sits on the Supervisory Board None SICAV S. A. and a Board member of INTERNOS Global Investors and ofThe Edrington Group.
was appointed to the Board of DCH Group in August 2014.
