STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 G O V E R NAN C E OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION THE COMPANY RPC Group Plc is registered and domiciled in England and Wales, with the registered number 2578443.
Its registered office address is Sapphire House, Crown Way, Rushden, Northamptonshire, NN10 6FB.
DIRECTORS AND THEIR POWERS Biographical details of the directors are given on pages 54 to 55 and the Boards recommendations for their election and re-election are given in the explanatory notes to the Notice.
None of the directors had any interest in any contracts of significance, other than their service contracts, with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
Full details of the interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company of those directors holding office on 31 March 2017, including any interest of a connected person, are set out in the Directors Remuneration report on page 75.
The powers of the directors are contained in the Articles which may only be amended by resolution passed by the shareholders at a general meeting in accordance with the relevant legislation.
The Articles give powers to the directors to authorise the issue of shares and for the Company to buy back its shares, subject to authority being given to the directors by the shareholders in general meeting and the relevant legislation.
Resolutions to authorise the directors to exercise these powers are put to shareholders at each AGM.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The profit for the financial year before tax amounts to 154.7m 2016: 75.6m.
An interim dividend of 6.1p restated and 2016: 4.5p restated per ordinary share was paid on 27 January 2017.
The directors are recommending a final dividend of 17.9p per ordinary share to be paid on 1 September 2017, subject to approval at the forthcoming AGM of the Company, to shareholders on the register on 11 August 2017 making the total dividend for the year 24.0p 2016 restated: 16.0p per share.
Full details of dividends in respect of the year ended 31 March 2017 are given in note 8 to the financial statements.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The 2017 AGM will be held at Stationers Hall, London on Wednesday 19 July 2017 at 12.00 noon.
The Notice convening the AGM and related explanatory notes are in a separate circular.
In accordance with the Code, all the directors are submitting themselves for election or re-election.
The Board is proposing a special resolution to continue to enable the directors to call a general meeting that is not an Annual General Meeting on not less than 14 clear days notice.
The Board is also proposing an increase to the maximum aggregate amount of directors fees as set out in Article 90 of the Companys Articles to allow sufficient headroom in relation to any further appointments of non-executive directors as part of the Boards succession planning.
AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES The CA 2006 and the Articles permit shareholders to give authority to the Company to purchase its own shares.
The current authority, approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM, permits the Company to purchase 30.4m of its own shares 10% of the then issued share capital.
No shares have been purchased or contracts made to purchase shares by the Company during the year or since 31 March 2017 up to the date of this report.
The directors are seeking to renew this authority to purchase up to 41.5m of the Companys own shares 10% of the issued share capital at the forthcoming AGM.
AUTHORITY TO ISSUE SHARES The Board is recommending proposals to renew the directors authority to allot shares up to one-third of issued share capital and for authority to allot an additional one third of issued share capital in connection with a pre-emptive offer by way of rights issue to existing shareholders.
In line with the guidance set out in the Pre-Emption Group 2015 Statement of Principles for the disapplication of pre-emption rights, the Board is also recommending two separate special resolutions to grant the directors the power to disapply pre-emption rights.
Further details can be found in the Notice.
SHARE CAPITAL The Company has a single class of shares which is divided into ordinary shares of 5p each of which rank pari passu in respect of participation and voting rights.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
As at 31 March 2017 the Company had 414,857,469 ordinary 5p shares in issue.
On 10 February 2017, the Company issued 82,954,687 ordinary shares by way of a 1 for 4 rights issue at a price of 665p per share under the general authority given to the directors at the AGM held on 13 July 2016.
The proceeds of the rights issue was 540m net of costs of 12m and used to partly fund the acquisition of Letica Corporation and reduce increased borrowings arising from other business acquisitions.
The shares issued under the rights issue rank pari passu with the other shares in issue.
Full details of the Companys issued share capital together with the rights, obligations and restrictions attaching to the shares are set out in note 24 to the financial statements.
COM RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 G O V E R NAN C E OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Continued MAJOR SHAREHOLDINGS As at 31 March 2017 the Company had been notified, pursuant to the DTR of the FCA, of notifiable voting rights in its issued share capital or had received disclosures pursuant to the CA 2006 of shareholding interest in excess of 3% of its share capital as follows: Date of Number % of issued Shareholder notification of shares share capital AXA Investment Managers SA 22.01.16 28,361,991 9.35 Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 29.05.15 12,574,347 4.99 Ameriprise Financial Inc 10.06.15 12,451,726 4.94 Old Mutual Global Investors 04.08.16 15,195,238 4.83 Kames Capital plc 23.09.16 10,022,314 3.02 Aberforth Partners LLP 16.05.14 8,232,273 4.94 SVG Investment Managers Ltd 14.04.11 7,375,919 4.57 Legal and General Group plc 01.05.13 6,013,470 3.62 % of issued capital disclosed on notification of major shareholdings, not adjusted for rights issues.
EMPLOYEES The Group continues to recognise the benefit of both effective communication with employees and achieving a common awareness on the part of employees of the financial performance and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
Both individual site and Group wide meetings are held at which employees and management are present and at which key aspects of the Groups activities, performance and other matters of interest to employees are reviewed.
Employee participation is further encouraged through share ownership and share option schemes which provide employees with a direct stake in the growth and prosperity of the business.
The Group aims to provide clear and fair terms and conditions of employment and remuneration wherever it operates.
The Board does not tolerate any sexual, physical or other harassment of its employees.
It promotes equal opportunities for all present and potential employees and does not discriminate on grounds of colour, ethnic origin, age, gender, race, religion, political or other opinion, disability or sexual orientation.
Information on gender diversity within the Group can be found in the Strategic report on page 49.
The Groups policy is to recruit disabled workers for those vacancies they are able to fill.
When existing employees suffer disablement, every effort is made to retain them in the workforce wherever reasonable and practicable.
Disabled staff have the same opportunities as other employees so far as training, career development and promotion are concerned.
Further information on ethics, communication, training and development in respect of the Groups employees is included in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic report on page 49.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Groups research and development activities ensure that it stays at the forefront of plastic product design and engineering, packaging technology and innovation with regards to design, functionality, aesthetics and specification with particular attention to weight reduction and the incorporation of recycled materials.
Expenditure on research and development for the year ended 31 March 2017 can be found in note 3 to the financial statements.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT The Groups policy is to finance its operations through a mixture of retained profits, equity and borrowings.
The Group does not trade in financial instruments.
The main risks arising from the Groups borrowings are market risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and credit risk.
The Board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks.
The policies, which have been applied throughout the year, are set out in note 1 to the financial statements.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES The Board has provided qualifying third-party indemnities to the Companys directors and agreed to provide funds to meet costs incurred defending civil or criminal proceedings in accordance with legislation and the Articles.
The directors are not indemnified against damages awarded to the Company itself, defence costs where the defence is unsuccessful in the case of liabilities owed to the Company, criminal fines, fines by regulators or the legal costs of successful criminal proceedings against the directors.
Defence costs arising from actions brought by third parties, may, subject to certain exclusions, be paid by the Company even if judgement goes against the director.
The indemnities provided to the directors are available for inspection at the Companys Registered Office and at the AGM.
82 STRATEGIC REPORT 0152 GOVERNANCE 5391 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 140148 QUALIFYING THIRD PARTY INDEMNITY An associated company, RPC Containers Limited, has granted a qualifying pension scheme indemnity in a form permitted by the CA 2006 to the directors of RPC Containers Pension Trustees Limited, which is the Trustee of the RPC Containers Limited Pension Scheme.
The indemnity was in force during the financial year and up to the date of this report.
STRATEGIC REPORT AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Information concerning likely future developments, greenhouse gas emissions, environmental matters, business ethics, health and safety, employees, customers, suppliers and the community is contained in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 52 and the Corporate responsibility section on pages 44 to 52.
SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS The Company is required to disclose any significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control.
Some commercial agreements with customers and suppliers allow the counterparties to alter or terminate the agreement in these circumstances.
The Companys 870m multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement contains a change of control clause whereby a participating bank may cancel its commitment and require the Company to repay outstanding loans and interest.
In addition, a holder of the US$216m or 60m seven year or 10 year notes issued in the US Private Placement market under the terms of the note purchase agreement has the option to redeem any note at 100% of its principal amount together with interest accrued in the event of a change of control.
On 30 January 2017 the Company entered into a US$750m multi-currency term loan facility Dollar Facility which includes a change of control clause whereby such an event would trigger a mandatory cancellation and prepayment of the Dollar Facility.
There are no change of control provisions in directors service contracts.
There are provisions for the vesting of share options and awards in certain circumstances in the event of a change in control under the rules of the Companys share incentive plans.
GOING CONCERN After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least one year from the date these accounts were signed.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Directors are also required to provide a broader assessment of viability over a longer period, which can be found on page 30.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all reasonable steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make him herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
APPROVAL OF THE STRATEGIC REPORT AND THE DIRECTORS REPORT Pages 1 to 52 inclusive consist of the Strategic report and pages 53 to 84 inclusive consist of the Directors report.
These reports have been drawn up and presented in accordance with, and in reliance upon, applicable English company law and any liability of the directors in connection with these reports shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Under the CA 2006, a safe harbour limits the liability of directors in respect of statements in and omissions from a Strategic report and a Directors report.
Under English law, the directors would be liable to the Company, but not to any third party, if the Strategic report or the Directors report contain errors as a result of recklessness or knowing misstatement or dishonest concealment of a material fact, but would not otherwise be liable.
For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8 R, the required content of the Management Report can be found in the Strategic report and this Directors report, including the sections of the Annual Report incorporated by reference.
The Strategic report and the Directors report were approved by the Board on 7 June 2017.
NICK GILES Company Secretary 7 June 2017 83 WWW.
