STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Innovation and Commercial Development Connecting consumers and science Innovation and Commercial Development ICD is a key enabler ICD brings together scientific and commercial functions into of our growth strategy.
ICD connects deep consumer and one team to provide an integrated approach to developing and category understanding with leading-edge science to create commercialising new products and technologies.
solutions for customers which address growing consumer Global Marketing: operates a market research programme demand for healthier food and drink.
designed to build deep consumer and category understanding ICD is based at our global Commercial and Food Innovation of our three platforms.
It carries out primary research Centre in Chicago, USA.
At the Centre, we offer a full range of supplemented by insights from syndicated research services facilities and services including sensory evaluation, culinary such as Euromonitor.
development, human nutrition and regulatory expertise, Platform Management: takes consumer and category state-of-the-art research and application laboratories, and a understanding and translates it into focused strategies for our pilot plant.
Through the Centre, and our global network of three platforms aligned to large market opportunities.
applications and technical services laboratories, we work Research and Development: uses leading-edge science to closely with our customers to drive new product validation and deliver innovative new products which target large bring new products to market quickly.
ICD supports both business divisions but its resources are Open Innovation: complements in-house science by developing largely focused on three broad platforms within the global relationships with universities and research institutions speciality food ingredients market sweeteners, texturants specialising in food science and technologies.
For earlier stage and health and wellness.
opportunities, Tate & Lyle Ventures invests in companies in the The innovation pipeline is managed through a disciplined food ingredient and technology space.
A rigorous, multi-step Stage Gate process is used to assess the size and viability of a potential idea through to final launch into the market.
Each platform has a clear strategic focus aligned to large market opportunities Sweeteners Texturants Health and wellness Focused on driving sugar substitution Focused on delivering highly functional Focused on delivering wellness by developing a range of low-calorie and clean-label starches.
In the food through enrichment by developing and no-calorie alternatives to sugar.
industry, starches play a key functional soluble fibres and expanding our Reducing calories from sugar role in providing texture and shelfrange of oat-based ingredients.
Fibres consumption is an increasingly stability, replacing fat and calories, support healthy digestion and have important priority not only for as well as managing costs.
other functional benefits such as fat, consumers but also for governments.
Translating innovation into a commercial portfolio Soluble Fibre Low-calorie sugar that Great-tasting natural, zero High-performing Fibre enrichment solution Natural, heart healthy offers a superior, new calorie stevia sweetener clean-label starch with excellent digestive soluble oat fibre that taste experience with no bitter after-taste allowing the launch of tolerance supports healthy label-friendly products blood cholesterol without compromising levels their quality Information about our New Products can be found on www.
