Strategic Report Our financial and business performance Networks delivering energy 1,118m SSE is the only energy company in the UK to be involved in electricity The agreed allowance, in transmission, electricity distribution and gas distribution.
Its five economically- 2013 14 prices, for SSENs regulated energy network companies consist of a 100% ownership of Scottish flagship Caithness-Moray Hydro Electric Transmission SHE Transmission, Scottish Hydro Electric Power transmission link.
The Distribution SHEPD and Southern Electric Power Distribution SEPD and, since 26 October 2016, a 33.3% stake in both Scotland Gas Networks and Southern largest single investment Gas Networks SGN.
undertaken by the SSE group to date.
Networks Adjusted operating profit Total Networks RAV bn m 936.5 1.1% 7.68 -3.5% Adjusted operating profit for this business covers SSE is on target to take this Regulated Asset Value of its activity across all the electricity and gas networks networks business to almost 9bn by 2020.
3.7m Adjusted Electricity Distribution Transmission networks capital expenditure homes and businesses networks capital expenditure m m SSE Networks is responsible for 284.7 10.2% 505.0 -11.9% maintaining the SSE owns and invests in two electricity distribution SSE owns and invests in two electricity distribution electricity distribution networks companies: Scottish Hydro Electric Power networks companies: Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution and Southern Electric Power Distribution.
Distribution and Southern Electric Power Distribution.
networks supplying homes and businesses Electricity Distribution operating profit Transmission operating profit m across southern central m England and the north belt of central Scotland 433.4 16.9% 263.7 -8.2% and the Scottish islands.
Scottish and Southern Electricity Networks SSEN, Scottish and Southern Electricity Networks SSEN, operating as Scottish Hydro Electric Power Distribution operating as Scottish Hydro Electric Transmission plc under SHEPD and Southern Electric Power Distribution SEPD licence, is responsible for maintaining and investing in the under licence, is responsible for maintaining the electricity electricity transmission network in the north of Scotland.
distribution networks supplying over 3.7 million homes and businesses across central southern England and north of the central belt of Scotland, the Mull of Kintyre and the Scottish islands.
Networks bring balance to SSE and the relative stability of the returns underpins the Groups financial performance.
Through investment in modern energy networks and targeted performance against the incentive-based regulatory framework, we provide a safe, reliable and efficient service that our customers can rely on.
Well continue to adapt to a changing role for network operators, increasing our RAV through investment delivered in the most disciplined way possible.
Colin Nicol Managing Director, Networks SSE plc Annual Report 2017 44 1.
45 Strategic Report Our financial and business performance Networks delivering energy continued Networks key performance indicators March 17 March 16 Electricity Transmission Transmission operating profit m 263.7 287.2 Regulated Asset Value RAV m 2,685 2,287 Capital expenditure m 505.0 573.4 Electricity Distribution Electricity Distribution operating profit m 433.4 370.7 Regulated Asset Value RAV m 3,246 3,157 Adjusted capital expenditure m 284.7 258.3 Electricity distributed TWh 39.3 39.5 Customer minutes lost SHEPD average per customer 60 55 Customer minutes lost SEPD average per customer 43 41 Customer interruptions SHEPD per 100 customers 68 66 Customer interruptions SEPD per 100 customers 48 47 Scotia Gas Networks SSEs 50% share reducing to 33% from 26 Oct 2016 SGN Adjusted operating profit SSEs share m 239.4 268.7 SGN Reported operating profit SSEs share m 151.7 175.3 Regulated Asset Value m 1,748 2,513 Uncontrolled gas escapes attended within one hour % 98.7 98.5 SGN gas mains replaced km 457 960 A Distribution business looking to the future Our Distribution business is focused on the future.
The role of the network is changing and will be more active and flexible in a decarbonised energy system.
In preparing for this change we have to ensure customers interests are considered and the network remains reliable and cost-effective.
Weve been involved in some pioneering innovation projects, working with Ofgem and industry partners.
For example, the My Electric Avenue project considered how to prepare the network for the possible increase in electric vehicles.
The findings are shared across the sector to ensure a cost-effective transition if homes and businesses want to install charging points.
For more visit http: myelectricavenue.
info SSE plc Annual Report 2017 46 1.
Key questions and answers about SSEs Networks business How would describe 2016 17 How is SSEN preparing for What is SSENs principal priority for SSEs Networks business?
It was a year of important progress at There is no doubt that technology SSENs core priority is always to provide a Scottish and Southern Electricity Networks improvements, decarbonisation of safe and reliable supply of electricity to the SSEN.
We have moved forward in areas electricity generation and increasing communities we serve from the Scottish such as innovation, investment and customer levels of demand-side response and islands to the Isle of Wight.
We never lose service, as well as continuing to provide a energy storage will further transform the sight of our role to provide a reliable energy safe and reliable electricity supply to homes way network operators do business, with network those homes and businesses can rely and businesses across our networks.
We are distribution companies in particular required on.
Our investment plans will also continue also undertaking a business-wide change to adapt to a new active and flexible and our committed plans mean that the total programme to improve the efficiency and distribution system operator role.
From RAV of SSEs network businesses is well placed capability of our business and set ourselves SSENs perspective, we are well positioned to reach almost 9bn by 2020. up well for a successful future.
Networks to maximise opportunities from this change, remains central to the fulfilment of SSEs having led the way in innovations such as Has demand for renewable energy strategy and underpins SSEs commitment Active Network Management on Orkney, connections in Scotland continued to annual dividend growth through stable considering the impact of electric vehicles and what is the outlook?
returns and index-linked RAV, which bring through our Electric Avenue initiative In advance of the closure of the Renewables balance and investment options to SSE.
and the six-year long Thames Valley Obligations Scheme, there has been an Vision project.
Well continue to engage increased demand for SSEN to provide Excellence in customer and constructively with policy-makers, the connections to its transmission network stakeholder engagement is an regulator and industry to ensure that for renewable energy developers.
In fact its increasingly important component a phased transition to a flexible role is been a record year.
Including that connected of the RIIO regulatory framework, delivered in the best interests of customers.
at distribution level, SSEN connected over so, is SSEN expanding its 500MW of renewable electricity to its capabilities in this area?
How is the Caithness-Moray networks in 2016 17, the highest combined Yes.
transmission link, SSEs largest ever capacity to connect to the north of Scotland We transmit and distribute electricity to over construction project, progressing network in a single year since electricity 3.7 million customers and have to be focused and whats next for capital privatisation.
This continues the rapid on their needs first and foremost.
growth of renewable energy in the north also recognise this and the RIIO framework Good progress has been made.
The sheer of Scotland, and low-carbon sources now was created to make sure the needs of the scale of the project is remarkable and with make up 4.5GW of generation capacity in customer is considered and our financial the manufacture of the subsea cable now our licence area.
Alongside this increase in incentives or penalties are judged against that.
complete, we expect its installation on the connections SSEN was able to maintain This includes power restoration times, the Moray Firth seabed later this year.
Progress 99.9% network reliability, giving customers a support for vulnerable customers, efficient remains on track with completion expected reliable and safe supply of electricity.
Going connection management and stakeholder by the end of 2018.
Weve developed forward we expect a significant number of involvement in decision making.
Weve significant construction capabilities and see new renewable energy projects to connect significantly invested in this area to ensure we major opportunities from the low-carbon to the transmission network throughout the continue to deliver to meet the needs of our transition.
Our capabilities and opportunities remainder of the transmission price control customers.
In September we rebranded our arising mean we expect the RAV of this to March 2021, subject to developers business to Scottish and Southern Electricity business to reach around 3bn by 2018. reaching financialclose.
Networks so the business more accurately reflects what we do and where we do it.
We We are now four years into have launched several initiatives that have the Transmission Price Control, For the full analysis of SSEs Networks increased our stakeholders voice in our so is SSEs Networks business business in 2016 17, see the Full-Year Results business decisions, including stakeholder now thinking about the future?
feedback on the visual impact of our Absolutely.
The mid-point of Transmissions transmission assets in Scotland, which price control means that thoughts now presents an opportunity to look again at the turn to the arrangements after 2021.
Were visual impact of our existing infrastructure in starting to consider our business plan and Scotlands National Parks and National Scenic how we can meet the needs of customers Areas: similar to a scheme for our distribution in the north of Scotland in the next decade.
networks which invites stakeholders to Well be working with stakeholders to help nominate areas for undergrounding of 90km shape our thinking and ensure that our plan of distribution power lines in National Parks, is as robust and customer focused as possible.
Areas of Natural Beauty and National Scenic Areas: and the launch of our independent Stakeholder Advisory Panel.
