46 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Effectiveness Board activities in the year The table below shows a selection of Board activities in the financial year.
Strategy, property and funding Internal control and risk management Regular updates on portfolio and portfolio valuations Setting the Groups risk appetite Approval of unsecured revolving credit facility and private Reviewing the risk register and internal controls following Audit placement, and consideration of future funding requirements Committee recommendations Regular public affairs updates and presentations by internal Review of IT systems and capital expenditure requirements and external speakers Consideration of Brexit implications Consideration and debate on future strategy Market Abuse Regulation training, and implementation ofshare dealing and inside information policies Financial performance Regular financial updates and reviews of KPIs Approval of dividends and dividend policy Competitor analysis Review of direct property costs, vacant space and asset enhancements initiatives Approval of final and interim results and trading statements Updates on REIT requirements Leadership, culture and people Governance, stakeholders and shareholders Staff recruitment and leaver updates Setting the environmental, modern slavery and Staff succession updates from Nominations Committee anti-briberypolicies Appointment of CEO and Property Director following Approval of electronic shareholder communications Nominations Committee recommendation Consideration of shareholder activism Setting the Groups culture and leading by example Regular review of shareholder register Approval of whistleblowing hotline Investor roadshow feedback Governance updates Board Committees At least one Board meeting a year is held Induction and To assist in its Corporate Governance at the Groups head office in Warrington  responsibilities, the Board has and Board members meet staff in an On appointment, new Directors receive established standing Committees.
informal setting before the meeting to a full briefing on the role, duties and AllNon-Executive Directors and the encourage feedback and foster a closer responsibilities of a director of a listed Chairman served on all Committees.
relationship between staff and the Board.
company, and on the Company and This was appropriate given the itsBoard.
An induction pack with relativelysmall size of the Board.
Each Time commitments important information is provided.
Committee follows Terms of Reference Other directorships of the Board Training needs are reviewed annually which are reviewed annually and are members are set out on pages 44 and aspart of the Board evaluation.
available on the Companys website.
Executive Directors are permitted However, Simon Laffin stepped down toserve on other boards if they can Each Board member is permitted to from the Audit Committee during his demonstrate this will not interfere with take professional advice on any matter period as Executive Chairman.
their time commitment to the Company.
which relates to their position, role and At present, neither of the Executive responsibilities as a director at the cost Information flow Directors holds any Non-Executive of the Company, and have access to The Board manages the Groups Director positions.
the advice and services of the Company growth closely and secures its Secretary, who advises the Board on understanding of the business through The Nominations Committee remains Corporate Governance matters.
comprehensive Board papers, which satisfied that all Directors devote include minutes of all Executive Board sufficient time to discharging their meetings, and also through staff duties to a high standard and are presentations.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 47 The Nominations Committee will be Re-election of Directors focusing on succession planning and In accordance with Corporate Board composition recruitment of a new Non-Executive Governance best practice, it is the Director this year and the Board will Companys policy that all Directors will Chairman 1 continue to devote more time to strategic submit themselves for re-election at the discussions.
All Directors resigned and Executive Directors 2 noted the opportunity forenhanced were re-elected at the 2016 AGM.
non-financial performance measures and Non-Executive at least three non-financial performance 2 Board and Committee Directors measures were included in the Executive performance evaluation Board objectives for the year.
5 An internal evaluation of the Board and its Committees was carried out during the year.
Board members completed a comprehensive questionnaire, returning Board tenure in current role it confidentially to the Company Secretary, who prepared an anonymous 02 years 2 summary of the results.
46 years 3 The feedback was extremely positive.
The only significant points to arise were: 5 The continued need for succession planning for all roles at the Board gender balance appropriate time The benefit of a greater diversity Female 1 ofskills at Board level The requirement for a further Male 4 Non-Executive Director to ensure compliance with the Code 5 A need for further strategic discussionand consideration ofemerging issues.
Board strengths Simon Laffin Non-Executive Chairman Experienced Chairman Strategy Finance Andrew Darke Jonathan Murphy Property Director CEO Real Estate Corporate Finance Customer Focus Capital Markets Marketing Risk Management Composition Jenefer Greenwood David Richardson of the Board Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Real Estate Finance & Accounting Customer Focus Mergers & Acquisitions Marketing Corporate Governance Key: Non-Executive Chairman Executive Director Non-Executive Director
