66 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report Financial and business The Group has facilities from a number Internal controls and reporting offinancial institutions, none of which riskmanagement The Directors present their Annual arerepayable before May 2021 other The Board accepts and acknowledges Reportand Accounts on the affairs of than modest annual amortisation.
In thatit is both accountable and theGroup, together with the financial addition to surplus available cash of responsible for ensuring that the Group statements and auditors report, for the 23.3 million at 31 March 2017 2016: has in place appropriate and effective year ended 31March 2017.
The 43.7 million, the Group has undrawn risk management and internal control Corporate Governance Statement set facilities of 100 million at the balance systems, including financial, operational out on page 41 forms part of this report.
The Directors Report and the other The Groups primary care property The Board monitors these systems on sections of this Annual Report contain developments in progress are all anongoing basis and this years review forward-looking statements.
found them to be operating effectively.
to which the Companys shareholders or anyone may rely on these forwardThe Group has adequate headroom in Dividends looking statements is set out in the its banking covenants.
The Group has Details of the dividend can be found Glossary on page 105. been in compliance with all financial inNote 19 to the accounts.
The Group covenants on its loans throughout benefits from brought forward tax Principal activities theyear.
losses, which results in all dividends Assura plc is a leading primary care paid during the year being paid as property investor and developer.
It owns The Groups properties are substantially ordinary dividends with an associated and procures good quality primary care let with rent paid or reimbursed by the tax credit.
NHS and they benefit from a weighted average lease length of 13.2 years.
They Details of the Groups dividend policy The subsidiary and associated are diverse both geographically and can be found in the business review on undertakings are listed in Note 9 bylotsize and therefore represent page 37. totheaccounts.
Supplier payment policy Business review The Groups financial forecasts show The Group has not signed up to any The Group is required to include a thatborrowing facilities are adequate specific supplier payment code: it is business review in this report.
The andthe business can operate within Assuras policy to comply with the information that fulfils the requirements these facilities and meet its obligations terms of payment agreed with its ofthe business review can be found on when they fall due for the foreseeable suppliers.
Where specific payment pages 34 to 39, which are incorporated future.
The Directors believe that the terms are not agreed, the Group inthis report by reference.
business is well placed to manage its endeavours to adhere to the suppliers current and reasonably possible future standard payment terms.
As at 31 Going concern risks successfully.
March 2017, the average number of Assuras business activities together days taken by the Group to pay its withfactors likely to affect its future Accordingly, the Board considers it suppliers was 10 days 2016: 22days.
performance are set out in the business appropriate that the financial statements review on pages 34 to 39.
In addition, have been prepared on a going concern Post balance sheet events Note 23 to the accounts includes basis of accounting and there are no Subsequent to the year end, the theGroups objectives, policies and material uncertainties to the Companys revolving credit facility has been processes for managing its capital, its ability to continue to prepare them on extended to 250 million.
financial risk management objectives, this basis over a period of at least 12 details of its financial instruments and its months.
Directors liability insurance exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Company has arranged insurance Long-term viability statement cover in respect of legal action against The Companys viability statement is on itsDirectors.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 67 Company share scheme matters of concern to them.
In addition, The Assura plc Employee Benefit Trust all staff are eligible to participate in a holds 61,898 0.004% of the issued defined contribution pension scheme.
share capital of the Company in trust for The views of employees are taken into the benefit of employees of the Group account when making decisions that and their dependants.
The voting rights might affect their interests.
Assura in relation to these shares are exercised encourages openness and transparency, by the Trustees, who will take into with staff having regular access account any recommendation made to totheDirectors and being given them by the Board of Assura plc.
theopportunity to express views andopinions.
Donations In the year to 31 March 2017, Assura The Group is committed to the donated 24,850 to charities 2016: promotion of equal opportunities, 26,520, all of which were UK registered supported by its Equal Opportunity and charities, and no contributions were Diversity Policy.
The policy reflects both made for political purposes 2016: nil.
current legislation and best practice.
It More details of our chosen charities can highlights the Groups obligations to be found on our website.
race, gender and disability equality.
Full and fair consideration is given to Employees applications for employment from Employees are encouraged to maximise disabled persons and appropriate their individual contribution to the Group.
training and career development are In addition to competitive remuneration provided.
packages, they participate in an annual bonus scheme which links personal Share capital contribution to the goals of the business.
As at 31 March 2017, the issued Outperformance against the annual share capital of the Company is targets can result in a bonus award 1,655,040,993 Ordinary Shares of proportionate to the individuals 10pence each.
Employees are provided at the 2016 AGM for the purchase of regularly with information regarding up to 10% of share capital, if deemed progress against the budget, financial appropriate by the Directors.
This and economic factors affecting the expires at the conclusion of the businesss performance and other 2017 AGM.
Interests in voting rights As at 19 May 2017, the Company had been notified of the following interests inaccordance with DTR 5: 31 March 2017 19 May 2017 Percentage Percentage of Ordinary of Ordinary Name of shareholder Shares Shares Invesco Limited 18.97 16.66 Artemis Investment Management 9.99 no change BlackRock BGI 6.50 no change Aberdeen Asset Management 5.06 no change Legal & General 3.01 no change 68 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors Report continued Price risk, credit risk, liquidity Auditor Amendments to the Articles risk and cash flow risk Each of the persons who is a Director at ofIncorporation Full details of how these risks are the date of approval of this Annual The Articles of Incorporation of the mitigated can be found in Note 23 Report confirms that: Company may be amended by special totheaccounts.
So far as the Director is aware, there Future developments is no relevant audit information of Annual General Meeting Details of future developments are which the Companys auditor is The AGM of the Company will be held discussed on pages 34 to 37 in the unaware: and atthe offices of DWF, 20 Fenchurch business review.
The Director has taken all the steps Street, London EC3M 3AG on 18 July thathe she ought to have taken as 2017 at 11am.
Competition and Markets aDirector in order to make himself Authority CMA Order herself aware of any relevant audit Both the Directors Report and the The Company confirms that it has information and to establish that Strategic Report were approved by complied with the Statutory Audit theCompanys auditor is aware theBoard and signed on its behalf.
Services for Large Companies Market ofthatinformation.
Investigation Mandatory Use of Orla Ball Competitive Tender Processes and This confirmation is given and should Company Secretary Audit Committee Responsibilities Order beinterpreted in accordance with 22 May 2017 2014 published bythe CMA on theprovisions of section 418 of the 26September 2014.
Greenhouse gas emissions The Directors, on recommendation from The greenhouse gas emissions from the the Audit Committee, intend to place a head office activities is provided on resolution before the AGM to re-appoint page 26.
This has been calculated by Deloitte LLP as auditor for the year reference to kilowatt hours used and ending 31 March 2018. miles driven, with appropriate conversion factors applied.
