S 2 t p e e p t S 4 Directors Report Corporate governance Effectiveness which could compromise the independence of the annual Board evaluation process.
Board evaluation of the non-Executive Directors and takes Directors are encouraged to request In 2015 16 the effectiveness of the Board these, amongst others matters, into account additional information and support at was assessed through a formal and rigorous when forming their view.
any time as required, with the necessary external evaluation process, the results of resources being made available to them.
which were used to develop actions and Each Director has a duty to disclose any agree areas for improvement in 2016 17.
For actual or potential conflict of interest to There is an agreed procedure for the this reporting year an internal evaluation was the Board should it arise, which the Board Directors to take independent professional conducted, and was specifically designed must then review and approve if appropriate advice at the Companys expense should it to allow any progress made throughout the to do so.
A Director always abstains from be required, with any advice being obtained year to be measured.
As well as confirming authorising his or her own position.
The made available to the other members of the the areas in which the Board has performed Company Secretary records any notifications Board.
This procedure was not used during well, or in which improvements have been made, along with the Boards response in the year.
made, the evaluation identified areas of the Conflicts of Interest Register, which focus for 2017 18.
An overview of the is reviewed annually by the Nomination As part of their development in 2016 17, evaluation process is set out below and Committee.
This annual review is accompanied all Board members took the opportunity details of the findings are detailed opposite.
by an assessment of the other appointments to participate in site visits and spend time held by each non-Executive Director.
with teams at different locations across each During the year each Director also participated Following their review, the Nomination of SSEs business areas.
These visits were in a detailed review of individual performance Committee provide a recommendation to either organised in response to an identified which was carried out by the Chairman.
The the Board as to any action that is required training requirement, or due to having been process for evaluating the Chairman was and a view as to the continuing independence an area of particular interest to the individual managed by the Senior Independent Director, of each non-Executive Director.
Whilst these engagements are which involved a separate meeting with the primarily to facilitate learning, they also non-Executive Directors and included The Board confirmed all of the non-Executive provide the Board with visibility of talent at feedback from the Executive Directors.
Directors remain independent, and note that different levels and insight into the culture in line with the recommendations surrounding within the business.
Following any such site Details of the individual Committee tenure, no non-Executive Director has served visits, feedback is always provided at the next evaluations which were conducted can be on the Board for more than nine years from Board meeting.
found in their respective reports that follow.
the date of their first election.
The Board also consider that the Chairman was independent Additional knowledge is also gained through Director independence on appointment.
the provision of teach-ins, and updates and conflicts and briefings which cover areas relevant The continuing independence of each Knowledge to the Group.
These can involve deep dives non-Executive Director is considered Throughout the reporting year the Directors into technical business areas, presentations through: the annual Board evaluation develop and refresh their knowledge on macro-economic, political and process, which includes the individual through various training sessions and regulatory developments, and training Directors evaluation: and the Nomination a number of internally and externally in corporatematters.
Committees review of the Directors facilitated engagements, with individual conflicts of interest.
The Board recognises development needs being reviewed as part the circumstances as set out in the Code Board and Committee evaluation process Step 1 Step 2 A meeting was held with Boardroom Dialogue Individual interviews were held by Boardroom Ltd, the Chairman and Company Secretary, Dialogue Ltd with each of the Directors, the Review, plan and design Issue questionnaire at which the scope and format of the Company Secretary, Deputy Company The Chairman and Company Secretary The questionnaire was issued to evaluation process was decided.
Secretary and members of the reviewed the actions which had been Executive Committee.
A r eac eview o h of t f he Directors for Board documentation including agreed following the external evaluation comment and feedback.
meeting packs and agendas in 2015 16, in consideration of which, from the past 12 months was also conducted.
Evaluation Process Boardroom Dialogue Ltd The findings of the evaluation Step 4 Step 3 attended the Board meeting process were compiled and Report and agree Compile and analyse in January and presented the reported to the Board via an findings of the evaluation in-depth report.
The Chairman and Company The individual responses were process.
The recommendations Secretary prepared a report on the compiled by the Company Secretary made were considered by the Board and actions identied for findings, which was presented to the and an in-depth analysis of the the coming year.
Board along with a number of proposed comments provided was carried out.
actions for consideration and approval as appropriate.
SSE plc Annual Report 2017 64 External Evaluation Process Brieng Interview Discussion Result and and and Collation Scope Review Objectives Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 S t e 1 p p 3 e t S 1.
Board evaluation findings Actions for 2016 17 Progress made Actions for 2017 18 Enhancing Board engagement Monitor the agenda setting process to A dedicated annual strategy session was Continue to assess the opportunities ensure continued linkage to strategy.
again held, which received positive feedback to enhance strategic discussion and surrounding year on year improvement.
The time allocated to strategic discussions throughout the year has also increased.
Review the allocation of time for site The number of site visits has increased Identify any areas of the business which visits including the process for reporting during the year, and each meeting of the have not yet been visited by the Board and back to the Board.
Board now includes site visit feedback consider increasing the number of visits as a standing item.
Consider increasing the number In addition to the normal diarised nonContinue to build both dedicated of meetings of the non-Executive Executive meetings, the non-Executive non-Executive and Board engagement Directors in the Board calendar.
Directors met over dinner as part of the time into the formal meeting calendar.
Engaging in Board development Identify complex or technical business This was progressed during the year through Opportunities for further Board areas that would benefit from teach-ins non-Executive Director teach-ins covering: development, both SSE specific and and consider increasing the number Energy Portfolio Management: aspects of more generally, will be monitored and of one-to-one meetings between the Financial Reporting: investing in digital in progressed as appropriate in 2017 18. non-Executive Directors and members Retail: and IT security.
of the senior management team.
Technical presentations in relation to financial reporting were also provided to the Audit Committee.
Improving meeting administration Explore options for streamlining the The content and format of the agenda and Meeting administration will be continually format and volume of Board and Board meeting packs was refreshed during monitored but no specific actions have Committee meeting packs, with the year, with key matters and supplementary been identified in this area for 2017 18. continued timely dissemination information being clearly identifiable.
Considering long-term succession planning Continue to monitor and develop Improvements were made in respect of Receive feedback on planned engagement succession plans at Board level and succession planning and talent development between the Nomination Committee and increase visibility of the talent pipeline and the Nomination Committee considered HR and consider ways in which the visibility below the Board and upper level these in detail throughout the year, reporting of the talent pipeline can be increased.
Continue to challenge and strengthen the work on inclusion and diversity.
New actions for 2017 18 Focussing on corporate culture Corporate culture is implicit in all areas Following specific questioning and feedback should be explicitly supported through the identified above and runs through all of through the Board evaluation process, the reporting and monitoring of a number of the Boards work and considerations.
Board agreed that work in the area of culture existing and new initiatives including supporting data.
65 Directors Report Corporate governance Effectiveness continued Examples of some of the different Director induction development opportunities in which On joining the Board, all non-Executive the Directors participated throughout the Directors receive an induction tailored to their year, including details of specific site visits, individual requirements.
The comprehensive teach-ins and updates and briefings are programme is facilitated by the Chairman outlined below.
and Company Secretary and involves briefings and meetings with key individuals The Company also operates performance from each business area and supporting coaching for the Executive Directors and Group functions.
During the induction for other members of senior management, programme each Director is invited to which is designed to develop and enhance identify areas in which they would like individual and Company performance.
additional meetings or further information.
Director knowledge and Board engagement Site visits To gain a better understanding of: operational matters: safety considerations: and key performance drivers.
Wholesale Networks Retail Enterprise Site visits included: Site visits included: Site visits included: Site visits included: the coal fired power station the Beauly-Denny a number of SSEs call an on site meeting with Fiddlers Ferry: and Caithness Moray centres: and one of SSEs contracting the gas fired power stations Transmission projects: customer services teams in Inverness.
Medway and Peterhead: and the Networks Control sessions in Perth.
the onshore windfarm sites Room in Perth: and Clyde and Griffin.
operational depots in Inverness and Portsmouth.
Teach-ins and one to one meetings with management To provide a better understanding of: technical matters: areas specific to the relevant Board Committees: and key business initiatives.
Engagements included: an Energy Portfolio Management training session covering commodity markets and energy trading: a review of the developments in SSEs digital customer service offering: an insight meeting with the Business Energy team on location: sessions with Finance and Internal Audit covering broader Audit Committee matters: and meetings with HR to review the ongoing inclusion and diversity work.
Updates and briefings To provide a better understanding of: external developments relevant to the Group: and specialist corporate areas.
Engagements included: an overview of the political, regulatory and legal landscape following the EU referendum from members of SSEs legal panel: a review of recent corporate developments from legal and financial advisors: an update on the views of the investment community from SSEs brokers: and a briefing on changing trends and developments from within the energy sector from SSEs strategy team.
Nomination Committee Report Dear Shareholder, It has been another busy year for the Members and meetings Nomination Committee, with four meetings during the reporting period.
These meetings Member Attended Member Position since scheduled covered a number of matters, ranging from Board membership to Group wide Richard Gillingwater Chairman 2008 4 4 people initiatives, which I believe to be 1 Gregor Alexander Executive Director 2014 2 2 both supportive and representative of the 2 broad scope and forward looking nature Jeremy Beeton Non-Executive Director 2014 4 4 of our work.
2 Katie Bickerstaffe Non-Executive Director 2011 4 4 2 Sue Bruce Non-Executive Director 2014 4 4 In 2016 17 we again reviewed the composition of the Board and its Crawford Gillies SID 2015 4 4 Committees.
Following our most recent 2 Peter Lynas Non-Executive Director 2014 4 4 appointments of Helen Mahy and Crawford 2 Gillies both of whom have now completed Helen Mahy Non-Executive Director 2016 4 4 their first full year as non-Executive Directors 1 Alistair Phillips-Davies Executive Director 2013 2 2 we have benefited from an overall increase in the diversity of skills and experience at 1 The two Executive Directors ceased their membership of the Nomination Committee during the year.
2 All non-Executive Directors are considered to be Independent by the Board.
As such, no changes to Board membership have been made this year.
At sub-Committee level, the membership of the Safety, Health, and Environment Advisory Committee has been refreshed following changes in the SSE senior management team, and the membership of the Nomination Committee has also been updated.
This was following discussion with significant US shareholders, and in recognition of the more stringent New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards surrounding fully .
Specific Nomination Committee focus has been provided to a number of other key areas including: succession: talent development: and the inclusion and diversity of both the SSE leadership team and the Group at large, all of which are highlighted in the report that follows.
We also took the opportunity throughout the year to consider and refresh our terms of reference in recognition of the pace of external change in the areas relevant to our work.
Throughout 2017 18 we will again monitor the membership and composition of the Board and its Committees, and challenge the senior management team to develop the internal talent pipeline, so that together they continue to support and promote the success of SSE in the longer term.
Richard Gillingwater CBE Chairman of the Nomination Committee 16 May 2017 67 s e v i t c e j b o d n a s e l p i c Directors Report Corporate governance Effectiveness continued Role and responsibilities Nomination Committee responsibility The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing and identifying the leadership needs of the Board, its Committees and SSEs senior management in order to support the long-term success of the Group.
The specific remit of the Committee is set out in SSEs culture its terms of reference, which were refreshed and values during the reporting year, and details of the External commitments Group strategy Committees key considerations, principles of Directors and objectives which inform its work can be found in the diagram opposite.
Balance Nomination Committee Potential of skills, Responsibility: conflicts of activities in 2016 17 knowledge interest of to review the structure, The Nomination Committee had four and Directors experience meetings during the year and an overview size and composition of of the work carried out during the reporting the Board and senior period is set out in the table below.
Diversity Progressive including and well gender and managed ethnicity change Rigorous and Oversight of transparent the executive appointment talent pipeline process Nomination Committee activity Area of focus Actions Succession planning and talent development Monitor plans for succession Focus was given to the ongoing assessment of the succession pipeline for Board and refreshment of the Board and senior management positions, including a review of potential successors and senior management.
readiness and plans identified for their development.
Reviewed senior appointments, both internal and external hires.
Continued to monitor the acceleration of SSEs female leadership pipeline.
Out with the meetings a number of Committee members spent time with senior leaders throughout SSE, providing an opportunity to observe the succession pipeline in action.
This included attending the SSE Leadership Conference and a senior Wholesale team event.
Inclusion and diversity Support inclusion and diversity Updates were received on the HR teams initiatives on inclusion and diversity.
comprise measures to build a diverse and long-term pipeline of talented individuals from a wide range of backgrounds, and initiatives to improve: social inclusion: female representation: and ethnic representation.
The Committee discussed the findings of a number of externally developed reports including: the Hampton-Alexander Review: the Parker Report: the ethnic diversity of UK boards: and various Government papers.
Director independence and conflicts Review the independence of all Confirmed that all non-Executive Directors remain independent in line with the Code.
Review of declared and potential Made a recommendation to the Board for approval.
conflicts of interests of the Directors.
Committee and Board membership Review the Board and Board Recommended changes to the membership of the Safety, Health, Environment, Committee membership.
Advisory Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Recommended re-appointment of Sue Bruce as a non-Executive Director for a further three years from 1 September 2016, and confirmed continuing membership of the Audit Committee and the Safety, Health, Environment, Advisory Committees.
Composition Performance Board diversity The membership of the Nomination The performance of the Nomination Committee comprises the five nonCommittee was assessed as part of the Executive Directors and the Chairman internal evaluation process, in which the Gender of Board of the Board, who is also Chairman of the Board and its Committees participated Committee.
The Company Secretary is during the year.
The evaluation was Secretary to the Nomination Committee.
conducted using a tailored questionnaire and the responses highlighted positive The membership of the Nomination developments for the year under review.
Committee has always recognised and It was noted in particular, that the visibility been compliant with provision B.
2.1. of the of SSEs talent pipeline and succession Code, whereby a majority of the members planning had improved, and that this should should be independent non-Executive continue in 2017 18 with specific focus on Directors.
During the year and following diversity, talent development and the wider Male 6 discussion with significant US shareholders, scope of the HR function.
Female 3 the membership was updated to reflect the New York Stock Exchange listing and Diversity corporate governance standards, which As well as maintaining an overview of Board Years of service require Committee membership to be Group initiatives to improve diversity, the fully independent.
As a result the Executive Committee has a responsibility to consider Directors, Alistair Phillips-Davies and Gregor diversity in its broader sense when reflecting Alexander, stepped down from their upon the correct composition of the Board positions on the Nomination Committee.
In doing so, the Committee considers the recommendations Succession planning and findings of external reviews which have During the reporting year, the Nomination been undertaken in areas relevant to their Committee continued to discharge its work.
The SSE Board Diversity Policy also responsibility for ensuring that the balance continues to support the Committee in this 0-3 years 2 of skills, knowledge and experience on area, by setting out SSEs approach to Board 3-6 years 4 both the Board and its Committees remains diversity, and the principles which should be 9 years 3 appropriate, such that they are able to carry applied when recruiting new individuals and out their roles effectively.
In reviewing the considering if any changes are required.
The composition of the Board and its Policy also ensures that recommendations Board Age Committees, the Nomination Committee surrounding appointment continue to be has due regard for succession planning made on merit.
and the options for future membership refreshment should it be required.
In 2016 17 the diversity of Board and senior leadership positions within FTSE companies Following the appointment of Crawford continued to receive significant focus, and Gillies and Helen Mahy in the previous the Committee have discussed and will financial year, the Nomination Committee continue to monitor the implementation of was satisfied that no further changes to any initiatives as appropriate to support any Board membership were required in 2016 17. recommendations made.
41 to 50 years 2 Before a Board appointment is made, In respect of gender diversity at Board level, 51 to 60 years 5 61 to 65 years 2 the Nomination Committee applies the the Board and Committee were supportive considerations, principles and objectives of the original work of the Davies Review, outlined in the diagram on page 68, and and recognise the current recommendations 1 Board Experience in addition, when appointing a new nonof the Hampton-Alexander Review for a Executive Director, engages the services minimum 33% womens representation of a professional search firm specialising on FTSE 350 Boards by 2020.
The process membership of the Board is currently generally involves interviews with a number in line with this at 33%.
of candidates and in line with Board policy SSE strives to engage only with firms that A number of measures of the current diversity have signed up to the Voluntary Code of of the Board are highlighted opposite and Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
further detail on the gender mix of SSEs employees is provided on pages 20 to 22 When the Nomination Committee deals with of this Strategic Report.
Banking, corporate Governance & risk 4 finance 4 L eadership of large any matter concerning the Chairmanship of Large capital organisations 3 the Board, another non-Executive Director projects 3 Public sector 3 Retail businesses 3 chosen by the remaining members chairs Regulation & the meeting.
Members of the Nomination energy utilities 4 Committee do not take part in discussions 1 Number of members with relevant experience when their own performance or continued in this area.
