Financial review, Riskand Corporate Audited financial Portfolio and Overview Private Equity Infrastructure Corporate responsibility Governance statements otherinformation Alternative Performance Measures APMs We assess our performance using a variety of measures that are not specifically dened under IFRS and are therefore termed APMs.
The APMs that we use may not be directly comparable with those used by other companies.
Our Investment basis is itself an APM.
The explanation of and rationale for the Investment basis and its reconciliation to IFRS is provided on pages 38 to 42.
The table below defines our additional APMs.
APM Purpose Calculation Reconciliation to IFRS Gross investment return A measure of the performance of It is calculated as the gross The equivalent balances under as a percentage of opening our proprietary investment portfolio.
investment return, as shown in IFRS and the reconciliation to the portfolio value the Investment basis Consolidated Investment basis are shown on page For further information see the statement of comprehensive 39 and 40 for the Reconciliation of Group KPIs on page 14. income, as a % of the opening the consolidated statement of portfolio value.
comprehensive income and the Reconciliation of the consolidated statement of financial position respectively.
Cash realisations Cash proceeds from our investments The cash received from the disposal The equivalent balance under support our returns to shareholders, of investments in the year as shown IFRS and the reconciliation to the as well as our ability to invest in new in the Investment basis Consolidated Investment basis is shown in the opportunities.
cash ow statement on page 37.
Reconciliation of the consolidated cash ow statement on page 42.
For further information see the Group KPIs on page 14.
Cash investment Identifying new opportunities in The cash paid to acquire The equivalent balance under which to invest proprietary capital investments in the year as shown on IFRS and the reconciliation to the is the primary driver of the Groups the Investment basis Consolidated Investment basis is shown in the ability to deliver attractive returns.
Operating cash profit By covering the cash cost of running The cash income from the portfolio The equivalent balance under the business with cash income, interest, dividends and fees IFRS and the reconciliation to the we reduce the potential dilution together with fees received from Investment basis is shown in the of capital returns.
external funds less cash operating Reconciliation of the consolidated expenses as shown on the cash ow statement on page 42.
Investment basis Consolidated cash ow statement on page 37.
The calculation is shown in Table 8 on page 31 of the Financial review.
Net cash net debt A measure of the financial risk Cash and cash equivalents plus The equivalent balance under intheGroups balance sheet.
deposits less loans and borrowings IFRS and the reconciliation to the as shown on the Investment basis Investment basis is shown in the Consolidated statement of financial Reconciliation of the consolidated position on page 36. statement of financial position onpage 40.
Gearing A measure of the financial risk Net debt as dened above as a % The equivalent balance under intheGroups balance sheet.
of the Groups net assets under the IFRS and the reconciliation to the Investment basis.
It cannot be less Investment basis is shown in the than zero.
Reconciliation of the consolidated statement of financial position onpage 40.
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2017 43
