Board of Directors Dr Gerry Murphy Javed Ahmed Nick Hampton Chairman and Chairman of Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Nominations Committee Date appointed to Board: October 2009 Date appointed to Board: September 2014 Date appointed to Board: 1 January 2017 Independent: No Appointed Chairman: 1 April 2017 Independent: No Aged: 57.
Nationality: Pakistani Independent: Yes on appointment American Aged: 50.
Nationality: Irish Board Committees Skills and expertise: Board Committees Nick brings a wealth of food industry N insights to the Board, leveraging his N C Skills and expertise: general management, financial and Skills and expertise: operational experience in senior Javed has extensive experience of global management roles in a major consumer goods markets.
The depth and Gerry started his career in the food and multinational food and beverage breadth of his experience as a global drinks sector and received his PhD in food business, making him a versatile business leader in multinational technology.
He has held a number of chief operational CFO.
His experience in companies and tenure with a major executive roles and has also been an leading transformational projects is strategy consulting group provides the investor and independent director in a particularly important as the Group skillset required to drive and transform number of international listed companies.
an organisation, inspire its workforce His significant business and board level and show leadership in the Companys experience and a detailed understanding Current external commitments: culture and values.
of UK corporate governance requirements Non-executive director and Chairman enables him to provide the Board with Current external commitments: of the Audit Committee of Great valuable leadership.
Portland Estates plc None Current external commitments: Previous roles: Previous roles: Chairman of The Blackstone Groups Held a number of senior roles over a Joined Benckiser later Reckitt principal European entity 20-year career at PepsiCo, including Benckiser plc in 1992, held positions Chairman of Invest Europe until 20 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial including Senior Vice President, June 2017 Officer, Europe and President, West Northern Europe: President, North Non-executive director of Intertrust N. V. Europe Region and Senior Vice President America: Executive Vice President, North Commercial, Europe.
America, Australia and New Zealand: Previous roles: and Executive Vice President, Europe.
Senior Managing Director in Blackstones Private Equity group 2008 to 2017.
CEO of Greencore Group plc, Exel plc, Carlton Communications plc and most recently Kingfisher plc 2003 to 2008.
Held non-executive directorships in British American Tobacco plc, Merlin Entertainments plc, Reckitt Benckiser plc, Abbey National plc and Novar plc.
Board Committees Certain responsibilities are delegated to four Board Committees, details of which are provided on pages 66 to 73 and on page 87.
A Audit Committee N Nominations Committee R Remuneration Committee C Corporate Responsibility Committee 52 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Liz Airey Paul Forman Lars Frederiksen Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Date appointed to Board: January 2007 Date appointed to Board: January 2015 Date appointed to Board: April 2016 Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Aged: 58.
Nationality: Danish Board Committees Board Committees Board Committees A N A R N C R N Skills and expertise: Skills and expertise: Skills and expertise: Lizs experience of the London Paul has wide experience in global As the former CEO of a global speciality investment community is of immense manufacturing, commercial, as well as food ingredients business, Lars led a value to the Board, especially when strategy consultancy and M&A advisory successful business transformation and considering market communications, services.
He brings insight to the his insights will be invaluable to the Board strategy and long-term financial commercialisation of innovation as Tate & Lyle continues to evolve.
As Chairman pipelines and the implementation of brings operational expertise and insights and non-executive director of another business-to-business customer and and an understanding of how to attract London-listed company, she also brings market-led strategies in a large and retain talent in a global business.
a detailed understanding of UK corporate multinational business-to-business Current external commitments: governance and the investment markets.
His experience as a CEO of a Her longer tenure has provided number of global companies enables Chairman of Matas A S invaluable continuity and a historical him to provide valuable insights to Non-executive director of Falck A S perspective throughout a period of the Board.
Chairman of the Danish Committee change.
Current external commitments: for Good Corporate Governance Current external commitments: Chief Executive of Essentra plc Chairman of the Hedorf Foundation Chairman of Jupiter Fund Previous roles: Management PLC Previous roles: Group Chief Executive of Coats plc and CEO of Chr.
Hansen Holding A S from Previous roles: Low & Bonar PLC.
Served as a non- 2005 until retirement in March 2013, Finance Director of Monument Oil and executive director at Brammer PLC.
leading a transformation of the business Gas plc.
and a successful listing on the Copenhagen stock exchange during that period.
Prior to CEO, held various management positions at Chr.
com 53 Board of Directors continued Douglas Hurt Jeanne Johns Anne Minto OBE Senior Independent Director Non-executive director and Non-executive director and and Chairman of the Audit Chairman of the Corporate Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Responsibility Committee Committee Date appointed to Board: March 2010 Date appointed to Board: Date appointed to Board: December 2012 26 October 2016 Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Aged: 60.
Nationality: American Board Committees Board Committees Board Committees A C N A R N C R N Skills and expertise: Skills and expertise: Skills and expertise: Douglas has extensive experience as a Annes extensive career in general former finance director of a global Jeannes significant experience of management and human resources is manufacturing and business-tobuilding organisational cultures with the particularly useful to the Board when business engineering group, and also in highest standards in safety and ethics, considering succession planning, talent senior management roles in the US and together with her experience in a range management, executive remuneration Europe, which provides the Board with of global leadership roles, managing and other employee-related activities.
valuable perspectives and insights into multinational businesses, and global She has a detailed understanding of how financial and operational issues.
In strategic business development, will be to attract and retain global talent and her addition, his understanding of the of significant benefit to the Board.
She roles on the boards of companies listed London investment community and most recently served as the Head of in both London and New York provide her pension matters supports the Board in Safety and Operational Risk for BPs with a detailed understanding of global its oversight and decision-making roles.
global downstream business from 2011 executive remuneration practices and UK to 2015 and was responsible for and US remuneration governance Current external commitments: overhauling the safety and operational requirements.
This experience will be Senior Independent Director and Current external commitments: invaluable in her role as Chairman of the chairman of the Audit Committee of Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Vesuvius plc Non-executive director and chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Non-executive director of BSI Group Current external commitments: Shire PLC Previous roles: Non-executive director of Parsons Non-executive director of ExlService Finance Director of IMI plc and held a Corporation, a US engineering, Holdings, Inc. number of financial and operational construction, technical, and Vice Chairman of the University of roles, including US and European senior management services organisation Aberdeen Development Trust management positions, at Previous roles: GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Non-executive director of the Court of Head of Safety and Operational Risk for the University of Aberdeen BPs global downstream business from 2011 to 2015.
Prior to this role, held Previous roles: numerous leadership roles in Europe, Group Director of Human Resources at the US and China, managing Centrica plc from 2002 until retirement multinational businesses and global in 2011.
Prior to that, held senior A Audit Committee strategic business development.
management roles at Shell UK and Smiths Group plc and was Deputy R Remuneration Committee Director-General of the Engineering Employers Federation.
N Nominations Committee C Corporate Responsibility Committee 54 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION Gender diversity of Directors At 24 May 2017 1 Dr Ajai Puri Sybella Stanley Non-executive director and Non-executive director 2 Chairman of the Research Date appointed to Board: April 2016 Advisory Group Independent: Yes Date appointed to Board: April 2012 Aged: 55.
Nationality: British Independent: Yes 1 Male 7 Board Committees Aged: 63.
Nationality: Indian American 2 Female 4 A N Board Committees Skills and expertise: C R N Directors nationalities Sybella has extensive commercial and At 24 May 2017 Skills and expertise: financial experience and brings a wealth of knowledge about the London Ajais food science background and investment community and substantial 4 career in research and development in experience of communicating with this global food and beverage companies 1 3 and other investment communities provides the Board with detailed outside the UK.
Her long career in technical knowledge and insights into corporate finance and M&A will be market perceptions, nutrition and food invaluable to the Boards consideration of and regulatory trends relevant to the strategic opportunities.
His experience in the Asia Pacific region Current external commitments: 2 is of particular benefit as we continue to Director of Corporate Finance at RELX focus on growth in emerging markets.
Group plc His work with regulatory bodies and 1 British 6 directors knowledge of nutrition, science and food Non-executive director of The regulation provides him with the skillset 2 American 3 directors Merchants Trust PLC required to chair the Research Advisory 3 Irish 1 director Member of the Department of Group and to support the Board and 4 Danish 1 director Business, Energy and Industrial Tate & Lyle with valuable insights into Strategys Industrial Development how leading-edge science and technology Advisory Board can be successfully deployed as part of the Groups Speciality Food Ingredients Member of the Somerville College Tenure of non-executive portfolio.
Oxford Development Board directors Current external commitments: Previous roles: At 24 May 2017 Non-executive director of Britannia Originally qualified as a barrister and, Industries Limited before joining RELX Group in 1997, was a member of the M&A advisory teams at Non-executive director of 3 1 Citigroup and later Barings.
Firmenich SA Previous roles: President Research, Development and Product Integrity and a member of the Executive Board of Koninklijke Numico 2 N. V. from 2003 to 2007.
Prior to this, held various management positions with The Coca-Cola Company, culminating in Senior Vice President Technical, The 1 Less than 3 years 4 directors Minute Maid Company.
2 4 to 6 years 2 directors 3 Over 7 years 2 directors www.
