Bulk Ingredients Steady earnings and cash generation Strong profit performance driven by commercial and operational execution, good demand and robust margins At a glance Continuing operations Year ended 31 March 2017 Volume change % Volume North American Sweeteners -% North American Industrial Starches 3% Total Bulk Ingredients 3% Constant currency 2017 2016 Change change % m m % Sales Total Bulk Ingredients 1 757 1 458 21% 4% Adjusted operating profit Core Bulk Ingredients 121 93 31% 13% Commodities 8 9 183% 166% Total Bulk Ingredients 129 84 54% 32% Overview Key highlights Volume increased by 3% driven by industrial starch growth and the acquisition of 100% of the Slovakian facility in the prior year.
Strong performance with adjusted operating profit North American bulk sweetener volume was flat.
Overall, 32% higher in constant currency volume on a like-for-like basis was flat.
Sales for the division Solid demand across the portfolio increased by 4% in constant currency to 1,757 million.
Strong commercial execution Adjusted operating profit was 32% higher in constant currency Robust margins with industry well balanced at 129 million, benefiting from good commercial and Performance underpinned by good operational execution across the business and robust margins.
manufacturing performance Commodities contributed profits of 8 million, an increase of 17 million in the year.
Operating margin for the division strengthened by 150bps.
The effect of exchange translation was to increase sales by 239 million and adjusted operating profit by 18 million.
The US corn wet milling industry remains well balanced, reflecting capacity reductions in the industry at the beginning of 2015 and more robust industry exports to Mexico where demand for regular carbonated soft drinks remained firm and sugar prices are relatively high at present.
30 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION We continue to position our Bulk Ingredients business in North Unit margins for contracts renewed for the 2016 calendar year America to deliver steady earnings over the longer term.
We increased, benefiting from continued good industry supply have adopted a product line approach to further increase our demand balance following capacity reductions.
Our unit focus on product mix management and lower costs across the margins further benefited from mix improvements from our supply chain.
We have also established a dedicated team to product line focus and manufacturing and supply chain generate continuous process improvements within the plant efficiencies.
Contracts renewed for the 2017 calendar year network.
We continue to look for ways to further improve the contracting round delivered modestly higher unit margins, longer-term efficiency of our plants, with the new combined benefiting the fourth quarter of the 2017 financial year.
heat and power facility in Loudon, Tennessee, which was North American Industrial Starches brought into use in the third quarter of the financial year, being an example.
Commercial execution continues to strengthen, North American industrial starches volume was 3% higher, with stronger customer service driven from improved demand somewhat ahead of underlying market growth.
Demand for paper forecasting and supply chain decision-making which has been and board remained steady, as continued higher packaging and supported by the implementation of our global SAP system.
tissue demand offset a decline in demand for printing and writing paper.
Demand for starches used in building materials has been Corn prices robust in a relatively stable US housing market.
For the third consecutive year the corn harvest was strong, with Commodities the autumn 2016 harvest setting a production record at 1 15.1 billion bushels, and US corn inventories increasing to Co-product values in the US have stabilised towards the low their highest levels in the past 30 years.
Three consecutive end of historical price levels.
Strong recent production of corn strong harvests have led to a period of sustained lower US corn and soybeans has sustained large year-to-year inventory prices with market prices trading below $4.00 per bushel for carryover of both products and kept prices for both grains and the majority of the financial year.
The stocks-to-use ratio for co-products relatively stable.
US ethanol margins remained the US market for 2016 2017 is estimated at 16%, reflecting relatively steady at the low end of the historical range during inventories around one third higher being carried into the the year.
Commodities overall reported a profit of 8 million, an increase of 17 million from the 2016 financial year.
The higher profits North American Sweeteners from Commodities were driven by better market demand for North American bulk sweetener volume was flat, despite a proteins, including corn gluten meal.
Ethanol performance was modest decline in consumption, driven by strong commercial largely flat.
execution and the benefit of strong demand in Mexico.
US political environment Consumption of regular carbonated soft drinks is the main driver of high fructose corn syrup demand in the US.
In the year The new US Administration is seeking to reform the North ended 31 March 2017, US regular carbonated soft drinks American Free Trade Agreement NAFTA.
NAFTA is very 2 consumption declined by only 0.7%, a slightly slower decline important to the US food and agricultural sector, and Mexico in than the historical trend.
particular is a key export market for the corn wet milling industry, particularly for high fructose corn syrup.
Until we have clarity on the nature of any proposed changes, it is difficult to estimate what the impact, if any, will be.
1 USDA the US Department of Agriculture data.
2 Source: IRI, Total US Multi Outlet Convenience Stores.
We continue to position our Bulk Ingredients business in North America to deliver steady earnings over the longer term.
Jim Stutelberg President, Bulk Ingredients www.
