Strategic Report Our financial and business performance Retail supplying energy 500,000 SSE is one of the largest energy suppliers in the competitive markets in smart meters installed Great Britain and Ireland.
It also provides other related products and services, including telephone, broadband and boiler care, to homes and businesses.
SSEs is focused on delivering its obligation to install smart meters in a way that is cost-effective Retail Adjusted operating profit m Retail Reported operating profit m and customer-centric, to maximise the net benefits for customers.
422.3 -7.2% 309.6 -29.2% SSE is involved in the supply of electricity, gas and SSE is involved in the supply of electricity, gas and other energy-related services to household customers other energy-related services to household customers and, through its Enterprise business, to industrial and and, through its Enterprise business, to industrial and commercial customers.
Energy customer accounts m SSE Enterprise operating profit m 0.47m 8.0 -2.6% 16.7 -59.2% Home Services customer SSE supplies electricity and gas to household and business Enterprise brings together key SSE services for industrial, customers in the energy markets in the UK and Ireland.
It is commercial and public sector customers.
accounts GB the second largest supplier in both markets.
All-Island energy market customers Ire m Energy-related Services Adjusted operating profit m 0.79 0.0% 16.1 4.5% SSE Airtricity is the second largest provider of energy Energy-related services covers boiler cover, electrical and related services in Ireland ROI and Northern Ireland wiring, broadband and telephone.
NI, and the only energy retailer to operate in all of the competitive gas and electricity markets across the island.
The Retail business operates in an intensely competitive market, and one that is subject to regulatory obligations and political interest.
This is a challenging context, yet our focus is delivering for our customers and ensuring they are at the heart of everything we do.
This means offering the products, services and value that they are seeking, diversifying our business to provide balance and at all times focusing on what we do well: supplying energy efficiently and providing customers with excellent customer service.
Will Morris Managing Director, Retail SSE plc Annual Report 2017 48 1.
49 Strategic Report Our financial and business performance Retail supplying energy continued Retail including Enterprise key performance indicators March 17 March 16 Energy Supply Energy Supply Adjusted operating profit m 389.5 398.9 Energy Supply Reported operating profit m 313.2 398.9 Adjusted capital expenditure Energy Supply and Energy-related Services m 184.3 169.0 Electricity customer accounts GB domestic m 4.06 4.16 Gas customer accounts GB domestic m 2.70 2.79 Energy customers GB business sites m 0.45 0.47 All-Island energy market customers Ire m 0.79 0.79 Total energy customer accounts GB, Ire m 8.00 8.21 Electricity supplied household average GB kWh 3,793 3,763 Gas supplied household average GB th 440 426 Household small business aged debt GB, Ireland m 80.2 103.2 Bad debt expense GB, Ireland m 47.9 44.0 1 Customer complaints to third parties GB 1,322 1,416 1 Ombudsman: Energy Services and Citizens Advice.
Energy-related Services Energy-related Services Adjusted operating profit m 16.1 15.4 Energy-related Services Reported operating profit m 20.3 2.4 Home Services customer accounts GB m 0.47 0.40 Supply customers bills based on actual reading % 95.5 95.1 Smart meters installed Over 500,000 Over 180,000 Enterprise Enterprise operating profit m 16.7 40.9 Capital expenditure m 58.7 48.5 SSE Heat network customer accounts Over 6,500 Over 5,000 A smarter energy future for our customers SSE has continued to make significant progress in fulfilling its regulatory obligation to offer every customer a smart meter.
Weve installed over 500,000 smart meters and, subject to the delivery timetable for the critical infrastructure, will ramp up our roll-out further still in 2017 18.
Our focus will as always be on doing so in a cost-effective way that maximises the net benefits for customers.
Alongside investments in our digital, customer-facing services, in time smart meters can lead the way to a smarter energy market in which customers can better engage with their usage and products.
This transformation presents both risks and opportunities for established businesses like ours and we are focused on ensuring we not only deliver on our obligations but emerge well-placed to succeed in the smartenabled market of the future.
Key questions and answers about SSEs Retail business drive further engagement and reduce costs.
How would you describe the What does SSEs Retail business We are digitalising our business to meet performance of the Retail business do to help vulnerable customers?
the changing expectations that people in 2016 17?
As an essential service provider, looking after have about how they want to engage with We have to acknowledge that operating our vulnerable customers is central to how products such as energy and essential profit fell and that we experienced a decline we operate.
Thats why we became the first services.
Importantly we also have to get in household energy customer numbers.
energy supplier in Great Britain to commit the basics right, listening to, and engaging We are, however, pleased with the positive publically to achieving the British Standard with, our customers: so providing excellent aspects of performance this year.
We for Inclusive Service Provision.
This customer service is critical.
Our track record have continued to expand our customer represents the gold standard in recognising in this, notably complaint handling, remains propositions, whilst maintaining our good and catering for vulnerability.
In addition to strong and we want to maintain our record in customer service.
The net loss this, we have a wide range of practical leadership position in this area.
of customer accounts was the lowest services to help people who are struggling weve seen for a number of years and we with their energy bills.
The key point for any What are the growth areas showed we can compete successfully for customer who is vulnerable at any time is: for SSEs Retail business?
new customers, while also working hard to if you have any worries or concerns about We see two prominent areas for growth.
retain customers in greater numbers.
Good paying for your energy, get in touch with us.
Firstly, we want to expand our I&C customer progress is being made in our investments There are many ways in which we can help.
base and build upon the progress weve in digital, customer-facing systems and in One of the initiatives we are particularly made in recent years.
Secondly, our business diversifying our products and services.
proud of is our advisers referring customers is increasingly focused on diversifying into We took the difficult decision to increase for Benefit Entitlements Checks.
The new markets: thats why were particularly standard electricity prices for household outcome of these checks can transform pleased that our Home Services business customers in GB from April 2017, although peoples lives for the better.
now has a national presence, and weve were able to hold gas prices.
The business now grown to nearly 500k non-energy faces two prevailing headwinds: regulatory What are Retails principal strategic customers across broadband, telephone and political scrutiny of energy costs, to priorities for the year ahead?
We are targeting further which we need to respond as constructively We are focused on doing the right things growth in this area as we continue with our as we can, and the increasingly to give customers what they are looking for strategy of becoming more than a retailer competitivemarket.
in terms of products, service and value.
The of gas and electricity.
net loss of customer accounts in 2016 17 Customer account numbers have was lower than in previous years, and our The price of energy has again fallen, so how are you responding service, programmes of engagement, risen up the political agenda, to that?
products and investment in digitalising frontwith potential government The energy retail market is the most end, customer-facing systems will continue.
interventions, how is the business competitive it has ever been and this year We also need to fulfil our existing regulatory managing this risk?
switching levels were at their highest rate obligations and work with the regulator on Energy is an essential service and customers, since Energy UK began its records.
There are the CMA remedies and other reforms from and the affordability of energy, are at the over 50 suppliers and a range of products government to ensure the competitive heart of every decision we make.
We regret and services are available to customers.
market works in a way that benefits all having to take the difficult decision to We dont have a specific target for customer customers and, critically, make sure we increase electricity tariffs, but without this numbers the market is too complex and are well positioned to compete successfully increase SSE would have been supplying fast moving to allow for that.
Nevertheless, for customers in the future market.
At the same winning and retaining customers in a fiercely time, we also have outlined major plans competitive market is central to this business.
to engage customers with the products, Thats why our focus is on ensuring we are For the full analysis of SSEs Retail business services and rewards we offer, we continue doing the right things to treat customers in 2016 17, see the Full-Year Results Statement 2016 17 available on sse.
to take costs out of the business and we fairly and to give them what they are looking work closely with the regulator and our for in products, service and value.
stakeholders on issues affecting customers.
Governments should be mindful of the Consumer habits and expectations progress the market has made in any are changing and competition is interventions they make.
How is the Retail business adapting to this?
Its true that the market is changing.
Smart metering, faster switching and the increasing connectivity of customers homes will have a transformative effect.
This also presents us with an opportunity to enhance service levels, 51
