20 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Summary of our strategy in action Claire Rick, Head of Public Affairs Focus Expertise Maintaining a strategic focus on a highly Responding to the NHS agenda attractive market The unique skills mix of our team works in tandem with Our success is built upon our in-depth knowledge our UK database of primary care estate, so that we can andunderstanding of local health economies, which hold the most effective discussions with both current allow us to focus on those surgeries which best fit and prospective tenants.
ourinvestment criteria and which will complement ourportfolio.
We are actively engaged with policymakers and influencers at national and regional level to ensure that Keeping primary care at the core of our activities is the buildings and developments we design support astrategy underpinned by the ever-growing policy primary care policy for the long term, and that the spotlight on the role of general practice, wider access estateneeded to support the transformation of the toclinical pharmacy and a range of other diagnostic and NHSisgetting the attention it requires in national capital treatment services in the community.
By focusing on this andestate planning.
As chair of the British Property most pressing need for the right buildings in the right Federations Healthcare Committee, we are putting our places for primary care our business can make the expertise into action with colleagues across the sector.
biggest difference for patients, GPs and the NHS.
This year we have met with ministers responsible for NHS estate as well as MPs from all parties and leaders in primary care.
6% 86% UK population served by Assura buildings NHS GP tenant covenant Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 21 Sustainability Effectiveness Investing in our people and Leveraging our teams skills socialinfrastructure tomaximumadvantage It is not just our partnerships with GPs which are Projects to improve our buildings such as our designed for the long term.
Sustainability is also a refurbishment at Long Lane Surgery in Coalville, hallmark of the way we design our buildings, how Leicestershire simply would not happen without weinvest in our people and how we support better ourteams working together to make effective use health in our communities.
Our developments in progress are all on track to Our portfolio team is in regular contact with our achieve a BREEAM rating of at least Very Good, tenantsto identify opportunities to improve and develop thanksto our focus on designs which reduce impact buildings as the demands for space evolve and change, onthe environment.
while our development team works alongside to ensure designs hit the mark, planning processes are smooth We continue to support charities in making a difference and construction works managed.
to health in our local communities.
In the past year this included funding to help Life After Loss provide a new fetal heart monitor for Warrington General Hospital, allowing potential problems to be detected and tracked earlier in pregnancy.
400 100% meetings with tenants during the year developments on track for BREEAM rating of VeryGood or better
