Strategic Report Our financial and business performance 1.
Enterprise providing energy services I joined SSE as Managing Director of this business in January 2017.
Already I can see that were in a key phase of our development as part of the SSE Group.
There are significant opportunities for us in telecoms, rail, utilities and contracting and the team I lead is working extremely hard to capitalise on these.
I believe 2017 18 will be a pivotal year to position us as an effective engine of growth in new competitive markets for SSE.
Neil Kirkby Managing Director, Enterprise considerable focus on adopting the best technological trends.
Advances such as the Whats the role of the Enterprise structure to win and deliver work.
Therefore electrification of transport, the move towards business within SSE?
I have created a leadership team focused on distributed generation and the roll out of 5G As a group of businesses we provide leaner operations and strategic development technology, as well as high speed rail, are all energy and related services to meet and a business transformation programme is crucial development areas as we look to the needs of industrial, commercial and underway.
Embedding a culture of efficiency thefuture.
public sector customers across the UK.
will be essential for critical growth in the Our businesses comprise Telecoms, Utilities, longer term.
We also need to optimise our How will innovation play into the Rail and Contracting.
This gives us diversity customer relationship management and SSE Enterprise growth story?
in competitive markets and a broad client deliver a first class service whilst targeting The most successful players in our markets base with a collective focus on delivering markets where we see opportunities are those who are thinking differently in efficient, reliable and bespoke solutions to for growth.
the way that they operate as a business, meet individual client needs.
how they deliver their services, and how What does the future look like they attract new customers.
We have set You joined in January 2017, for the Enterprise business?
a significant challenge for Enterprise in what are your initial plans It promises to be an exciting time for this terms of improving efficiency and winning for the business?
While the financial performance in new business this year.
In order to deliver, I joined SSE with a clear remit to develop the last year reflects the challenging markets we must start to change the way we do the business to be as efficient as possible SSE Enterprise operates in, the business has things.
We have a superb talent base here and to identify and exploit opportunities for established strong foundations.
There are in Enterprise and I hope that by putting growth.
We need to evolve the Enterprise some compelling new opportunities in the innovation at our core, we will create a proposition to deliver larger scale projects pipeline for each of the Enterprise businesses leaner, more efficient, and forward looking complementing business as usual and and we are well-placed to tap into key Enterprise capable of delivering real value ensuring a positive contribution to the SSE long-term economic, infrastructure and back to the wider SSE Group.
To achieve this there needs to be Innovative District Heating to improve Glasgows housingstock SSE Heat Networks is a division of SSE Enterprise, specialising in the design, construction, maintenance and operation of heat infrastructure for homes and businesses.
Cube Housing Association partnered with SSE Heat Networks to install the new district heating system at the Wyndford estate in Glasgow with the aim to improve comfort levels and the energy efficiency of almost 1,800 homes: mainly social housing with a small number of privately owned houses.
The system uses hot water to heat multiple homes from a central boiler rather than each individual home producing its own heating requirements.
It is greener, producing considerably less carbon emissions than more conventional forms of heat, and it is also a more energy efficient way to keep homes warm.
This ground-breaking project has significantly improved quality of life for residents at the estate and has been recommended by the Scottish Government as the preferred method for improving the quality of energy provision for high-rise social housing in a sustainable and environmentally friendly way.
Directors Report Chairmans introduction 54 Board of Directors 56 Leadership 58 Effectiveness 64 Nomination Committee Report 67 Accountability 70 Audit Committee Report 70 Stakeholder engagement and responsible stewardship 76 Safety, Health and Environment Advisory Committee Report 78 Remuneration 80 Other statutory information 98 Statement of Directors responsibilities 100 53
