DIRECTORS REPORT The directors have pleasure in presenting their report and the audited financial statements for the year to 31 March 2017.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW A full review of the development of the business is contained in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 35.
A summary of the financial risk management objectives and policies is contained in note 19 to the financial statements.
This Directors Report, together with the information in the Strategic Report forms the management report for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The profit for the year after tax of 94,960,000 2016: 31,774,000 has been transferred to reserves.
An interim dividend of 23p per share 2016: 22p was paid during the year.
A final dividend of 25p per share 2016: 24p per share is proposed.
On 20 April 2017 the Board announced that it expected adjusted profit before tax from continuing activities to be around 53 million for the year ended 31 March 2017.
The actual adjusted profit before tax for the year ended 31 March 2017 from continuing activities was 53.3 million.
GROUP REORGANISATION On 1 April 2017 the trading activities, the majority of the assets and liabilities, and the employees of Telecom Plus PLC, as well as all its subsidiaries, were transferred to Utility Warehouse Limited a 100% subsidiary of Telecom Plus PLC under a group reorganisation.
The reorganisation was designed to provide the Group with a more conventional legal structure in line with other large publicly-listed entities, and to facilitate the launch of the LTIP 2016 detailed in the Remuneration Committee report.
The reorganisation will not have any impact on the consolidated trading results of the Group going forward.
74 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements DIRECTORS The names of directors who served during the year and their interests, including those of their connected persons, in the share capital of the Company at the start and end of the year are set out in the table below.
Details of the directors share incentive awards are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 68 to 69.
ORDINARY 5P SHARES HELD AT 31 MARCH 2017 31 MARCH 2016 DIRECTOR Charles Wigoder 16,073,241 16,073,241 Julian Schild 189,932 189,932 Andrew Lindsay 382,674 382,674 Nick Schoenfeld 6,250 6,250 Andrew Blowers - - Beatrice Hollond 1,800 - Melvin Lawson 2,136,744 2,136,744 Michael Pavia N A 36,391 indicates non-executive directors, Michael Pavia retired from the Board on 22 July 2016 In respect of the above shareholdings, Mr Wigoder has a non-beneficial interest in 3,067,683 shares 2016: 3,067,683.
The powers of directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles.
The Articles may be amended by way of a special resolution of the members of the Company.
The Board may exercise all powers conferred on it by the Articles and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, and other applicable legislation.
The Board has established a formal, rigorous and transparent process for the selection and subsequent appointment of new directors to the Board.
The rules relating to the appointment and replacement of directors are contained within the Articles.
The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of the members or by a resolution of the Directors, provided that, in the latter instance, a director appointed in that way retires at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
In addition, shareholders with in excess of 20% of the shares in the Company are entitled under the Articles to appoint a director and remove any such director appointed.
In accordance with current best practice, all Board directors will be retiring at the forthcoming AGM and will then offer themselves for re-election.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2017 75 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations where they have, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles allow the Board to authorise such conflicts of interest should this be deemed to be appropriate.
The Board has put in place effective procedures for managing and, where appropriate, approving conflicts or potential conflicts of interest.
Under these procedures, the Directors are required to declare all directorships or other appointments to companies which are not part of the Group, as well as other situations which could give rise to a potential conflict.
The Board will, where appropriate, authorise a conflict or potential conflict, and will impose all necessary restrictions and or conditions where it sees fit.
The Company maintains a register of directors interests which is reviewed regularly by the Board.
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY INSURANCE The Company maintains appropriate insurance to cover directors and officers liability and has provided an indemnity, as permitted by the Companies Act 2006, in respect of all of the Companys directors which was in force throughout the financial year and remains in force.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where a director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
EMPLOYEES The requirements of the Companies Act 2006 in respect of employees are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 31 to 33.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS As at 12 June 2017, in addition to the directors, the following have notified the Company of their substantial shareholdings as detailed below: SHAREHOLDER NUMBER OF SHARES PERCENTAGE OF ISSUED SHARE CAPITAL Standard Life Investments Ltd 7,453,001 9.3% Schroders PLC 6,057,750 7.5% Hargreave Hale Ltd 3,756,743 4.7% Norges Bank 3,241,358 4.0% 76 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements CAPITAL STRUCTURE Restrictions on the transfer of shares The Company only has ordinary shares in issue.
Other than as set out below, there are no restrictions on the transfer of the ordinary shares, except where a holder refuses to comply with a statutory notice requesting details of those who have an interest and the extent of their interest in a particular holding of shares.
In such cases, where the identified shares make up 0.25% or more of the ordinary shares in issue, the directors may refuse to register a transfer of any of the identified shares in certificated form and, so far as permitted by the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, a transfer of any of the identified shares which are held in the electronic share dealing system CREST, unless the directors are satisfied that they have been sold outright to an independent third party.
Other than as set out below and so far as the directors are aware, there were no arrangements at 31 March 2017 by which, with the Companys co-operation, financial rights carried by securities are held by a person other than a holder of securities, or any arrangements between holders of securities that are known to the Company and which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Executive Chairman Charles Wigoder entered into an agreement to charge 325,000 of his shares in the Company as security for a loan from Barclays Bank on 3 December 2013.
The loan enabled him to apply for 57,142 ordinary shares as part of his open offer entitlement which resulted from funding the Companys entering into of the new energy supply arrangements with Npower on 20 December 2013.
Under the terms of the charge, title to the 325,000 shares can be transferred, sold or otherwise dealt with by Barclays following the occurrence of a failure to pay any amount due and payable under the loan.
In addition, certain members of senior management have loans secured against some or all of their shareholdings in the Company which restrict their ability to transfer these shares prior to repayment of the loans.
The Company established a Joint Share Ownership Plan the JSOP on 30 March 2011.
As part of the JSOP an employee benefit trust was established to jointly hold shares with the participants in the plan the JSOP Share Trust.
As at 31 March 2017 the JSOP Share Trust held 252,638 shares.
All voting and dividend rights attached to these shares have been waived.
Takeovers There are no significant arrangements to which the Company is party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, save in relation to the arrangements with Npower and EE for the supply of energy and mobile telephony respectively, or any agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Authority for purchase of own shares At the last AGM held on 22 July 2016, the Company obtained authority to purchase up to 8,025,835 ordinary shares representing approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares as at 17 June 2016.
The Company intends to renew this authority at this years AGM.
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2017 77 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED During the year the Company did not repurchase any ordinary shares.
As previously announced, the Company intends to use certain of the proceeds from the disposal in February 2017 of its investment in Opus Energy Group Limited to undertake a tender offer open to all shareholders.
Details of the tender offer are set out in a circular sent to shareholders along with this document.
Treasury shares The Company held 60,000 ordinary shares in treasury as at 31 March 2017 2016: 60,000.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION Each of the directors has confirmed that so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware, and that he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Companys position in relation to compliance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council is set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 38 to 44.
RISK, CONTROL AND VIABILITY In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group over a three year period, taking into account the Groups current position and the potential impact of the principal risks and uncertainties set out on pages 25 to 30.
Based on this assessment, the directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to March 2020.
The directors have determined that a three year period to 31 March 2020 constitutes an appropriate period over which to provide its viability statement.
This is the period focussed on by the Board during the strategic planning process.
Whilst the directors have no reason to believe the Group will not be viable over a longer period, given the inherent uncertainty involved we believe this presents users of the Annual Report with a reasonable degree of confidence while still providing a longer-term perspective.
In making this statement, the Board carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Board considers annually and on a rolling basis, a three year strategic plan.
The output of this plan is used to perform central debt and headroom profile analysis, which includes a review of sensitivity to business as usual risks, such as profit growth and working capital variances and severe but plausible events.
The Board also considers the ability of the Group to raise finance and deploy capital.
The results take account of the availability and likely effectiveness of the mitigating actions that could be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the underlying risks.
78 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Under the revised energy supply arrangements which were effective from 1 December 2013, Npower continues to be responsible for funding the principal working capital requirements relating to the supply of energy to the Companys Members.
This includes funding the Budget Plans of Members who pay for their energy in equal monthly instalments and pre-funding the payment of certain energy network charges.
The Group has from Barclays Bank PLC and Lloyds Bank PLC total revolving credit facilities of 150 million for the period to 14 December 2020.
As at 31 March 2017, 18.7 million of cash was held on the balance sheet with no debt outstanding following the receipt of proceeds from the sale of the Companys shareholding in Opus Energy Group Limited in February 2017.
The Company has announced that it intends to return 25 million of these proceeds via a share tender offer in July 2017.
The Company has considerable financial resources together with a large and diverse retail and small business membership base and long term contracts with a number of key suppliers.
As a consequence, the directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks.
Whilst this review does not consider all of the risks that the Group may face, the directors consider that this stress-testing based assessment of the Groups prospects is reasonable in the circumstances of the inherent uncertainty involved.
For and on behalf of the Board David Baxter Company Secretary 12 June 2017 Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2017 79
