Directors Report Corporate governance Accountability Audit Committee Report Dear Shareholder, On behalf of the Audit Committee, I am Members and meetings pleased to present the Audit Committees Report for the year ended 31 March 2017.
Member Attended Member Position since scheduled Over the following pages we provide insight 1 Peter Lynas Non-Executive Director 2014 4 4 into the workings and activity of the Audit Sue Bruce Non-Executive Director 2014 4 4 Committee throughout the reporting year, in support of our role, which is to assist the Crawford Gillies Non-Executive Director 2015 4 4 Board discharge its responsibilities in relation 2 Helen Mahy Non-Executive Director 2016 4 4 to: the integrity of Financial Reporting: the relationship with the External Auditor: the The Board has confirmed that each member of the Audit Committee is independent and that membership meets the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function: requirements of the Code in terms of recent and relevant financial experience and competence relevant to the sector in which the company operates.
and the effectiveness of the System of Internal Control and Risk Management Framework.
1 Recent and relevant financial experience as the current Group Finance Director of BAE Systems plc and a Fellow of the Chartered Association of Certified Accountants.
2 Energy sector experience through previous role as Company Secretary and General Counsel of National Grid plc.
The Audit Committee held four meetings in 2016 17 in line with the financial and audit calendars.
Amongst a range of matters, the Audit Committee conducted a comprehensive review of the system of internal control and risk management framework, including the related assurance processes.
We agreed to recommend to the Board that the number of Principal Risks be increased from nine to ten, following the split of the Cyber and Networks Failure into two separate risks.
The Human and Relationship Capital risk was also expanded and renamed to People and Culture.
We were pleased with the positive progress which has been made in this area, and further details of these changes are set out on pages 24 to 27.
Over the next 12 months the Audit Committee will continue to focus on the audit, assurance and risk processes to enhance the overall effectiveness of the System of Internal Control.
Peter Lynas Chairman of the Audit Committee 16 May 2017 S SS SE p E pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 17 7 7 70 0 1.
Directors Report 3. establish and oversee appropriate which was carried out during the year Role whistleblowing and fraud prevention confirmed that the Audit Committee The key matters considered by the Audit arrangements.
Committee during the year are explained in the report that follows, and principally Meetings and activities in 2016 17 Financial reporting and significant fell under the following areas.
Meetings of the Audit Committee are financial judgements scheduled at key times in the Groups Financial reporting Financial reporting financial reporting and audit calendar, and The Annual Report and Accounts seek to review the integrity of the interim and take place in advance of Board meetings.
provide the information necessary to enable annual financial statements: The matters considered at each meeting are an assessment of the Companys position review the appropriateness of accounting guided by an annual plan of business which and performance, business model and policies and practices: is designed to ensure the Audit Committee strategy.
The Directors statement set out review the significant issues and discharges its responsibilities in accordance on page 100 recognises and confirms the judgements considered in relation to with its terms of reference which were Boards responsibility for preparing the the financial statements, including how updated during the year.
Annual Report and Accounts and to each was addressed: and present a fair, balanced and understandable review the content of the Annual Report The Audit Committee met four times during assessment of the Groups position and Accounts and advise the Board on the year, and has met once since the end and prospects.
whether taken as a whole, it is fair, of the financial year.
Meetings of the Audit balanced and understandable.
Committee are also routinely attended by The Audit Committee assists the Board with the: Company Chairman: Finance Director: the effective discharge of its responsibilities Internal Audit Director of Risk, Audit and Insurance: the for financial reporting.
During the year, the review and monitor the effectiveness External Auditor: and the Deputy Company Audit Committee reviewed: of the Internal Audit function, including Secretary who is secretary to the Audit the integrity of the interim and annual approval of the audit plan.
Throughout the year, a number financial statements and accompanying of other senior finance and business reports to shareholders: External Audit managers were invited to attend certain the appropriateness of the accounting review and monitor the objectivity and meetings to provide a deeper level of insight policies and practices used: independence of the External Auditor, into particular items of business.
This gave the clarity of the disclosures, in addition including the policy to govern the the Audit Committee the opportunity to to compliance with financial reporting provision of non-audit services: meet management and discuss, debate standards and governance reporting review and monitor the effectiveness and challenge on a range of matters.
requirements, including Alternative of the external audit process and the Performance Measures: ongoing relationship with the External The Chairman of the Audit Committee the Groups tax position, including Auditor: and meets separately with the Finance Director, ongoing HMRC enquiries, and areas review and make recommendations Director of Risk, Audit and Insurance, other of potential tax exposure: to the Board on: the tendering of senior management, and the External regular reports on the status of various the external audit contract: and the Auditor to ensure the work of the Audit accounting projects including: the appointment, remuneration and terms Committee is focused on key and emerging transition to FRS 101 for subsidiary of engagement of the External Auditor.
During the course of the year, companies: IFRS15 Revenue from regular challenge and engagement with Contracts with Customers: and IFRS9 Risk management and internal control management, Internal Audit and the External Financial Instruments: review and monitor the effectiveness Auditor, together with the timely circulation areas in which significant judgements of the risk management and internal of reports and information, has enabled had been applied and other matters control framework: the Audit Committee to discharge its duties raised for discussion by the review the framework and analysis and responsibilities effectively.
The internal ExternalAuditor: to support the long-term viability Board and Committee evaluation process statement: and Fair, balanced and understandable assurance framework The Audit Committee reviewed and the Board approved the assurance framework used to assist the Directors discharge their requirement to state that the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
The components of the assurance framework which were used to assist with the preparation of 2017 Annual Report and Accounts included: comprehensive guidance issued to contributors, including the FRC Letter, Summary of key developments for 2016 annual reports, which was issued to Audit Committee Chairman and Finance Director in October 2016: a verification process dealing with the factual content: comprehensive reviews undertaken independently by senior management in Legal and Regulation to consider messaging and balance: comprehensive reviews undertaken by the Companys brokers to ensure consistency and balance: reporting by the External Auditor of any material inconsistencies: and comprehensive review by the Directors and the senior management team.
The Audit Committee and Board received confirmation from management that the assurance framework had been adhered to for the preparation of the 2017 Annual Report.
71 Directors Report Corporate governance Accountability continued reports from the External Auditor on In carrying out the review of these matters, a going concern basis.
Further details of the its audit of the full year results and its the Audit Committee received reports from Groups liquidity position and going concern review of the half year results: management and the External Auditor review are provided in Note 1 to the Financial matters which informed the Boards setting out their views on the accounting Statements.
The Directors statement of assessment that it was appropriate treatments and judgements included in longer term viability can be found on page 27. to prepare the accounts on a going the Financial Statements.
concern basis: Internal Audit letters of representation issued by Significant financial judgements The Director of Risk, Audit and Insurance has management to the External Auditor In preparing the Financial Statements, there management responsibility for the Internal for the full year and half year results are a number of areas requiring the exercise Audit function.
In addition to the normal prior to them being signed on behalf by management of judgement or a high corporate reporting structure, he has the of the Board: degree of estimation.
After discussion with right of direct access to the Audit Committee, the content of the Annual Report management and the External Auditor, the Chief Executive, and Company Chairman.
and Accounts and advised the Board significant areas of judgement reviewed The Internal Audit function operates a on whether they were fair, balanced and considered by the Audit Committee risk-based methodology to review internal and understandable and provide the in relation to the 2017 Financial Statements, control and risk management processes information necessary for shareholders and how these were addressed are set out and procedures.
During the year, the to assess the companys performance, in the table below.
Audit Committee: business model and strategy: and reviewed progress against the 2016 17 the governance arrangements to Going concern Internal Audit Plan, including significant assist the Directors discharge their After making appropriate enquiries, the findings, the adequacy of managements responsibilities in relation to: the Directors have a reasonable expectation that response and overdue actions: disclosure of information to the External the Company and the Group have adequate received reports on the assessment of Auditor: and the fair, balanced and resources to continue in operational existence the system of internal control, including understandable assurance framework.
for the foreseeable future 12 months.
The risk management: financial statements are therefore prepared on Significant financial judgements Significant financial judgements for the year ended 31 March 2017 How the Audit Committee addressed these significant financial judgements Carrying value of certain non-current assets: The carrying The basis and outcome of this review is presented to the Audit value of certain non-current assets in the Group including Committee by management, and includes a description of the power generation plants and goodwill are assessed by assumptions applied in deriving the recoverable values.
The reference to the recoverable value value-in-use or fair value less Audit Committee reviewed and challenged the assumptions costs to sell of the asset or the associated CGU cash generating and projections and also considered the findings of the External unit.
An annual valuation impairment exercise is carried out.
Following this review, the Audit Committee supported The assumptions applied in this exercise require judgements the recommendation to recognise exceptional charges of on the economic factors associated with the assets under 374.6m in relation to certain assets in the financial year.
Further details are provided in Notes 4.1 i and Note 15 to the Financial Statements.
Accounting for estimated revenue: Revenue from energy sales The Audit Committee reviewed the practical process issues and in the Retail division include estimates of the value of electricity assumptions applied in determining the basis of recognition of and gas supplied to customers between the date of the last unbilled debtors, with particular reference to domestic electricity meter reading and the financial year end.
These are based on and gas.
The Audit Committee also considered the findings of estimates and assumptions in relation to the consumption and the External Auditor.
Following this review, the Audit Committee valuation of that consumption.
Further details are provided in supported this judgement.
Notes 4.1 ii and Note 18 to the Financial Statements.
Valuation of receivables: The recoverability of the Groups The Audit Committee considered the assumptions impacting billed energy receivables in the Retail division is a key judgement doubtful debt allowances and charges, and were updated on the area given the risk of customer insolvency or default.
The level of activities of the Retail Debts Committee whose members include the Groups aged debt is monitored with allowances for doubtful the Finance Director and the processes for receivables collection debt being based on assumptions derived from experience and and provisioning.
The Audit Committee also considered the industry knowledge.
Further details are provided in Notes 4.1 iii findings of the External Auditor in this area.
Following this review, to the Financial Statements.
the Audit Committee supported this judgement.
Accounting for Group pension obligations: The assumptions The costs, assets and liabilities of the Groups defined benefit in relation to the cost to the Group of providing future postretirement schemes are regularly reviewed.
Advice is taken from retirement benefits are set after consultation with qualified independent actuaries on the IAS 19R valuation of the schemes.
actuaries and can have a significant material impact on the The Audit Committee were updated on the schemes valuation financial position of the Group.
Further details are provided and also considered the findings of the External Auditor in Notes 4.1 iv and Note 23 to the Financial Statements.
particularly in relation to the schemes key assumptions relative to market practice.
Following this review, the Audit Committee supported this judgement.
Directors Report 3. considered the independence, authority After taking into account all of the above the Audit Committee oversees a policy to and responsibilities of the Internal Audit matters, the Audit Committee concluded govern the non-audit services provided by function and approved an updated that it is satisfied with the effectiveness of the External Auditor.
Details of the policy version of the Internal Audit Charter: the Internal Audit function.
and fees paid to the External Auditor in assessed the expertise and level of 2016 17 are provided below.
After taking resources available to the Internal External Audit into account all the above matters, the Audit Audit function: and KPMG were appointed as the External Committee concluded that it is satisfied with approved the Internal Audit Plan for Auditor in 1999 through a competitive the objectivity and independence of the 2017 18 which comprises both fixed tender process following the merger which External Auditor.
and flexible elements in order to provide formed SSE.
At the 2016 AGM, shareholders capacity to respond to any changing re-appointed KPMG as the External Auditor Effectiveness and ongoing relationship business requirements.
of the Company for the year ended 31 March During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed: 2017, and authorised the Audit Committee the approach, scope, areas of focus, level The Audit Committee is responsible for to fix their remuneration.
KPMG has acted of materiality and remuneration for the reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness as the External Auditor of the Group audit of the financial year ended of the Internal Audit function.
During the throughout the year.
The External Auditor 31 March2017: year, the Audit Committee considered: is required to rotate the lead Audit Partner regular reports on progress against the the views of the Director of Risk, Audit every five years.
The Audit Committee 2016 17 External Audit Plan, significant and Insurance on the level of resourcing monitors this rotation, and confirms the findings, the adequacy of managements and areas for future development of the current lead Audit Partner Bill Meredith response and the time taken to resolve: Internal Audit function: is in the third year of his term.
the competence with which the External progress on delivery of the audit plan, Auditor handled and communicated the together with post-audit management Objectivity and independence key accounting and audit judgements: feedback: The External Auditor has provided specific the effectiveness of the overall external progress of the actions identified in the assurance to the Audit Committee on the audit process for 2016 17, including Quality and Standards Assessment of arrangements it has in place to maintain its meeting with the External Auditor and the Internal Audit function undertaken objectivity and independence, including management separately to get feedback by KPMG in 2015: confirmation of compliance with FRC on the relationship and assess the the output of a senior management Auditing and Ethical Standards in relation effectiveness of the external survey obtaining feedback on the overall to the audit engagement.
The Audit auditprocess: value and quality of the service provided Committee also considered reports from the quality of the External Auditors by Internal Audit: and management which did not raise any engagement with the Audit Committee: the views of the External Auditor on the concerns in respect of the External Auditors the qualifications, expertise and effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
In addition, resources of the External Auditor: Non-Audit Services Policy The Non-Audit Services Policy applicable during the financial year recognises that the external audit contract will be subject to mandatory rotation from time-to-time, and provides a safeguard to ensure that potential audit firms are not restricted in their ability to tender for the external audit contract going forward.
For the purposes of approval, non-audit services are divided into 3 categories: Audit-Related Services, where the approval of the Finance Director is needed: Permitted Non-Audit Services, where approval can be obtained from the Finance Director up to 150,000 and the Audit Committee Chairman above this amount: and Prohibited Non-Audit Services.
The Audit Committee reviews a report at each meeting on the services being provided Fees paid to External Auditor by the External Auditor.
Fees for Audit and Audit-Related Services incurred during the year amounted to 1.2m and 0.7m for Permitted Non-Audit Services.
Details of the fees paid to the External Auditor during the year are made in Note 6 to the Financial Statements.
Significant categories of engagement for Permitted Non-Audit Services awarded during the year include 0.5m for transaction support in relation to the part 0.7m disposal of SGN, 0.1m for review of various regulatory returns and information requests arising in the Networks business and 0.1m for tax advisory and compliance 1.2m services.
In line with the Non-Audit Services Policy, in each case the Audit Committee was satisfied that the work was best handled by the External Auditor because of their knowledge of the Group and the skills and expertise brought to the assignment.
During the year, the Non-Audit Services Policy was reviewed and updated with Au dit and Audit Related Services effect from 1 April 2017 to ensure compliance with the changes introduced as part P ermitted Non-Audit Services of EU Audit Reform.
73 Directors Report Corporate governance Accountability continued the output from a questionnaire the lead time required to ensure can only provide reasonable and not completed by senior management potential audit firms are not restricted absolute assurance against material seeking views on KPMGs capability in their ability to tender for the external misstatement or loss.
During the year the and performance in providing external audit contract arising from existing Board has carried out a robust assessment audit services: and contracts for non-audit work.
of the Principal Risks facing the Group as the output from a FRC Audit Quality set out on pages 24 to 27, being those that Review of KPMG published in May 2016.
After taking into account the matters could threaten its business model, future outlined above, in addition to the performance, solvency or liquidity.
The After taking into account all the above arrangements for monitoring all aspects Directors statement of longer term viability matters, the Audit Committee concluded of the relationship with the External Auditor, can be found on page 27. that it is satisfied with the effectiveness upon the recommendation of the Audit of both the external audit process and Committee, the Board concluded that it The Group has in place extensive internal the ongoing relationship with the was in the best interests of the Company controls to help mitigate the material risks External Auditor.
to tender the audit contract in line with which the business faces and management the timeline set out below.
The matters is responsible for establishing and Tendering of External Audit contract highlighted in this section constitute the maintaining these controls, including those Whilst the Audit Committee has continued Companys rationale and explanation for in relation to the financial reporting process.
to keep under review all aspects of the non-compliance with provision C. 3.7 of the relationship with the External Auditor, Code.
Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG as This year, the Group implemented an no formal tender of the external audit External Auditor of the Company for the year integrated assurance mapping and planning contract has been carried out since KPMGs ending 31 March 2018, and to authorise the process to ensure coordination of assurance appointment in 1999.
Before making a Audit Committee to fix their remuneration, activities across the Group.
recommendation to the Board on the will be proposed to shareholders at the AGM timing of the external audit contract on 20 July 2017.
The Board has delegated responsibility for tender, the Audit Committee considered: reviewing the effectiveness of SSEs system the quality, stability and continuity Internal control and of internal control to the Audit Committee.
provided by the relationship with the risk management This covers all material controls including current External Auditor: The Board is responsible for the effectiveness financial, operational and compliance the audit tendering recommendations of the Groups system of internal control, controls.
During the year, the Audit set out in the Code and the requirements including risk management and risk appetite.
Committee reviewed information drawn of the CMA Audit Order, EU Audit The Groups system of internal control is from a number of sources, including Regulation and EU Audit Directive: detailed on pages 24 and 25.
The Groups reports from: management of the audit requirement risk management framework is designed to Treasury, setting out: strategy: market regarding the change in accounting manage rather than eliminate the risk of developments: debt structure: maturity standards at subsidiary level: and failure to achieve business objectives, and profiles: funding plan: liquidity: going concern: credit rating: foreign exchange: and significant risks and controls: External Audit tender timeline 3 Lead Audit 5 Year term of current Audit Partner New External Auditor Partner tenures 1999 2014 2016 2017 2018 2019 2019 2020 1 April AGM 21 July AGM 20 July 31 March AGM 31 March KPMG KPMG Approval Competitive Completion Approval Completion of appointed re-appointed sought for the external audit of final audit sought for the first audit by as External as External re-appointment tender process by KPMG appointment of new External Auditor Auditor of KPMG begins new External Auditor Auditor The five year rotation of the current lead Audit Partner will end on completion of the audit for the financial year ending 31 March 2019.
A tender process will take place in 2018, in accordance with the timeline above which complies with the provisions set out in The Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
There are no contractual obligations with a third party which restrict the choice of External Auditor, and the future tender process will be based on a clear selection and assessment criteria.
Internal Audit on cyber security risks and Review of system of internal control vulnerabilities, including the development The Board and Audit Committee have of the IT security programme: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups Energy Portfolio Management setting system of internal control, including risk out: strategy: market prices and analysis: management, in accordance with the financial regulation developments: requirements of the FRC Guidance on energy portfolio and counterparty Risk Management, Internal Control and credit exposures: and significant risks related Financial and Business Reporting.
and controls: The Board confirms that no significant Group Risk on the framework for the failings or weaknesses were identified during identification, evaluation and monitoring the year and up to the date of this Annual of Principal Risks, including assessment Report.
Where areas for improvement were of the risk management framework and identified, processes are in place to ensure internal control environment: that the necessary action is taken and that Group Risk on the framework and progress is monitored.
analysis to support the long-term viability statement: Group Compliance updates on the development and implementation of a comprehensive obligations matrix, documenting legislative and regulatory obligations that govern SSEs operations: Company Secretarial on governance developments relating to the work of the Audit Committee: Internal Audit on the work undertaken to identify Group-level fraud risks, and the development of a focused fraud risk audit plan: Internal Audit and Human Resources on the review and effectiveness of whistleblowing arrangements: Internal Audit highlighting investigations into allegations and incidents of fraud across the Group: the External Auditor, on its assessment of significant risks and the internal control environment in so far as is necessary to form an opinion on the true and fair view of the Financial Statements: and Group Risk on the information to provide assurance to the Audit Committee and Board on the key areas which form the system of internal control, together with a view from the Finance Director on the overall effectiveness of the system of internal control.
These reports provided the Audit Committee with invaluable insights into the risks facing the Group and the management of them, and inform the Board in its review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, including risk management.
