22 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Assura is the UKs leading healthcare REIT Key performance In order to sustain the leadership position, we need to demonstrate that we can consistently outperform over time.
Inorder to measure ourselves against this objective we have indicators awide range of key performance indicators KPIs.
These can be distilled into three key areas.
Firstly, Total Property Return, which measures our success in choosing the right investments and managing these over time.
Secondly, Total Accounting Return, which measures the returns we have delivered to our shareholders in the form of dividends paid Strategic priority KPI and benchmark Rental growth, being the weighted average annualised uplift We have delivered rental growth of 1.6% from rent reviews Rental growth from IPD annualised five-year Focus onreviews settled during the year, provides an indicator of completed during the year.
This slight increase against 2016 rentreviews TotalReturn howcost inflation is translated into increased rent.
has been driven mainly by reviews linked to inflation but we Maintaining a strategic focus believe, with construction cost inflation returning, medium-term 1.6% 8.9% Total Property Return shows the return generated by our prospects for rental growth are improving.
onahighlyattractive market portfolio on a debt free basis, with the IPD figure providing 2016: 1.2% IPD: 7.0% anequivalent five-year annualised figure.
This shows the The Total Property Return for the year of 9.7% reflects the qualityof our investments to deliver a combination of rental capital growth achieved on the portfolio in addition to the Total Property Return income and capital growth.
The IPD five-year Total Return of 8.9% per annum is in excess of the All Healthcare Benchmark of 7.0%, 9.7% demonstrating how our portfolio has delivered strong returns 2016: 8.9% over a sustained period.
NHS percentage is the proportion of our rent roll that is paid In a year of growth, the WAULT of 13.2 years and effective NHS % of tenant covenant Expertise directly by GPs or NHS bodies.
Weighted Average Unexpired backing of rent of 86% have remained strong, showing how NHS GP WAULT Lease Term WAULT is the average period until the next investments during the year fit with our existing portfolio.
available break clause in our leases weighted by rent.
These Responding to the NHS agenda 86% 13.2 years Development activity has improved during the year with two measures show who we provide our buildings to and how schemes completed during the year and six on site at the year 2016: 87% 2016: 14 years longour existing leases last for, demonstrating our position end.
Although development activity in the sector has not yet asalong-term partner to the NHS.
returned to the levels we would hope for, we have a pipeline of Complete developments Developments on site Developments, both completed during the year and currently eight schemes development cost 36 million that we would onsite, illustrate how our buildings are chosen by the NHS to hope to be on site in next 1218 months.
13.8m 2 sites 31.0m 6 sites provide a modern facility to suit the primary care needs of that 2016: 16.4m 4 sites 2016: 13.5m 2 sites particular location.
BREEAM is the worlds foremost environmental assessment Both of the developments completed during the year achieved BREEAM rating achieved on Sustainability method and rating for buildings, and sets the standard for our target of a BREEAM rating of Very Good, and exceeded developments Very Good or better bestpractice in sustainable building design, construction our target for EPC ratings by achieving an average of A. andoperation.
An Energy Performance Certificate EPC Investing in our people 100% In addition, we are on site with our first zero carbon and energy givesabuilding a rating for energy efficiency.
Strong neutral building, and we expect all buildings on site to meet our  2016: 100% performance against these measures demonstrates BREEAM and EPC ratings targets.
ourcommitment tobuilding sustainable buildings that Average EPC rating improvethelocal infrastructure.
A 2016: B A reducing EPRA Cost Ratio shows the efficiency and scale The efficient integration of the 77 properties acquired during the EPRA Cost Ratio EPRA EPS Effectiveness benefits of our operating model, being costs as a percentage year has contributed to a reduction in our EPRA Cost Ratio to ofrental income.
This cost efficiency, along with the growth achieved and 13.7% 2.4p reduction in weighted average cost of debt, has been reflected Leveraging our teams skills EPRA EPS is a measure of recurring profit calculated in 2016: 16.5% 2016: 2.0p in our EPRA EPS increasing to 2.4 pence per share.
tomaximumadvantage Our Total Accounting Return of 12.0% reflects capital growth Total Accounting Return is the amount generated for Total Accounting Total Shareholder achieved during the year along with the consistent dividend shareholders in the form of dividends and movement in Return Return returned to shareholders.
The TSR of 13.2% illustrates EPRANAV.
TSR is the amount generated in the form of howtheratio of share price to EPRA has increased.
As dividends and movement in share price.
These two measures 12.0% 13.2% at31March 2017, the share price premium to EPRA NAV are key measures in assessing our performance in the form was17% 2016: 15%.
ofreturns for shareholders and are the measures to which 2016: 7.2% 2016: 11.4% Directors long-term incentive plans are linked.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 23 and our growth innet asset value NAV.
Lastly, we consider This overriding objective is reflected in the long-term management Total Shareholder Return TSR as measured by the stock incentive schemes implemented, with rewards linked to both market, which reflects the value of dividends paid and the TSRand NAV growth over a three-year period.
Further detail relative movement in our share price over the period.
isprovided in the Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 65.
These measures are complementary and should build on In order to achieve these objectives, we have four strategic eachother although the share price movement is also affected priorities and how we monitor ourselves against them is byother external factors outside of our control.
By managing the outlined below: Property Return and Accounting Return over the medium term we should be able to deliver a superior TSR to our investors.
Explanation Performance Rental growth, being the weighted average annualised uplift We have delivered rental growth of 1.6% from rent reviews Rental growth from IPD annualised five-year Focus onreviews settled during the year, provides an indicator of completed during the year.
