Strategic Report About SSE About our business 2 A balanced range of energy businesses 1 3 Gas Electricity SSE provides the energy people need Wholesale in a reliable and sustainable way.
It has three principal business areas: Wholesale, using turbines to convert energy from Sustainably sourcing and producing energy SSE provides energy and related services for customers in wholesale gas, oil, coal, water and wind to generate energy markets in Great Britain and the island of Ireland.
It delivers electricity: trading in wholesale energy this through Energy Portfolio Management and Electricity Generation, markets: and managing energy contracts.
Gas Production and Gas Storage.
Amongst other things, it is a leading generator of electricity from renewable sources across Networks, transmitting and distributing the UK andIreland.
electricity and gas to homes and workplaces.
Retail, supplying electricity Read more information see pages 40 to 43. and gas and related services to households and organisations.
Each business area works within SSEs strategic framework Gas production 1 Extracting natural gas from fields in the North Sea and west and enables SSE to fulfil its financial of Shetland for use onshore.
It is the only company listed on the London Stock Exchange with Energy portfolio management 2 and electricity generation such a balance of energy businesses.
Using turbines to convert energy from gas, oil, coal, water and wind to generate electricity and managing energy contracts.
3 Gas storage Using caverns to store large volumes of natural gas under ground for use at a future date.
Market-based SSE plc Annual Report 2017 4 1.
5 7 6 8 9 4 Networks Retail Safely delivering energy to homes and businesses Supplying energy and essential services to customers SSE has an ownership interest in the energy networks businesses SSE supplies electricity, gas and related services such as telecoms in electricity transmission in the north of Scotland, electricity in markets in Great Britain and the island of Ireland.
It aims to distribution in the north of Scotland and southern central England become a market-leading retailer by digitalising and diversifying and in gas distribution in Scotland and southern England.
These its business and consistently excelling in customer service.
It also regionally-defined businesses are subject to economic regulation incorporates SSE Enterprise, which brings together key SSE services by Ofgem.
for industrial, commercial and public sector customers.
Read more information see pages 44 to 47.
Read more information see pages 48 to 51.
Gas distribution Energy supply 4 7 Using pipes to distribute gas from the transmission network to homes, Retailing gas and electricity to household, small business and work places and other premises.
Electricity transmission Energy-related services 5 8 Using higher voltage lines and cables to transmit electricity from Providing energy-related products and services to households generating plant to the distribution network.
6 Electricity distribution 9 Enterprise Using lower voltage lines and cables to distribute electricity to homes, Bringing together key SSE services for industrial, commercial and work places and other premises.
