Business Model How our business works Our business model is evolving as we implement our strategy to grow Speciality Food Ingredients supported by steady earnings from Bulk Ingredients.
As we deliver this strategy, we are becoming an increasingly customer-focused and innovation-driven business supported by a strong manufacturing base.
How we create value Our ingredients and solutions are valuable because they are highly functional.
They help to reduce sugar, calories and fat, as well as add taste, texture and nutrition to products consumed by millions of people every day.
The revenue from the sale of our ingredients and solutions generates cash flow which, after meeting our costs, helps fund business investments, meet our debt obligations, and provide returns to shareholders through dividends.
Consumer insight We use our expertise in areas such as sensory, culinary and marketing to obtain a deep understanding of what the consumer wants.
This insight drives our product development programme, and how Delivering to Innovation we collaborate with customers our customers.
Our team of scientists and We aim to deliver our ingredients nutritionists continuously to customers on time, in full and to research and test ingredients the right specification.
For Speciality to create solutions for our Food Ingredients, this is a complex customers.
We work closely process with multiple ingredients and with our customers to formulations travelling around understand their needs.
For Bulk Ingredients, Engaging with them earlier Generating value volumes are larger but products and throughout the innovation and delivering travel relatively shorter process helps drive quicker shareholder distances to customers.
returns Scale Local customer manufacturing solutions Most of our ingredients are made Consumer taste and texture from agricultural crops, mainly preferences are different across corn.
They are mainly produced at the world, which is why we have a large-volume corn wet mills shared global network of application by both divisions and smaller labs.
Customers come to our blending facilities.
Safety, quality, labs to work with our food traceability and environmental scientists to reformulate their impact are all high priorities in our products using our ingredients raw material sourcing and for their local markets.
22 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION What drives us Our goal is to deliver sweet taste, texture, fibre enrichment and stabilisation in food and drink, focusing on sugar, calorie and fat reduction.
To do this, we focus our resources and investments on those categories which have strong growth potential, where we have strong functional expertise, and where we have the potential to steadily build our competitive advantage over time.
These categories include beverages, dairy and soups, sauces and dressings.
Our speciality food ingredients and solutions are highly relevant because they help meet growing consumer, customer and societal needs for healthier food and drink in the face of growing global levels of obesity and diabetes, and digestive health issues.
What makes us different We have a number of strengths which, in combination, differentiate us in the market.
Leading functional Deep category Delivering tailored expertise understanding solutions We have strong technical Through our teams of food The combination of our strong expertise in the cross-section of scientists, nutritionists and other innovation pipeline and the sweetness, texture and fibre experts, we have an increasingly blending expertise of our Food enrichment, through our leading deep understanding globally and Systems business, enables us to portfolio of sweeteners, highly locally of the categories we focus deliver tailored solutions for our functional speciality starches, on such as beverages, dairy and customers which meet growing and fibres with specific soups, sauces and dressings.
consumer demand for healthier nutritional and health benefits.
Global Clear focus for bulk Talented people Our people are passionate, manufacturing base business dedicated and highly skilled.
We Our scale manufacturing base A key driver of our success is our invest in training and developing and know-how enables us to clear focus on delivering steady our employees and also recruit drive operational efficiencies and earnings from the large high-calibre talent to ensure we a high level of product quality.
businesses within Bulk have the right people, teams and They also provide a cost effective Ingredients bulk sweeteners, skills to grow our business.
supply of ingredients for industrial starches and distribution through our global acidulants.
The cash they supply chain.
generate is used to fuel growth in Speciality Food Ingredients.
What underpins our business Safety Values Board oversight We have no higher priority than Our Values define what we stand The Board of Directors oversees the safety of our people and have for and how we behave with our the activities of the Group through an extensive safety management customers, suppliers, investors, regular meetings, its four programme in place.
We partners, the communities in committees and visits to our measure safety performance at which we operate, and operations around the globe.
Read more on page 44 Read more on page 42 Read more on page 57 www.
