Speciality Food Ingredients Growth engine Good performance with profit growth and margin expansion in the core business At a glance Continuing operations Adjusted Year ended 31 March Volume operating change Sales profit Constant Constant currency currency 2017 2016 Change change 2017 2016 Change change % m m % % m m % % North America 3% 357 327 9% 3% Asia Pacific and Latin America 2% 148 119 25% 6% Europe, Middle East and Africa 14% 145 109 32% 15% Total excluding SPLENDA Sucralose and Food Systems 2% 650 555 17% 2% 125 105 19% 8% Food Systems 8% 184 186 1% 13% 4 23 82% 84% SPLENDA Sucralose 5% 162 156 4% 7% 52 22 134% 77% Total Speciality Food Ingredients 1% 996 897 11% 3% 181 150 21% 5% Overview Key highlights Adjusted operating profit grew 5% in constant currency as we drove better product mix and improved margins in the core Good performance overall, with adjusted operating business and SPLENDA Sucralose performance benefited profit 5% higher in constant currency from the consolidation of its manufacturing footprint completed Core business performed well, despite continued at the end of the prior year, and the sell-down of excess weaker performance in North America inventory.
Food Systems adjusted operating profit declined Food Systems had a difficult year, with a significant sharply to 4 million, with sales constrained by both lower decline in Europe volume in Europe following the consolidation of our blending SPLENDA Sucralose performance was strong, facilities to lower our long-term cost base, which took longer benefiting from actions taken to re-focus than expected, and the management of a credit issue that the business restricted our access to the Russian market.
New Product momentum continues to be strong The division delivered 150bps operating margin improvement, driven by good growth in the core business and strong SPLENDA Sucralose performance.
The effect of currency translation was to increase sales by 122 million and adjusted operating profit by 23 million.
26 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS USEFUL INFORMATION business continued to grow strongly especially in China, Speciality Food Ingredients excluding benefiting from the investment in local commercial and SPLENDA Sucralose and Food Systems technical capability over recent years.
In Brazil, weak economic Volume grew by 2%, with particularly good growth in Europe, conditions and weak consumer offtake resulted in volume Middle East and Africa, which benefited from the acquisition of softness but this was more than offset by broad-based growth the Slovakian facility.
On a like-for-like basis, volume was across the rest of the Latin American region.
American business is well positioned for further growth despite Adjusted operating profit increased by 8% in constant currency the continued weak macroeconomic conditions in Brazil.
to 125 million, benefiting from strong commercial execution In Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA, volume increased by and good supply chain performance.
14% benefiting from good growth in the speciality sweetener In North America, volume was 3% lower driven by softer business largely driven by the full ownership of the Slovakian demand in the overall US food and beverage market which facility from November 2015.
Excluding the impact of this continued to be sluggish in the year.
In this region, we have a acquisition, EMEA delivered low single-digit volume growth relatively high concentration of larger customers, and the with particular strength in our fibres portfolio.
softness these customers are experiencing in the current Food Systems market environment, driven by lower consumer demand for their products, has more than offset new business we secured.
In our global blending business, volumes were 8% lower largely As a consequence, we continue to pursue a longer-term shift in reflecting weakness in Europe, where performance was our business by evolving our go-to-market approach to focus impacted by two issues.
Firstly, the continued management of a more on higher-growth sub-categories which benefit from our credit exposure to a large customer materially restricted our expertise in sugar and calorie reduction, and fibre enrichment.
access to the Russian market.
This credit issue is now closed In the health and nutrition category for example, we have and we are starting to sell product in Russia again.
Secondly, selectively targeted sub-categories including energy and the consolidation of our European blending sites, which took nutrition bars, where we grew volume by 9% in the year.
In longer than anticipated, held back production and constrained those areas where we believe we can accelerate progress, we sales.
The consolidation is now complete and will reduce our are investing in sales, applications, technical service, and cost base in Europe going forward.
The new business we are securing gives us These European issues affected performance, with adjusted confidence in our ability, over time, to grow ahead of the US operating profit 82% lower 84% lower in constant currency at market, and we expect to make progress against this goal as 4 million.
Included in the profit for the year is a one-off charge we move through the 2018 financial year.
of 5 million in respect of the provision against receivables In Asia Pacific and Latin America, volume was 2% higher related to the European credit issue.
reflecting strong performance in the wider Asia Pacific region In the first half, we executed a change to our Food Systems and double-digit growth in Latin America somewhat offset by go-to-market approach in China to allow us to better serve lower sweetener sales in Japan.
Sales were 6% higher in customers and maximise our potential in that market.
In Asia Pacific, excluding Japan, our result we agreed to sell our interest in Jiangsu Tate & Lyle Howbetter Food Co. Ltd. back to our partner.
We have recognised an exceptional charge of 7 million in respect of this investment.
We also recognised a net 13 million exceptional charge in respect of our Brazilian Food Systems business, Tate & Lyle Gemacom Gemacom.
The charge comprises an impairment of goodwill, reflecting lower growth expectations against the backdrop of a significantly weakened macroeconomic outlook in Brazil, partially offset by a reduction in contingent consideration payable.
Gemacom remains an important part of our global Food Systems business, with high-quality assets and a strong market position.
Looking forward, with the benefits of our restructuring, we expect performance to improve over the course of the 2018 financial year.
We are well-placed to benefit from increasing global consumer trends for healthier food and drink.
Joan Braca President, Speciality Food Ingredients www.
com 27 Speciality Food Ingredients continued Innovation is a key enabler of long-term growth, and our focus SPLENDA Sucralose continues to be on delivering innovative new products and Adjusted operating profit increased by 77% in constant currency solutions which meet customer and consumer needs in areas to 52 million, benefiting from better than expected pricing such as sugar and calorie reduction, clean-label texturants, and the sale of excess inventory in the first half following the and fibre enrichment.
These can be breakthrough innovations successful transition to a single manufacturing facility in or incremental extensions to existing product families.
The second half saw the full benefit from For example, during the year we further expanded our significantly lower production costs at our single facility.
sweetener range with MULTIVANTAGE Syrup, a low-sugar, As anticipated, after a strong start to the year, volume declined low-viscosity sweetener, as well as adding a crystalline format by 12% in the second half in line with our lower production of DOLCIA PRIMA Allulose.
We also extended our range of capacity.
As a result, volume for the full year was lower by 5%.
1 clean-label texturants with the launch of CLARIA Bliss.
The rate of decline of selling prices for SPLENDA Sucralose slowed, resulting in better pricing than expected during the year with favourable spot prices being secured in the first half for the sale of the excess inventory, and with a benefit from Our focus continues to be on contracting in the second half.
We continued to pursue a rigorous value-based approach by focusing on those customers delivering innovative new products who fully value the benefits of our quality and customer service offering.
and solutions which meet In our 2018 financial year, with our business largely contracted, customer and consumer needs in we expect the full-year benefit of lower costs to offset lower volumes.
Looking further ahead, while the market for areas such as sugar and calorie sucralose is expected to continue to grow, industry capacity reduction, texture and remains in excess of demand and therefore we expect further pricing pressure in the market.
New Products New Products, representing products in the first seven years after launch, continued to perform strongly.
Volume of New In March 2017, we entered into an exclusive partnership with Products grew by 37%, with sales increasing by 22%.
Sales of Sweet Green Fields SGF, one of the largest fully integrated New Products exceeded US$100 million for the first time, global stevia players, to distribute their innovative stevia reaching US$105 million or 81 million, with sales growth ingredients and bring their leading stevia-based sweetening across all three platforms of sweeteners, texturants where solutions to our customers around the world, alongside our non-GMO starches grew strongly, and health and wellness.
The partnership combines Since we opened our global Commercial and Food Innovation our sweetener expertise and global sales and distribution Centre in Chicago in 2012, New Product sales have delivered a network with SGFs leading portfolio of stevia-based 43% compound annual growth rate, demonstrating the quality ingredients and integrated stevia supply chain.
Sales of SGFs of our innovation pipeline.
stevia ingredients and stevia-based sweetening solutions will be reported in New Products sales.
1 CLARIA Bliss was previously called CLARIA Delight outside the European Union.
Case study A customer in Asia wanted to launch a drink product that would appeal to a younger market.
Our application scientists got to work and developed a new concept a jelly drink.
The drink contained a customised stabiliser system which provided unique functionality it starts as a liquid when served at an ambient temperature and gels as it is chilled.
This enabled our customer to launch a new line of drinks into the kids beverage category and position its brand as youthful and contemporary.
28 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017
