10 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our business model and strategy A business model designed to  returns.
What we need Customer relationships Knowledge of GPs evolving requirements through ourinvolvement in the design and management of Develop medical centres gives us a unique insight into their property needs.
Assets Our bespoke medical centres are constructed in locations that are crucial to the local health economy and to the highest sustainability standards.
People Our team of 43 people covers the key skills of realestate ownership and includes asset and property management, development, investment, marketing andfinancing.
Invest Partners We maintain strategic partnerships with the leading architectural practice in the sector and a number of specialist healthcare developers to complement our in-house expertise.
Capital The support of our shareholders, banking partners and bondholders is crucial to sustaining our investment in the UKs health infrastructure.
Manage How our strategy and business model work together Focus Sustainability Our strategic priorities drive the behaviours of our team to support our Maintaining a strategic focus Investing in our people and onahighly attractive market socialinfrastructure business model, ensuring everything we do is tailored toward creating value for our shareholders and stakeholders.
Read more on pages 1819 Expertise Effectiveness Responding to the NHS agenda Leveraging our teams skills tomaximum advantage Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 11 We develop, invest and manage a portfolio ofprimary care medical centres across theUK.
We aim to generate attractive long-term financial and social returns for our shareholders and wider stakeholders by developing and investing in high quality, sustainable medical centres that provide crucial infrastructure for their local health economy.
The value we create Our team of development managers works with Key beneficiaries of our value creation: ourdesign and development partners to provide bespoke, community-led property solutions for GP customers each of our healthcare partners.
We monitor and Our purpose built medical centres provide the essential manage the process from design through to infrastructure to allow GPs to provide a broader range delivery of the completed building.
of healthcare services in the community.
Communities Our medical centres provide a crucial community resource to aid improved health outcomes in their locations.
In the year we donated 24,850 plus employee time toourlocalcharity partners.
Shareholders Our investment managers work to identify EPRA EPS of 2.4 pence and capital growth opportunities to build lasting relationships of3.3pence, supporting dividends paid of 2.25 pence.
withGPs, helping them to realise their long-term ambitions for their practice and growing our Employees portfolio to provide scale benefits to our investors.
2.1 million paid to our employees.
In addition, Assuraactively promotes training and development forour staff.
Suppliers 50.8 million paid to suppliers of materials and services.
Our construction and management contracts are often with local suppliers to promote sustainability.
Our team of property surveyors supports the Government evolving requirements of our tenants, liaising 2.6 million paid in taxes to the UK Government.
frequently to assist their efficient operation.
This integrated approach enables us to benefit both the tenants and our shareholders in securing lease renewals, property extensions or co-locating appropriate partners such as pharmacies.
Our competitive strengths We are unique in offering GPs a full property service, so a partnership with Assura is a long-term approach.
Our ability todevelop, invest and manage gives us a crucial advantage when securing new development opportunities and other asset management initiatives.
Moreover, our internally managed structure provides a highly scalable model that means as we grow, the benefits of scaleaccrue to shareholders, and drive our progressive dividend policy.
