Meeting global demand for healthier food Consumers across the world are looking for healthier foods and drinks Our wide range of ingredients and solutions helps to enrich foods with fibre, to reduce sugar, calories and fat, and to improve texture while never compromising taste.
1 2 3 53% 65% 90% of consumers look of consumers look for of consumers say for foods high in fibre calorie information on a taste is their top package label purchasing motivator 1 Tate & Lyle multi-country consumer research 2015.
3 Nielsen and Mintel consulting US 2013.
2 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 www.
com 3 Investing in higher-growth markets Strong opportunities for growth in developing, faster-paced markets We continue to invest in higher-growth markets such as Asia Pacific and Latin America.
We have built a network of applications laboratories and added sales and technical service resources, to enable us to work with our customers to help them launch new products, and reformulate existing products, in their local markets.
1 11% Growth in yoghurt in Asia Pacific 1 5% Growth in soups, sauces and dressings in Asia Pacific 1 6% Growth in sports and energy drinks in Latin America 1 Euromonitor 2014-2016 Compound Annual Growth Rates market growth total volume.
4 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 www.
com 5 Driving innovation and new products Using leading-edge science to create food for modern-day life People all over the world are looking for healthier foods and drinks which fit into their busy lifestyles from reduced-sugar drinkable yoghurts to creamy dressings with a fraction of the fat.
Our teams of food scientists and nutritionists are continuously researching and testing ingredients to create solutions which allow our customers to provide the nutritious, great-tasting foods people want.
1 1 2 13% 15% 59 Growth in products Growth in products New patents granted launched globally with launched globally with a globally to Tate & Lyle a clean-label claim sugar reduction claim in the year ended 31 March 2017 1 Innova Market Insights 2013-2016 Compound Annual Growth Rates.
2 A granted patent means a single patent granted in one country.
Data includes patent applications where we have received a Notice of Allowance from a national patent office and the patent is in the final stages of the grant process.
6 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 Driving innovation and new products www.
com 7 Delivering high-quality ingredients at scale Our ingredients are used in products consumed by millions of people every day Our Bulk Ingredients business provides high-volume food ingredients and industrial products to customers who operate on a large scale.
Maintaining the highest standards of food safety, quality and traceability of our ingredients, and of responsible manufacturing, is of the utmost importance to us and our customers.
1.4m A rating 10.4% We process around 2% BRC Global Food Safety Reduction in CO e 2 or about 1.4 million acres Initiative has rated our emissions per tonne of of the annual corn crop manufacturing plants production since 2008 in the US globally A or AA 8 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2017 Delivering high-quality ingredients at scale www.
