Strategic Report About SSE Our story Building on a proud past: creating a smarter, low-carbon future Our heritage Preserving our heritage The social history that was created by Taking inspiration Pitlochry Dam Visitor Centre these hydro pioneers is something that from a rich heritage At the heart of the post World War Two does not simply belong to SSE and there is SSEs roots are firmly planted in the hydro-electric revolution in the north of a responsibility to preserve and promote that hydro-electric revolution that took place Scotland was the Tummel-Garry project, heritage for future generations.
Thats why in the north of Scotland shortly after the known as the Grand Scheme because of in 2015 a final investment decision was taken Second World War.
Bringing power to the the vast area of the project.
While Perthshire to invest 4m in a brand new visitor centre islands, glens and crofts of the north of has abundant rainfall and many hills and in Pitlochry the very heart of the TummelScotland was transformative to life in the mountains, the scale of these mountains Garry hydro scheme.
It opened to the public north and established, at the time, a public was not comparable to the hydro schemes on 30 January 2017, is free entry and tells corporation whose aim was to harness that were developing in North America.
the story of Scotlands hydro heritage.
abundant natural resource for public benefit.
Therefore the Scottish schemes needed Furthermore, the visitor centre allows visitors It was the privatised Scottish Hydro-electric to think more creatively and capture more to learn more about the importance of that merged with Southern Electric to create water from a wider area.
Across the north newer forms of renewable energy for Scottish and Southern Energy, now known of Scotland 54 main hydro-electric power a low carbon future.
stations were built, 30km of tunnel and a construction workforce that reached 12,000 The two regions in the most extreme at its peak.
This was a feat of incredible north and south of the British Isles could vision, engineering and effort.
not have been more different geographically, economically or socially.
The electricity network in the south of England had expanded quickly: the challenge was to provide electricity reliably to a booming population.
The relative strengths complemented each other and provided the basis from which SSE grew rapidly through the 2000s.
1933 1990 1991 The National Grid started Central Electricity Board broken Scottish electricity industry operating across GB into three parts and privatised privatised 1943 1989 1998 The Hydro Electric Scotland The Electricity Act provided for Scottish Hydro Electric and Development Act the privatisation of the electricity Southern Electric merge industry and become Scottish and Southern Energy 1956 1986 Calder Hall, the worlds first nuclear power station of industrial The Gas Act provided for the scale opened in Cumbria privatisation of the gas industry SSE plc Annual Report 2017 2 1.
Working to deliver a clean, digital electric future One hundred years ago, electricity The scale of the Beatrice wind farm is as awe The transport sector is also on the cusp revolutionised the way in which people lived inspiring as the hydro schemes of the 1950s.
Two hundred years their lives and today it is an essential service 7MW turbines with individual blades almost since the internal combustion engine was that we take for granted.
It powers the daily as long as a football pitch being constructed invented, electric motors may provide a commute, how we interact with friends and in the deep, difficult waters of the Moray clean alternative to the future of transport.
family and as a sector electricity is central Firth, providing enough electricity to power Providing transformative opportunities to to economic growth.
improve air quality reduce carbon emission electric revolution is under way, driven by providing significant opportunity to electricity the imperative to cut carbon emissions, and A smarter future is also in prospect for homes companies ready to respond.
Electricity create an electricity system that is flexible, and businesses.
The installation of smart generators, suppliers and distribution dynamic and clean.
SSE aims to take a leading meters in homes and businesses throughout network companies must be ready to deal role, supporting the transition towards this the UK marks the beginning of a digitalised with the challenges a mass take-up of electric low carbon future.
SSE is working hard to install smart cars will have on the system.
SSEs Scottish meters in its customer homes, with the and Southern Electricity Networks has taken Central to this are SSEs plans to continue to programme ramping up significantly in a leading role in considering the impacts invest in renewable energy, and reaffirm its 2016 17 with a total of 500,000 smart and the ways to manage the system position as a leader in renewable sources meters installed as of 31 March 2017. more efficiently.
SSE, alongside its joint venture partners, is investing in the Beatrice offshore wind farm, a 2.6bn, 588MW windfarm in the Moray Firth.
2008 2008 2020 Irish wind developer Airtricity UKs Climate Change Act sets legal SSEs capital investment acquired, expanding SSEs target to reduce CO emissions by programme from 2016 is expected 2 capabilities in renewable energy 80% on 1990 levels by 2050 to result in renewable energy capacity increasing to 4.3GW and the Regulated Asset Value of its Networks businesses 2007 2013 increasing to close to 9bn All Ireland single electricity Ofgem introduced the RIIO market created Revenue Incentives Innovation Outputs framework for energy network regulation 2006 SSEs Hadyard Hill wind farm 2017 became first in the UK to generate over 100MW of electricity First 24-hour period since 1880s that Britain did not use coal to generate electricity 3
