12 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our business model in action Develop Providing bespoke, community-led property solutions for each of our healthcare partners.
From the initial concept to handing Supporting Sustainability overthe keys, our development team andTransformation Plans handles the whole process of creating STPs modern, fit-for-purpose buildings to This year saw publication of the 44 meet the changing needs of GPs, wider STPs across the country, each with its community health teams, the NHS and own unique estates needs.
Together with our specialist that improvement and development design and development partners, we both of existing estate and of new are innovating now to create an estate premises will be fundamental to that is fit for the NHS of the future.
delivering on the NHSs goals of moving services, tests and treatments from Highlights acute to primary care, expanding Two forward funded schemes access to general practice and completed increasing the primary care workforce.
Six schemes on site We are engaging with STP leads around Appointed on eight more schemes the country on how we can help, with with end value of approximately our expertise and access to capital.
Assuras development team: Simon Gould and Paul Warwick The value of culture All of our development projects start and end with the patients, GPs andother health staff who will use thebuildings.
We pride ourselves oninvesting the time to really understand how the spaces we createwill need to look, feel and perform for everyone who uses them.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 13 The other side of the street: West Gorton MedicalCentre The contrast between this surgerys old building with its lack ofnatural light, metal shutters and decaying exterior and its brand new space just across the road in West Gorton, Greater Manchester could hardly be more striking.
But this building is unique for more than just its visual design.
Using the very latest in solar technology, it is designed to be carbon neutral, generating its own energy for heating and lighting.
Set to open topatients inMay 2017, staff cannot wait to make the move.
This year, we are also: on site with a brand new building for Woodville Surgery inSwadlincote, Derbyshire that will offer a range of Project pipeline Immediate consulting and treatment rooms as well as a pharmacy Completed On site pipeline toserve the 9,000 patients: Number of schemes 2 6 8 funding conversion of a former school building into a fit-for-purpose medical centre for Wivenhoe Surgery, Development cost 13.8m 31.0m 36.0m Essex making space for a whole new range of servicesforpatients: and Completion timing 2017 18 2018 19 funding a state of the art new medical centre in Swanseatocreate more space andmakesure there isaccess for patients with disabilities.
14 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our business model in action continued Invest Supporting the evolving requirementsofthe GPs.
We are here to protect, improve and Care closer to home in action expand existing primary care premises atDonnington for the future, investing for the long term This modern, purpose built medical to support GPs who no longer want the centre, serving more than 12,000 risks and responsibility of owning their patients, joined our portfolio this year own premises.
With our help, they can andwe are proud to be supporting the redevelop, extend and refurbish to team there to accommodate so many help them manage growing demand, services in the community.
From ensure their premises are ready antenatal clinics and dermatology to todeliver different models of care minor surgery, cryosurgery, smoking andaccommodate a bigger primary cessation and alcohol project clinics, care workforce.
itisa living example of how a good primary care building can enable Investment characteristics newways of working.
Strong leases, typically long tenure No tenant breaks No rent free periods NHS-funded income means very low default risk Three-yearly rent review cycle with implicit linkage to cost inflation and low volatility Substantial ongoing development need No speculative development Strong risk adjusted returns.
The value of culture Our strong relationships with GPs and practice managers across the country underpin every investment we make.
We listen to and work with them to identify opportunities to grow and add value to our portfolio, giving primary care teams the infrastructure they need to do their job most effectively.
Much of our investment work is driven by word of mouth our reputation precedes us for taking excellent care of our buildings for the people who use them.
Assuras investment team: Tom Ivinson, Adam Lowe, Robert Lawton, Amanda Roddy, Alexander Taylor Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 15 Creating space at Newgate Health Centre Our acquisition of Newgate Health Centre in Worksop came with the opportunity to help the surgery and on-site pharmacy create more space fortheir patient list one of the biggest in the country, at more than 30,000 patients.
The proposed work will create more than 600 sq.
m of extra space over two storeys for the pharmacists and nine GP partners, with an upgraded reception area and a new lift to the firstfloor space, although it is still subject to relevant approvals.
16 Assura plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our business model in action continued Manage Our integrated approach enables ustocapture more development andother added value.
For every GP, practice manager We take the time to understand those andpatient using our buildings, our pressures: our knowledge of the local in-house team of property surveyors context in whichour buildings operate ishere to help.
Whatever the issue, is a vital part of our bespoke service.
fromgetting the boiler serviced to creating more space, they are here The feedback we get shows why we tolook after the ever-growing number put that intelligence at the heart of our ofbuildings in the Assura family.
Almost all of our tenants over GP surgery and primary care centre is 95% tell us they are satisfied with their different, responding to and innovating relationship with Assura while a similar for its own unique local health picture proportion would recommend us to and pressures.
other GPs and practice managers.
The value of culture While we are only ever a phone call oremail away for our tenants, we are firmbelievers in the value of regular face-to-face contact.
From John OGroats to Lands End, our team is on the road paying regular visits to every property weown to ensure everything is running smoothly.
That personal touch makes allthe difference.
Members of Assuras portfolio team: Adam Waheed and Roger Thompson Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information www.
com 17 Ready for the long term at Long Lane With three practices merged into one building, Long Lane Surgery in Coalville, Leicestershire was bursting at the seams.
With investment from Assura and a grant from NHS Englands Estates and Technology Transformation Fund, the surgery has been fully refurbished this year with a new minor operations suite, eight new clinical rooms, administration space, and improved reception and waiting areas.
With careful planning over the last year, the surgery has been able to continue its work throughout the renovations and we have managed the entire process.
The Assura team has worked closely with the builders tomakethis a reality.
Together, theyve carried out a phenomenal remodelling literally moving the walls of the building out in every direction, while service as usual for our patients continued on site.
We now have the space and functionality to take us into the next stages of primary care, andprovide our patients with a whole range of new services closer to home.
DrNick Pulman, lead GP, Long Lane Surgery.
