The weather Managing the impact of the weather on SSE The operational performance of SSEs businesses is affected by the weather.
It impacts the production of renewable energy Wholesale, the operation of the transmission and distribution lines Networks and the amount of gas and electricity used by consumers Retail.
0.7C Whilst the weather is not a principal risk temperatures were above the 1981-2010 to SSE in itself, it is of course an important mean temperature for the UK contributor to business performance that is strongly interconnected to identified Principal Risks such as Energy Affordability and Commodity Prices.
Given its impacts, -13% SSE closely monitors short and long term weather conditions so that it is able to reduction in average rainfall in the manage and respond to conditions in North of Scotland, compared to the an appropriate manner for the benefit 1981-2010average of customers and to support the fulfilment of its business objectives.
This includes: predicting how forecast temperatures may affect customers demand for gas and electricity, and whether daily fluctuations in temperature require a response form SSEs generation assets: forecasting the temperature to inform how SSEs energy portfolio managers buy power and gas in advance, thereby improving SSEs procurement: determining short-, mediumand -0.3m s long-term wind forecasts and the electricity generation output from wind speeds in 2016 17 were below renewable generation assets: the long-term average assessing how rainfall patterns could impact SSEs hydro-electric generation output and storage capabilities: and Overall 2016 17 was warmer than the preparing for how extreme weather, previous year, however winds speeds and such as high winds or excess rainfall, rainfall in the North of Scotland were below could impact the resilience of the long-term averages.
This has implications transmission and distribution assets for customer demand, renewable energy that SSEs customers rely on.
Rainfall Wind Temperature Rainfall directly affects Wind speeds drive renewable Temperatures can significantly hydroelectric generation in the generation but excess can limit impact total demand for energy.
north and west of Scotland.
2016 17 was warmer than the previous year with average temperatures 0.7C above the A total of 1503.4mm of rain fell in the North While GB wind speeds in 2015 16 were 1981-2010 average.
The mean temperature of Scotland during the year which is 87% very close to the long-term average over in the UK over the year was 9.5C, which is of the 1981-2010 average.
Over the period 1981-2010, they were 0.3m s below the higher than the 9.2C in the previous year.
October to March rainfall was below average average in 2016 17.
Wind speeds were down Whilst overall it was warmer there were in North of Scotland for 5 of the 6 months.
compared with the previous year due to several months in which the temperature As a result, SSEs hydro-electric assets a change in the positions of the high and was significantly colder.
This impacts the saw their output decrease to 3,101GWh low weather pressure systems.
These less trends in household energy demand.
compared to 4,074GWh in the previous year.
windy conditions resulted in a decrease in output of electricity from SSEs wind farms.
