RPC GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provision C2.2 of the 2014 The strategic plan reflects the directors best revision of the Code, the directors have assessed estimate of the future prospects of the business.
the Groups prospects and viability.
The plan has been flexed by overlaying the potential financial impact of a number of scenarios over and above those included in the plan.
ASSESSMENT OF PROSPECTS These scenarios are based on aspects of some of RPCs longer term prospects are assessed the key principal risks and uncertainties, namely through the Groups strategic planning process.
lack of market growth, loss of major customers, This includes a review of three year financial plans pricing pressures, polymer price increases, failure by the executive directors with the executive to realise synergies on acquisitions, foreign team within each division.
The output of this is a exchange risks and lack of access to funding.
consolidated set of financial projections covering the next three years compiled from divisional The scenarios were tested against these risks estimates of the most likely performance, after individually and in likely combinations, such as taking account of the Groups principal risks see an economic crisis or in specific adverse market pages 26 to 29.
A central review of debt covenant conditions.
In some cases the results took into compliance and debt headroom is also completed.
account the availability and likely effectiveness Once the annual budget process is completed for of mitigating actions, including flexing the cost the first year of the three year strategic plan, the base and reducing planned capital expenditure strategic plan financial projections are refreshed.
and dividends where the realisation of these The strategic plan reviewed in 2016 17 covers the risk events would likely permit these actions.
three year period ending 31 March 2020.
The scenarios tested represented severe but plausible circumstances that the Group could ASSESSMENT OF VIABILITY experience.
The results of this stress testing showed that the Group would be able to After taking account of the Groups current withstand the impact of these scenarios without position, as part of its deliberations the Board affecting the Groups ability to continue trading also undertook a review of the principal risks within its current borrowing facilities.
and uncertainties facing the Group, how they are managed and the actions that could be taken to CONFIRMATION OF LONGER mitigate their effect or avoid them altogether.
The resulting disclosures, which include those TERM VIABILITY risks that could threaten the Groups business Based upon the assessment undertaken, the model, performance, solvency and liquidity are directors confirm that they have a reasonable shown on pages 27 to 29 of the Annual Report.
expectation that the Group will be able to The Board believes the Group is well placed to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as manage those risks successfully and, consistent they fall due over the period to 31 March 2020. with 2015 16, has determined that the three years to 31 March 2020 is an appropriate time frame for the viability statement as this is aligned with the time frame currently adopted in the Groups strategic plan.
This alignment enables management and the Board to have sufficient, realistic visibility on the commercial and financial assumptions required to undertake this assessment, as it is considered an appropriate period over which to consider customer, consumer and product trends and in which time the Group could react to any changes in current business assumptions.
