Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The delivery of these core values is critical to our route to market, giving our Partners the confidence to promote our services to their friends and family as well as generating recommendations from existing Members who in many cases also become advocates for our brand.
The Net Promoter Scores NPS of around 50 that we consistently achieve reflect our relentless focus on this goal, and are in stark contrast to the negative NPS scores prevalent within the utility and telecoms markets.
Against a backdrop where most of our competitors seem focussed almost solely on price, we believe that genuinely earning the Trust of our Members is the key point of differentiation that will enable us to achieve our medium-term growth objectives and help us maximise long term shareholder value.
By treating our Members fairly, as we would like to be treated ourselves, we aim to earn both their loyalty which delivers long term, sustainable revenues and their enthusiasm for our business model which creates growth through referrals.
Examples of this approach include not offering short-term discounts to new Members as an inducement to switch, and always allowing existing loyal Members to benefit from any new tariffs we introduce.
And keeping our best deals and lowest prices for those who have switched the most services to us.
We continue to invest in our IT systems, which enable us to integrate all the services we supply into a single monthly bill, supported by just one set of central overheads including all administrative and membership support functions.
This highly efficient cost base is a key factor in enabling us to offer attractive pricing and a wide range of valuable benefits to our Members, a secure residual income to our Partners, and a growing dividend stream to shareholders.
We have embarked on a programme to enhance and update these systems over the course of the next three to five years, and look forward to the greater business efficiency and flexibility this will deliver in due course.
We have strong commercial relationships with all our key suppliers, who recognise the value of our unique route to market and the importance of maintaining our competitive market position.
To this end, there are ongoing discussions with each of them about how the market dynamics for each of our services are changing, and the best way to ensure these are appropriately reflected in our wholesale pricing structure.
We are extremely pleased with the further progress we have made this year in taking advantage of our multiple key points of differentiation, and towards securing our position as the Nations most trusted utility provider.
STRATEGY Our strategy is to progressively increase our share of the markets in which we operate through organic growth, and to build a robust, sustainable and profitable business.
We will achieve this by maintaining our focus on delivering best-in-class service and support to our Members, treating them fairly, and investing in our systems and staff.
We will seek to simplify and, where possible, improve the competitiveness of our services even further, encouraging existing Members to talk about the unique benefits we offer to their friends and acquaintances, and making it easier for our Partners to promote our services more effectively.
We continue to explore the possibility of expanding our current range of core services into areas where we can build upon our existing strong relationship with our Members by offering them both a better experience and better value on services they currently obtain from other suppliers, whilst also delivering a satisfactory return for our shareholders.
This approach is demonstrated by the recently announced launch of Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2015 13
