Strategic Report Executing our long-term strategy Our strategy Creating value for the long term SSEs strategy outlines not only what we do but how we do it.
It outlines our strategic priorities, our values and the financial objective that we work towards, to increase annually the dividend payable to shareholders, in line with RPI inflation.
Strategy Efficient operations Efficient operations means putting safety first and putting SSE provides the energy people need in the current and future needs of customers at the heart of a reliable and sustainable way.
Its strategy everything SSE does.
At the heart of SSEs business are its is to deliver the efficient operations of, core operations.
In 2016 17, total generation output was 26,296GWh: it safely delivered electricity to 3.7 million and disciplined investment in, a balanced homes and businesses through its distribution networks: range of energy-related businesses, focusing and supplied electricity, gas and related services to over on the UK and Ireland.
8 million customer accounts in the UK and Ireland.
Read more about our highlights in delivering our strategy this year An operational focus for SSE means: on pages 14 and 15. a focus on the safety of its people: operating its assets safely and using resources effectively, efficiently and sustainably: and putting the current and future needs of customers at the heart of everything it does.
Finance Our financial objective is to increase annually Dividend the dividend payable to shareholders by at SSEs financial focus is not on maximising short-term profits but on delivering an annual dividend increase to shareholders, least RPI inflation.
of at least RPI inflation, as shareholders objective for investing capital into companies is to secure a return.
See pages 30 to 38 for more information.
Responsibility SSE believes that to be successful over the long Safety Service term, companies must operate responsibly.
All accidents are preventable, We put the current and future so we do everything safely needs of customers at the For this reason, SSE operates under a set of and responsibly or not at all.
heart of everything we do.
core values known as the SSE SET.
Disciplined investment Balanced businesses Disciplined investment means identifying assets that Balanced businesses means operating and investing both in complement SSEs business and securing returns which  and market-based energy-related are clearly greater than the cost of capital and enhance assets and businesses and avoiding over-exposure to any Adjusted earnings per share.
one part of the energy sector.
In 2016 17 SSE invested around 1.7bn across the UK and SSE has reportable segments covering Wholesale, Networks and Ireland.
SSEs strategy seeks to avoid becoming over-exposed Retail businesses including Enterprise, which provides services to any one part of the energy sector but pursues investment for commercial and public sector organisations.
This gives SSE opportunities where most appropriate.
a diversity of business activity across the energy sector.
SSEs investments are: SSEs balance is maintained by: in line with its commitment to strong financial management: operating and investing in a balanced range of energy complementary to its existing portfolio of assets: and assets and businesses: governed, developed and executed in an efficient and maintaining a range of opportunities to develop new effective manner.
assets and customer propositions: and developing a balanced range of future investment options.
Dividend cover Balance sheet Dividends are paid out of earnings and, over the long term, SSE believes it should maintain a strong balance sheet, earnings should increase to support dividend growth.
Over illustrated by its commitment to robust ratios for retained the three years to 2019 20, and subject to the ongoing factors cash flow and funds from operations debt.
A strong balance that influence earnings and material changes to sector sheet enables it to borrow money from debt investors at regulation, SSE is on course to achieve dividend cover within competitive rates and therefore take long-term decisions.
a range of around 1.2 times to around 1.4 times.
Efficiency Sustainability Excellence Teamwork We keep things simple, We are ethical, responsible and We strive to get better, smarter We support and value do the work that adds value balanced, helping to achieve and more innovative and be our colleagues and enjoy and avoid wasting money, environmental, social and the best in everything we do.
working together as a team materials, energy or time.
economic well-being for in an open and honest way.
