47 Treasury Policies, Going Concern and Viability In order to protect the groups sterling Treasury Policies and Viability balance sheet and reduce cash flow risk, Financial Risk Management In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the the group has financed a significant 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code, Group Treasury is a centralised function portion of its investment in the US and the directors have assessed the viability within Johnson Matthey based in the UK Europe by borrowing US dollars and of the company over a longer period than and US.
The role of Group Treasury is euros respectively.
Additionally, the group the 15 months covered by the Going to secure funding for the group, manage uses foreign currency swaps to hedge Concern statement.
The directors financial risks and provide treasury services a portion of its assets.
The group uses assessment has been made by considering to the groups operating businesses.
forward exchange contracts to hedge the groups current position and Group Treasury is run as a service centre foreign exchange exposures arising prospects, our strategy, the boards risk rather than a profit centre.
The group on forecast receipts and payments in appetite, and our principal risks and does not undertake any speculative foreign currencies.
Currency options how these are managed, as set out in trading activity in financial instruments.
are occasionally used to hedge foreign the section on Risks and Uncertainties.
exchange exposures, for example in a The directors have determined that a Funding and Liquidity Risk bid situation.
Details of the contracts three year period to 31st March 2020 outstanding on 31st March 2017 are The groups policy on funding capacity is is an appropriate period over which to shown on page 156. to ensure that we always have sufficient assess the groups viability.
We refresh long term funding and committed bank our strategy every three years and this Interest Rate Risk facilities in place to meet foreseeable period is also aligned with our normal peak borrowing requirements.
and well established business planning At 31st March 2017 the group had net At 31st March 2017 the group had process which includes preparing and borrowings of 715.7 million of which cash and deposits of 330.4 million and reviewing a three year plan each year.
99% was at fixed rates with an average 498.6 million of undrawn committed In making the assessment, we have interest rate of 3.1%.
The remaining 1% bank facilities available to meet future considered a number of severe but of the groups net borrowings was funded funding requirements.
The group also plausible stress scenarios linked to the on a floating rate basis.
A 1% change in has a number of uncommitted facilities, groups principal risks.
We have analysed all interest rates would have a 0.01% including overdrafts and metal lease the impact of five individual operational impact on underlying profit before tax.
The maturity dates or market risk scenarios, plus all of This is within the range the board regards of the groups debt and committed them occurring at the same time.
borrowing facilities as at 31st March 2017 scenarios include the loss of a major site, are illustrated in the chart on page 46. product failure or the decline in demand Precious Metal Prices Of the committed bank facilities, from a shift in the markets in which 120.2 million falls due to be repaid Fluctuations in precious metal prices we operate.
We have also considered a in the 15 months to 30th June 2018 have an impact on Johnson Mattheys hard Brexit scenario, but this was not the going concern period.
Our policy for all modelled as it is unlikely to materialise of the committed bank facilities were manufacturing businesses is to limit before 2019 20.
The assessment took refinanced in May 2017 for a further two this exposure by hedging against future account of the groups current funding, years with a long term relationship bank.
price changes where such hedging can forecast requirements and existing debt be done at acceptable cost.
The group and committed borrowing facilities.
It does not take material exposures on Going Concern assumed that existing debt and borrowing metal trading.
facilities could be refinanced as they The directors have assessed the future A proportion of the groups precious mature.
We have also undertaken a funding requirements of the group and metal inventories are unhedged due to reverse stress test in order to analyse the company and compared it to the level the ongoing risk over security of supply.
scenarios and circumstances that would of long term debt and committed bank threaten our current financing facilities for the 15 months from the Credit Risk arrangements.
All of our stress tests balance sheet date.
The assessment were derived through discussions with included a sensitivity analysis on the key The group is exposed to credit risk on senior management and the board factors which could affect future cash its commercial and treasury activities.
after considering our principal risks flow and funding requirements.
Having In both cases counterparties are assessed and uncertainties.
undertaken this work, the directors are of against the appropriate credit ratings, Based on this assessment, the the opinion that the group has adequate trading experience and market position.
directors have a reasonable expectation resources to fund its operations and Credit limits are then defined and that the company will be able to continue so determine that it is appropriate exposures monitored against these in operation, comply with facility covenants to prepare the accounts on a going limits.
In treasury and precious metal and meet its liabilities as they fall due concern basis.
management, these exposures include over a period of at least three years.
the mark to market of outstanding transactions and potential settlement risks.
Foreign Currency Risk Johnson Mattheys operations are Read more about our principal located in over 30 countries, providing risks on pages 16 to 21. global coverage.
A significant amount of profit is earned outside the UK.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
