Strategic Report continued Our Strategy and Business Model Our Strategic Report discusses the following areas: Our strategy and business model Operational and marketing review Store performance Financial review Principal risks and uncertainties Going concern basis and viability statement Corporate social responsibility Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 22 May 2017 and signed on its behalf by: James Gibson John Trotman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Our Strategy Our Big Yellow stores are on average 63,000 sq ft, compared to an Our strategy from the outset has been to develop Big Yellow into the industry average of approximately 43,000 sq ft source: The Self Storage market leading self storage brand, delivering excellent customer service, Association 2017 UK Annual Survey.
The upside from filling our larger with a great culture and highly motivated employees.
We continue to be than average sized stores is, in our view, only possible in large the market leading brand, with unprompted awareness of seven times metropolitan markets, where self storage demand from domestic and that of our nearest competitor source: YouGov survey, April 2017. business customers is the highest.
As the operating costs of our assets We concentrate on developing our stores in main road locations with high are relatively fixed, larger stores in bigger urban conurbations, visibility, where our distinctive branding generates high awareness of particularly London, drive higher revenues and higher operating margins.
Our accreditation in 2016 for the Best 100 Companies to work We continue to believe that the medium term opportunity to create for was pleasing as an independent assessment of our employee shareholder value will be principally achieved by increasing occupancy engagement, and our customer satisfaction survey scores remain very and rental yield in our existing platform to drive revenue, the majority high, with an average customer net promoter score of 77, and average of which flows through to the bottom line.
Trustpilot scores of 9.5 out of 10.
Our key objectives remain: Self storage demand from businesses and individuals at any given store leveraging our market leading brand position to generate new is linked in part to local economic activity, consumer and business prospects, principally from our digital, mobile and desktop platforms: confidence, all of which are inter-related.
Fluctuations in housing activity focusing on training, selling skills, and customer satisfaction to whether in the rented or owner occupied sector, are also a factor and in our maximise prospect conversion and referrals: view influence the top slice of demand over and above a core occupancy.
growing occupancy and net rent so as to drive revenue optimally at This has been demonstrated by the resilience of our like-for-like stores each store: since September 2007 despite a collapse in housing activity and GDP over maintaining a focus on cost control, so revenue growth is transmitted the period 2007 to 2009.
As can be seen from the ten year summary, the through to earnings growth: performance of our stores was relatively resilient during the downturn, and selectively adding to the portfolio through new site development and within that London and the South East proved to be less volatile.
existing store acquisitions: Local GDP and hence business and housing activity are greatest in the maintaining a conservative capital structure in the business with larger urban conurbations and in particular London and the South East.
Group interest cover of a minimum of five times: and Furthermore, people and businesses are space constrained in these producing sustainable returns for shareholders through a low more densely populated areas.
Barriers to entry in terms of competition leverage, low volatility, high distribution REIT.
for land and difficulty around obtaining planning are also highest in In the seventeen years since flotation in May 2000, Big Yellow has more urbanised locations.
delivered a Total Shareholder Return TSR, including dividends Over the last 18 years we have built a portfolio of 73 Big Yellow self storage reinvested, of 14.7% per annum, in aggregate 915% at the closing price centres, largely freehold, purpose-built and focussed on London, the South of 730.5p on 31 March 2017.
This compares to 6.4% per annum for the East and large metropolitan cities.
We have seen an increase in our FTSE Real Estate Index and 5.2% per annum for the FTSE All Share index weighting to London and the South East as a result of recent openings over the same period.
This demonstrates the power of compounding and acquisitions.
66% of our current annualised store revenue derives over the longer term.
from within the M25 2016: 63% : for London and the South East, the proportion of current annualised store revenue is 83% 2016: 80%.
