100 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 4.
Governance Directors Remuneration Policy Below we publish the Remuneration Policy table, which includes the elements of directors remuneration.
For each element we describe its purpose and its link to strategy, how it works, the opportunity, boundaries and performance measures and any clawback or withholding conditions which may apply.
This Remuneration Policy will, subject to shareholder approval, take effect immediately following the 2017 AGM and apply to all remuneration for the financial year commencing 1st April 2017 onwards.
The previous Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders in July 2014, with 97.6% votes cast in favour.
The only significant changes between the policy presented below and that previously approved by shareholders are: A change to the base salary review date from 1st August to 1st April each year.
The increase will be pro-rated in the first year to reflect the Executive Directors service since their last increase.
The annual bonus threshold vesting is changed to 15% of the maximum opportunity, it was previously 15% of base salary for all Executive Directors.
An increase to the recommended shareholding level from 200% to 250% of base salary for the Chief Executive and from 150% to 200% of base salary for other Executive Directors.
Dividends will accrue on deferred shares during vesting periods and may be paid in cash or shares at the time of vesting.
Remuneration Policy Table Purpose and link to strategy Operation and changes if appropriate of the element Potential value of element and performance measures Base salary Base salaries will be reviewed annually and any Maximum opportunity Base salary is the basic pay changes normally take effect from 1st April No salary increase will be awarded which results for doing the job.
in a base salary which exceeds the competitive is to provide a fair and market range.
In determining salaries and salary increases, the competitive level of base Remuneration Committee will take account of the Details of the current salaries for the Executive pay to attract and retain performance of the individual director against Directors are shown in the Annual Report on individuals of the calibre a broad set of parameters including financial, Remuneration on page 116. required to lead the business.
environmental, social and governance issues.
The Remuneration Committee will further take into account the length of time in post and the level of salary increases awarded to the wider Johnson Matthey workforce.
Salaries across the group are benchmarked against a comparator group of similarly sized companies within the FTSE, with a comparable international presence and geographic spread and operating in relevant industry sectors.
New appointments or promotions will be paid at a level reflecting the Executive Directors level of experience in the particular role and experience at board level.
New or promoted Executive Directors may receive higher pay increases than typical for the group over a period of time following their appointment as their pay trends toward an appropriate level for their role.
101 Purpose and link to strategy Operation and changes if appropriate of the element Potential value of element and performance measures Annual incentive The Remuneration Committee sets annual bonus Performance measures The annual bonus provides performance measures and targets for each Bonuses are based on the achievement of demanding a strong incentive aligned to new award cycle.
At the end of the year, the financial and, where appropriate, non-financial strategy in the short term.
Remuneration Committee determines the extent to targets.
The Remuneration Committee may use The annual bonus allows which these have been achieved.
The Remuneration different performances and weightings for each the board to ensure that the Committee retains the discretion to reduce any performance cycle as appropriate to take into account companys plans are properly bonus award if, in its opinion, the underlying the strategic needs of the business.
However, a reflected in stretching but financial performance of the company has not substantial proportion will be based on key financial achievable annual budgets.
been satisfactory in the circumstances.
measures, including budgeted underlying profit before tax PBT.
The annual bonus plays a Deferral key part in the motivation Of any bonus paid, 50% is paid in cash and the The budget is set on a robust bottom up process and retention of Executive remaining 50% is deferred into shares for a three to achieve full accountability.
The target budgeted Directors, one of the key year period as an award under the deferred bonus underlying PBT is retrospectively published in requirements for long plan.
No further performance conditions apply to the immediately following Annual Report on term growth.
awards under the deferred bonus plan.
Details of last years bonus awards that accrue on the deferred shares during the vesting are on page 110.
Bonus deferral as well as period will be paid in either cash and or shares at malus and clawback The performance period for annual bonus purposes the time of vesting.
provisions ensure that matches the financial year 1st April to 31st March.
longer term considerations Malus and clawback Maximum opportunity and vesting thresholds are properly taken into The cash and deferred elements of the bonus are Chief Executive 180% of base salary.
account in the pursuit of subject to malus and clawback provisions such that Other Executive Directors 150% of base salary.
they can be forfeited or recouped in part or in full in the event of a misstatement of results, error in Threshold vesting will result in a bonus of 15% of the calculation or misconduct by the individual.
On target performance will result in 50% payment of the maximum opportunity.
Adjustments The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to change the performance targets if there is a significant or material event which causes the committee to believe the original targets are no longer appropriate e. g. to reflect material acquisitions or disposals.
The Remuneration Committee also retains discretion to amend the level of annual bonuses determined by the performance condition to seek to ensure that the incentive structure for Executive Directors does not raise environmental, social and governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
For example, reducing or eliminating bonuses where the company has suffered reputational damage or where other aspects of performance have been unacceptable.
The Remuneration Committee retains the ability to increase bonus awards from the formulaic outcome where there is identifiable and exceptional performance by the Executive Director.
Bonus payments in such circumstances would remain within the maximum bonus opportunity and shareholders would be fully informed of the justification.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 102 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 4.
Governance Purpose and link to strategy Operation and changes if appropriate of the element Potential value of element and performance measures Long term incentive Shares may be awarded each year and are subject Performance measures The Performance Share Plan to performance conditions over a three year PSP vesting is currently based on the compound PSP is a long term incentive performance period.
Subject to performance annual growth rate CAGR of underlying EPS over plan designed to ensure that conditions being met, the shares will vest in a three year performance period, subject to a executives take decisions in equal instalments on the third, fourth and fifth discretionary ROIC underpin.
the interest of the longer anniversary of the date of award.
However, the Remuneration Committee retains term success of the group.
The performance targets are set by the Remuneration discretion to amend the targets and the performance Having a measure that looks Committee based on internal and external growth measures for future awards as appropriate to reflect at profitable growth over the forecasts to ensure they remain appropriate and the business strategy.
Wherever possible, the views longer term ensures that the aligned with shareholder expectations.
of major shareholders will be sought when it is interests of executives are proposed to make any substantive changes to the The awards are granted in accordance with the rules aligned with shareholder performance measures.
of the plan approved by shareholders.
Awards may wishes for long term value.
be granted in the form of conditional shares, nil or The prospective targets and measures for the year nominal cost options or cash where the awards commencing 1st April 2017 are shown on page 99. cannot be settled in shares.
Dividends that accrue Maximum opportunity and vesting thresholds between the third and fifth anniversary of the award A new long term incentive plan, a Performance date will be paid in either cash and or shares at the Share Plan PSP, is being put to shareholders for time of vesting.
Subject to approval of Malus and clawback the plan, the maximum award limit under this Long term incentive plan awards granted since 2014 policy will be 200% of base salary.
are subject to malus and clawback provisions that can apply in the case of a misstatement of results, error in the calculation or misconduct by the individual.
Adjustments The Remuneration Committee has power to adjust the vesting level of an award based on the underlying performance of the company.
The Remuneration Committee may adjust the performance measure to reflect material changes e. g. significant acquisitions or disposals, share consolidation, share buy-backs or special dividends.
Any such change would be fully explained to shareholders.
Benets Benefits include medical, life and income protection Benefits are not generally expected to be a insurance, medical assessments, company sick significant part of the remuneration package in To provide a market aligned pay, and a company car or equivalent.
Other financial terms and are there to support the director benefits package.
appropriate benefits may also be provided from in his or her performance in the role.
In general time to time at the discretion of the benefits will be restricted to the typical level in the The purpose of any benefit is Remuneration Committee.
relevant market for an Executive Director.
to align with normal market practices and to remove Directors and officers liability insurance is Car benefits will not exceed a total of 25,000 per certain day to day concerns maintained for all directors.
from Executive Directors to Directors who are required to move for a business The cost of medical insurance for an individual allow them to concentrate reason may, where appropriate, also be provided Executive Director and dependents will not exceed on the task in hand.
with benefits such as relocation benefits e. g. the 15,000 per annum.
provision of accommodation, transport or medical Company sick pay is 52 weeks full pay.
insurance away from their country of residence and schooling for dependents.
The company may pay the tax on these benefits.
Directors may be assisted with tax advice and tax compliance services.
The company will reimburse all reasonable expenses including any tax thereon which the Executive Director is authorised to incur whilst carrying out executive duties.
103 Purpose and link to strategy Operation and changes if appropriate of the element Potential value of element and performance measures Pension All Executive Directors will be paid a cash The maximum supplement is 25% of base salary.
Provides for post-retirement supplement in lieu of membership in a remuneration, ensures that pension scheme.
the total package is competitive and aids retention.
All employee share plan Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Executive Directors are entitled to participate up to Encourages share ownership.
companys all employee share incentive plan under the same limits in force from time to time for all which regular monthly share purchases are made employees.
and matched with the award of company shares, subject to retention conditions.
Executive Directors would also be entitled to participate in any other all employee arrangements that may be established by the company on the same terms as all other employees.
Shareholding requirements Executive Directors are expected to build up a The minimum shareholding requirement is as To encourage Executive shareholding in the company over a reasonable follows: Directors to build a period of time.
Chief Executive 250% of base salary.
shareholding in the company Shares that count towards achieving these Other Executive Directors 200% of base salary.
and ensure the interests of guidelines include: all shares beneficially owned management are aligned The above shareholding requirements are effective by an Executive Director or a person connected to with those of shareholders.
as of the date of approval of this policy.
The the executive as recognised by the Remuneration previous shareholding requirement was 200% of Committee: deferred bonus shares and long term base salary for the Chief Executive and 150% of incentive awards which are no longer subject to base salary for the other Executive Directors.
performance conditions but have not yet vested.
There is no requirement for Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors are expected to retain at least to hold shares but they are encouraged to acquire a 50% of the net after tax vested shares that are holding over time.
released under the long term PSP and deferred bonus plans until the required levels of shareholding are achieved.
Executive Directors are not required to make personal share purchases should awards not meet the performance conditions and so a newly appointed director may take longer to reach the expected level, depending on the companys performance against targets over the period.
Non-Executive Director fees Non-Executive Director fees are determined by Details of the current fee levels for the Chairman Attracts, retains and the board.
The Non-Executive Directors exclude and Non-Executive Directors are set out in the motivates Non-Executive themselves from such discussions.
The fees for the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 109.
Directors with the required Chairman are determined by the Remuneration The fee levels are set subject to the maximum knowledge and experience.
Committee taking into account the views of the limits set out in the Articles of Association.
The Chairman excludes himself from such discussions.
Non-Executive Directors are paid a base fee each year with an additional fee for each committee chairmanship or additional role held.
Non-Executive Director fees are reviewed every year.
Any increase will take into account the market rate for the relevant positions within a comparator group of similarly sized companies with a comparable international presence and geographic spread and operating in relevant industry sectors, the experience of the individuals and the expected time commitment of the role.
In exceptional circumstances, additional fees may be payable to reflect a substantial increase in time commitment.
The company will also reimburse the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors for all reasonable expenses including any tax thereon incurred whilst carrying out duties for the company.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
