Long Term Bonus Performance Plan continued Objective Committee Comment Maintain the Groups online market share measured against the top 35 The Groups average market share ranged between 31% and 38% over the self storage operators by Connexity Hitwise, at 35% to 38%.
course of the financial year.
The nearest competitor had a market share of 16% to 21% for the year.
Review potential sites in London and key target towns outside of London The Group has continued to investigate opportunities for land acquisitions in for store acquisition with a view of acquiring at least one new site in the year.
London and a number of key towns outside.
In May 2017 the Group exchanged contracts to acquire a site in Wapping, East London a key target location.
The Group continues to monitor other opportunities.
Complete the acquisition of the Lock and Leave portfolio into Big Yellow and The Lock and Leave portfolio acquisition completed in April 2016, in line with Armadillo.
Submit a planning application for the development at Camberwell by the The planning application for Camberwell was submitted in November 2016. end of the financial year.
The application was rejected in February 2017, and the Group has subsequently submitted an appeal.
Obtain planning consent for the extension of the Wandsworth store.
Planning consent was obtained for the Wandsworth extension in December 2016.
Construction has commenced on the extension with the work due to complete in April 2018.
Obtain revised planning consent for Guildford Central, and commence The revised planning consent for Guildford Central was obtained in July 2016. construction of the store in the year.
Construction has commenced on the store with a view to a March 2018 opening.
Maintain the net promoter score for customer satisfaction from the The move in NPS score for the year was 83, a significant increase from 75 in Customer Experience programme in excess of 65 for move in and move out the prior year.
The move out NPS score for the year was 67, an increase from surveys.
Maintain the Groups brand leadership of unprompted and prompted The You Gov survey commissioned in April 2017 has shown our prompted awareness throughout the UK, to be measured by third party survey in awareness to be at 74% in London, two and half times higher than our nearest the year.
competitor and 41% for the rest of the UK, nearly three times higher than our nearest competitor.
This compares to 74% and 38% respectively last year.
For unprompted brand awareness, our recall in London is 47%, nearly six times higher than our nearest competitor and for the rest of the UK it is 21%, more than eight times higher than our nearest competitor.
2 Reduce the carbon intensity for the year to 31 March 2017 KgCO m of Carbon intensity was reduced by 13% for the year to 31 March 2017.
2 occupied space by 5% from the year to 31 March 2016.
The other targets, covering areas such as real estate, staffing and certain financial targets, were met in the majority of cases.
Following careful consideration of the performance targets and actual performance of the Group and the Executive Directors, the Committee has concluded that the award in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2017 has provisionally vested at 90% of its potential amount for the year.
For the year ended 31 March 2016, the Committee concluded that the award had provisionally vested as to 90% of its potential amount for the year.
There is a further years performance on which the LTBPP is assessed before any awards vest.
Part of the award will then be subject to a holding period in line with the Remuneration Policy.
Sharesave Scheme The Groups Sharesave Scheme is open to all UK employees including Executive Directors with a minimum of six months service and meets UK HMRC approval requirements, thus giving all eligible employees the opportunity to acquire shares in the Company in a tax efficient manner.
Three of the Executive Directors participated in the scheme during the financial year.
The details of the Sharesave scheme options are shown on page 82.
Pension entitlements The Company pays pension contributions into the Executive Directors personal pension plans or makes a cash contribution in lieu of pension contributions.
They do not participate in any defined benefit scheme.
For the year ended 31 March 2017, the Company contribution was 15% of salary for the Executive Directors.
