Our Business Model Effective utilisation of our resources and relationships are an integral part of our plan to drive long-term sustainable growth.
Our resources and relationships form the inputs to our business model, which are utilised and transformed in the process of value creation.
The outputs of our business model are detailed on the opposite page and throughout the report.
Through the expertise of our partners and We are able to leverage the Halfords brand... well-trained colleagues... Halfords is the nations go-to-retailer for motorists and cyclists.
We have a range of exclusive and highly-regarded brands Training and accreditation, such as our 3-Gears training including Boardman, Apollo and Carrera in cycling, as well as our programme, ensures that consistent product knowledge and Halfords Advanced ranges in motoring.
service reaches our customers across all locations.... to delight our customers every time Through our portfolio of convenient stores and We aim to grow our business by attracting more customers, Autocentres, efficient distribution network and encouraging them to buy more products and services, and user-friendly websites... persuading them to visit our stores and Autocentres more often.
We want to create a compelling shopping experience that To do this we make four promises: excites customers, improves their knowledge of our products and services, and engages them emotionally with our brand.
Prices you can trust Quality you can trust Our ambition is to create a service-led, fully integrated digital proposition which will maintain our ongoing relevance.
Range you can rely on Service that wows 12 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 12 07 06 2017 16:36:21 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our model is underpinned by our financial discipline, astute purchasing and strategic Fast Fact reinvestments.
We are a cash generative business and have generated 37.7m of Free Cash Flow in the year.
We are well supported by our banking syndicate, having amended the debt facility in 2014, 13th place extending it to November 2019. achieved by Halfords Retail in the Sunday Times Best Big Our integrated approach to sustainability keeps economic, social and environmental Companies to Work For list considerations in mind, as well as the material issues of our stakeholder groups to inform our model and operations.
Outputs Fast Fact Financial Brand Around Resources 10,000 Generating returns to our shareholders Developing our brand through innovation in-store services carried through effective management of our and expertise.
out at each of our 460 Retail financial resources stores during the year Read more the Chief Financial Read our case study on Officers Review on pages 36 to 41 Exclusive Ranges on page 25 Physical and Colleagues IT Infrastructure Maintaining and developing our Developing, rewarding and retaining our infrastructure and sales channels to circa 10,000 colleagues so that they strengthen competitive advantages.
are engaged and driving our long-term sustainable growth ambitions.
Read more about Service in Read our case study about Our DNA on pages 22 Developments in our Store and 23 Portfolio on page 27 Community Environment Building relationships with suppliers, The environmental resources that customers and the communities around us.
Halfords utilises in its operations.
Read more in the Corporate Read more in the Corporate Social Responsibility Social Responsibility on pages 30 to 35 on pages 30 to 35 This icon is used to indicate content on the outputs of the business model.
