A letter from our Founder So, what IS next?
As I transition into the role of Founder, I want to look at John Roberts how the next generation will shop and understand better what theyll want Founder and need from their experience.
I want to examine how our brand partners are developing their technologies to stay relevant in a connected world and how we, as a business, can use innovative techniques to stay ahead of the competition whilst remaining true to our core values: harnessing technology, AI and digital channels to enhance the customer experience.
And I want to explore how we can better empower and motivate our employees to innovate: encouraging our people to try new things and take new risks.
Steve and I also want to concentrate on our brand.
A brand is what you are, who you are, why you are.
The AO smiley face isnt a bit of decoration: it says we want to make our customers smile and we want the people who sell to our customers to be smiling.
We work very hard Dear Stakeholders, on making sure that our staff appreciate what we are trying to do.
We are spread across many locations so only if everyone absorbs our Last month, I received a letter from a customer, Moira, with the subject brand values will we remain consistent.
Were making great strides title: Love your company!
Its quite long, but Ive copied it opposite in across all our territories in brand awareness, but were not yet the full because it really gets to the heart of what I want to say in this letter.
household name we aspire to be.
Honing in on our brand message, and getting it out there to people who havent used AO before, is one At AO, we care more.
Its at the core of our business, its the reason of our key challenges in the coming months.
weve succeeded, and its the reason well continue to grow.
Its the thing that differentiates us.
The sponsorship of this years Britains Got Talent has kick-started that challenge.
Its been an exciting project and has given us all something We have an amazing team of over 2,500 people in the business who to smile about, especially those whove been lucky enough to star in live AO every day in a way that defines that difference: who understand some of the accompanying adverts.
At AO, weve always maintained our business from the customers point of view.
But were not magicians: that happy staff equal happy customers.
Underpinning our culture is we dont know what customers think through some special mind-reading the belief that you cant pay people to care and you cant tell people to method.
Instead, we ask them, we listen to them, and then we innovate have fun with customers: theyve got to want to.
Peters small gesture for them.
to Moira was unprompted, but it made a big difference to her overall customer experience.
You have to stay in touch with customers because theyre the ones whove got all the answers.
I write a personal letter to every single It is a story we need to tell better and to more people because AO.
com customer who has written to me at AO with either a positive or a really is a much easier way to shop for electricals and once people negative comment.
I get amazing responses back because the experience The AO Way they really get it.
We have learned a lot of customer feels a part of the movement we are creating.
lessons on how to best tell that story over the last four years and we are getting better at it.
It is by far our biggest single opportunity.
But the biggest impact isnt on them.
We have to make sure that whatever we got wrong, we put right.
We need to make sure At AO, we want this ethos to go beyond the business, into the local theyre happy.
We learn the lesson, and see it from their point of view.
communities in which we work.
Ive always believed that retailers have Like Peter, understanding and responding not only to Moiras concerns, a responsibility to give back to their communities: thats why we set up but applying it to the business as a whole to make things better for the AO Smile Foundation, providing support to disadvantaged young every one of our customers.
We actively encourage all our staff to get involved with the charity, and to make a positive impact within their Its not one silver bullet, but a hundred different things we just care local communities: each AOer is able to take two make a difference more about.
Being an AOer is a lot more than a job The AO Way is days each year to work with a charity and last year they made over a way of life.
Its the backbone to our culture and, as weve grown and 376 days of difference.
Im incredibly proud of that work.
But I also expanded into new territories, maintaining, cultivating and obsessing believe that what you put in, you get back.
In truth, we all get as much about this culture is critical.
from our involvement with the AO Smile Foundation, as it gets from us.
Its another part of what makes AO such a great place to work.
Earlier in the year, Steve succeeded me as Chief Executive Officer.
This transition was the natural evolution of our succession planning work As Moira says, AOers are not people simply going through the since IPO and reflects AOs rapid growth and success.
It ensures that motions, they are people who are inspired, empowered and happy we can capitalise on all the teams strengths as we continue to grow in what they do.
So a big thank you from Steve and me to the whole enabling me to focus on delivering for our customers and for AOers AO family, and a promise to keep on caring more as we continue on by playing to my strengths as an innovator, and enabling Steve to the next stage of the AO journey.
concentrate on strategy and performance delivery.
Hes already making a big difference to how we operate as a business, and Im immensely proud of our partnership.
In my first letter to shareholders three years ago, I told you that we genuinely wanted to change the world of retail to get customers to become intolerant of poor service and realise that they dont have to accept it.
That ambition hasnt changed, and weve become relentless in our search for new markets, new ideas and new and better ways to John Roberts serve our customers.
Change is the only constant and were always Founder thinking: Whats next?
A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 18 18 O Ov five er rv vi ie ew w S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t O Ou ur r G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e O Ou ur r R Resu esul lt ts s S Sh ha ar re eh ho old lder ers s I In nf fo or rm mat atio ion n Love your company!
I recently purchased a fridge freezer from AO, primarily on the recommendation of a friend, and I wanted you to know it was the most positive customer experience I have had in a very, very long time.
Your website is good and easy to navigate, the choice of product is great, your prices are very competitive, your communications appropriate but most of all your people are fantastic.
I had reason to chat on your website a couple of times and to call and speak to a customer service representative on two or maybe three occasions not problems, just questions.
Your staff could not have been more helpful, knowledgeable or human for want of a better word!
Of particular note was my conversation with your customer services representative Peter.
For a start all my phone calls were answered very promptly quite a novelty in this day and age.
I had a small concern re some of the wording in a confirmation email I received that seemed contradictory to your website information and I just wanted to clarify the actual installation service I was going to receive.
Peter could not have been more helpful in investigating the concern and, upon agreeing the email wording was not right, advised me that AO will probably have this template email corrected in a couple of hours so no further customers are confused.
Peter went on to proactively give me a small refund as a thank you for bringing the matter to AOs attention a gesture that was unexpected but very much appreciated.
If only all companies demonstrated their respect and appreciation for their customers so readily, unprompted and with good grace.
Towards the end of the conversation with Peter I told him how impressed I had been with all my contacts with AO and he told me how very much he enjoyed working for AO, that it is a great company and how he and his colleagues are treated as human beings, I think was the expression.
These are not people going through the motions, they are clearly inspired, empowered and happy in their work.
These days it is not often there is an opportunity to praise good customer service I hope you enjoy reading this as much as I enjoyed being able to write it.
Needless to say, I am telling all my friends to order from AO!
Kind regards Its great to get this type of customer feedback as it shows our customers recognise everything we have worked hard on over the years.
A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 19 19
