Our Marketplace Competitive landscape Service and services are key differentiators for us, providing Halfords principally operates in two broad markets: us with a unique advantage over much of the competition Motoring and Cycling.
Around 70% of Group sales that are either generalist or fragmented independents.
This are generated from products and services that are is reflected in two key statistics: 80% of our customers want principally Motoring related with the remaining some form of advice or service with their purchase and 30% coming from Cycling.
around 85% of online sales on Halfords.
com are collected in At a profit level, the contribution of Motoring is even greater.
These markets continue to display generally favourable Our Moving Up A Gear strategy is aimed at strengthening our trends and we are particularly well placed to capitalise on position as a customer centric, service-led specialist retailer.
them, given our strong service and services proposition, This, combined with our leading positions in fragmented technical expertise and geographic footprint.
markets, gives us clear competitive advantages and a solid platform from which to drive sustainable long-term growth.
Motoring Market Cars are also becoming more complex and customers increasingly need Market share and competitive landscape support for small as well as large maintenance jobs.
We are seeing an on Within Motoring, the Halfords Group operates in two segments: going trend from do it yourself to do it for me, which plays strongly to Car parts, accessories, consumables and technology, with a our service and services proposition.
Our own market research indicates total market worth up to an estimated 7bn.
This element of the that 80% of Halfords customers want advice or service with their Motoring market has grown by around 3% per annum in the last purchase.
We also identified that 75% of UK consumers have medium to few years.
Halfords Retail competes in a portion of this market, low expertise in DIY and are therefore more inclined to pay for someone holding around a 15% market share.
We continue to invest in training and equipment to ensure that we remain at the forefront of technological changes, Car servicing and aftercare, with a total market worth around 9bn.
such as having the ability to replace stop-start batteries on-demand This element of the market has grown by around 2% per annum and being able to service electric and hybrid vehicles.
We estimate that in the last few years and is where Autocentres competes, holding over 50% of the market for car servicing and aftercare is represented around 1.5% share of a highly fragmented market.
by independents, who are finding it increasingly challenging to meet the There is no single equivalent competitor of Halfords in the UK and these increasing complexities of cars and their parts.
motoring markets are highly fragmented.
There are over 30,000 garages in the UK of which two-thirds are estimated to be independents.
Halfords Share of the Motoring market Market trends New car registrations have grown consistently year on year between 2012 and 2016.
After a record year for new car registrations in 2016, the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders SMMT 1.5% has forecast a decline in new car registrations of 2.6% in 2017.
A Car parts, accessories, reduction in new car registrations typically results in used cars being technology, and consumables held onto for a longer time period.
Combined with a strong pipeline of 15% cars feeding into the used car category, this means that we anticipate Car servicing and aftercare the used car parc to grow in the years ahead.
This will be a positive trend for Halfords given that we predominantly support cars that are over three years old, what we call the second life of the car.
10 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 10 07 06 2017 16:36:17 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION We continue to see good growth in segments of our in-car technology loved by our customers and key to our further market share gains in offering.
We are a market leading retailer of in-car cameras dash these areas.
cams which continued to grow fast in FY17.
We are also uniquely The services that we offer alongside our products continue to evolve placed to offer a fitting service for these products: with around 40% and we now offer a suite of over 30 in-store services for motoring of dash cam sales fitted into the car.
Multimedia, connectivity and and cycling, complimenting the continued success of our 3Bs streaming technology continue to grow as customers look for ways to bulbs, blades, batteries fitting and cycle repair services.
bring their in-car environment more technologically up-to-date.
Going forward we anticipate the Motoring market in which we operate The sat nav market continues to decline, but this is becoming an to continue to grow at an average rate of 2-3% per annum over the increasingly smaller part of our business, now representing only 3% medium-term and we continue to aim to better those growth rates of Group sales.
Across our stores we have an increasing number of through our growing service and services proposition.
accredited child car seat fitters and thousands of colleagues able to fit and provide detailed advice on roof bars and boxes, cycle carriers and number plates.
The expert, friendly advice they provide is unique, Cycling Market Looking ahead we see good growth prospects for the cycling market Market share and competitive landscape for several reasons: In Cycling, Halfords has strong market shares of around 26% for bikes, 16% for PACs and 10% for cycle repair.
We estimate these markets to be participation levels in the UK remain much lower than in many worth annual sales of around 800m, 750m and 100m respectively.
Despite the increase in popularity of The majority of our offer is aimed at mainstream, leisure and family the sport in recent years, the number of bikes sold in the UK has cyclists.
However, the recent acquisition of Tredz and Wheelies alongside remained broadly flat at an average 3.3m bikes per year: the development of Cycle Republic means we can now meet the needs the level of female participation also remains very low.
Recent of all key customer segments.
Over 80% of the bikes sold by the Group data suggests that, in the UK, women make up to 27% of cycle are own brands including Apollo, the biggest bike brand in the UK by journeys compared to 55% in Denmark and the Netherlands: volume, Carrera, the biggest bike brand in the UK by value and Boardman, the fastest growing premium bike brand in recent years and voted Bike the health and wellbeing benefits associated with cycling: Brand of the year 2017 by BikeBiz.
We have added to our own brands this year with the launch of the Wiggins range in July 2016, further enhancing government infrastructure investment in London and other UK our portfolio of exclusive collaborations with Team GB Olympians.
Our cities: own brands are supported by selected third party brands, which include the rapidly growing e-bike segment, which makes cycling more Specialized, Giant, Cannondale, Cube and VooDoo.
accessible to both commuters and older generations: and The cycling market is highly fragmented.
There are an estimated we are seeing existing participants in the cycling market spending 2,500 bike shops in the UK.
Other than Halfords and a small number more as they increase the amount they use their bikes.
of chain retailers, the majority of the market is represented by independents.
As market leader we conduct extensive research As evidenced by the differing performance in the early and late summer into customer behaviour and trends, as well as the competitive periods this financial year, the weather will continue to have an impact landscape.
Over the past year we have identified that the number of on the timing of customer purchase, but the overall trends are positive.
independent bike shops in the UK has declined by around 10%.
We expect the cycling market to grow on average at 3-5% per annum and we continue to aim to beat that market growth rate, through growing Market trends our service and services proposition.
After a difficult year for the cycling market in 2015 due to a combination of high stock levels and poor weather, 2016 was better.
Halfords Share of the Cycling Market The first part of the year saw a continuation of the conditions observed in 2015 compounded by relatively high stock levels in the market and poor weather, which prompted heavier and earlier discounting by competitors than in previous years.
However, the peak summer period benefited from warmer weather and the success of Team GB at the Rio 16% Bikes Olympics, as well as discounting across the market, which helped to clear much of the stock that had been building up in the market.
PACs 26% Repair 10% STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
