104 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 4.
Governance Selection of Performance Targets Annual incentive Financial performance targets under the annual bonus plan are set by the Remuneration Committee with reference to the prior year and to the budgets and business plans for the coming year, ensuring the levels to achieve threshold, target or maximum payout are appropriately challenging.
The performance targets for 2017 18 are based upon budgeted underlying PBT and working capital to ensure that there is strong attention paid to delivery of current operational plans and operational efficiency.
Commercial sensitivity precludes the advance publication of the actual bonus targets but these targets will be retrospectively published in the Annual Report on Remuneration for 2017 18.
Long term incentive EPS targets under the PSP are set to reflect the companys longer term growth objectives at a level where the maximum represents genuine outperformance.
Underlying EPS is considered a simple and clear measure of absolute growth in line with the companys strategy.
It is also a key objective of the company to achieve earnings growth only in the context of a satisfactory performance on ROIC.
Accordingly, the Remuneration Committee makes an assessment of the groups ROIC over the performance period to ensure underlying EPS growth has been achieved with ROIC in line with the groups planned expectations.
The key elements of variable pay There are also a number of country and Group Employee Considerations cascade down through the next tiers of business dependent arrangements under The Remuneration Committee considers the senior management with appropriate which bonuses may be paid to the entire directors remuneration in the context of reductions in opportunity levels based on business workforce where performance the wider employee population and is kept seniority.
The groups senior executives plus conditions associated with profitability regularly updated on pay and conditions senior and middle managers 1,300 are met.
The company has not employees participate in the annual bonus Johnson Matthey operates a number consulted directly with employees with plan with performance conditions similar to of pension arrangements around the world, respect to directors remuneration.
Increases those described in the Remuneration Policy.
relevant to the local conditions and in base salary for directors will take into In addition, the groups senior executives and arrangements.
account the level of salary increases granted certain senior management participate in The key element of remuneration for to all employees within the group.
the long term PSP in line with the same EPS those below senior management grades is The general principle for remuneration based performance conditions although base salary and Johnson Mattheys policy in Johnson Matthey is to pay a competitive only Executive Directors are subject to the is to ensure that base salaries are fully package of pay and benefits in all markets post-vesting holding period and only the competitive in the local markets.
General and at all job levels in order to attract and Executive Directors and members of the pay increases take into account local salary retain high quality employees.
The proportion Group Management Committee are subject norms, local inflation and business conditions.
of variable pay increases with progression to deferral of annual bonus.
Certain senior through management levels with the highest management also participate in a long term proportion of variable pay at Executive Restricted Share Plan RSP which has no Director level, as defined by the performance conditions attached.
Executive Director is eligible to participate in this RSP.
