37 Precious Metal Products Divisional Summary Services Manufacturing Precious Metals Advanced Glass Business Rening Noble Metals Chemical Products Management Technologies What We Do Global management Rening and recycling Develop and fabricate Develop and Manufacture pgm and distribution of pgms from a wide a wide range of manufacture chemicals for a broad of platinum group range of inputs products from precious functional coatings range of markets metals pgms metals and other and conductive inks including automotive speciality materials and chemical How We Ensure Johnson Ensure optimal recovery R&D to nd new R&D in material R&D to develop Mattheys operations of pgms for external applications which technologies to products that provide Add Value have metal to meet customers and Johnson use the unique provide high unique solutions for their customers orders Mattheys businesses properties of pgms performance solutions our customers and other materials Societal Benets Enable the production More ecient use Enhanced health Enhance lifestyle Our customers of pgm containing of natural resources and wellbeing work underpins Some environmental products that deliver a broad range of Greenhouse gas benets environmental, health environmental and abatement and social benets other societal benets Global Drivers Natural Resource Environmental Factors Population Growth Health and Nutrition Constraints Climate Change Urbanisation Ageing Population Increasing Electrication Regulation Increasing Wealth Customer Prole Johnson Mattheys End of life autocatalyst Customers from Automotive glass Chemical businesses and collectors a wide range of manufacturers pharmaceutical their customers industries including manufacturers Industrial pgm users Electronic component medical, chemical Other industrial manufacturers Emission control Johnson Mattheys and automotive pgm users catalyst manufacturers businesses and their customers Miners Major BASF Heraeus Heraeus Ferro Heraeus Competitors Heraeus Umicore Umicore DuPont Umicore Umicore BASF Heraeus Bullion banks Employees 2,137 Locations UK, US and UK, China and US Manufacturing sites Six manufacturing Manufacturing sites Hong Kong in Europe, US and sites and three and technical Australia: support support centres in centres in Europe, centres in Asia Europe, US and Asia US and Asia 2016 17 Sales 19 million 95 million 152 million 85 million 52 million Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 38 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 2.
Financial Performance Through leveraging its deep understanding of pgm chemistry, materials science Strategy and manufacturing, Precious Metal Products can apply expertise to ensure it Leverage our deep continues to develop leading edge products and manufacturing routes.
understanding of pgm The division is focused on providing customer solutions through investment chemistry, materials in R&D.
Although it comprises a mix of newer and more mature businesses, science and manufacturing constant innovation is key to enable the division to respond to customers Provide customer solutions continued demand for new products.
through investment in R&D Offering first class services to external and internal customers is an important element of the strategy.
The division serves external customers and also provides Offer first class services vital services to other Johnson Matthey businesses, either through the provision to our external and of precious metals or through refining and recycling spent process or customer internal customers material.
Investing in the business and focusing on the quality and scope of the services it offers is key to maintaining a competitive position.
Deliver superior growth The division aims to deliver superior growth by targeting higher technology areas where its expertise in adding value to precious metals and related materials can generate growth at rates ahead of industry baselines.
Performance in 2016 17 Year to 31st March % change, 2017 2016 % constant million million change rates Sales excluding precious metals sales 403 343 18 6 Underlying operating profit 86.4 66.3 30 17 Return on sales 21.4% 19.4% Return on invested capital ROIC 19.8% 16.5% Services In order to position us for future Stronger second half, reflecting demand in China, we opened a new pgm higher pgm prices and actions Sales in our Pgm Refining and Recycling recycling facility in Zhangjiagang in business grew by 13% helped by improving taken to drive efficiency October 2016.
The site is now processing intake volumes and higher average prices Pgm Refining and Recycling small quantities of material consistent of platinum and palladium, which rose benefited from improving intakes with a phased start up.
by 2% and 8% respectively over the year.
and higher average pgm prices Sales in Precious Metals Management These drivers particularly benefited the increased as the business benefited from We have improved the operational second half.
The business also benefited volatility in pgm prices over the year.
efficiency of our refineries which from a focus on an improved mix of benefited working capital intakes and actions taken to improve the operational efficiency of our refineries.
Our Manufacturing businesses continued to grow steadily based on our strong market positions Precious Metal Products Services Businesses Sales % change 2017 2016 % at constant million million change rates Pgm Refining and Recycling 95 77 24 13 Precious Metals Management 19 17 12 8 Total 114 94 22 13 39 Manufacturing Sales growth in Noble Metals reflects Operating Profit slightly higher sales of medical device Sales across our Manufacturing businesses Underlying operating profit grew strongly components and increased sales of pgm grew by 4% with good growth in Advanced in the year, up 17%.
The first half products for a range of industrial Glass Technologies and Noble Metals.
benefited from the US post-retirement applications.
Sales of pgm gauzes, medical benefit credit.
The second half used in the production of nitric acid, was particularly strong, benefiting from Manufacturing Businesses Sales were slightly down in the year.
sales growth across manufacturing Sales growth in our Advanced products, higher pgm prices and Glass Technologies business was driven improved operational efficiency helped Noble Metals: Chemical by higher automotive production, Medical Products Products by an improved mix of intakes.
20% particularly in China, leading to increased 18% While some of these improved demand for our black obscuration trends are expected to continue, there enamels used in car windscreens.
Sales will be no US post-retirement medical of other glass products for a range of benefit credit in 2017 18. functional and decorative applications were broadly steady.
Return on Invested Capital Sales across Chemical Products were Advanced Glass Noble Metals: Technologies Industrial Products slightly up, helped by a small increase in ROIC improved in the year, to 19.8%, 29% 33% sales of materials for autocatalysts to ECT.
reflecting operating profit growth and foreign exchange.
Precious Metal Products Manufacturing Businesses Sales % change, 2017 2016 % constant million million change rates Noble Metals 152 130 16 4 Advanced Glass Technologies 85 71 20 5 Chemical Products 52 48 9 1 Total 289 249 16 4 Platinum and Palladium Prices US$ oz 1,200 800 400 March 2016 September 2016 March 2017 Platinum Palladium Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
