91 Committee Meetings During the Year We met five times during the year.
Attendance at these meetings was as follows: Number of Date of meetings Number of appointment eligible meetings % to committee to attend attended attended 1 Alan Ferguson 13th January 2011 55 100% Odile Desforges 1st July 2013 5 5 100% Jane Griffiths 1st January 2017 1 1 100% Colin Matthews 4th October 2012 5 5 100% Chris Mottershead 27th January 2015 5 5 100% 2 Dorothy Thompson 1st September 2007 3 3 100% 1 Alan Ferguson was appointed Chairman of the committee on 19th July 2011.
2 Dorothy Thompson retired from the board and the committee on 20th July 2016.
Since the end of the year, the committee has met twice and all members attended.
In order for us to properly discharge our role, Reviewed management representation How we Discharged our it is critical that we have the opportunity to letters requested by KPMG in respect Responsibilities During the Year openly discuss with management any matter of the full year and half-yearly results Our principal activities during the year, and which falls within our remit and probe and prior to them being signed on behalf up to the date of this report, were as follows: challenge where necessary.
Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and the 1 Published Financial Information Reviewed and assessed the process Group Assurance and Risk Director attend all which management put in place to Role: to monitor the integrity of the of our meetings and other senior managers support the board when giving its reported financial information and attend to provide technical or business assurance that the 2017 Annual Report to review significant financial issues information as necessary.
and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, and judgments.
In addition, our meetings are attended balanced and understandable and Reviewed the groups full year results, by the KPMG lead audit partner, Stephen provided the information necessary for half-yearly results and quarterly Oxley, and other representatives from KPMG.
shareholders to assess the companys updates, considered the significant Their attendance is important as it gives us position and performance, business accounting policies, principal estimates the opportunity to seek their independent model and strategy.
Confirmed to the and accounting judgments used in and objective views on matters which they board that we had done so and that their preparation.
At least once a the process was satisfactory.
year, we meet separately with Stephen and Reviewed the matters, assumptions and Reviewed the principal findings arising with the Group Assurance and Risk Director, sensitivities which informed the boards from the inspection of KPMGs 2016 who manages the internal audit function, assessment that it was appropriate to audit by the Financial Reporting to discuss matters without executive prepare the accounts on a going Councils FRCs Audit Quality Review management being present.
team disclosed in more detail on On a more frequent basis, I meet Reviewed and challenged the financial page 94. with the Chief Financial Officer, the Group modelling and stress testing, based on Assurance and Risk Director, other senior Received an update on new or plausible scenarios arising from selected management and with KPMG.
This means forthcoming accounting standards principal risks in assessing the long term any issues or concerns can be raised at an that could materially impact the group, viability of the group.
early stage allowing me to ensure that including IFRS 15 Revenue from sufficient time is devoted to them at the Received and considered reports from Contracts with Customers.
KPMG on its audit of the full year results There is an open and constructive and its review of the half-yearly results.
communication between the committee, management and the internal and external auditors.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 92 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 4.
Governance Significant Issues Considered by the Committee in Relation to the Groups and Companys Accounts Ensuring the integrity of the accounts is fundamental to our remit.
In preparing the accounts, there are a number of areas requiring the exercise by management of particular judgment or a high degree of estimation.
Our role is to assess whether the judgments and estimates made by management are reasonable and appropriate.
Set out below are what we consider to be the most significant accounting areas which required the exercise of judgment or a high degree of estimation during the year, together with details of how we addressed these.
These are all considered to be recurring issues.
significant issue considered by the committee in relation to the accounts Work undertaken by the committee in forming an opinion Refining process and stock takes In order to satisfy ourselves on the robustness of the stock take results When setting process loss provisions, key judgments are made in and the adequacy of process loss provisions, we reviewed the results estimating the amount of precious metal that may be lost during from the refinery stock takes together with explanatory commentary the refining and fabrication processes.
In addition, refining stock from management which included whether these results were in line takes involve key judgments in estimating volumes of precious metal with expectations and historic trends.
We also reviewed the results as bearing material in the refining system and the subsequent sampling a percentage of throughput.
and assaying to assess the precious metal content note 40 on The refining process and stock takes were also an area of focus for page 169.
KPMG who reported its findings to us.
We considered whether the accounting treatment for refining stock take gains and losses was in accordance with agreed methodology and concurred with managements opinion that it was.
Impairment of goodwill, other intangibles and other assets As part of the annual impairment review of goodwill and other Key judgments are made in relation to the assumptions used in intangible assets not yet being amortised, we reviewed a report from calculating discounted cash flow projections to value the cash management, which explained the methodology used and the generating units CGUs containing goodwill, to value other intangible rationale for the assumptions made including explanations for any assets not yet being amortised and to value other assets when there significant changes from those used in prior years.
For these annual are indications that they may be impaired.
The key assumptions are impairment tests, there was significant headroom over the carrying managements estimates of budgets and plans for how the relevant value of the relevant CGUs net assets.
businesses will develop or how the relevant assets will be used in the There were no significant impairments of other assets in the year.
future, as well as discount rates and long term average growth rates The impairment reviews were also an area of focus for KPMG who for each CGU notes 17 and 40 on pages 150 and 169 respectively.
reported its findings to us.
We concluded that managements key assumptions were reasonable.
Taxation We reviewed explanatory papers from management, which included Key judgments are made in arriving at managements best estimate a review of the appropriateness of the tax provisions and relevant of the tax charge included in the accounts, where the precise impact disclosures.
of tax laws and regulations is unclear note 40 on page 169.
KPMG also reported its findings in this area to us and we reviewed these.
We concluded that the judgments, estimates and disclosures were reasonable and appropriate.
Post-employment benefits We reviewed the report from management summarising actuarial Key judgments are made in relation to the assumptions used valuations and key assumptions for the main post-employment when valuing post-employment benefits obligations note 15 benefit plans.
We compared these assumptions with those made by on pages 142 to 148. other companies and those used last year.
We also considered the opinions expressed by KPMG in this area.
We concluded that the assumptions used are appropriate for the groups post-employment benefit plans.
93 2 Internal Control, Risk Management Corporate Assurance and Risk Annual Plan Systems and Internal Audit Role: to review the groups internal We spend a significant amount of time reviewing the corporate assurance and risk annual financial controls and its internal plan, which is presented to us by the Group Assurance and Risk Director, to ensure it is control and risk management systems comprehensive, well targeted and provides the appropriate level of assurance.
In particular, and to monitor the effectiveness of the we want to know the factors taken into account in devising the plan, the risk profile of groups internal audit function.
auditable sites and businesses influenced by the key control assessment process, the scope Received reports at every meeting from and depth of each type of audit and the plans coverage across the group.
It is just as the Group Assurance and Risk Director on: important for us to understand what is not covered by the plan, either by way of business activity or geographic coverage.
Where there is no coverage at certain sites or businesses, Corporate assurance and risk reviews.
we discuss what other mechanisms are in place to check the adequacy of controls, such as These reports summarised the sector management oversight or external audit activity.
These other sources of assurance are number and type of internal audits important when assessing the level of assurance we require from this plan.
In reviewing the and security reviews undertaken 2017 18 plan, we were pleased to see that additional data had been analysed in building during the period and how this the plan, including concerns raised via speak up whistleblowing reports, the results of compared to the plan, the key investigations and legal team health check findings.
The plan was also mapped against the findings of those audits and reviews, principal risks which allowed us to see how much coverage there would be on each risk.
the number and nature of actions We believe the 2017 18 plan addresses Johnson Mattheys key risks and its coverage is to address the findings and appropriate for the size and nature of the group.
On that basis, we approved the plan.
progress made by management in implementing the actions.
During the year we paid particular attention to the level of engagement of all Monitored the effectiveness of the Undertook a review of the control our managers, whether at local, Corporate Assurance and Risk function.
environment within three of the five divisional or executive level, in We pay close attention to the resourcing divisions.
The committee received implementing corrective actions of the function, knowing that the calibre, updates from the Divisional Finance and in strengthening the control knowledge and experience of individual Directors of Fine Chemicals, Precious framework across all our sites, auditors are critical to achieving an Metal Products and Process Technologies.
irrespective of location, size and effective audit.
We continually assess This gave us an opportunity to learn activity.
At each meeting we tracked the effectiveness of the function.
At more about key financial risks and progress in completing open actions each meeting the Group Assurance and how these were being managed, what and challenged management to Risk Director is present and we have the control enhancements were being ensure that actions were being opportunity to ask detailed questions carried out, as well as understanding dealt with in a timely manner.
We receive regular the bench strength of the divisional reports from her as noted above and we finance teams.
In particular, we heard Key control assessment.
Reviewed seek the views of managers and also of about the main themes arising from a report at our November 2016 KPMG, all of whom have frequent the key control assessment process meeting on the key control contact with the function.
We also pay which gave us an opportunity to better questionnaire process.
This attention to whether the function has understand the control environment questionnaire, which forms an adequate standing across the group and in the divisions and to seek assurance important part of our overall is free from management or other on the progress of actions being taken assurance programme, is a bottom restrictions.
As Chairman of the to address any weaknesses.
up process by which managers committee, I occasionally meet with the across all our businesses are required Received an update from the incoming Corporate Assurance and Risk team and to certify the existence and Chief Financial Officer on her I plan to do so again during 2017 18. effectiveness of certain key controls impressions of the divisional and group within their areas of responsibility.
Reviewed the processes and controls finance teams.
We assessed the effectiveness of the associated with the groups continued Reviewed reports from the General process and we evaluated the nature investment in business information Counsel on litigation and on the speak and quality of responses, the level of systems.
The committee has been up whistleblowing procedures.
In challenge to the responses, significant kept informed of progress on the particular we heard about enhancements findings and how management implementation of these systems during made to speak up procedures during intended to address findings.
the year, including the challenges and the year and we formalised the risks and how these were being managed.
responsibilities of the Ethics Panel, Due to the significance of this project and Working with the board, the risk which oversees concerns raised and the value to be delivered on completion, assurance processes were reviewed ensures effective reviews or investigations the board has also maintained close and refined.
We concentrate of those concerns.
We also reviewed oversight, receiving two presentations.
primarily on the mitigating controls key matters raised via speak up reports.
The partner from the independent and the levels of assurance over programme assurance provider, KPMG, these.
As noted above, the annual Read more on page 56 and 59. attended one of our meetings as well as plan is mapped to understand the one of our board meetings to provide level of coverage provided.
feedback on the conduct of the project Reviewed the risk management and Monitored progress against the 2016 17 from the programme assurance control statements in the Annual Report corporate assurance and risk plan and engagement.
The committee also and Accounts before they were approved agreed the 2017 18 corporate approved the reappointment of KPMG as by the board.
assurance and risk plan see above.
the independent programme assurance provider for 2017 18.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 94 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 4.
Governance 3 External Auditor Role: to ensure an appropriate relationship with the external auditor, to monitor its independence and objectivity, negotiate and approve its fees, recommend its reappointment or not and to ensure it delivers, based on a sound plan, a high quality effective audit.
How we reviewed KPMGs performance and the effectiveness of the external audit process Towards the end of the 2016 17 external audit, a feedback questionnaire was circulated to the executive directors and senior management.
They were asked to rate how satisfied they were with KPMG, including its level of planning and coordination, ability to meet delivery dates and objectives, industry specialist knowledge, preparedness and organisation, ability to firmly challenge management, independence, level and quality of communication and value for money.
The results showed an overall level of satisfaction with KPMG and that action had been taken on points arising from last years feedback.
There are areas where further improvements can be made and at our next meeting, Stephen Oxley, our lead audit partner, will explain how he intends to adapt the audit approach for the current year to take into account the findings.
We will also consider any relevant issues as part of the external audit tender process which will be conducted in 2017 18.
On a continuous basis throughout the year, we look at the quality of KPMGs reports and the performance of Stephen Oxley both in and outside committee meetings.
We pay particular attention to the way Stephen and the team interact with and challenge management as well as the effectiveness of the relationship between the internal and external audit teams.
We also obtain feedback from the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Reporting Controller, all of whom have extensive interactions with KPMG.
As noted earlier, I have regular one to one update meetings with Stephen to discuss agenda items and other matters which either Stephen or I feel are important.
We also reviewed findings from the FRCs Audit Quality Review team on KPMGs audit of Johnson Mattheys Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31st March 2016.
We were pleased to find that the feedback was reassuring.
Points were raised on post-employment benefit plans and, at component level, revenue.
These points were fully discussed by the committee and, together with KPMG, we have agreed a number of actions to be taken in order to refine the audit approach.
The committee was comfortable that whilst the proposed changes would improve the quality of the audit going forward they were not such as to give us concerns as to the audit of the 2016 accounts.
Following the above, we concluded that KPMG continues to provide an effective audit and therefore we recommended to the board its reappointment for 2017 18.
A resolution proposing its reappointment is included in the notice of the 2017 AGM.
Reviewed KPMGs performance and Reviewing details of the non-audit The committee approved additional the effectiveness of the external audit services provided by KPMG and accounting advice on the process see above.
Non-audit fees in implementation of IFRS 15 and the the year were 0.6 million compared reappointment of KPMG to provide Took steps to ensure that external to audit fees of 2.1 million.
further independent programme auditor objectivity and independence The non-audit fees predominantly assurance in relation to the were safeguarded.
We did this by: comprised expenditure on the implementation of new business Reviewing compliance against our provision of independent programme information systems.
In late 2015, policy on the provision of non-audit assurance as discussed in more detail the committee had approved the services and considered the continued in the paragraph below, and direct appointment of KPMG to be our appropriateness of this policy.
and indirect tax compliance advisory assurance provider on the large We concluded that the policy, as services.
More information on fees systems implementation being detailed in last years annual report, incurred by KPMG for non-audit carried out by the group.
This had remained fit for purpose and no services, as well as the split between followed a full tender process with changes were needed in the year.
KPMGs audit and non-audit fees, four participants.
KPMG won the However, we approved an updated can be found in note 7 on the tender due to the quality of its tried policy to reflect changes made to the accounts, page 137. and tested approach, its style, FRCs Revised Ethical Standard 2016 previous experience and its references.
Considering for approval the and this is effective from 1st April We challenged the decision making engagement of KPMG to provide 2017 see box on page 95. process to extend KPMGs involvement, non-audit services above certain reviewed the scope of work and monetary thresholds, as set out in satisfied ourselves that this the policy.
During the year, I approved appointment did not compromise the engagement of KPMG to provide auditor independence and objectivity.
non-audit services on taxation services Following discussion, we approved and an initial review of IFRS 15. the reappointment of KPMG.
95 Our Policy on the Provision of Our Approach to External Audit Tendering Non-Audit Services Summary KPMG and its predecessor entities has been our external auditor since During the year and in light of EU legislation and the 1986, following a full tendering process in 1985.
We have undertaken FRCs Revised Ethical Standard, the committee adopted a a review of KPMGs performance every year since then.
Stephen Oxley, new policy on the provision of non-audit services which our current lead audit partner, was appointed in 2013 14 and each year is effective from 1st April 2017. since then he has taken steps to refresh KPMGs approach to certain The policy identifies certain types of engagement that aspects of its audit.
the external auditor shall not undertake, including tax As disclosed in last years annual report, under the EU audit services, the preparation of accounting records and risk reform transitional arrangements KPMG's last possible audit would be management procedures.
It also includes key controls to for the year ending 31st March 2020.
However, it has always been our ensure that the provision of non-prohibited services does intention to put the audit out to tender when Stephens term expires, not create a threat to KPMGs independence and objectivity.
which is after completion of the 2017 18 audit.
This approach is in KPMG can be invited to provide non-audit services line with EU legislation which came into force on 17th June 2016. which, in its position as auditor, it must or is best placed to Given this, we have started planning the process.
The committee has undertake and which do not impact auditor objectivity or agreed which parties will be invited to tender and the Chief Financial independence.
The policy sets out how approval should Officer and I will shortly be meeting with those audit firms to discuss the be obtained prior to KPMG being engaged.
Services likely key attributes we would expect to see in the senior members of the group to cost 25,000 or less should be approved by the Chief audit team, including the lead audit partner, and the likely structure of that Financial Officer, services likely to cost more than 25,000 team.
The objective of this process is to ensure each firm puts forward the but 100,000 or less must be approved by myself as highest quality team to lead the tender that fits best with our requirements.
Chairman of the committee and services likely to cost We have also requested those firms to confirm that they have not over 100,000 must be approved by the committee.
carried out any services for us which would cause an issue with audit The policy also sets out the circumstances in which independence and that they have processes in place to ensure their a former employee of KPMG can be employed by Johnson independence throughout the tender process.
In addition, we approved Matthey and the procedure for obtaining approval for an interim policy on the engagement of those audit firms tendering such employment.
to ensure they were not precluded from participating in the tender As a result of the new policy, the tax compliance process and to avoid any independence issue arising in the run up to services work previously carried out by KPMG was put out the appointment of a new auditor.
to tender and awarded to Grant Thornton.
Reviewing the procedures followed These were then discussed with divisional Statement of Compliance by KPMG to safeguard its objectivity and group management and translated into The committee confirms that, during the and independence.
We received audit risks which shaped the audit approach.
financial year ended 31st March 2017, confirmation from KPMG that it was In line with the prior year, four key audit risks the company complied with the applicable compliant with APB Ethical Standards were identified which are referred to in the provisions of the Competition and Markets in relation to the audit engagement: Independent Auditors Report on pages Authoritys Statutory Audit Services for and 174 to 179.
Materiality was set at 5% of Large Companies Market Investigation profit before tax, and the scope covered 88% Approving, after due challenge and Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender of group sales excluding precious metals, Processes and Audit Committee discussion, KPMGs proposed terms 83% of profit before tax and 81% of total of engagement, audit plan and fees Responsibilities Order 2014. assets.
The actual scoping percentages as set for 2016 17. out in the Independent Auditors Report on Took steps to prepare for the forthcoming page 178 are not materially different to audit tender see above.
In assessing adequacy of coverage, we also looked at local materiality levels, whether local statutory External Audit Plan accounts were to be signed off and the The external audit plan for 2016 17 was number of site visits to be carried out by the presented at our November 2016 meeting.
We also discussed the The plan began with a review of significant background and experience of the audit risks and then an assessment of how those partners responsible for the largest local risks impacted on the audit approach which teams, independence and KPMGs audit then formed the basis of the plan.
Following discussion the key audit risks, KPMG considered the we concluded that the proposed plan was internal and external factors impacting the sufficiently comprehensive for the purpose of group and the groups own risk assessment.
the audit of the groups accounts and approved the proposed fee after due challenge.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
