Chief Executive Officers Strategic Review continued Our strategy: the 4Cs A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 2 22 2 O Ov five er rv vi ie ew w S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t O Ou ur r G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e O Ou ur r R Resu esul lt ts s S Sh ha ar re eh ho old lder ers s I In nf fo or rm mat atio ion n As a result of the initiatives highlighted above our brand awareness Culture & Brand continued to improve slightly over the period including spontaneous Our culture is our brand, our brand is our culture.
and prompted awareness although we did see a dip in the final Together, they are our greatest asset and provide us quarter as marketing was postponed in anticipation of our Britains Got with a structural advantage over our competitors.
Talent BGT sponsorship see further below.
Our strong customer advocacy together with manufacturer endorsement through joint Through nurturing and growing our culture we will be advertising campaigns have helped build trust in our brand and have able to deliver the best customer experience, broaden helped to drive revenue growth.
Our customer acquisition costs our categories, expand into new countries, drive our continued to fall during the 12 months to 31March 2017 as we refined our online advertising strategy, improved our SEO Search Engine operations and, ultimately, achieve our goal.
Optimisation rankings and benefited from an increase in direct traffic following our improved brand awareness and customer We recruit and retain the best talent and look for people recommendations.
who are smart, bold and driven.
They must care more, However, more work needs to be done: our biggest opportunity not only about our customers but other stakeholders of remains for us to grow our brand to the recognition levels enjoyed the business too, be it the manufacturers and suppliers, by our competitors, and so, in March 2017 prior to our year-end, we agreed to sponsor the 11th series of BGT.
The series has been aired other employees and, of course, our drivers, and do it over the past two months and our sponsorship deal included on-air all with a sense of fun.
and mobile companion app branding, plus numerous other opportunities to bring our sponsorship to life outside of the BGT TV show.
This investment is designed to build long-term brand awareness Our values can be found in every single one of our rather than drive short-term sales as we seek to develop and instil trust AO people.
We hire and fire against them and they and confidence.
Going forward we must use our brand investment to are everything our brand stands for: our culture and very clearly highlight the difference of AO to the customer.
how our people act will be how our brand is perceived externally.
The risks affecting our culture and brand are highlighted on pages 42 to 44.
Performance this year UK Building brand awareness remains our biggest opportunity.
During the year we continued to grow overall brand awareness and develop our brand strategy.
AO has historically been known for selling white goods and so, during the year, we have focused on educating our customers that AO is a multi-category electrical retailer, building momentum as we add more categories and products to our range.
We sought to increase the effectiveness of our brand investment as we honed our TV adverts to illustrate the strong customer testimonials we receive.
We also explored new advertising channels including radio, both national and local, together with print media through press advertising, billboards and other large formats.
In the early part of the financial year we invested in those audiences where our sales profile was underindexed, in particular in Greater London and amongst male shoppers.
Towards the end of the year we also commenced the process of significantly increasing the level of branding on our 3.5 tonne delivery truck fleet.
This will continue to promote our brand on a daily basis across the country.
See how many you can now spot as you journey on our roads and motorways!
A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 23 23 Chief Executive Officers Strategic Review continued Customers Following my appointment as CEO We are continuing to drive our market-leading we implemented some changes to proposition forward.
Our key offering remains strong: the structure of our GET and senior management teams to ensure that we our unbeatable prices, huge range, wide availability, remain robust and scalable as our smart and innovative web content and amazing service business continues to grow.
mean our customer satisfaction levels remain exceptional.
Repeat customer metrics are healthy as are the number of new customers we are attracting to our brand.
Our culture goes to the heart of our brand and is our greatest asset, The risks affecting our customers are highlighted on providing us with a real advantage over our competitors: we continue to protect it fiercely.
To achieve our goal we need to nurture it, pages 42 to 44. attracting the best people who live our values and then, retaining them.
That means being the best employer we can be for our people, so high employee engagement and development is fundamental to the Performance this year growth of our brand, and ultimately, to the Group.
Our emerging talent UK schemes, such as our Future and Star Programmes, Apprenticeship We made good progress with our customer metrics over the reporting Schemes and Duke of Edinburgh scheme all progressed during the period.
AOs customer base is now a huge asset to the business as we year.
Each is sponsored by a member of the Group Executive Team approach four million UK customers defined as an individual customer GET in order to identify and develop our talent and ensure our who has purchased from us giving us a fantastic foundation from winning team gets even stronger in the future.
which to leverage our growth.
Our repeat business remains very healthy and we continue to attract new customers.
Notwithstanding Europe progress this year whilst customers continue to repeat the time taken As planned, we limited our promotional activity during our period to repeat has fallen slightly which we think, in part, is driven by market of consolidation with no TV exposure from April to October 2016. dynamics.
Growth in traffic remained encouraging during the In the second half of the year we resumed limited activity such as joint 12 months to 31March 2017 and we experienced particularly strong TV advertising campaigns with manufacturers alongside some print growth in visits to our mobile site, although we have some work to media advertising and continued use of AO branded fleet, but beyond do to increase our conversion rates to levels similar with those on that advertising has been limited.
Accordingly, there has been modest Desktop and Tablet devices.
growth in brand awareness during the year to 31March 2017.
Despite this, our customer base is growing well, our direct traffic statistics are We have worked hard to make the customer journey as easy and encouraging and repeat purchases are already coming through.
effortless as possible, whilst remaining personal.
Our Customer Labs Our sales growth is being driven by the strength of the customer allow us to thoroughly research and understand our customers recommendations we are receiving, replicating the evolution of needs.
In order to work towards our best service goal, we have our UK business, albeit at a faster pace.
continued to develop and enhance the retail experience.
During the year we launched our app MyAO.
This currently provides track We are pleased that our culture and values have been fully embedded your order functionality and will be developed further to provide into our operations in Germany and the Netherlands, thanks in part to transactional capability and to tie into the My Account feature the use of a recruitment process focused on our central values.
We have also streamlined our interactive voice European team has also been restructured and during the year we response IVR system to take the customer through the most were pleased to welcome a new European retail director into the team efficient route of service, based on the stage of the customers journey.
who is already making a difference to both culture and performance.
This maximises efficiency and is part of our developing selfservice strategy, should customers choose to shop that way.
We continue to Priorities next year ensure we have the best staff at the end of the phone to give a bit more Building brand awareness will continue to be a key focus for the year of a personal touch.
The use of functions such as Live and Nano chat ahead: it remains our biggest weakness and therefore our biggest an automated alternative to live chat together with the learnings opportunity.
We will do more to ensure that AO becomes a household identified from our Customer Labs really help us to understand our name and the obvious place to shop for our products both in the UK customers so we can meet their needs and tailor our offering and Europe.
The way in which consumers shop is ever evolving and we must work hard to keep up with changing preferences.
We are investing in new creative for our TV advertising, and this together with further branding of the AO fleet in the UK should help During the year we invested further in our digital content team, continue to drive awareness.
which is now 40 strong as we evolve our content strategy and apply the learnings from our Customer Lab sessions.
The team creates In Europe, we will look to continue to drive our digital performance innovative and essential content, for example through 3D videos and channels, increase our SEO rankings, build our social media audience features, as we continue with our goal for our website to be the and utilise local marketing channels, for example direct mail and CRM.
destination for information for customers.
This content adds value We will also seek to increase local and national media through PR and to the customer journey and to the manufacturers we buy from and will continue to use TV advertising tactically.
we are investing in rolling this out further.
With the support of our senior management over the next financial See one of our in-house created 3D videos here.
year we will continue to safeguard our culture, define its essence and embed it across the Group.
As more and more people join the AO family it is critical that we do not lose sight of our values.
A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 24 24 O Ov five er rv vi ie ew w S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t O Ou ur r G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e O Ou ur r R Resu esul lt ts s S Sh ha ar re eh ho old lder ers s I In nf fo or rm mat atio ion n Our CRM strategy continues to evolve and we are keen to build on all Our brand new regional distribution centre RDC in Bergheim, aspects of the customer life cycle, not just the point of purchase.
AO serving Germany and the Netherlands, became fully operational in 2 Life, our online lifestyle magazine, together with social media and September 2016.
With 35,000m of warehouse space, the RDC allows personalised email programmes provide handy hints on how to use us to improve product availability for our customers and promote and maintain products.
We have also been working on how to improve brand awareness.
The RDC comprises a head office allowing the retail what happens when, unfortunately, products break down and to this and logistics divisions to become more cohesive, drive efficiencies end have renegotiated a deal with Domestic and General D&G, our and embed a consistent AO culture.
With a capacity of five times our extended warranty partner.
Our new pan-European 10 year deal will previous facility we are well resourced to fulfil our future growth.
see some exciting developments in the extended warranties that we can offer to customers as agent for D&G that demonstrates our values We have partnered with thirdparty logistics firms to better serve and excels in service delivery and care, whilst at the same time ensuring customers in more remote areas while also reducing delivery costs, that customers really do get value for money from this type of product.
working closely with them to ensure that their service meets our high expectations.
As we increase scale and drive efficiencies, we plan to We added two additional outbases to our UK logistics infrastructure over add additional outbases to our existing infrastructure, replicating our the reporting period, one in Slough and the other in Dundee.
help ensure resilience in our delivery network and maintain marketleading product availability for customers, whilst reducing stem mileage To improve the customer proposition further during the year, we and improving efficiencies in our logistics.
Our premier fleet has grown introduced electrical premium installations in Germany and plan to significantly as we respond to increasing demand for more complex extend this offering in the Netherlands during the current financial installation services.
In addition to developing a trainee programme for year.
We have also introduced Live Chat functionality and have newlyqualified engineers, some of our selfemployed subcontractors launched the MyAO app.
As in the UK, we also intend to implement now have the skillset to connect electric cookers and integrated products.
Customer Labs into our European operations as we seek to understand customer needs and behaviours in these territories Further, as part of our responsible retailing programme, we have now and tailor our offering accordingly.
completed the build of our recycling facility at Telford.
The official launch of AO Recycling will happen later in 2017, but our state-of-the-art recycling As reported at the half year, the warranty product we offer on behalf plant is now operational and ensures WEEE is safely and properly disposed of D&G has not achieved the volumes we were expecting in Europe, of and that re-use is optimised.
This vertical integration ensures further but as part of our new agreement with D&G, we are seeking to work end-to-end control of our reverse supply chain with the associated together to develop the product and its promotion to be more effective environmental benefits.
It is another great example of how we have applied in this market.
We will also look to launch a Dutch warranty offering The AO Way to an underinvested section of the market which we believe during the course of the year ahead.
can make a very exciting contribution to the business in the future.
Priorities next year See the ins and outs of the recycling We will do more of the same.
As we grow across categories and process on pages 34 and 45. countries we need to ensure we do not lose our focus on delighting our customers.
We are looking to build on the results of the Customer Lab The results of the above initiatives can be seen in our Net Promoter and tailor the web journey to meet different customers needs: to build Score NPS an industry measure of customer loyalty and satisfaction on the self-service strategy but to retain our personal touch.
which over the year has been maintained at a consistently high level of over 80 and our UK Trustpilot score was an excellent 9.5 at the period Development of the My AO app, to become fully transactional, is now end.
In addition, we were proud to be voted 2nd best online retailer in in progress and we expect this to be launched in the coming months.
the UK in the annual Which?
Survey in October 2016 and just after our year end AO was named Best UK Retailer by the public in GlobalDatas In conjunction with D&G, we will look to develop a better warranty 2017 Customer Satisfaction Awards previously the Verdict Retail product for our customers, with better benefits and a more digital Awards.
There is no better testament to our service than the offering.
We will also seek to expand on the customer finance offering feedback from our customers and this award highlights the to provide customers with alternative ways to purchase our products.
continuing strength of our commitment to ensure our customers receive the best possible service.
We will strive to maintain our excellent NPS scores and market-leading Trustpilot scores.
As we enter new categories we need to ensure that Europe we continue to deliver a great proposition and the same level of We are enjoying good customer feedback in both territories with NPS exceptional customer service we offer in existing categories so that scores remaining outstanding at over 85.
fide had a Trusted Shops our reputation and industry-wide acknowledgements will be score of 4.8 out of 5 and AO.
nl had a Trustpilot score of 9.6 out of 10 at maintained and our brand never compromised and customers our year end and repeat business is already building momentum.
continue to make repeat purchase.
UK customers vs repeat customers 60.0% 50.0% 40.0% 30.0% 20.0% 10.0% 0.0% June June June June June June June June June 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 New customers Repeat customers Repeat % A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 25 25 Chief Executive Officers Strategic Review continued See how we launched the category The AO Way on page 28.
Customers tend to shop this category differently to others and we Categories therefore had to develop ways of demystifying products to make AO is now an electrical retailer: not just a white goods them easier to understand to give customers the best choice, whilst one.
We have continued to extend our MDA model to the changing our back-end operations to utilise drop-ship vendor SDA and AV categories in the UK and this year we have methodology.
Additionally, as there are different pre and post-sales requirements, we had to ensure that our call centre staff were trained launched computing in the UK.
In Europe, we now sell to handle and deal with specific and sometimes rather technical the AV category in addition to MDA and Floorcare.
Product information and customer advice are the key areas believe we can replicate the model further and we are where we believe AO can demonstrate a difference to the existing market and hardware and software brands have been supportive exploring other categories within the electricals sphere of our different approach to the category.
where we can leverage our existing relationships with the brands and also our infrastructure.
We are now in the process of defining the next stage of the Computing category, making logical additions to our existing range.
Research into new complementary areas continues and we are confident we can Risks affecting our category roll-out are discussed in utilise the disciplines we have learnt from the launch of computing the Risk Review on pages 42 to 44. to bring more value to customers in the future.
We have seen some challenges in the MDA category over the past Performance this year few months with market data suggesting the market in the UK has UK decreased year-on-year.
However, we have continued to gain market One of our greatest achievements during the reporting period was the share and our increasing importance as a channel to market for the successful launch of our computing category.
We are delighted by our leading brands has helped us grow product margin in this category.
progress so far, leveraging the investments we have previously made Whilst we had a strong performance in the first half of the year, in the in our web content, IT and product teams to add the category second half MDA margin was under pressure following price inflation.
Where it all started Air Treatment Appliances Online becomes AO.
com Heating SDA Computing Appliances com Online AV launched 2000 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 fide MDA AV SDA Floorcare nl MDA AV SDA A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 26 26 O Ov five er rv vi ie ew w S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t O Ou ur r G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e O Ou ur r R Resu esul lt ts s S Sh ha ar re eh ho old lder ers s I In nf fo or rm mat atio ion n S y s t e m s a n d p r o c e s s e s We have gained further market share in both SDA and AV as our Countries credibility and authority, with both customer and manufacturers, Our ultimate goal is to become the best electrical in these categories continues to build momentum.
We now have all retailer in Europe and we now operate in three countries, major manufacturers on board in the SDA category and have grown further market share in the Floorcare sub-set of this category.
the UK, Germany and the Netherlands.
Progress in Germany and the Netherlands gives us further confidence In the UK, sales in our AV category have significantly increased year that the model can be successfully replicated and gives on year, helped by a wider product range including premium models with cutting-edge technologies and some exclusive branded products.
a very strong platform for future growth.
We have also expanded the audio offering this year adding ultra-HD Blu-ray and turntables into our range.
The risks affecting our expansion are highlighted on pages 42 to 44.
Europe We have made significant progress with our product manufacturers over the period as our local strategy gains momentum and Performance this year relationships continue to improve.
During the current financial year We are continuing to drive our European operation responsibly with we will continue to build on our partnerships with them and further controlled growth.
It has been a year of consolidation and whilst educate them about The AO Way.
We will increase marketing financial performance has not met our expectations with investment campaigns to produce engaging content for their customers, build losses being more than internally planned, we are nonetheless pleased marketing support and leverage Group-wide media assets.
with the strategic progress made and now have a firm foundation from which to further build our German and Dutch market offerings.
Category development has continued with the launch of AV on ao.
We now sell TVs, home cinema equipment, Our new territories are taking the same journey that our UK operation satellite receivers and Blu-ray players and sales to date have been experienced in its infancy, which we communicated to analysts and encouraging.
We continue to build on the range, adding new brands investors at our Capital Markets Day in February.
The strategy across and recently expanded the category to include audio headphones.
Europe is identical to the focus we have in the UK: to develop the We were able to apply our learnings from our roll-out in the UK: customer proposition, categories, culture and brand, to build and ensuring local to local supplier engagement with an AO industry deliver a sustainable business.
expert, leveraging and utilising UK content at a low cost and drawing on UK knowledge and experience.
The ability to utilise our existing We launched in the Netherlands in March 2016 and have been UK content should help us attract additional support from the extremely pleased with the way our brand has resonated with our manufactures as we look to expand our categories and ranges.
Dutch customers over the full year of trading.
We applied the learnings from our launch in Germany, for example, in terms of supplier Priorities next year engagement, the recruitment of key personnel and customer In the year ahead we will continue to broaden ranges as far as possible acquisition.
This resulted in a smooth launch and we hit the ground within existing categories.
running, giving us the confidence to replicate this bolton model in other territories when appropriate.
In our computing category in the UK, at the time of writing, we have added a second drop ship vendor into our operation which will enable Priorities next year us to offer a wider range of computing products and will look to Our research into further countries continues and we will pursue this strengthen the relationships we have with the brands themselves, strategy through continued careful assessment of the European now we have demonstrated our retailing strengths.
We will also electricals market, being selective of which opportunities to progress or continue to focus on expansion of our AV range particularly in audio, put on hold, to ensure that we deliver the best possible proposition for looking to add additional premium brands to the mix.
In MDA, we plan our customers and maximise value in the long term for our stakeholders.
to focus on the built-in subset of MDA which is a growing market opportunity, drive our installation capabilities and look to develop trade relationships.
In Europe we will be exploring opportunities in the AV category and The opportunity!
building on our SDA range, adding small kitchen appliances to the floorcare range already available on ao.
In the Netherlands we will look to roll out AV and SDA.
Austria Belgium We will continue to work in partnership with our manufacturers, Czech Republic sharing insight and knowledge, innovating categories and changing the normal course of retailing.
Switzerland Our research of further complementary categories is continuing with the focus on mobile and gaming, portable tech and other France smart connected products, as we look to broaden our offering to give our customers more reasons to return to AO.
Netherlands Poland A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 27 27 G d e e e p S r m a n y E f f i c i e n c y
