63 New this year was a revision of our Our businesses have management Product Lifecycle Management PSRM policy and guidance, which are systems to assess the health and safety Our products make a significant available to employees on our intranet.
impact of products across their lifecycle, contribution to protecting the planet The policy defines applicable processes, from product concept and R&D through and the efficient use of its resources.
i. e. those with high hazards such as manufacturing, distribution, the use However, the chemicals that go into flammable gas and toxic liquids.
In 2016, phase, and finally to end of life or reuse.
them need careful management we surveyed our sites to find out exactly As such, all significant product and throughout their lifecycle.
We take this where our process hazards are located.
service categories are assessed for product stewardship very seriously We found that 30 of our 70 sites operate improvement in terms of health and through our policies and practices on these applicable processes and we are safety impacts.
To maintain a focus on product lifecycle management.
now better placed to develop a schedule our products sustainability, we have The majority of products that leave for auditing these sites.
To date, we have recently formed a central committee to our sites are only part way through their no specific process safety performance monitor substance of concern designation lifecycle.
They go on to become part of indicators and in the coming year we and establish a focused list of substances another product or material, which will plan to explore how we might set up that are relevant to Johnson Matthey, be used and then disposed of or recycled.
which an authorised manager will Irrespective of our products lifecycle need to approve new uses of within stage, the same principles of product our businesses and technology centres.
Regular and Hazardous stewardship are applied.
We are Johnson Mattheys products are not Work Audits committed to responsible management subject to restrictions in the markets of the chemicals we use and produce and Following the tragic fatality at one of in which they are offered and our have well established systems to ensure our US sites in July 2015, we undertook regulatory affairs teams are well placed the sound management throughout their 26 hazardous work audits at our largest to respond to stakeholder questions lifecycle.
Our approaches are in line with manufacturing plants.
These raised over related to banned or disputed products.
the global framework introduced by the 600 improvement actions, ranging from Strategic Approach to International smaller scale improvements to training Read more online, including Chemicals Management SAICM to programmes and, in some cases, our policy on animal testing: promote chemical safety around the world.
complete rethinks of a sites systems.
com sustainability By carrying out rigorous evaluations Of the sites that were audited, eight have of our new and existing products, a combined total of 48 audit actions We use a systematic product assessing any risks associated with ongoing, to be completed in the 2017 18 responsibility reporting scheme to monitor product use and determining appropriate reporting year.
the performance of our operations and risk management measures, we ensure We also have an ongoing maintain surveillance of the companys vital information is communicated to end programme of regular EHS assurance products and services.
users and others in the supply chain.
These are undertaken using global In 2016 17, there were no procedures also capture information on protocols, which have been updated to notifications of significant end user component sourcing, when appropriate, incorporate the key findings of the health effects involving our products.
and our technical safety data sheets hazardous work audits.
In 2016 17, we We did not identify any non-compliance detail safe use, disposal and substance undertook 23 audits at our manufacturing with regulations or voluntary codes content information.
Priority was given to concerning health and safety impacts are applied to all of our significant sites that were not part of the hazardous of products and services or product product and service categories.
We work audit programme and had not and service information, labelling and work collaboratively with industry been subject to a routine audit in the marketing communications.
partners and customers, regulators and past 18 to 24 months.
Work continued during this year to non-governmental organisations to harmonise the hazard communication increase understanding of the lifecycle documentation across the company.
impacts of our products and to maintain A number of divisions are regionally confidence in Johnson Matthey as a centralising their hazard communication responsible company.
teams and collaborating more broadly to drive continuous improvement in the quality of information in our safety data sheets and product labelling.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
