109 Advisers to the Committee In determining the remuneration structure, the committee appoints and receives advice from independent remuneration consultants on the latest developments in corporate governance and the pay and incentive arrangements prevailing in comparably sized industrial companies.
New Bridge Street part of Aon Hewitt Limited was appointed as adviser to the committee in November 2015 following a competitive tender process.
The total fees paid to New Bridge Street in respect of its services to the committee during the year were 58,126 plus VAT.
Aon Hewitt also provides consultancy services to the company in relation to certain employee benefits to those below the board.
New Bridge Street is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct and the committee is satisfied that the advice that it receives from New Bridge Street is objective and independent.
Herbert Smith Freehills provided advice to the company in connection with the drafting of share plan rules and directors service contracts in accordance with the policy determined by the Remuneration Committee.
This advice was charged on an hourly basis.
The committee is aware that Herbert Smith Freehills is one of a number of legal firms that provide legal advice and services to the company on a range of matters.
A statement regarding the use of remuneration consultants for the year ended 31st March 2017 is available on our website in the Investor Relations Corporate Governance section.
Remuneration for the Year Ended 31st March 2017 Single Figure Table of Remuneration The table below sets out the total remuneration and breakdown of the elements each director received in relation to the year ended 31st March 2017, together with a prior year comparative.
An explanation of how the figures are calculated follows the table.
2 Den Jones stood down from the board on 20th July 2016 and left the company on 31st July 2016.
3 Larry Pentz stood down from the board and left the company on 31st March 2016.
4 Jane Griffiths was appointed to the board on 1st January 2017.
5 Dorothy Thompson stood down from the board on 20th July 2016.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
