117 Directors Report for the year ended 31st March 2017 Directors Directors Interests in the Share Capital Companys Shares The names of the directors who held office Capital Structure during the year are set out on page 80.
The interests of persons who were directors of As at 31st March 2017, the issued share The biographies of all the directors serving at the company and of their connected persons capital of the company was 193,533,430 the date of this report are shown on page 73. at 31st March 2017 in the issued shares of the 49 ordinary shares of 110 53 pence each company or in related derivatives or other excluding treasury shares and the company financial instruments, which have been Indemnification of Directors held 5,407,176 treasury shares.
There were notified to the company in accordance with no purchases, sales or transfers of treasury Details of indemnities granted in favour the Market Abuse Regulation, are set out in shares during the year.
of each director of the company and each the Remuneration Report on pages 97 to 116. director of the companys subsidiaries, which The Remuneration Report also sets out details Share Allotments were in force during the year and which of any changes in those interests between remain in force as at the date of approval There were no share allotments during 31st March 2017 and 31st May 2017. of this annual report, can be found in the the year.
Corporate Governance Report on page 82.
Directors Interests in Contracts Purchase by the Company of its Appointment and Replacement Other than service contracts, no director Own Shares had any interest in any material contract of Directors At the 2016 AGM shareholders authorised with any group company at any time during The rules about the appointment and the company to make market purchases of the year.
There were no contracts of 49 replacement of directors are contained in our up to 19,353,343 ordinary shares of 110 53 significance as defined in the Financial Articles of Association, which are available pence each, representing 10% of the issued Conduct Authoritys FCA Listing Rules on our website.
These include: share capital of the company excluding subsisting during the year to which any treasury shares.
Any shares so purchased directors may be appointed by a group undertaking was a party and in by the company may be cancelled or held as resolution of the members or a which a director of the company is or treasury shares.
This authority will subsist at resolution of the directors: and was materially interested.
if appointed by the directors, the newly During the year and up until the date of Dividends appointed director must retire at the approval of this annual report, the company next Annual General Meeting AGM The interim dividend of 20.5 pence per share did not make any purchases of its own shares and is not taken into account in 2016 19.5 pence was paid in February 2017. or propose to, or enter into any options or determining the directors who are to The directors recommend a final dividend of contracts to, purchase its own shares either retire by rotation at the meeting.
At 54.5 pence per share in respect of the year through the market or by an offer made to least one third of the board must retire 2016 52.0 pence, making a total for the year all shareholders or otherwise, nor did the by rotation at each AGM.
of 75.0 pence per share 2016 71.5 pence, company acquire any of its own shares other payable on 1st August 2017 to shareholders than by purchase.
The Articles of Association may only on the register at the close of business on be amended by a special resolution at 9th June 2017. a general meeting of the company.
Rights and Obligations Attaching Other than as referred to under Notwithstanding the provisions within to Shares Employee Share Schemes on page 118, the Articles of Association, the board has The rights and obligations attaching to the during the year there were no arrangements agreed that all directors will seek re-election ordinary shares in Johnson Matthey are set under which a shareholder has waived or at each AGM in accordance with the UK out in the Articles of Association.
agreed to waive any dividends nor any Corporate Governance Code 2016.
As at 31st March 2017 and as at the agreement by a shareholder to waive date of approval of this annual report, future dividends.
Powers of the Directors except as referred to below, there were no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares The powers of the directors are determined Dividend Payments and DRIP in the company, no limitations on the by the Articles of Association, UK legislation Dividends can be paid directly into holding of securities and no requirements including the Companies Act 2006 and shareholders bank accounts.
A Dividend to obtain the approval of the company, or of any directions given by the company in Reinvestment Plan DRIP is also available.
other holders of securities in the company, general meeting.
This allows shareholders to purchase for a transfer of securities.
The directors have been authorised by additional shares in Johnson Matthey with The directors may, in certain the companys Articles of Association to issue their dividend payment.
Further information circumstances, refuse to register the transfer and allot ordinary shares and to make market and a mandate can be obtained from our of a share in certificated form which is not purchases of its own shares.
These powers registrar, Equiniti, whose details are set out fully paid up, where the instrument of transfer are referred to shareholders for renewal at on page 187 and on our website.
does not comply with the requirements of each AGM.
Further information is set out the companys Articles of Association, or if under Purchase by the Company of its entitled under the Uncertificated Securities Own Shares opposite.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 118 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 4.
Governance Also as at 31st March 2017 and as at the Listing of the Companys Shares Employee Share Schemes date of approval of this annual report: Johnson Mattheys shares have a Premium At 31st March 2017, 4,596 current and former no person held securities in the Listing on the London Stock Exchange and employees representing approximately 37% company carrying any special rights trade as part of the FTSE 100 index under of employees worldwide were shareholders in with regard to control of the company: the symbol JMAT.
the company through the groups employee share schemes.
Through these schemes, there were no restrictions on voting rights current and former employees held 2,939,456 American Depositary Receipt including any limitations on voting rights ordinary shares 1.52% of issued share of holders of a given percentage or Programme capital, excluding treasury shares as at number of votes or deadlines for Johnson Matthey has a sponsored Level 1 31st March 2017.
Also as at 31st March 2017, exercising voting rights except that American Depositary Receipt ADR 2,175,761 ordinary shares had been allocated a shareholder has no right to vote in programme which BNY Mellon administers but had not yet vested under the companys respect of a share unless all sums due in and for which it acts as Depositary.
Each long term incentive plan to 1,385 current respect of that share are fully paid: ADR represents two ordinary shares of and former employees.
there were no arrangements by which, the company.
The ADRs trade on the US Shares acquired by employees through with the companys cooperation, over-the-counter market under the symbol the companys employee share schemes financial rights carried by shares in the JMPLY.
When dividends are paid to rank equally with the other shares in issue company are held by a person other shareholders, the Depositary converts such and have no special rights.
Voting rights than the holder of the shares: and dividends into US dollars, net of fees and in respect of shares held through the expenses, and distributes the net amount companys employee share schemes are there were no agreements known to the to ADR holders.
Contact details for BNY not exercisable directly by employees.
company between holders of securities Mellon are set out on page 187.
However, employees can direct the trustee that may result in restrictions on the of the schemes to exercise voting rights on transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The trustee of the companys employee share ownership trust ESOT Nominees, Financial Assistance and Liens has waived its right to dividends on shares held by the ESOT which have not yet vested During the year: unconditionally to employees.
no shares in the company were acquired by the companys nominee, or by a person with financial assistance from the company, Interests in Voting Rights in either case where the company has a beneficial interest in the shares and no The following information has been disclosed to the company under the FCAs Disclosure and person acquired shares in the company in Transparency Rules DTR 5 in respect of notifiable interests in the voting rights in the any previous financial year in its capacity as companys issued share capital: the companys nominee or with financial Total % of total 1 2 assistance from the company : and Nature of holding voting rights voting rights the company did not obtain or hold a As at 31st March 2017: lien or other charge over its own shares.
Indirect 20,181,149 9.85% Financial Instrument CFD 209,763 0.10% Allotment of Securities for Cash and Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited Indirect 10,031,851 5.18% Placing of Equity Securities Interests in voting rights notified to the company between 31st March 2017 and During the year the company has not allotted, 31st May 2017: nor has any major subsidiary undertaking of the company broadly an undertaking that Ameriprise Financial Inc.
Direct 84,408 0.04% represents at least 25% of the groups Indirect 9,727,409 5.03% aggregate gross assets or profit allotted, Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited Indirect 10,829,249 5.60% equity securities for cash.
During the year the company has not participated in any 1 Total voting rights attaching to the issued ordinary share capital of the company excluding treasury shares at the time placing of equity securities.
of disclosure to the company.
2 % of total voting rights at the date of disclosure to the company.
Other than as stated above, as far as the company is aware, there is no person with a significant direct or indirect holding of securities in the company.
119 The rules of the companys employee Employment of Disabled Persons Contracts with Controlling share schemes set out the consequences Information on the companys policy Shareholders of a change of control of the company on applied during the year relating to the There were no contracts of significance participants rights under the schemes.
recruitment, employment, training, as defined in the FCAs Listing Rules Generally such rights will vest and become career development and promotion subsisting during the year between any exercisable on a change of control subject of disabled employees.
group undertaking and a controlling to the satisfaction of relevant performance shareholder.
There were no contracts for conditions.
the provision of services to any group Read more on page 57.
As at 31st March 2017 and as at the date undertaking by a controlling shareholder of approval of this annual report, there were subsisting during the year.
no other agreements between the company Research and Development Activities or any subsidiary and its or their directors or An indication of the activities of Change of Control employees providing for compensation for the group in the field of research loss of office or employment whether As at 31st March 2017 and as at the date of and development.
through resignation, purported redundancy approval of this annual report, there were or otherwise that occurs because of a no significant agreements to which the takeover bid.
Read more in our case studies company or any subsidiary was or is a party and on pages 6, 13, 23, 45 and 55. that take effect, alter or terminate on a Branches change of control of the company, whether following a takeover bid or otherwise.
The company and its subsidiaries have Likely Future Developments However, the company and its established branches in a number of An indication on likely future subsidiaries were, as at 31st March 2017 and different countries in which they operate.
as at the date of approval of this annual report, party to a number of commercial Political Donations and agreements that may allow the counterparties Read more on pages 6 and 7.
Expenditure to alter or terminate the agreements on a change of control of the company following a It is the policy of the group not to make Greenhouse Gas Emissions takeover bid.
Other than the matters referred political donations or to incur political Disclosures relating to greenhouse to below, these are not deemed by the expenditure.
During the year, there were gas emissions.
company to be significant in terms of their no political donations made to any EU or potential effect on the group as a whole.
non-EU political party, EU or non-EU The group has a number of loan notes political organisation or to any EU or Read more on pages 67 and 69. and borrowing facilities which may require non-EU independent election candidate.
prepayment of principal and payment of During the year, no EU or non-EU political accrued interest and breakage costs if there is expenditure was incurred.
Use of Financial Instruments change of control of the company.
The group Information on the groups financial risk has also entered into a series of financial Information Set Out in the management objectives and policies, instruments to hedge its currency, interest its exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, Strategic Report rate and metal price exposures which provide interest rate risk and foreign currency In accordance with section 414C 11 of the for termination or alteration if a change of risk and its use of financial instruments.
2006 Act, the directors have chosen to set control of the company materially weakens out in the Strategic Report the following the creditworthiness of the group.
information required to be included in the The Executive Directors service Read more on pages 155 to 161.
Directors Report: contracts each contain a provision to the effect that if the contract is terminated by the Employee Involvement company within one year after a change of A description of the action taken by the control of the company, the company will pay company during the year relating to to the director as liquidated damages an employee involvement.
amount equivalent to one years gross base salary and other contractual benefits less the period of any notice given by the company to Read more on pages 56 and 57. the director.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 120 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 4.
Governance Disclosures Required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Disclosures required by the FCAs Listing Rule 9.8.
4R, can be found on the following pages: Sub-section of Information Required Listing Rule 9.8.
Publication of unaudited financial information 2 Not applicable 3.
Details of long term incentive schemes established to specifically recruit or retain a director 4 Not applicable 4.
Waiver of emoluments by a director 5 6 Not applicable 5.
Allotments of equity securities for cash 7 8 Page 118 6.
Participation in a placing of equity securities 9 Not applicable 7.
Contracts of significance 10 Not applicable 8.
Contracts for the provisions of services by a controlling shareholder 11 Not applicable 9. Dividend waiver 12 13 Pages 117-118 10.
Agreements with controlling shareholder 14 Not applicable Important Events since 31st March 2017 There have been no important events affecting the company or any subsidiary since 31st March 2017.
2017 Annual General Meeting Our 2017 AGM will be held at 11.00 am on Friday 28th July 2017 at The Royal Society, 6-9 Carlton House Terrace, London SW1Y 5AG.
The notice of the 2017 AGM, together with an explanation of the resolutions to be considered at the meeting, is set out in a separate circular to shareholders.
This circular is published on our website.
Auditor and Disclosure of Information The auditor of the company is KPMG LLP.
So far as each person serving as a director of the company at the date this Directors Report was approved by the board is aware, there is no relevant audit information that is, information needed by the auditor in connection with preparing its report of which the companys auditor is unaware.
Each such director confirms that he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
Management Report The Strategic Report and the Directors Report together include the management report for the purposes of the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
The Directors Report was approved by the board on 31st May 2017 and is signed on its behalf by: Simon Farrant Company Secretary
