97 Remuneration Report Our role is to ensure that Johnson Mattheys remuneration arrangements align with shareholders interests, reward directors for performance and are well managed in line with good governance.
Colin Matthews Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Annual Bonus Introduction The majority of the bonus will continue to be based on underlying As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to profit before tax but working capital will also be used in 2017 18. present our report for the year ended 31st March 2017.
This report The maximum and target bonus opportunities remain unchanged.
is intended to explain the key matters considered by the committee However, the level payable at threshold performance has been increased during the previous 12 months and to indicate the matters we expect to 15% of the maximum from 15% of base salary to align the to consider over the coming year.
structure fairly with that applying to other employees below the board.
Our current Remuneration Policy was introduced in 2014 We will continue to set stretching targets and ensure that with strong shareholder support.
As required by regulation, we will no bonus is payable unless the requisite level of performance is resubmit the Remuneration Policy for approval at the 2017 Annual achieved.
All measures are objective and quantifiable and we will General Meeting AGM.
This Annual Report on Remuneration, disclose full details of the targets and performance against them which sets out how we applied the Remuneration Policy in 2016 17 on a retrospective basis.
and how we intend to apply it in the forthcoming year, will be subject to an advisory vote by shareholders at the AGM.
Long Term Incentives Our Approach to Remuneration Our current long term incentive plan rules were approved by shareholders at our 2007 AGM for a period of ten years and have The overall objective of Johnson Matthey is to deliver sustained operated largely unchanged since then, except for the inclusion of superior shareholder value using our world class science and our malus and clawback provisions and the introduction of an extended competitive strengths, contributing to a cleaner, healthier world vesting period for Executive Directors.
We note the public dialogue and so the remuneration strategy focuses on ensuring alignment over the past year about alternative incentive structures for with long term success and growth.
Long term variable reward is Executive Director remuneration and their relative merits.
However, tied to growth as measured by increases in underlying earnings per we believe that our current long term incentive structure remains share EPS.
Short term variable reward is tied to the achievement appropriate for Johnson Matthey.
of challenging near term financial targets.
Our long term incentives reward the achievement of We remain committed to reporting clearly on remuneration sustainable earnings growth, aligned with our long term business and listen carefully to shareholders views.
During the year, the strategy.
As such, we are seeking shareholder approval for a new committee reviewed the Remuneration Policy and its operation to Performance Share Plan PSP at the 2017 AGM.
Aside from some ensure that it continues to support the business strategy and remains minor drafting changes to recognise emerging good practice, the in line with the best governance practices.
one notable change compared to the existing plan is an increase Following this review, we consulted with our major shareholders to the maximum individual award level under the rules to 350% regarding a number of proposed changes.
The feedback from of base salary.
However, annual awards to Executive Directors will shareholders led to us modifying our original proposals.
be limited to the lower level specified in the Remuneration Policy, namely 200%, with the higher limit in the rules only being used Changes to the Remuneration Policy and to structure a replacement or buy-out award, if necessary, on its Implementation recruitment.
Any changes to the award level would be subject to I summarise below the changes to our Remuneration Policy, taking consultation with shareholders.
into account the changes following shareholder consultation, and As mentioned above, the maximum PSP award level for the next its implementation for 2017 18: three years will remain limited to 200% of base salary under the new Remuneration Policy.
Awards will continue to be linked to the achievement of stretching underlying EPS growth targets and subject Shareholding Guidelines to the delivery of satisfactory return on invested capital ROIC in line The recommended shareholding level for Executive Directors has with our business strategy.
The targets applying to the 2017 awards been increased from 200% to 250% of base salary for the Chief are the same as those set for the 2016 awards and are considered by Executive and from 150% to 200% of base salary for other Executive the committee to be suitably challenging in light of current forecasts.
Directors to support higher levels of executive share ownership and In addition to the introduction of a new PSP to replace the alignment with shareholders.
existing long term incentive plan, the committee is introducing a new Restricted Share Plan RSP for certain senior managers below the board.
Executive Directors will not be eligible for any awards under the RSP.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
