Remuneration Report continued Year ended 31 March 2017 Relative importance of spend on pay The graph sets out the relative importance of spend on pay in the year ended 31 March 2017 and 31 March 2016 compared with other disbursements from profit, being the distributions to shareholders and retained earnings comprehensive gain for the year less dividends.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee The Committee consults with the Executive Chairman, Nicholas Vetch, about proposals on a range of matters relating to the remuneration of the Executive Directors including the levels of overall remuneration, salary and bonus and awards and distributions under the share incentive and bonus plans.
The Committee relies upon remuneration data provided by PwC.
In addition, PwC has provided advice to the Committee on the preparation of this report as well as on market practice and trends.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Committee is satisfied that advice received from PwC during the year was objective and independent.
Fees in relation to Adviser Appointed by Services provided to the Committee in 2016 17 remuneration advice PwC Remuneration Remuneration market practice, governance updates and support in the drafting 6,000 Committee in 2008 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings Attendance at meetings of the individual Directors at the Remuneration Committee Meetings that they were eligible to attend is shown in the table below: Director Number of meetings attended Tim Clark Richard Cotton Georgina Harvey Steve Johnson Mark Richardson attended absent Steve Johnson missed one meeting due to an unavoidable business commitment.
Consideration of shareholders views The Group is committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and monitors and reviews voting outcomes.
Where there are substantial votes against resolutions in relation to Directors remuneration, the reasons for that voting will be sought and any actions in response will be detailed here.
Following feedback from shareholders, we have enhanced the disclosures surrounding the annual bonus paid to the Executive Directors in this report.
The table below shows the advisory vote on the 2016 Remuneration Report at the AGM held on 22 July 2016.
Votes for % Votes Against % Votes withheld 2016 Remuneration Report 125,349,939 99.25 944,742 0.75 239,135 The views of our shareholders are very important to us and the Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year at its first meeting following the AGM.
This feedback, as well as any additional feedback received during any other meetings with shareholders throughout the year, is then considered as part of the Companys annual review of remuneration policy.
The Remuneration Committee notes that shareholders do not speak with a single voice, but we engage with our largest shareholders to ensure we understand the range of views which exist on remuneration issues.
When any material changes are proposed to the Policy, the Remuneration Committee Chairman will inform major shareholders in advance, and will offer a meeting to discuss these.
Tim Clark Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 22 May 2017 84
