Corporate Governance Statement continued The Senior Independent Director, Brian McBride, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be raised through the normal channels or if such concerns have not been resolved.
Arrangements can be made to meet with him through the The Company recognises the importance of communicating with Company Secretary.
its shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance are understood and that it remains accountable to shareholders.
The Following his appointment as Chairman, Geoff Cooper met with Company has established an Investor Relations function, headed a number of key shareholders to introduce himself and discuss by the Chief Financial Officer.
governance and strategy and to feedback any key issues such shareholders raised to the Board.
He also attended a number of The Investor Relations function deals with queries from individual roadshow meetings and intends to continue to attend investor shareholders with support as appropriate from the Executive meetings as appropriate, particularly where new major investors Directors.
The Investor Relations team ensures that there is effective come on board.
communications with shareholders on matters such as strategy and, together with the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, The Board obtains feedback from its joint corporate brokers, is responsible for ensuring that the Board understands the views of J. P. Morgan Cazenove, Jefferies Hoare Govett and Numis Securities, major shareholders on such matters.
on the views of institutional investors on a nonattributed and attributed basis.
Any concerns of major shareholders would be There is an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings between communicated to the Board by the Executive Directors.
As a matter the Executive Directors and institutional investors, fund managers of routine, the Board receives regular reports on issues relating to and analysts.
This includes formal meetings with investors to discuss share price and trading activity, and details of movements in interim and final results and maintaining an ongoing dialogue with institutional investor shareholdings.
The Board is also provided the investment community through regular contact with existing and with current analyst opinions and forecasts.
potential shareholders, attendance at investment conferences and holding investor roadshows as required.
At these meetings, a wide range of relevant issues including strategy, performance, management and governance are discussed within the constraints of information which has already been made public.
The Board is aware that institutional shareholders may be in more regular contact with the All shareholders can access announcements, Company than other shareholders, but care is exercised to ensure investor presentations and the Annual Report on the Companys corporate website that any pricesensitive information is released to all shareholders, www.
institutional and private, at the same time in accordance with legal and regulatory requirements.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 66
