Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of Halfords Group plc the Company together with its subsidiary undertakings the Group for the period ended 31 March 2017.
Halfords Group plc Registered Number 04457314 Registered Office Address Icknield Street Drive, Washford West, Redditch, Worcestershire, B98 0DE Country of Incorporation England and Wales Type Public Limited Company Statutory Information The Company has chosen in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 to provide disclosures and information in relation to a number of matters which are covered elsewhere in this Annual Report.
These matters are cross referenced in the following table: Topic Report Page Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement Directors Report 57 Appointment and Removal of Directors Directors Report 54 Articles of Association Directors Report 56 Auditor Directors Report 57 Audit Committee Report Audit Committee Report 74 Authority for the Company to issue or buy back its shares Directors Report 56 Board of Directors Directors Report 54 Board Effectiveness and Leadership: Role and Composition of the Corporate Governance Report 58-69 Board and Committees: Meeting Attendance: Skills and Experience: Independence: Diversity: Induction and Development: Evaluation: Directors and their Other Interests: and Board Committees Branches outside of the UK Directors Report 57 Colleagues Involvement: Diversity: and Disability Directors Report 55 Strategic Report: Corporate Social Responsibility 30 Community Strategic Report: Corporate Social Responsibility 32 Compensation for Loss of Office Directors Report 55 Directors Biographies Board of Directors 50 Directors Indemnities Directors Report 55 Directors Interests Directors Report 54 Directors Remuneration Report and Remuneration Policy Annual Remuneration Report 78-97 Directors Responsibility Statement Directors Report 98 Executive Share Plans Annual Remuneration Report 89-97 Financial Instruments Note 21 to the Group Financial Statements 133 Future Developments of the Business Strategic Report: Our Strategy 16-17 Financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and Strategic Report: Chief Financial Officers Review 36-41 borrowing facilities Greenhouse Gas Emissions Strategic Report: Corporate Social Responsibility 34 Going Concern Directors Report 56 Important Events Since Year End Directors Report 57 Independent Auditor Independent Auditors Report 102 Internal Controls and Risk Management Corporate Governance Report 42 52 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 52 07 06 2017 16:37:43 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Topic Report Page Nomination Committee Report Nomination Committee Report 70 Political Donations Directors Report 56 Powers of the Directors Directors Report 54 Principal Activities Directors Report 54 Re-election of Directors Directors Report 54 Restrictions on transfer of securities Directors Report 55 Share Capital Directors Report 55 Note 22 to the Group Financial Statements 136 Significant related party transactions Directors Report 56 Significant Shareholders Directors Report 56 Subsidiary and Associated Undertakings Note 4 to the Group Financial Statements 144 Statement of Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report 58 Strategic Report Strategic Report 10-47 Risk Management Strategic Report 42 Viability Statement Directors Report 56 Voting Rights Directors Report 55 Disclosures required under the 2013 amendment to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 in respect of future developments of the business, charitable donations and greenhouse gas emissions are given in the Strategic Report.
Information on the use of financial instruments is given in note 21 to the Group Financial Statements.
Disclosures required by the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Listing Rule 9.8.
4R can be found on the following pages: Long-term incentive schemes Performance Share Plan pages 83, 85, 91 and 93: and Waiver of dividends page 54 STOCK CODE: HFD halfords.
com 53 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 53 07 06 2017 16:37:43 Directors Report Principal Activities Appointment and Removal of a Director The principal activities of the Group are: the retailing of motoring, A Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of shareholders cycling and leisure products and services from its Halfords, Cycle in a general meeting following recommendation by the Nomination Republic and Tredz and Wheelies branded retail stores, websites Committee in accordance with its Terms of Reference as approved including the new website for Boardman Bikes : and car servicing by the Board or by a member or members entitled to vote at such a and repair from its Halfords Autocentres outlets.
The principal meeting, or following retirement by rotation if the Director chooses activity of the Company is that of a holding company.
The Companys to seek re-election at a general meeting.
In addition, the Directors registrar is Capita Asset Services, which is situated at The Registry, may appoint a Director to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director, 34 Beckenham Road, Beckenham, Kent BR3 4TU.
provided that the individual retires at the next Annual General Meeting, if they are to continue they offer themselves for election.
A Director Profits and Dividends may be removed by the Company in certain circumstances set out in The Groups results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income the Companys Articles of Association or by a special resolution of the Statement on page 108.
The profit before tax on ordinary activities was Company.
The Board proposes that a final dividend of 11.68 Powers of the Directors pence per ordinary share be paid on 25 August 2017 to shareholders Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given whose names are on the register of members at the close of business by the Company by special resolution and any relevant statutes and on 4 August 2017.
This payment, together with the interim dividend regulations, the business of the Company will be managed by the of 5.83 pence per ordinary share paid on 20 January 2017 and the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Specific special interim dividend of 10 pence per ordinary share paid on 17 powers relating to the allotment and issuance of ordinary shares and February 2017, makes a total for the year of 27.51 pence per ordinary the ability of the Company to purchase its own securities are also share.
The total final dividend payable to shareholders for the year is included within the Articles and such authorities are submitted for estimated to be 22.9m.
On 19 January 2017, it was announced that, approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting each having expanded the Groups capabilities in both motoring and cycling, year.
The authorities conferred on the Directors at the 2016 Annual through the Tredz, Wheelies and TyresOnTheDrive.
com investments, General Meeting, held on 26 July 2016 will expire on the date of the the Board does not expect to undertake further acquisitions in the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Since the date of the 2016 Annual near future.
Accordingly, the Board approved the special dividend General Meeting, the Directors have not exercised any of their totalling 20m, as part of our progress towards our previously stated powers to issue, or purchase, ordinary shares in the share capital of net debt target of 1 times EBITDA.
Computershare Trustees Jersey Limited, trustee of the Halfords Directors Interests Employees Share Trust, has waived its entitlement to dividends.
The Directors interests in and options over, ordinary shares in the Company are shown in the Annual Remuneration Report on page 94.
Performance Monitoring The delivery of the Groups strategic objectives is monitored by the Since the end of the financial year and the date of this report, there Board through KPIs and periodic review of various aspects of the have been no changes to such interests.
The Group considers that the KPIs listed on In line with the requirements of the Companies Act, Directors have pages 18 to 19 are appropriate measures to assess the delivery of a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they have, or may have, the strategy of the Group.
interests that conflict with those of the Company unless that conflict is first authorised by the Board.
Directors The following were Directors of the Company during the period The Company has in place procedures for managing conflicts of ended 31 March 2017 and, at the date of this Annual Report: interest.
The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions to allow the Directors to authorise potential conflicts of interest, so Dennis Millard that if approved, a Director will not be in breach of his her duty under Jill McDonald company law.
In line with the requirements of the Companies Act Jonny Mason 2006, each Director has notified the Company of any situation in David Adams which he or she has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that Claudia Arney conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company Helen Jones a situational conflict.
Directors have a continuing duty to update any In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the UK changes to their conflicts of interest.
Corporate Governance Code guidelines, all those persons holding office as a Director of the Company on 31 March 2017 will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
54 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 54 07 06 2017 16:37:43 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The Group has an established framework of colleague Directors Indemnities communications, to provide colleagues with information on Directors and Officers insurance cover has been established for matters of concern to them and business performance as well as all Directors and Officers to provide cover against their reasonable to encourage the engagement of every colleague in the Boards actions on behalf of the Company.
The Directors of the Company commitment to high standards of customer care and service and the Companys subsidiaries have the benefit of a third-party provision.
This includes a programme of regular conferences to share indemnity provision, as defined by section 236 of the Companies Act progress, strategy and direction, a monthly magazine for all Group 2006, pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association.
colleagues, team meetings known as huddles, a weekly blog from Colleagues the CEO, as well as channels to share operational information.
The Group strives to meet its business objectives by motivating A Whistleblowing Policy and procedure enables colleagues to report and encouraging all colleagues to be responsive to the needs of our concerns on matters affecting the Group or their employment, customers and continually improve operational performance.
This without fear of recrimination.
In addition, the Group takes a zerois delivered through a range of structured training and development tolerance approach to matters of discrimination, harassment and programmes, such as Gears in Retail, where Retail colleagues bullying in all aspects of its business operations, including in relation progress through a structured series of e-learning, face-to-face and to gender, race, national origin, disability, age, religion or sexual shop floor experience modules and are then recognised for their orientation.
Appropriate policies and procedures are in place for success through certification, career progression and increased pay reporting and dealing with such matters.
In addition, Cycle Republic also undertakes store supplier training by brands.
Share Capital and Shareholder Voting Rights Details of the Companys share capital and details of the rights Halfords Autocentres runs, in conjunction with the Institute of attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in note 22 Motor Industry IMI, a number of Technical Training Courses that on page 136.
All ordinary shares, including those acquired through are designed to develop colleagues skills.
Similar to Retail, it has Company share schemes and plans, rank equally with no special rights.
its own version of the Gears in Retail programme which supports colleagues development and rewards via a pay matrix.
Autocentres All shareholders are entitled to attend and speak at the general has become the first organisation in 50 years to be authorised by meetings of the Company, appoint proxies, receive any dividends, the DVSA to train MOT Testers in-house.
Autocentres has embarked exercise voting rights and transfer shares without restriction.
On a on training its technicians in the latest Hybrid technology and has show of hands at a general meeting every member present in person worked with the IMI to train 150 technicians in the IMI Hybrid Level 2 shall have one vote, and on a poll, every member present in person or in Servicing.
Our ambition next year is to have at least one technician by proxy shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
There are per Autocentre to extend our Hybrid servicing offer across the no known arrangements that may restrict the transfer of shares or country.
In addition, we run a Leadership Development programme, called The Company has revolving credit facilities that require the Company Aspire, to identify, nurture and develop colleagues across the Group, in the event of a change of control to notify the facility agent and, if with potential to be our leaders of the future.
This continues our drive required by the majority lenders, these facilities may be cancelled.
to develop and therefore, possibly promote from within.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or colleague that would provide compensation for loss of office or The Group continues to invest in our apprenticeship programme.
In our employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the Retail business, we continue to invest our apprenticeship programme Companys share schemes and Deferred Bonus Plan may cause and will be launching the new apprenticeship standards this academic options and awards granted to Directors and colleagues under such year.
In addition, our traineeship programme for NEETS not in education, schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
employment or training has resulted in the placing of 159 trainees to date.
At Halfords Autocentres we have one of the largest apprenticeship Details of employee share schemes are provided in note 23 on schemes in light vehicle maintenance in the UK, with 213 apprentices pages 136 to 138. currently at differing stages of our three-year programme.
The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to colleagues and potential colleagues.
This applies to recruitment, training, career development and promotion for all colleagues, regardless of physical ability, gender, sexual orientation, religion, age or ethnic origin.
Full and fair consideration is given to employment applications by disabled persons wherever suitable opportunities exist, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Diversity policies are in place around the Group and training and career development support is provided where appropriate.
Should a colleague become disabled, efforts are made to ensure their continued employment with the Group, with retraining being provided if necessary.
com 55 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 55 07 06 2017 16:37:43 Directors Report Significant Shareholders Going Concern As at 28 April 2017, this being the latest practicable date, the The Group has a 170m five-year revolving credit facility, ending in Company has been notified pursuant to Disclosure Guidance and November 2019.
At the year end, the Group had undrawn borrowing Transparency Rule 5 of the following interests representing 3% or facilities of 97m 2016: 143m.
The Groups current committed more of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
borrowing facilities contain certain financial covenants, which have been met throughout the period.
The Groups forecasts and Number % of issued projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading Holder of shares shares performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within Schroders Plc 21,078,957 10.59 the level of its borrowing facilities and covenants for the foreseeable Jupiter Asset Management Limited 20,644,998 10.37 future.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well Artemis Fund Managers Limited 14,471,432 7.27 placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors have Invesco Limited 11,480,989 5.77 a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to Rathbones 8,874,535 4.46 continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, hence Norges Bank Investment they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in Management 6,925,933 3.48 preparing the Financial Statements.
BlackRock Inc 6,179,869 3.10 Viability Statement Wise Investments Limited 6,155,904 3.09 In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance J O Hambro Capital Management 6,068,378 3.05 Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Company over a Authority to Purchase Shares three-year period to 1 April 2020.
The Directors believe this period to At the 2016 Annual General Meeting, shareholders approved a be appropriate as the Companys strategic planning encompasses this special resolution authorising the Company to purchase a maximum period, and because it is a reasonable period over which the impact of of 19,911,663 shares, representing not greater than 10% of the key risks can be assessed within a fast-moving retail business.
Companys issued share capital at 13 June 2016, such authority The Board has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be expiring at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due 2017 or, if earlier, on 30 September 2017. at least until 1 April 2020.
As is customary when dealing with longer Transactions with Related Parties term debt facilities, we would expect these to be renewed well in During the period, the Company did not enter into any material advance of their next term.
transactions with any related parties.
In making this statement, the Directors have reviewed the overall Articles of Association resilience of the Group and have specifically considered: In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Articles of a robust assessment of the impact, likelihood and management of Association may only be amended by a special resolution of the principal risks facing the Group, including consideration of those Companys shareholders in a general meeting.
risks that could threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity or sustainability.
The assessment of Political Donations viability has specifically considered risks that could threaten the The Group made no political donations and incurred no political Groups day-to-day operations and existence.
The assessment expenditure during the year FY16: nil.
It remains the Companys considered how risks could affect the business now, and how they policy not to make political donations or to incur political expenditure, may develop over three years: and however the application of the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 is potentially very broad in nature and, as last year, the financial analysis and forecasts showing current financial position Board is seeking shareholder authority to ensure that the Group does and performance, cash flow projections, dividend strategy, not inadvertently breach these provisions as a result of the breadth funding requirements and funding facilities.
of its business activities, although the Board has no intention of More details of our key risks, mitigations and assessment processes using this authority.
56 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 56 07 06 2017 16:37:43 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement Disclosure of Information to the Auditor Halfords Group plc operates retail stores across the UK and Ireland In accordance with Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, and garages throughout the UK.
The products Halfords sells are each Director in office at the date the Directors Report is approved sourced from a broad range of national and international suppliers.
confirms that: Many of those international supplier relationships are sourced and i. so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit managed by our dedicated team based in Hong Kong and Taiwan.
information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and We have a Code of Conduct on Ethical Trading, which sets out our ii.
he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as policy on legislation, child labour, conditions of employment, wages and a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant benefits, health and safety and the environment.
The Code of Conduct audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is has recently been updated to include our policy on human trafficking.
We undertake all reasonable and practical steps, including factory, Important Events Since Year End warehouse and tied accommodation inspections and audits, to On 3 May 2017, it was announced that Jill McDonald, Chief Executive ensure that our standards are being implemented throughout the Officer, has resigned from the business to take up another role.
Jill businesses of our suppliers and that local legislation and regulations will remain as Chief Executive Officer until the expiry of her notice are complied with.
We will assess any instances of non-compliance period in October 2017.
The process for the appointment of her on a case-by-case basis and will then tailor remedial action successor is underway.
We will only trade with those who fully comply with this policy or those who are taking verifiable steps towards compliance.
Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM will be held at the Hilton Garden Inn, 1 Brunswick Square, The Halfords Group plc Board of Directors reviewed and approved Brindleyplace, Birmingham B1 2HW on Wednesday 26 July 2017. this statement on 28 September 2016.
The Notice of the AGM and explanatory notes regarding the special Creditor Payment Policy business to be put to the meeting will be set out in a separate circular The Group does not follow any formal code of practice on payment, to shareholders.
instead it agrees terms and conditions for transactions when orders By order of the Board for goods or services are placed, and includes relevant terms in contracts, as appropriate.
These arrangements are adhered to when Tim OGorman Group Company Secretary making payments, subject to the terms and conditions being met 24 May 2017 by suppliers.
The number of trade creditor days outstanding as at 31 March 2017 for the Group was 59 days 2016: 63 days.
The Company is a holding company and has no trade creditors.
Branches The Company and its subsidiaries have established branches in the different countries in which they operate.
Auditor The Companys Auditor is KPMG LLP.
A resolution proposing the reappointment of KPMG LLP is expected to be in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting and will be put to shareholders at the meeting.
