Everything in-between Large available range We offer an extensive range of MDA items and we are growing our range of SDAs, TVs and computing.
Most of our SKUs are available for next-day delivery not many of our competitors can offer that.
What customers love about our range Good service Good service.
Plenty of fridge freezers to choose from in stock.
Would recommend to others to use AO.
Maggie AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 4 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 5 Everything in-between continued First class delivery model Our in-sourced seven-day delivery six in Germany and the Netherlands is first class.
We offer our customers a wide range of delivery options including next-day and designated time slots so that they can pick the delivery that suits them.
We can also install new appliances and remove and recycle the old ones too.
Having our own national delivery fleet operating out of a central distribution centre with a network of outbases, gives us control over our distribution chain.
From the online purchase of a product through to its delivery to the customer and recycling of old products, we control all of the customer touch points What customers love about our delivery service I cannot believe the great service that I cannot believe the great service that I received from ao.
I ordered my new washing machine at 1pm on Saturday and it arrived at 1pm the next day.
We were kept informed of delivery slots and the driver phoned half an hour before he was due to deliver so we could plan our Sunday.
The delivery drivers were also really helpful.
Graham AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 6 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 7 Everything in-between continued Amazing customer service Of course we can claim that our service is wonderful but our independent customer feedback scores are exceptionally high.
We give customers a flexible and personal approach and make clear commitments to them which we then deliver on.
What customers love about our service Amazing service Ive purchased a washing machine and a fridge freezer over the last few months.
Absolutely brilliant service from ordering the items online the communication re: delivery and to the guys that deliver.
Perfect Perfect Perfect David AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 8 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 9 Everything in-between continued Not beaten on price We offer a price match promise such that if a customer finds a cheaper product from any other UK retailer online or instore well match that price and refund the difference.
Our price match promise is valid on the day the customer orders a product and up until seven days after.
What customers love about our prices New vacuum cleaner Best price we could find and excellent delivery service.
Amanda AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 10 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11 Everything in-between continued Innovative online content We ensure our on-site content is clear but detailed, explaining product benefits to customers better than anyone else, with feature-led reviews and 3D animation which tells the manufacturers stories.
Offering this innovative content means that customers can make an informed decision on their purchase and are able to choose the right appliance for them.
What customers love about our content Ive bought from AO.
com several times Ive bought from AO.
com several times now, over a period of a couple of years, and each time has been a delight.
Their website is easy to navigate and has all the specifications and photos I need to make a decision on an appliance.
Jo AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 12 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13 Everything in-between continued AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 14 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information The AO Way The AO Way is not any of these individual elements.
Its the way we stitch them all together through our bespoke infrastructure and our culture of simply caring more.
Underpinning our business proposition is something that cannot be replicated: AOs unique culture.
As a business, we all live by our five values: bold, smart, driven, caring and fun.
Its important that people love what they do and strive to be the best they can be, whether that be our employees, the drivers or the manufacturers designers.
What customers love about The AO Way New washing machine From placing the order, to tracking delivery online and installation, AO.
com are the best company I have ever dealt with.
I now dont consider anyone else.
This is the third white goods item I have bought from AO.
Delivery guys were efficient and courteous in removing my old washing machine and installing my new one.
Paddy AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15
