Strategy in action Introducing Computing The AO Way In early 2016, we began our journey to launch a brand new category in the UK, Computing.
Our mission: to transform the way this category was retailed by approaching it in The AO Way.
Our aim: to create a new way of shopping that results in happy customers and manufacturers.
Lots to do but a We extensively researched and created a better strong belief AO can once again customer purchase journey.
We made it informative and change how people innovative, by using content that cuts through the jargon, buy a product.
helping customers choose the right product for them.
January 2016 Research Learnings Support We ran customer labs to We showed customers how we can We got manufacturer backing once understand how the customer shops help and demonstrated our we explained our unique way.
Manufacturers were hugely We held an extensive number of The outcome of these labs was supportive of the new way of thinking customer labs to help us to really that customers had problems as they could see how AOs new understand customers pain points understanding the wording around proposition cut through the jargon when shopping this category online.
products and what that meant for and helped to explain the benefits and them, meaning they werent always features of their products.
Solution: We decided to make the whole process EASIER by introducing a help me choose function which asks customers simple questions to ascertain what they really want and need.
A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 28 28 O Ov five er rv vi ie ew w S St tr ra at te eg gic ic R Re ep por ort t O Ou ur r G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e O Ou ur r R Resu esul lt ts s S Sh ha ar re eh ho old lder ers s I In nf fo or rm mat atio ion n Smart working We streamlined our distribution processes to make our service as efficient as possible.
We are delighted by To ensure that we could deliver this our progress so far, leveraging the category in an efficient way but still investments we have with the high standards that we live previously made in our by, we linked this insight into the web content, IT and distributor to make sure they product teams to add delivered in The AO Way.
the category seamlessly to ao.
October 2016 Training New category We trained all our staff to be experts in launched the new category, helping customers using our learnings and the make decisions.
systems weve developed, there are so many categories we can Launching a new category means extend into.
that there are new learnings and new customer emotions to understand, so we held training workshops for all our customer service teams to make sure they could help a customer at any point of their computing purchase journey.
See our computing launch video here.
A AO W O Wo or rl ld P d Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 29 29
