Attractive Evergreen Market Income Dynamics Streams Our Proven Our Conversion Model Competitive Into Advantage Quality Returns Our Business Model Strong Growth Opportunities Tried and Tested....
Attractive market dynamics UK self storage penetration in key urban conurbations remains relatively low.
Very limited new supply coming onto the market.
Sector growth is positive, with increasing domestic demand.
Our competitive advantage UK industrys most recognised brand.
Prominent stores on arterial or main roads, with extensive frontage and high visibility.
Largest share of web traffic from mobile and desktop platforms.
Strong customer satisfaction and NPS scores reflecting excellent customer service.
Largest UK self storage footprint by Maximum Lettable Area MLA capacity Big Yellow and Armadillo combined.
Primarily freehold estate concentrated in London and South East and other large metropolitan cities.
Larger average store capacity economies of scale, higher operating margins.
Secure financing structure with strong balance sheet.
Evergreen income streams 52,500 customers from a diverse base individuals, SMEs and national accounts.
Average length of stay for existing customers of 24 months.
30% of customers in stores greater than two year length of stay.
Low bad debt expense 0.1% of revenue in the year.
Strong growth opportunities Opportunities to drive further occupancy growth.
Yield management as occupancy increases.
Densification of living and scarcity of flexible business space drives demand.
Growth in national accounts and business customer base.
Increasing the platform financed from internal resources.
Growth in our Armadillo joint venture platform.
Conversion into Freehold assets for high operating margins and operational advantage quality returns.
Low technology & obsolescence product, maintenance capex fully expensed.
Annual compound adjusted eps growth of 17% since 2004 5.
Annual compound cash flow growth of 16% since 2004 5. Dividend payout ratio of 80% of adjusted eps 17 Strategic Report continued Our Strategy and Business Model continued The self storage market Adjusted profit before tax, adjusted earnings per share and In the recently published 2017 Self Storage Association UK Survey, only distributions to shareholders are also KPIs.
The Group focuses on 42% of those surveyed had a reasonable or good awareness of self adjusted profits and earnings measures as they give a clearer storage, in line with findings from our own research.
Furthermore, only underlying picture of the Groups trading performance without 6% of the 2,075 adults surveyed were currently using self storage, or distortion from external factors such as property valuations and the were thinking of using self storage, in the next year.
This indicates a fair value of derivatives.
We have delivered compound adjusted eps continued opportunity for growth and with increasing use of self growth of 16% over the past five years, and compound dividend growth storage, together with the ongoing marketing efforts of everyone in of 26% over the same period.
Compound adjusted eps growth since the industry, we anticipate awareness will grow.
We have illustrated the Groups performance in these measures over the past five years on page 1.
Growth in new facilities across the industry has been largely in regional Our non-financial KPIs are the net promoter scores we receive from our areas of the UK and in particular in smaller towns.
In London in the last customers and the carbon intensity of the Groups business.
The Groups year, we believe there were eight new store openings.
net promoter score received from its customers during the year was 77.
The Self Storage Association SSA estimates that the UK industry is This has increased by 27% over the past four years, when the Group started made up of approximately 1,430 self storage facilities of which 317 are to use this measure of customer satisfaction.
We believe this overall score purely container operations, providing 42.2 million sq ft of self storage compares very favourably with other consumer facing businesses.
space, equating to 0.6 sq ft per person in the UK.
This compares to 9.1 sq ft per person in the US, 1.8 sq ft per person in Australia and The Group has reduced its carbon intensity our carbon emissions 0.1 sq ft for mainland Europe, where the roll-out of self storage is a more divided by our average occupied space by 52% over the past five recent phenomenon source: FEDESSA European Self Storage Annual years.
This has been achieved through investment in renewable Survey 2016.
390 self storage facilities in the UK are held by large technology, roof mounted solar photo-voltaic systems, and LED lighting operators defined as those managing 10 facilities or more, which across the Groups portfolio.
represents 35% of the total number of self storage centres excluding Operational and Marketing Review container operations, but the SSA estimate approximately 50% of total capacity.
Given the dominance of the larger brands in the South East, we Overview would expect the proportion of revenue earned by the top five operators We now have a portfolio of 73 open and trading Big Yellow stores, with to be in excess of 60% of the annual industry turnover of 500 million.
a further six development sites and two extension opportunities.
The Big Yellow is well placed to benefit from the growing self storage current maximum lettable area of the 73 stores is 4.6 million sq ft. market, given the strength of our brand, and our online platform which When fully built out the portfolio will provide approximately delivers 87% of our prospect enquiries.
Our portfolio is strategically 5.0 million sq ft of flexible storage space.
focussed on London, the South East and large metropolitan cities, In addition we part-own and manage 19 Armadillo stores which are where barriers to entry and economic activity are at their highest.
principally located in northern towns and cities, and operate from a platform of 0.8 million sq ft. KPIs Access to capital and bank facilities has improved in the last few years, The key performance indicators of our stores are occupancy and rental however this is mainly for larger well-capitalised groups.
Growth in new yield, which together drive the revenue of the business.
These are three store openings over the last six years has averaged 1% to 2% of total key measures which are focussed on by the Board, and are reported capacity per annum, down significantly from the previous decade.
Over the course of the past five years, both Additionally, in our core markets in London and the South East, very high occupancy and revenue have grown significantly.
Rental yield grew by land values driven by competing uses such as residential, is making the 6.1% in the year to 31 March 2014, but decreased by 3.5%, in 2015 creation of new supply very difficult for all operators.
We believe that we principally reflecting the acquisition of the Big Yellow Limited are in a relatively strong position given the strength of our balance sheet Partnership stores, a regional portfolio, with a lower average net rent and our proven property development expertise, together with our ability per sq ft.
In 2016 net rent increased by 2.7%, and has increased by to access funding to exploit the right opportunity.
Our key focus is on continuing to grow occupancy, with rental yield growth following once the stores have reached higher occupancy levels.
18 FOR UNPROMPTED BRAND AWARENESS, OUR RECALL ACROSS THE UK AS A WHOLE IS MORE THAN SEVEN TIMES THAT OF OUR NEAREST COMPETITOR.
Operations Of our occupied space today, 15% is occupied by customers who are longer The Big Yellow store model is well established.
The typical store has stay lifestyle users decluttering into small rooms as an extension to their 60,000 sq ft of net lettable storage area and takes some three to five accommodation: 50% are using it for less than 12 months as a result of years to achieve 80% plus occupancy.
The average room size occupied an event in their life, which could be inheritance, moving, carrying out in the portfolio is currently 68 sq ft, a slight increase from 67 sq ft last work: and the balance of 35% are businesses, typically SMEs.
The store is open seven days a week and is initially run by three Of the customers moving into our stores in the last year, surveys staff, with a part time member of staff added once the store occupancy undertaken indicate approximately 43% are house move related, split justifies the need for the extra administrative and sales workload.
broadly equally across those renting storage space whilst moving within the rental sector and those moving within the owner occupied The drive to improve store operating standards and consistency across sector.
During the year 11% of our customers who moved in took the portfolio remains a key focus for the Group.
Excellent customer storage space as a spare room for decluttering and approximately 34% service is at the heart of our business objectives, as a satisfied of our customers used the product because some event has occurred customer is our best marketing tool.
We measure customer service in their lives generating the need for storage: they may be moving standards through a programme of mystery shopping and online abroad for a job, have inherited possessions, are getting married or customer reviews, which are externally managed.
Over the year, we divorced, are students who need storage during the holidays, or have achieved an average net promoter score of 77, which we believe homeowners developing into their lofts or basements.
The balance of compares favourably to other consumer facing businesses.
12% of our move-ins during the year came from businesses.
We have a team of nine area managers in place who have on average worked for Big Yellow for twelve years.
They develop and support the Our business customers range across a number of industry types, such stores to drive the growth of the business.
as retailers, e-tailers, professional service companies, hospitality companies and importers exporters.
These businesses store stock, The store bonus structure rewards occupancy performance, sales documents, equipment, or promotional materials all requiring a growth and cost control through quarterly targets based on occupancy convenient flexible solution to their storage, either to get started or to free and store profitability, including the contribution from ancillary sales up more expensive space.
of insurance and packing materials.
Information on bonus build up is circulated monthly and stores are consulted in preparing their own There is a growing trend towards self-employment and smaller targets and budgets each quarter, leading to improved visibility, a business start-ups in the UK, dynamics which are positive for self better understanding of sales lines and control of operating costs.
Additionally, businesses in the UK are increasingly seeking more flexible lease arrangements for their office and storage space.
We believe that as a consumer-facing branded business it is paramount The deindustrialisation of big cities also points to a structural growth to maintain the quality of our estate and customer offering.
We in demand for storage for businesses.
therefore continue to invest in preventative maintenance, store cleaning and the repair and replacement of essential equipment, such Business customers typically stay longer than domestic customers, as lifts and gates.
The ongoing annual expenditure is approximately and also on average occupy larger rooms.
Whilst only representing 12% 35,000 per store, which is included within cost of sales.
This excludes of new customers during the year, businesses represent 20% of our our rolling programme of store makeovers, which typically take place overall customer numbers, occupying 35% of the space in our stores every five years, at a cost of approximately 20,000 per store.
Over at 31 March 2017, domestic customers occupy 65%.
The average room the last five years we have invested 11 million in the upkeep and size occupied by business customers is 121 sq ft, compared to 54 sq ft maintenance of our stores, all of which has been expensed in the for domestic customers.
This compares with the 2017 SSA UK Annual income statement.
Survey result for the industry as a whole which had 58% of space occupied by domestic customers and 42% of space by businesses.
We Demand would expect to have a higher proportion of domestic customers given Awareness of self storage and the market generally will continue to grow our focus on London and other large metropolitan cities.
as people use the product for the first time and with continued marketing from all industry players.
We are seeing improving levels of referral and repeat use.
19 Strategic Report continued Our Strategy and Business Model continued We have a dedicated national accounts team for business customers We monitor and improve the website user journeys on an ongoing who wish to occupy space in multiple stores.
These accounts are billed basis.
We are committed to making the experience as easy, intuitive and managed centrally.
We have four full time members of staff and informative as possible for our customers.
Both the mobile specific working on growing and managing our national account customers.
website, which itself accounted for 42% of our web visits in the year The national accounts team can arrange storage at short notice at any and our desktop site are designed with helpful and time saving online location for our customers.
In smaller towns where we do not have tools such as check-in online, online FAQs, video store tours and online representation, we have negotiated sub-contract arrangements with chat.
These all help the customer to make an informed choice about other operators who meet certain operating standards.
We have also relaunched Box Shop, our online store for boxes and packing materials which also now Marketing and ecommerce includes a Click and Collect service for customers to conveniently pick Our marketing strategy focuses on driving enquiries and customer up their orders in store.
satisfaction through our digital platforms.
Online customer reviews For the last eleven years, we have commissioned a YouGov survey to Consistent with our strategy of putting the customer at the heart of our help us monitor our brand awareness.
In our most recent survey, business, our online customer reviews generate real-time feedback from conducted in April 2017, we used a statistically robust sample size of customers as well as providing positive word of mouth referral to our web 1,043 respondents in London and 2,028 for the rest of the UK.
Through our Big Impressions customer feedback programme, survey has shown our prompted awareness to be at 74% in London, we ask our new customers to rate our product and service and with the two and half times higher than our nearest competitor and 41% for the users permission, we then publish these independent reviews on the rest of the UK, nearly three times higher than our nearest competitor.
There are currently over 15,000 reviews published.
For unprompted brand awareness, our recall in London is 47%, nearly six The Big Impressions programme also generates customer feedback on times higher than our nearest competitor and for the rest of the UK it is their experience when they move out of a Big Yellow store and also 21%, more than eight times higher than our nearest competitor.
Across from those prospects who decided not to store with us.
This the UK as a whole it is seven times higher than our nearest competitor.
programme reinforces best practice of customer service at our stores These surveys continue to prove we are the UKs brand leader in self where customer reviews and mystery shop results are transparently storage source: YouGov, April 2017.
The UK Self Storage Association has accessible at all levels.
also conducted a brand awareness survey with similar results.
We also gain real-time insight from customers who submit reviews to Online Trustpilot, the well-known third party customer review site.
These The Big Yellow website, whether accessed by desktop, tablet or reviews are currently averaging 9.5 out of 10.
We also regularly smartphone, delivers the largest share of our prospects, accounting monitor Google reviews and mentions of Big Yellow within the social for 87% of all sales leads across the year ended 31 March 2017. mediums of Twitter, online forums and blogs.
We use this insight to Telephone is the first point of contact for 9% of our prospects and walkcontinually improve our service offering.
in enquiries, where we have had no previous contact with a prospect, represent 4%.
Driving online traffic Search engines are the most important acquisition tool for us, We have the largest online market share of web visits to self storage accounting for the majority of traffic to our website.
We continue to company websites in the UK.
Across the year ended 31 March 2017, our invest in search engine optimisation SEO techniques both on and online market share of web visits ranged from 31% to 38%.
This helps us to maintain our high positions for the most competitor ranged from 16% to 21% online market share for the same popular and most searched for terms such as storage and self period source: Connexity Hitwise 36 largest UK self storage operators.
storage in the organic listings on Google.
The sponsored search listings remain the largest source of paid for traffic and we ensure our prominence in these listings is balanced with effective landing pages to maximise site conversion.
20 WE HAVE THE LARGEST ONLINE MARKET SHARE OF WEB VISITS TO SELF STORAGE COMPANY WEBSITES IN THE UK.
Efficiencies in online spend are continuing into the year ending 31 March 2018, ensuring the return on investment is maximised from all of our different online traffic sources.
Online marketing budgets will continue to remain fluid and be directed towards the media with the best return on investment.
Social media Social media continues to be complementary to our existing marketing channels.
Our activity is most focussed on Twitter, not only monitoring and answering queries regarding self storage, but also posting our own creative tweets, tips and advice.
The Big Yellow YouTube channel is used to showcase our stores to web prospects through a video store tour.
We use both domestic and business versions to help prospects experience the quality of the product without the need for them to visit the store in person.
Our online blog is updated regularly with tips and advice for homeowners and businesses, as well as summaries of our charitable and CSR initiatives.
PR We have been developing regional PR stories throughout the year to help raise the awareness of Big Yellow and the benefits of self storage across the UK.
We have been highlighting newsworthy stories of charitable endeavours from Big Yellow staff or the support we provide to the local charities through offering free storage.
Budget During the year the Group spent approximately 4.2 million on marketing 4% of total store revenue.
We have increased the budget for the year ahead to 4.5 million with a focus on delivering more prospects to our stores from our digital channels.
Cyber security The Group receives specialist advice and consultancy in respect of cyber security and we have dedicated in-house monitoring.
We regularly review our security systems and we limit the retention of customer data to the minimum requirement.
During the year we have continued to invest in digital security.
Some of the changes include more frequent penetration testing of internet facing systems, adding components such as anti-ransomware as well as the maintenance replacement of components such as firewalls to the latest technology and specification.
Policies and procedures are under regular review and benchmarked against industry best practice by our consultants.
These policies also include defend, detect and response policies.
We have also instigated a new working group to ensure our compliance with the new EU General Data Protection Regulation GDPR which comes into effect on 25 May 2018.
