34 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 2.
Financial Performance Process Technologies Divisional Summary Chemicals Markets Oil and Gas markets Oleo Diagnostic Business Syngas Petrochemicals Reneries Gas Processing Biochemicals Services What We Do Manufacture catalysts, license process technology and deliver Manufacture catalysts, additives and absorbents and deliver services to the chemical industry services to the oil and gas industry How We Innovate and develop products, process technologies and services to enable customers to operate their processes at optimum eciency and with reduced environmental impact Add Value Societal More ecient use of natural resources Improved fuel Removal of Improved asset quality harmful impurities performance Benets Lower energy use from gas and integrity More ecient Biorenewables low carbon technology use of natural Improved resources environmental performance for Lower energy use our customers Improved environmental performance of reneries Global Drivers Natural Resource Environmental Factors Population Growth Health and Nutrition Constraints Climate Change Urbanisation Ageing Population Increasing Electrication Regulation Increasing Wealth Customer Chemical companies Reneries Gas producers Oil and gas companies Prole Engineering contractors Industrial gas companies Major Haldor Topse BASF Clariant Grace Competitors Clariant Lurgi Albemarle UOP Employees 2, 068 Locations Nine manufacturing facilities in six countries Ten technical centres in four countries Sales oces in key markets 2016 17 Sales 141 million 53 million 133 million 161 million 41 million 58 million The division is focused on maintaining leading positions in catalysts and Strategy process technologies for chemicals and oil and gas markets and on continued Maintain leading positions development of high performance products and services for its customers.
in catalysts and process Through combining its expertise in catalysts and process technology to create technologies for chemicals value and new opportunities, the division aims to deliver superior growth in and oil and gas markets current and new markets.
Exploiting existing technology advantages and Deliver growth in current developing process technology to complement our catalysts will enable the sectors and through entry division to access larger markets within the target sectors of oil and gas and into new markets chemicals.
The division also aims to enter new sectors, both by leveraging existing capabilities and by targeted acquisition.
It will also invest in its people, Expand capabilities manufacturing and technology to capitalise on opportunities in its markets.
The division aims to expand capabilities through focused research and Achieve margin development, external partnerships and targeted acquisitions in order to provide improvement by value adding solutions for its customers.
operational excellence Process Technologies has a broad asset base, closely aligned to market needs.
The division will deliver improved margins by rigorous application of manufacturing excellence and lean tools.
35 Performance in 2016 17 Year to 31st March % change, 2017 2016 % constant million million change rates Sales excluding precious metals sales 587 541 8 Underlying operating profit 90.4 73.6 23 9 Return on sales 15.4% 13.6% Return on invested capital ROIC 11.4% 9.6% Chemicals Ammonia and methanol catalyst A good second half performance as replacements are typically every four the business maintained its strong Across all our Chemicals businesses to six years and those for formaldehyde Syngas, Oleo biochemicals and position in a challenging market are annual.
Given there is excess Petrochemicals, we supply licences With fewer new chemical plants manufacturing capacity for ammonia to our customers.
There is excess constructed in the year, licence and methanol, our customers delayed manufacturing capacity which has income in our Chemicals businesses the purchase of refill catalysts and sales negatively impacted new plant was lower impacting sales and of these catalysts were down year on construction and consequently demand profitability year.
Formaldehyde refill catalyst sales from our customers for new licences were up 9%.
Sales of catalysts in our New business gains benefited remains depressed.
In addition, we saw Oleo biochemical business were steady.
catalysts sales with a good lower sales of equipment to customers The Petrochemicals business second half for use in the construction of their produces catalysts for a range of different formaldehyde plants.
We addressed these Operating profit grew strongly, processes.
Since the summer of 2015 market challenges through restructuring up 9%, benefiting from efficiency it has supplied speciality zeolites to ECT the organisation improving both gains from last years restructuring for use in its SCR catalyst technologies.
profitability and our flexibility to respond programme Growth in ECTs demand for zeolites and to demand.
Process Technologies sells licences, the full year impact of this was the main We also supply a portfolio of catalysts and services to help our driver of the year on year sales growth.
In our Syngas business, customers operate their processes Across our Chemicals business, these are primarily to customers who at optimum efficiency with reduced the second half showed stronger sales manufacture ammonia, formaldehyde environmental impact.
benefiting from the purchase of catalysts and methanol.
Sales of first fills of by our customers as they prepare for catalysts for new ammonia plants were plant shutdowns in the summer.
down year on year as a result of excess ammonia manufacturing capacity.
Methanol first fill catalyst sales benefited from the supply to an Iranian customer.
Technology Licensing Process Technologies Chemicals Businesses Sales Projects Awarded 2013-2017 % change, 2017 2016 % constant million million change rates 10.0 Syngas 141 158 -11 -17 7.5 Oleo biochemicals 53 48 9 -2 Petrochemicals 133 103 30 19 5.0 Total 327 309 6 -3 2.5 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Methonal SNG Oxo Butanediol Other alcohols Syngas Petrochemicals Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 36 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 2.
Financial Performance Process Technologies Oil and Gas Businesses Sales % change, 2017 2016 % constant million million change rates Refineries 161 127 27 14 Gas Processing 41 42 -2 -5 Diagnostic Services 58 63 -8 -15 Total 260 232 12 3 Oil and Gas Return on Invested Capital Sales in our Refineries business, where ROIC increased from 9.6% to 11.4% we supply catalysts and additives, were reflecting efficiency gains in the period up significantly as we outperformed a and foreign exchange.
broadly flat market with sales growth of 14%.
We won a large first fill by providing a customer specific solution based on our world class catalyst technology.
In addition, we increased sales to an existing customer through our ability to respond quickly to an urgent order.
In the increasingly competitive additives market, we developed new products and manufacturing processes and sales were up 1% in a flat market.
In Gas Processing, which supplies purification products used to remove mercury and sulphur impurities from natural gas, sales were down due to our introduction of more cost competitive products but this increased margins and profitability.
We have recently commenced a detailed strategic review to assess the alignment of our Diagnostic Services business with the rest of the group.
Operating Profit Underlying operating profit was up by 9%.
Lower income from licencing and Diagnostic Services impacted operating profit and return on sales but this was more than offset by the 18 million of cost savings from the restructuring programme announced last year.
We expect ongoing tough end markets for our catalyst customers and do not expect a significant recovery in investment in plant construction.
We will continue to review our cost base and deliver supply chain and manufacturing efficiencies in the year ending 31st March 2018.
However, we expect licencing activity to remain subdued and this will negatively impact operating profit.
