50 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 3.
People and Planet Our World Creating a sustainable business doesnt end with us.
We build relationships with our many stakeholders.
By working together, we can solve some of the worlds greatest challenges.
The ongoing implications of the The UN Sustainable Development Introduction Paris Climate Change Agreement, Goals SDGs, which provide a Our science-led products and technologies which came into force on platform for collective action on have a positive impact on the world 4th November 2016.
We have applied the around us and the people who live in it.
31st March 2017, 144 of the principles of the SDG compass tool So it is essential to us that we understand 197 countries involved had ratified developed by GRI, the UN Global our stakeholders and whats important the agreement.
Johnson Matthey Compact and the World Business to them.
That way we can maximise the is a signatory of LAppel fide Paris Council for Sustainable Development, opportunities we have to grow our business the Paris Pledge for Action, and identified the most relevant and positively affect everyday life.
committing us to play our part in SDGs for Johnson Matthey.
We have delivering the agreements ambition benchmarked our approach and The Global Picture to limit global temperature rise to maturity in applying the SDGs to less than 2C.
To achieve this we have our business against our peers in We keep abreast of the global sustainability made greenhouse gas emissions the Sustainability 50 group and agenda to understand where we can play reduction a key theme in our are among the leaders.
a role and what changes may affect our sustainable business goals to 2025. business.
In 2016 17, the most significant areas for Johnson Matthey were: Go online: Go online: https: .
51 These are our material areas and we this information, together with feedback The Areas that Matter Most review them each year.
from our global employee survey, When considering the purpose of our In 2016, we appointed an external to determine and map our material business we think about the needs of consultancy to interview a cross section of areas, as shown below.
We continuously our stakeholders namely our customers, some of our largest customers, investors engage with our stakeholders to help suppliers, investors, employees and local and other external stakeholders to gain address these.
We do this by assessing a more detailed understanding of the the topics that matter most to them environmental, social and governance and where we make the largest positive areas most important to them.
We used or negative contribution to wider society.
Materiality Assessment 2016 17 Governance Sustainability leadership Global impact Wider Ethical business practices society and compliance Supply Climate change risk chain Our operations Financial Community Air quality sustainability engagement Greenhouse gas Diversity and emissions inclusion Health and Water use safety Employee recruitment Modern slavery Resource scarcity and retention and child labour Environmental Social Responsible sourcing Product lifecycle management The map highlights areas of focus for Johnson Matthey.
Further explanation can be found throughout this report.
There is also a full index of these issues in the GRI summary table on pages 188 and 189.
com sustainability governance stakeholders Read more on pages 14 and 15.
Our Sustainability 2017 programme technologies contribute to a to issues and discussions that are relevant ended on 31st March 2017.
We have cleaner, healthier world to our stakeholders.
Associations we have achieved much of what we set out to do worked with in 2016 17 include the UK Increase our work within our local see page 14 and are now defining the Chemical Industries Association, the Diesel communities through Johnson next stage of our sustainability journey.
Technology Forum, the Society of Motor Mattheys employee volunteering Drawing on these material areas and an Manufacturers and Traders, the Association programme.
understanding of the contribution we can for Emission Control by Catalyst, the These themes will provide a framework as make in the world, we have defined six Engineering Employers Federation, the we continue to build a sustainable business.
themes which form part of our sustainable Platinum Group Metals Health Science business goals to 2025.
These are: Research Group of the International Precious Metals Institute in the US, Communicating with For health and safety, aspire to Eurometaux which represents the External Stakeholders zero harm European non-ferrous metals industry, We maintain ongoing communications Improve sustainable business CEFIC the European Chemical Industry with our external stakeholders and practices in our supply chains Council and DECHEMA the expert update them on our activities through network for chemical engineering and Reduce our greenhouse gas emissions regular publications including this biotechnology in Germany.
per unit of production output report, our website, surveys and topic An important stakeholder group are Ensure that Johnson Matthey is specific meetings.
Understanding their our shareholders and we meet with our truly inclusive, fostering employee needs and the impact of our business on major shareholders regularly, as described engagement and development within them helps keep us on the right course.
in the Corporate Governance Report.
a diverse and global workforce We are also active members of a number of trade associations which help Increase the positive impact us to understand, inform and contribute Read more on pages 85 and 86. that our products, services and Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 52 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 3.
People and Planet For investors particularly interested It is a key theme in our sustainable The code includes standards on in ethical and socially responsible business goals to 2025, which will health and safety, the environment, investments, we meet with specialists include specific performance metrics human rights and ethical conduct.
from their organisations to discuss to further enhance our contribution.
It supports the Group Ethical and sustainability and corporate social In 2016 17 the company donated Sustainable Procurement Policy, responsibility CSR issues where 738,000 2015 16 679,000 to which our businesses will continue to applicable and participate in key charitable organisations.
This figure implement across their supply chains.
sustainable investment benchmarking represents donations made by Johnson The code incorporates work studies.
These include the Carbon Matthey but does not include payroll undertaken by our largest division, Disclosure Project CDP, FTSE4Good, giving, employee donations or time.
Emission Control Technologies ECT, London Benchmarking Group and The company made no political donations which represented 60% of sales in Business in the Community.
ECT launched its own supply In March 2017, we received an charitable donations programme which chain programme in 2013 and is the most AAA ESG rating from investment index represented 41% of the groups total advanced of our divisions in this area.
provider MSCI for the fifth consecutive year.
The remainder of In the last three years all of its strategic This is the highest possible rating for a charitable giving is managed locally by suppliers have been audited against the companys risk and performance against individual businesses.
This programme ECT Global Supplier Manual which a range of environmental, social and supports organisations in the areas of outlines the standards that we expect governance ESG factors, and one that environment and sustainability, medical our suppliers to meet.
Strategic suppliers places us above our chemical industry and health, science and education, social represent 74% of ECTs raw material peers.
We are a constituent of the Ethibel welfare and economic development.
spend excluding platinum group metals Sustainability Index Excellence Europe We support employee fundraising and substrates, which often remain the and FTSE4Good UK 50 Index.
efforts for good causes and match responsibility of the customer.
donations up to 1,000 per employee In 2016 17, 19 audits representing per year and up to a total of 70,000 15% of the divisions total spend on raw Thinking Globally, Acting Locally per annum for the group as a whole.
115 corrective We have a strong sense of community the last year, employees raised 99,750 action plans were subsequently put in and our place within it.
Although we are for 60 charities to which the company place in partnership with the suppliers, a global company, we believe that we can added 50,300 in matched contributions.
42% of which have already been completed.
make a real difference by acting locally.
We launched our partnership with The vast majority of these were health Our sites around the world get involved global childrens development charity and safety concerns within suppliers with local initiatives in many ways.
Together we operations and we recognise the need take part in activities to strengthen local are working on an education programme to work with our suppliers to build their economies, to encourage schoolchildren in Sierra Leone to train women teachers.
capability to better manage the issues take an interest in science and to support In a country where 73% of girls have we audit against.
As of 31st March 2017, employees who are involved in charity dropped out of school by the age of 11 there were 92 corrective action plans work.
As a responsible business, we want and with 92% of teachers being men, open with ECT suppliers.
to show that we provide value beyond there is an overwhelming need for more our products.
female teachers to ensure girls are not ECT Supply Chain Audit left behind in their education.
Working Non-Conformances 2016 17 Go online: with Plan International and the Open Number of new Total number of www.
com sustainability University, the programme is on track non-conformances non-conformances identified open at to train over 400 teachers and it is 1 Audit topic in 2016 17 31st March 2017 Sites choose which projects estimated that over 120,000 children 2 to support, within the criteria set out Child labour will directly benefit over the next ten in our community investment policy.
Employees have enthusiastically Wages and A core theme is promoting science supported the charity, raising more working hours 8 8 education which takes many forms, than 45,000 this year including a Discrimination 1 such as school visits to our sites.
15,000 corporate donation, enough Freedom of association Our community investment Health and safety 84 60 16 from 2015 16 to train 25 teachers.
committee has representatives from Environmental 8 10 4 from 2015 16 many of our locations.
It meets quarterly Other 14 14 4 from 2015 16 Responsible Sourcing to update on progress and agree funding.
68% of our sites are actively involved We are committed to improving 1 Includes some ongoing non-conformances cases from in their local communities and have sustainable business practices across all 2015 16. either formal or informal engagement our supply chains and this is a key theme 2 One supplier audit lacked a written policy stating their plans in place.
of our sustainable business goals to 2025. minimum age of employment, but was able to demonstrate that all their workers were over the age We offer all employees two days We will measure performance of 21 and that an ID checking process was in place.
paid leave per year for community work.
against this goal through the They are encouraged to work with implementation of our Group Supplier organisations in their local area where Code of Conduct which we plan to launch they can make most use of their skills or this year.
We are committed to supporting our community partners.
53 Where we Source Strategic Raw Materials We procure goods and services globally and our supply chains are multi-tiered.
Sourcing of strategic materials is a principal risk see page 19 and monitoring and understanding the risk is challenging but essential.
Some of our strategic raw materials are available from only a limited number of countries.
The countries we rely on for these materials are highlighted in the map below.
Precious metals Narcotic raw materials agricultural feedstocks Chemical intermediates Base metals and compounds Zeolites Rare earth metals Ceramic supports and substrates Elsewhere in the group, Process Transparency in Conflict Minerals We also support the principles endorsed Technologies launched a new, more under the UN Global Compact and the We do not knowingly use any material detailed preassessment questionnaire UN Guiding Principles on Business and from conflict sources and require all to gather critical information from its Human Rights the Ruggie Principles.
our suppliers to track the use of conflict suppliers on labour practices and modern We are working to embed them minerals in the materials that they slavery compliance.
Over 70% of the throughout our operations and whenever supply to us.
We have established a divisions global strategic suppliers we enter into business in a new territory, process for due diligence based on the completed it.
Responses are being used make an acquisition or enter a joint Organisation for Economic Co-operation to identify higher risk suppliers requiring venture.
There were no human rights and Development OECD guidelines, a formal site based detailed audit: 6% grievance reports made against Johnson which includes keeping records that of the high and medium risk suppliers Matthey during the year.
enable us to track the suppliers of all the have been formally assessed.
We are committed to ensuring that raw materials for each of the products As part of doing the right thing, we there is no modern slavery in our or services we supply to customers and understand the importance of knowing business or any of our supply chains.
provide them with a tailored answer to the providence of the raw materials we We are aware that we operate in high risk any query.
This year, we have responded use.
The majority of supply chain purchases territories and sectors and have begun, to around 60 customer requests for in Fine Chemicals are narcotic raw as part of our programme to implement information.
materials, all of which are purchased our Group Supplier Code of Conduct, Of the smelters used throughout from legitimate suppliers within countries a detailed risk assessment to identify all tiers of our supply chain, 87% are who are signatories to the Single suppliers that we believe are exposed to listed on the conflict free smelter list Convention on Narcotic Drugs 1961, the highest risk of modern slavery and of the Electronic Industry Citizenship principally Australia, Spain and Turkey.
We are introducing Coalition EICC and we expect this to We have close working relationships modern slavery provisions to our terms increase as more refiners and smelters with all our suppliers of these materials and conditions of purchase across join the programme and are certified.
and perform regular on site audits.
Historically, these audits have covered We published our first statement Go online: product quality but more recently we in September 2016 and are progressing www.
org have begun to introduce wider our programme further.
sustainability issues into the process.
Modern Slavery and Child Labour In 2016 17, we re-established our Go online: We support the principles set out in group supply chain governance team of www.
com sustainability the UN Universal Declaration of Human senior leaders from our sustainability,  modern-slavery Rights and the International Labour legal, supply chain and procurement Organisation Core Conventions, including functions.
The remit of the team is to the conventions on child labour, forced discuss emerging global supply chain labour, non-discrimination, freedom of issues, the changing regulatory landscape association and collective bargaining.
and Johnson Matthey's obligations and strategy to address these.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
