42 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 2.
Financial Performance New Businesses Divisional Summary Business Battery Technologies Fuel Cells What We Do Research, development and manufacture of battery materials, Develop and manufacture catalysts and components for emerging design and supply of high performance battery systems fuel cell markets How We Development of improved and next generation battery materials, Leverage expertise in advanced materials to develop more Add Value design and integration of high performance battery systems economically viable fuel cell components Societal Alternative energy Benets Low carbon, zero emission transport power Global Drivers Environmental Factors Natural Resource Health and Nutrition Constraints Climate Change Ageing Population Increasing Electrication Regulation Customer Automotive and heavy duty vehicle customers Manufacturers of fuel cells for portable, automotive and stationary applications Prole Lithium-ion cell manufacturers High performance cordless tool and niche transport manufacturers Major Systems: Materials: W L Gore Competitors LG BASF 3M BMZ Umicore Employees 1,125 Locations Materials manufacturing in China and Canada Headquartered in UK Materials R&D in UK and Germany R&D capability in UK Systems design, development and manufacture in UK and Poland 2016 17 Sales 191 million We are targeting opportunities with sales potential of at least 200 million Strategy per annum within ten years.
We will focus on areas adjacent to our current Targeting opportunities businesses and that build on our core technology competences.
with sales potential of The division is focused on developing new business areas.
Potential areas around 200 million must show a good fit with our key global drivers, offer strong market growth, per annum by 2020 attractive margin potential and present the opportunity for new market entry Develop new business areas positions through application of Johnson Mattheys technology.
We will invest in R&D to drive growth through developing technology for new Invest in R&D to drive growth markets.
Through an ongoing process, we will identify and evaluate new opportunities whilst developing and filtering out those already in our pipeline.
Make targeted acquisitions to accelerate progress Alongside organic development and the evolution of our business plans, we anticipate the need to fill gaps in our experience and make targeted acquisitions to accelerate progress.
These are likely to be relatively small scale, up to the value of around 100 million.
43 Performance in 2016 17 Year to 31st March % change, 2017 2016 % constant million million change rates Sales excluding precious metals sales 191 157 22 10 1 Underlying operating profit loss 14.4 17.9 20 12 1 In the year ended 31st March 2017, our long term investments in two venture funds were impaired and this resulted in a charge of 5 million.
Through our New Businesses Operating Profit Division we access additional The underlying operating loss reduced by areas of potential growth 3.5 million despite taking a 5 million impairment charge.
The underlying Widened our portfolio of battery improvement resulted from a significant materials, developing high energy reduction in the operating loss in materials Fuel Cells, helped by the prior year Sales growth and improving restructuring, and improved profitability productivity in Fuel Cells within Battery Technologies.
We will continue to make progress in the Battery Technologies is the biggest underlying profitability of New Businesses.
element of New Businesses and has two parts, Battery Systems and Battery Materials.
Battery Materials, which sells battery New Businesses Sales materials for automotive applications, saw sales down 2% with a significantly weaker second half as changes to electric vehicle tax incentives in China have Battery Other Technologies impacted the market for lithium iron 17% 77% phosphate LFP battery materials.
Drawing on our expertise in nickel-based Fuel Cells 6% chemistry we have moved at pace to extend our battery technology platforms.
We have already entered into two new licensing agreements and are developing nickel rich, high energy battery materials.
Battery Systems is a cell assembly business and delivered single digit growth mainly from increasing demand for e-bikes in Europe.
In our other new businesses, growth in the stationary back up power market benefited Fuel Cells, with sales 23% ahead of last year.
We increased our expertise in water technology with small acquisitions of MIOX Corporation and Finex in 2016.
Atmosphere Control Technologies, acquired in May 2015, delivered modest sales growth in North America.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
