107 Summary of Key Provisions of Executive Directors Service Contracts and Treatment of Payments on Termination 1 Robert MacLeod Anna Manz John Walker Date of service agreement 31st January 2014 25th July 2016 31st January 2014 Date of appointment as director 22nd June 2009 17th October 2016 9th October 2013 Employing company Johnson Matthey Plc Contract duration No fixed term.
Notice period No more than 12 months notice, with equal notice from the company and director except for directors who joined before 1st January 2017 where the directors notice period is six months and the notice period from the company is 12 months.
Post-termination restrictions The contracts of employment contain the following restrictions on the director for the following periods from the date of termination of employment: non-compete six months: non-dealing and non-solicitation of client customers 12 months: non-solicitation of suppliers and non-interference with supply chain 12 months: and non-solicitation of employees 12 months.
Summary termination payment The company may, in its absolute discretion, terminate the employment of the director with in lieu of notice PILON immediate effect by giving written notice together with payment of a sum equivalent to the directors base salary and the value of their contractual benefits as at the date such notice is given, in respect of the directors notice period, less any period of notice actually worked.
The company may elect to pay the PILON in equal monthly instalments.
The director is under a duty to seek alternative employment and to keep the company informed about whether they have been successful.
If the director commences alternative employment, the monthly instalments shall be reduced.
if appropriate to nil by the amount of the directors gross earnings from the alternative employment.
A PILON paid to a director who is a US taxpayer John Walker would be in equal monthly instalments.
Termination payment change of control If, within one year after a change of control, the directors service agreement is terminated by the company other than in accordance with the summary termination provisions, the company shall pay, as liquidated damages, one years base salary, together with a sum equivalent to the value of the directors contractual benefits, as at the date of termination, less the period of any notice given by the company to the director.
Termination treatment of annual Annual bonus awards are made at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Employees, incentive awards including Executive Directors, leaving the companys employment will receive a bonus, pro-rata to service, unless the reason for leaving is resignation or misconduct.
Any bonus awarded would continue to be subject to deferral as set out in the Remuneration Policy.
In relation to deferred bonus awards which have already been made, shares will be released on the normal vesting date unless one of the following circumstances applies, and subject to the discretion of the Remuneration Committee: the participant leaves as a result of misconduct: or the participant, prior to vesting, breaches one of the post-termination restrictions or covenants provided for their employment contract, termination agreement or similar agreement.
In which case the deferred awards will lapse on cessation of employment.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to accelerate vesting of a deferred award if appropriate to do so to reflect the circumstances of the departure.
It is intended that this would only be used in the event of a departure due to ill health or death.
Termination treatment of long term Employees, including Executive Directors, leaving the companys employment will normally lose incentive awards their long term incentive awards unless they leave for a specified good leaver reason, in which case their shares will be released on the normal release dates, subject to the performance condition.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to accelerate vesting, in which case the performance condition would be assessed based on available information at the time.
In either case, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, the level of vesting shall be pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the performance period which has elapsed to the date of leaving.
In the post-vesting deferral period, only those who leave due to misconduct will lose their shares.
Redundancy scheme The director is not entitled to any benefit under any redundancy payments scheme operated by the company.
Holiday Upon termination for any reason, directors will be entitled to payment in lieu of accrued but untaken holiday entitlement.
1 John Walker is eligible for continuing post-retirement medical benefits provided he satisfies the conditions of this plan and retires directly from Johnson Matthey.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
