40 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 2.
Financial Performance Fine Chemicals Divisional Summary Business Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient API Manufacturing Catalysis and Chiral Technologies API and lifecycle management Custom pharma solutions What We Do Develop and manufacture complex APIs Provide custom pharmaceutical research, Supply a leading range of speciality for a variety of treatments, including for development and manufacturing services chemical, chiral and biocatalytic pain management and Attention deficit technologies and products Hyperactivity Disorders ADHD How We Use our unique technology position and Leading complex chemistry capabilities Use our unique catalysis technology Add Value expertise to develop and manufacture and technology, coupled with outstanding position to develop highly ecient and APIs, enabling first to market services, enabling customers to increase sustainable catalytic processes and commercialisation opportunities for R&D productivity and speed to market manufacture products for customers in the our branded and generic customers pharmaceutical and agrochemical sectors Societal Improved quality of life for an ageing Facilitating the development and Sustainable processes that enable cost global population commercialisation of pharmaceuticals eective pharmaceutical manufacture Benets for unmet medical needs Treats critical conditions e. g. cancer, chronic pain, neurodegenerative diseases Global Drivers Health and Nutrition Population Growth Ageing Population Urbanisation Increasing Wealth Customer Prole Multiple small and large branded and Innovative pharmaceutical companies Pharmaceutical, ne chemical and generic pharmaceutical companies developing novel products agrochemical companies Major Medtronic Siegfried AMRI Hovione Evonik Competitors Noramco Cambrex Alcami Almac BASF Francopia AMRI Employees 1,292 Locations Global network of 11 sites located in US, Europe, India and China 2016 17 Sales 236 million 48 million Fine Chemicals is focused on delivering niche products and services to Strategy pharmaceutical markets where it can apply its capabilities in complex chemistry, Deliver niche products research, development and manufacturing to deliver existing and new products.
and services to Differentiation through technology while delivering on speed to market and pharmaceutical markets quality is a key value proposition we offer to both innovative and generic pharmaceutical customers.
Leverage synergies By leveraging synergies between market presence, technology and our global between market presence, technology and global manufacturing network across the division, we maintain a robust portfolio of new products and customers.
Vertical integration and close collaboration manufacturing network between its businesses are key advantages the division offers to customers Move further up the through providing a unique and differentiated offering.
pharmaceutical value chain Building upon its reputation as a premier technology led API development business, Fine Chemicals aims to extend its position in generic pharmaceuticals Deliver superior growth by moving further up the pharmaceutical value chain, through coinvesting and codeveloping new formulated drug products to increase access and value share of this high growth market segment.
The division aims to deliver superior growth in markets that are driven by global trends towards the increased use of pharmaceutical products.
Its strong position in niche areas and its technology, process development and manufacturing infrastructure position it well for growth at rates ahead of industry baselines.
41 % change, Performance in 2016 17 continuing 1 Year to 31st March businesses 2017 2016 % at constant million million change rates Sales excluding precious metals sales 284 296 -4 1 Underlying operating profit 64.5 82.3 -22 -23 Return on sales 22.8% 27.8% Return on invested capital ROIC 12.3% 16.9% 1 Continuing businesses excludes sales and underlying operating profit from the year ended 31st March 2016 of 38 million and 7.5 million respectively in relation to the Research Chemicals business sold in September 2015.
Increased competition in the US We also saw increased sales of an API Strong sales from active APIs for market for ADHD treatments had a for the treatment of muscular dystrophy, two newly approved drugs offset significant impact on the business as approval was granted for a customers lower sales of ADHD APIs results.
While the market for ADHD new product in September 2016.
Underlying operating profit was treatments grew in the year, consolidation Our API Manufacturing business significantly down due to lower sales of distributors and increased competition also includes our contract development of the higher margin ADHD APIs amongst ADHD drug product business.
This had an excellent year of manufacturers led to significant pricing sales.
The business benefited from Investment to drive medium term pressures.
The impact of this on our main capacity expansion in North America and growth through the continued customer led to a reduction in our sales.
a full years contribution of Pharmorphix, development of our pipeline of Sales of opiate-based APIs were a solid state research services provider new APIs lower this year, partly reflecting increased acquired last year, which has broadened competition in the market for bulk our product and service offering.
API Manufacturing opiates, principally codeine and morphine.
Sales were also impacted Our API Manufacturing business Catalysis and Chiral Technologies CCT by the conclusion of a contract with develops and manufactures APIs for a CCT saw increased sales across its range one customer for a specialist opiate.
variety of treatments, with over half of catalysts, with particular growth in The US Drug Enforcement Agency of our sales coming from opiate-based catalysts used in the production of drugs has introduced tighter manufacturing painkillers and ADHD treatments.
While to treat Hepatitis C. quotas for the 2017 calendar year for our API portfolio is currently relatively certain controlled substances.
This had small, there is great opportunity for Operating Profit no material impact on sales in the year, Johnson Matthey to increase its share although the tighter quotas may impact of a $650 billion global pharmaceutical The reduced contribution from future periods.
market growing at mid to high single ADHD-related sales had a significant Sales of other APIs grew strongly.
impact on underlying operating profit benefited from a significant contribution The performance in the year reflects at a time when we were investing in from dofetilide, an anti-arrhythmic lower sales from ADHD treatments in the the business to develop future growth.
drug and which is currently the only US and lower sales of opiate-based APIs, This was partially offset by the strong true generic alternative to Tikosyn.
broadly offset by sales of new APIs for contribution of dofetilide for the first We worked to develop dofetilide with drugs which have been in development time this year.
the generic manufacturer and we now and have now been successfully launched.
In the year we have continued supply the API.
Following its launch in to develop our API product portfolio June 2016 it has had strong sales, and now have over 40 products in particularly in the second half of the year.
This will reduce volatility of sales and profit trends, improving performance as our portfolio builds Fine Chemicals Sales by Business % change, scale in the medium term.
In 2017 18, continuing 1 sales growth will improve and operating businesses 2017 2016 % at constant profit is expected to grow.
million million change rates API Manufacturing 236 217 9 -1 Return on Invested Capital Catalysis and Chiral Technologies 48 41 17 9 Research Chemicals 38 The reduction in operating profit, partly as a result of investing in future growth, Total 284 296 -4 1 was the primary driver of the reduction in ROIC to 12.3%.
1 Continuing businesses excludes the Research Chemicals business that was sold in September 2015.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
