10 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 1.
Building a Sustainable Business Our Global Markets Customer demand for sustainable, technological solutions to global issues defines our markets.
Johnson Mattheys markets are global and are defined by four global sustainability drivers: Population Growth Natural Resource Environmental Factors Health and Nutrition Constraints Urbanisation Climate Change Ageing Population Increasing Electrication Increasing Wealth Regulation These four drivers present significant global challenges which Johnson Matthey believes can be addressed by science-led solutions to enable clean air, improved health and more efficient use of natural resources.
11 Population Urbanisation Increasing wealth Constraints on Protecting the The health and growth natural resources environment nutrition of The percentage The global GDP is the growing and The worlds Global annual use As of April 2017, of the worlds expected to grow ageing population.
population is of metals, biomass, 144 countries population living by 2.7% in 2017 By 2020 to 2025 estimated to minerals and have ratified the in cities is and to increase the average global increase by other materials Paris Agreement expected to further in life expectancy 0.24 billion will increase from pledging to reduce increase by subsequent years.
Clean Air Public awareness of air quality issues has continued to increase globally.
This is particularly the case in urban areas where Johnson Mattheys emission control catalysts and technologies for low or zero emission transport are a key part of the solution.
Ecient Use of Natural Resources Constraints on natural resources are increasing and we are transitioning to a wider range of energy sources.
Johnson Mattheys products, such as process catalysts, recycling capabilities and fuel cell technologies, help the world use resources efficiently and protect the environment.
Improved Health Affordability of healthcare increasingly wealthy and increasingly ageing populations across the globe will continue to place greater demands on healthcare provision, including on its affordability.
Johnson Mattheys unique capabilities help bring cost effective, niche treatments to the market.
Johnson Mattheys vision is for a world that is cleaner and healthier.
We believe that our leadership in sustainable technologies and the application of cutting edge, chemistry based science creates customer focused solutions for the opportunities and challenges of the four global sustainability drivers.
Our customers operate globally in: Automotive Chemicals Pharmaceuticals The automotive sector is undergoing a The market for chemicals is cyclical, Improved life expectancy and the once in a lifetime transformation with influenced by supply demand affordability of healthcare drive demand the evolution of the powertrain and fundamentals linked to GDP growth, in the $650 billion global pharmaceuticals changing ownership models, driven in chemical production capacity and market which is expected to grow at part by the global drive for improved feedstock prices.
Global GDP is expected mid to high single digit percent per year.
There is increasing focus on to remain muted and in China, GDP is Within this, the market for active tackling pollutants and reducing CO expected to stabilise at mid single digit pharmaceutical ingredients APIs, the 2 emissions from vehicles and we are levels, lower than historical performance.
chemically active substance which is responding with science-led solutions Lower growth in China impacts the price meant to produce the desired effect in for clean air.
of oil, for example, and creates supply the body, is growing at a similar rate.
Over 60% of our sales are to demand imbalances elsewhere.
We are 9% of our sales are to the automotive manufacturers of both cars also seeing a changing balance in energy pharmaceuticals market where we and trucks using diesel, gasoline, hybrid sources with gas and renewables playing mainly develop and supply APIs which or electrified engines.
We have leading increasingly important roles.
These are used by our customers in the technologies and supply a range of challenges provide opportunities for manufacture of drugs.
We also provide solutions including emission control Johnson Matthey to help our customers catalysts and other intermediates used catalysts, battery materials, fuel cell to do even more with less resources in the development of pharmaceutical components, windscreen enamels and and adapt to changes in feedstock and products and offer contract development spark plug tips.
In 2016 17 our sales to energy supplies.
In 2016 17, the automotive industry increased by 4% 12% of our sales are to chemical our sales for continuing businesses at at constant rates.
The drivers of this industry customers and we have strong constant rates were 1% down as strong performance, which are tightening positions and leading technologies.
sales of APIs for two newly approved legislation to control pollutants and CO We provide licences, catalysts and other drugs broadly offset lower sales of APIs 2 emissions and demand for vehicles, are services including diagnostics and catalyst used in drugs to treat ADHD.
These help our customers Pharmaceutical customers look for In the short and medium term, operate their processes at optimum cost effective ways of delivering complex, tightening legislation, first in Europe and efficiency and with reduced environmental high quality products and are increasingly then in the Chinese and Indian markets, impact.
In 2016 17 our sales to the outsourcing API manufacture to partners will drive growth through the need for chemicals market were 4% lower at with skills in the development of APIs for more complex, higher value solutions constant rates as a result of limited generic drug products.
With expertise in from Johnson Matthey.
As the mix of investment in the construction of new complex chemistry, scale up and working vehicle powertrains evolves and diversifies plants and surplus manufacturing in highly regulated environments there with increasing degrees of electrification, capacity for chemicals, reflecting the are opportunities for Johnson Matthey Johnson Matthey is investing in the current lows in the market cycle.
in the large and growing pharmaceutical development of next generation Looking ahead, as we move through market to deliver a strong pipeline of technologies and in our manufacturing the cycle, volumes for end products new products to improve health.
facilities to ensure we have an efficient enabled by our technology are expected and flexible base from which to deliver to continue to increase driven by clean air solutions for our customers.
population growth and the imperative to use natural resources more efficiently.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
