Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Report Chairmans Letter This is my second letter as Chair of the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee and since last year we have continued to make great progress on our CSR initiatives.
In seeking to ensure that CSR initiatives are increasingly integrated into our business we have developed the programme significantly from when I gave my first report last year.
We have added a greater focus on Environmental Management to the Committees remit and we are constantly seeking to ensure that our Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy remains fit for purpose.
Helen Jones During the year, the Committee ensured that: CSR Committee Chairman short and long term objectives for the Companys CSR activities are in place: We are constantly seeking to key metrics are reported on: and ensure that our Corporate Social all related policies are regularly reviewed and Responsibility Strategy remains fit updated.
Committee Composition and Meetings Fast Fact The Committee consisted of: Helen Jones Chairman Jill McDonald Jonathan Crookall 3 Emma Fox resigned 20 January 2017 Committee Richard Street appointed 27 March 2017 Andy Randall appointed 27 March 2017 meetings held There were three Committee meetings held during the year and after each one, I reported to the Board on the key issues that we had discussed.
Informal discussions were also held between Committee members, business leaders and me throughout the year as the need arose.
72 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 31 March 2017 slugline Halfords Annual Report 2017. indd 72 07 06 2017 16:38:22 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Report Activities undertaken Looking Ahead During the year the Committee: We have prioritised our work on Environmental Management as a key area of focus in the year ahead.
Having allocated resource to agreed internal priorities and metrics to track and deliver CSR support this, we will concentrate on agreeing detailed benchmarks progress: for measuring our performance and the development of our strategy.
reviewed and agreed the Companys approach to charitable The Committees Terms of Reference are available on the support: Companys corporate website www.
com investors governance our-committees approved an additional charity partner, voted for by colleagues: approved internal and external policies on Environment: Helen Jones Chairman of the CSR Committee carried out an annual review of the CSR Policy: 24 May 2017 carried out an annual review of the Committees Terms of Reference: and reviewed proposed changes in forthcoming CSR related regulations and governance.
Further information on corporate social responsibility in the Group, including environmental details on emissions, can be found on pages 30 to 35 of the Strategic Report.
