ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This section of the Remuneration Report contains details of how the Directors Remuneration Policy the Remuneration Policy was implemented during the year ended 31 March 2017.
The individual sections of this report which are required by the Regulators to be subject to audit are: Single figure table and notes: Scheme interests awarded during the financial year: Payments to past Directors: Payments for loss of office: and Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests.
Single total figure of remuneration The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Executive Director paid in the year ended 31 March 2017.
The figures have been calculated in accordance with the remuneration disclosure regulations.
2 Nicholas Vetch and James Gibson receive a cash supplement in lieu of their full pension contributions.
Adrian Lee and John Trotman receive cash supplements in lieu of pension contributions above 10,000.
The value shown in long term incentives in the current year is the LTIP award granted in 2013 which vested on 22 July 2016 to 100% of its maximum value and is valued using the share price on that date of 718.5p.
The award granted for 2017 is 100% of salary for each Executive Director.
The average salary increase across the Group in the year was 2%: this increase was also applied to the Executive Directors for the year.
The value shown for the Sharesave Scheme in the prior year is the value of the shares under option at vesting less each Directors contributions to the scheme.
Annual Bonus Plan awards The policy of the Company is that the bonus paid to the Executive Directors is the same as the average of the bonus awards as a % of salary paid to all the Groups stores on achieving their targets during the course of the year.
It is an important part of the Groups culture that the Executive team are rewarded with the same level of annual bonus as the average for all staff.
In respect of the year under review, the Executive Directors performance was carefully reviewed by the Committee, in consultation with the Executive Chairman in respect of the other Executive Directors, and it was determined that the performance in the year by the Executive Directors results in a bonus of 10% of salary in line with the average bonus as a percentage of salary paid across the stores.
Overview of the staff bonus scheme The staff bonus scheme is designed, on a quarterly basis, to reward each store with a bonus of up to 25% of their quarterly salary, made up of the following four key elements set out below: Occupancy performance against target Each store is set a quarterly target for occupancy growth.
The weighting of the contribution of these metrics to the bonus varies based on store occupancy, with higher occupied stores having a lower weighting towards their performance against their occupancy target.
The bonus awarded to each store increases as the store moves further ahead of target.
No bonus is awarded if the store fails to meet its target.
The individual store targets have not been disclosed as it would be impractical and commercially sensitive to disclose the targets for every one of our 73 stores in this report.
However following feedback received from our shareholders on last years report to increase the disclosure around the annual bonus, we have shown the average annual distribution of performance against target for each of the bonus measures across our stores and the corresponding average pay-out as a percentage of salary which directly corresponds to the bonus percentage pay-out for the Executive Directors.
75 Remuneration Report continued Year ended 31 March 2017 Annual Bonus Plan awards continued The average performance against the four key targets and the associated reward for the stores were as follows: 1.
Occupancy Performance 0 to 10% ahead 10 to 20% ahead 20 to 30% ahead 30 to 40% ahead 40% ahead against target Below target of target of target of target of target of target Total No of stores 39 23 3 3 23 73 Average bonus paid 0% 0.7% 2.0% 4.5% 5.9% 8.7% 3.1% Additionally, eight stores were awarded bonuses for averaging 85% occupancy and above earning a total weighted average bonus of 0.2%.
The weighted average bonus paid to stores for performance against occupancy targets is therefore 3.3% of salary for the year.
Profitability Each store is set a quarterly target for profitability.
The weighting of the contribution of these metrics to the bonus varies based on store occupancy, with higher occupied stores having a higher weighting towards their performance against their profitability target.
The performance distribution of the stores performance against their individual targets are provided below.
Performance 0 to 1% ahead 1 to 2% ahead 2 to 3% ahead 3% ahead against target Below target of target of target of target of target Total No of stores 37 14 11 74 73 Average bonus paid 0% 3.3% 4.2% 9.2% 9.7% 2.7% The weighted average bonus paid to stores for performance against profitability targets is therefore 2.7% of salary for the year.
Store audits Stores receive a bonus if they receive an audit score of in excess of 85% based on visits carried out by the Groups store compliance team.
There were 31 instances of stores receiving an audit score of 85% and above across the year, leading to a weighted average bonus paid to the stores of 0.7% of salary.
Customer satisfaction Stores are rewarded based on two elements of customer satisfaction, net promoter scores and individual customer service awards.
The awards based on net promoter scores are summarised in the table below.
NPS score 65 65 to 75 75 to 80 80 Total No of stores 9 20 15 29 73 Average bonus paid 0% 1.3% 2.3% 2.9% 1.9% The weighted average bonus paid to stores for performance against net promoter scores is therefore 1.9% of salary for the year.
The bonus paid to stores for individual customer service awards amounted to a further 1.4% of salary, which, combined with the net promoter score, amounted to a weighted average bonus paid to the stores for Customer satisfaction of 3.3% of salary.
Summary The bonus received by the stores against their targets in the year is summarised as follows.
Category Actual % weighting for category Average % of salary bonus paid across stores 1.
