8 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 1.
Building a Sustainable Business Strategy Our vision is for a world thats cleaner and healthier: today and for future generations.
Our ambition is to be one of the best performing, most trusted and admired speciality chemicals companies in the world.
We are proud of our products and technologies, how our customers use them and the positive impact they have on our planet.
We are passionate about how science can enable global solutions for clean air, improved health and make the most efficient use of our planets natural resources.
This is central to our purpose to apply inspiring science to enhance life.
Our strategy is designed to achieve this.
Our strategy is to deliver sustainable growth using our existing market leading technologies and through developing the next generation of technologies to meet the global challenges and opportunities from: Efficient Natural Clean Air Health Resources 9 We are a technology leader in four fundamental areas of science: We will create value for our shareholders and our customers by applying inspiring Precious metal chemistry and metallurgy science to enhance life and we will measure our progress through our KPIs.
Surface chemistry Materials characterisation and testing Read more about our KPIs Material design and engineering on pages 22 and 23.
Our Business What we do and how we deliver our strategy Johnson Matthey is a global leader in science that enables cleaner air, improved health and more efficient use of natural resources.
We: Improve the performance of their products Provide our customers with customised solutions Reduce their capital requirements or cost Which Collaborate with them in the development of new and enables our Bring products to market faster next generation products customers to Reduce their environmental impact Scale up complex manufacturing Comply with regulations or legislation We have built a sustainable business platform to do this by: 265 million Investing in research and development and capital expenditure to enhance of capital expenditure our existing technologies and to develop new technologies which will diversify our offer Building the strong, collaborative customer relationships which form part 1 of Johnson Mattheys reputation.
We leverage these relationships over time 201 million for our benefit and the benefit of our customers gross R&D investment Creating flexible operations.
We invest to move from lab to production at scale through efficient global manufacturing operations in accordance with our strategy, our values and our sustainable business goals 93% of sales Increasing our effectiveness in all areas from cost to cash, from health and safety to the impact we have on the environment and our stakeholders.
from products with sustainability benefit Our Values Our values highlight whats important to us, what makes us distinctive and they explain what its like to work at Johnson Matthey.
Health and Safety is Our Priority Recognition and Development Freedom to Act We focus on protecting our people.
Anyone from anywhere can progress.
Anyone with a good business case can realise their ideas.
Integrity Ability and Innovation The Best of Big and Small Doing the right thing is important to us.
We seek and value talented people.
We have big company resources but apply small company flexibility.
1 Gross R&D includes capitalised development of 19 million which is also included in capital expenditure.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
