Working safely is a condition of They are led by site senior management Introduction employment.
and meet on a regular basis to cascade Our vision is for a cleaner and healthier plans and ideas to and from our workforce.
We will promote off the job health world and we make health and safety our Over half of our manufacturing sites and safety for our employees.
We use our scientific know-how have a formal joint worker-management to improve health, safety and wellbeing.
The maturity model that we have health and safety committee comprised It is applied by our customers in products adopted helps map our course towards of representatives from both staff level that are used to relieve pain, restore further improvements in embedding and management grades, covering 67% hearing and alleviate the symptoms of a health and safety.
We reviewed our of employees globally.
At the same performance this year and believe time, we strive to safeguard the safety and that we have remained at level three, Safety Performance wellbeing of our staff and those who involving, which is about making sure come into contact with our products.
Our performance is summarised in all of our people are engaged.
We know Health and safety is one of Johnson the table on page 60 and the charts on that culture does not change overnight Mattheys core values and we have been page 65.
Our LTIIR rate increased by 32% and a one size fits all approach to health working hard to embed it in our culture.
during the year, from 0.37 in 2015 16 to and safety wont get the positive results We have adopted a safety culture maturity 0.49 in 2016 17.
Over the same period, we require, so progressing along the model below to guide our progress our TRIIR also increased from 0.85 to maturity model demands commitment and employees are required to follow 1.05, an increase of 24%.
five clear and simple safety principles.
a total of 60 lost time accidents and To move to level four we need to In addition, with a health and safety illnesses across the group during 2016 17. make sure that everyone at Johnson element now a requirement of all There were no employee fatalities in Matthey reaches a high level of employees performance reviews, we the year: the last employee fatality at engagement with health and safety.
have taken further steps to ensure it Johnson Matthey occurred in July 2015.
This starts with our managers and team remains firmly on everyones radar.
We have focused on behaviours with leaders who need to inspire their teams The group has made good progress the launch of the Environment, Health and lead by example.
We are bringing over the past few years.
However, recently and Safety EHS Behaviour Standard this to life for them through a new training the trend of improved performance has and there was a reduction in the number programme, My Team, My Responsibility.
reversed and we must do better.
We are of incidents related to people failing to This is reinforced by the delivery of site committed to this and over the last year follow procedures.
The standard has also specific improvement plans for each of our new measures, such as an improved empowered people to speak up about sites, 70 of which were developed last year.
incident reporting system and a new incidents and say when they are related These plans identify specific areas behavioural training scheme, have been to workplace design.
Remedial action of action for example, improving put in place to help us regain momentum.
plans are then set up to tackle the issues.
communications, tightening up our Most of the increases in incidents processes and training leaders in how are found among those where a lack of Our Commitment to Health to make safety a priority.
situational awareness is a key root cause, and Safety 27 of our sites are compliant with with workers failing to maintain their BS OHSAS 18001, the internationally Our focus on health and safety is attention when in the workplace.
One recognised British Standard that sets out underpinned by five principles: of the modules of the new My Team, requirements for occupational health 1.
All injuries and occupational My Responsibility programme aims to and safety management good practice.
encourage a mindset of heightened illnesses are preventable.
All of our manufacturing sites have awareness of the hazards in the workplace.
formal health and safety committees to 2.
We are all responsible for preventing help monitor, collect feedback and advise injuries and occupational illness.
Adherence to lifesaving policies and site safety rules is mandatory.
Our Safety Culture Maturity Model Level 5 Continually January 2017 improving Level 4 Cooperating January 2015 Develop consistency Level 3 and fight complacency Involving Engage all staff to develop cooperation and commitment to improving safety Level 2 Managing Realise the importance of frontline staff and develop personal responsibility Level 1 Emerging Develop management commitment Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
