Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited Management Report financial statements of AO World Plc the Company and its subsidiaries This Directors Report, on pages 81 to 84, together with the Strategic together the Group for the financial year to 31 March 2017.
Report on pages 16 to 51, form the Management Report for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
Statutory Information Information required to be part of the Directors Report can be found The Strategic Report elsewhere in this document, as indicated in the table below, and is The Strategic Report, which can be found on pages 16 to 51, sets out incorporated into this Report by reference: the development and performance of the Groups business during the financial year, the position of the Group at the end of the year, strategic Statutory Information Section Page KPIs and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties which is set out on pages 40 to 44.
Amendment of the Articles Directors Report 82 Appointment and Directors Report UK Corporate Governance Code replacement of Directors 81 The Companys statement on corporate governance can be found in Board of Directors Corporate Governance the Corporate Governance Statement, the Audit Committee Report, Statement 54 and 55 the Nomination Committee Report and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 79.
The Corporate Governance Statement, the Change of control Directors Report 82 Audit Committee Report and the Nomination Committee Report form Community Strategic Report: part of this Directors Report and are incorporated into the Directors Corporate Social Report by reference.
Responsibility 30 to 33 Directors indemnities Directors Report 83 Appointment and replacement of Directors The appointment and replacement of Directors of the Company is Directors interests Remuneration Report 78 governed by the Articles.
Directors responsibility Directors Report statement 84 Appointment of Directors: A Director may be appointed by the Disclosure of information Directors Report Company by ordinary resolution of the shareholders or by the Board to Auditors 84 having regard to the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next Employee involvement Strategic Report: Annual General Meeting of the Company and is then eligible for Corporate Social reappointment.
Responsibility 30 to 33 Employees with disabilities Strategic Report: The Directors may appoint one or more of their number to the office Corporate Social of CEO or to any other executive office of the Company and any such Responsibility 31 appointment may be made for such term, at such remuneration and Future developments Strategic Report on such other conditions as the Directors think fit.
of the business 16 to 51 Retirement of Directors: At every Annual General Meeting of the Going concern Strategic Report 44 Company, at least all Directors who held office at the time of the two Greenhouse gas emissions Corporate Social preceding AGMs and did not retire at either of them shall retire from Responsibility 33 office but may offer themselves for re-election and if the number of Independent Auditor Directors Report 83 retiring Directors is less than onethird of Directors then additional Directors shall be required to retire.
However, in accordance with the Results and dividends Directors Report 83 Code, all Directors will retire and be subject to re-election at the Political donations Directors Report 83 forthcoming AGM.
Postbalance sheet events Directors Report 83 Removal of Directors by special resolution: The Company may Powers for the Company to Directors Report by special resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his issue or buy back its shares 82 period of office.
Powers of the Directors Directors Report 82 Research and development Directors Report Termination of a Directors appointment: A person ceases to be activities 83 a Director if: i t hat person ceases to be a Director by virtue of any provision of the Restrictions on transfer Directors Report Companies Act 2006 or is prohibited from being a Director by law: of securities 82 ii a b ankruptcy order is made against that person: Rights attaching to shares Directors Report 82 iii a composition is made with that persons creditors generally in Risk management Strategic Report: 40 to 44, satisfaction of that persons debts: note 35 to the consolidated 64 and iv t hat person resigns or retires from office: financial statements 107 to 111 v in the case of a Director who holds any executive office, his appointment as such is terminated or expires and the Directors Share capital Directors Report 82 resolve that he should cease to be a Director: Significant related party Note 36 to the consolidated vi that person is absent without permission of the Board from Board agreements financial statements 111 meetings for more than six consecutive months and the Directors Significant shareholders Directors Report 83 resolve that he should cease to be a Director: or vii a no tice in writing is served upon him personally, or at his Statement of corporate Corporate Governance residential address provided to the Company for the purposes of governance Statement 52 to 79 section 165 of the Companies Act 2006, signed by all the other Voting rights Directors Report 82 Directors stating that he shall cease to be a Director with immediate effect.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 81 Directors Report continued For further details of our Directors please refer to pages 54 and 55.
Voting rights Each ordinary share entitles the holder to vote at general meetings Amendment of the Articles of the Company.
A resolution put to the vote of the meeting shall be The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a decided on a show of hands unless a poll is demanded.
On a show special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No amendments of hands, every member who is present in person or by proxy at a are proposed to be made to the existing Articles of Association at the general meeting of the Company shall have one vote.
On a poll, every forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which they are a holder.
The Articles provide a deadline Share capital and control for submission of proxy forms of not than less than 48 hours before the The Companys issued share capital comprises of ordinary shares time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
of 0.25p each which are listed on the London Stock Exchange LSE: No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting either in AO.
L. The ISIN of the shares is GB00BJTNFH41.
As at 31March 2017, person or by proxy, in respect of any share held by him unless all the issued share capital of the Company was 1,052,632 comprising amounts presently payable by him in respect of that share have been 421,052,631 ordinary shares of 0.25p each.
Save as noted, there are no restrictions on voting rights nor any 30 March 2017, following the allotment of 37,735,849 shares pursuant agreement that may result in such restrictions.
to a Placing of new shares in the Company, as at the date of publication of this report, the issued share capital of the Company was 1,146,971 Restrictions on transfer of securities comprising 458,788,480 ordinary shares of 0.25p each There are no restrictions on the free transferability of the Companys shares save that the Directors may, in their absolute discretion, refuse Details of the issued share capital of the Company, together with to register the transfer of a share: movements in the issued share capital during the year, can be found 1 i n certificated form which is not fully paid provided that if the share in note 29 to the financial statements on page 104.
All the information is listed on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority such refusal detailed in note 29 on page 104 forms part of this Directors Report does not prevent dealings in the shares from taking place on an and is incorporated into it by reference.
open and proper basis: or 2 i n certificated form whether fully paid or not unless the Details of employee share schemes are provided in note 32 to the instrument of transfer a is lodged, duly stamped, at the Office or financial statements on pages 105 to 107. at such other place as the Directors may appoint and except in the case of a transfer by a financial institution where a certificate has At the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 21 July not been issued in respect of the share is accompanied by the 2017 the Directors will seek authority from shareholders to allot shares certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence in the capital of the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the 763,882.82 305,553,127 shares representing approximately 66.6% transferor to make the transfer: b is in respect of only one class of of the Companys issued ordinary share capital of which 152,776,563 share and c is in favour of not more than four transferees: or shares representing approximately 33% of the Companys issued 3 in uncertificated form to a person who is to hold it thereafter in ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares can only be allotted certificated form in any case where the Company is entitled to pursuant to a rights issue.
refuse or is excepted from the requirement under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations to register the transfer: or Authority to purchase own shares 4 where restrictions are imposed by laws and regulations from time The Directors will seek authority from shareholders at the to time apply for example insider trading laws.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting for the Company to purchase, in the market, up to a maximum of 45,878,848 of its own ordinary In relation to awards options under the PSP, ERP and the AO shares either to be cancelled or retained as treasury shares.
The Sharesave Scheme, rights are not transferable other than to a Directors will only use this power after careful consideration, taking participants personal representatives in the event of death.
into account the financial resources of the Company, the Companys share price and future funding opportunities.
The Directors will also The Directors are not aware of any arrangements between take into account the effects on earnings per share and the interests shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities of shareholders generally.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Rights attaching to shares All shares have the same rights including voting and dividend Change of control rights and rights on a return of capital and restrictions as set out in Save in respect of a provision of the Companys share schemes which the Articles, described below.
Except in relation to dividends which may cause options and awards granted to employees under such have been declared and rights on a liquidation of the Company, the schemes to vest on takeover, there are no agreements between the shareholders have no rights to share in the profits of the Company.
Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation The Companys shares are not redeemable.
However, following any for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, grant of authority from shareholders, the Company may purchase or purported redundancy or otherwise because of a takeover bid.
contract to purchase any of the shares on or offmarket, subject to the Companies Act 2006 and the requirements of the Listing Rules.
Save in respect of the Companys share schemes and also the revolving credit facility agreement entered into with Lloyds Bank Plc No shareholder holds shares in the Company which carry special and Barclays Bank Plc on 3 June 2016, there are no significant rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no shares agreements to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter or relating to an employee share scheme which have rights with regard to terminate upon a change of control.
control of the Company that are not exercisable directly and solely by the employees, other than in the case of the AO Sharesave Scheme, the AO Performance Share Plan PSP and the Employee Reward Plan ERP where share interests of a participant in such scheme can be exercised by the personal representatives of a deceased participant in accordance with the Scheme rules.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 82 Overview Strategic Report Our Governance Our Results Shareholders Information 2017 Annual General Meeting Results and dividends The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 am on 21 July 2017 The Groups and Companys audited financial statements for the year at AO Park, 5A The Parklands, Lostock, Bolton BL6 4SD.
The Notice are set out on pages 88 to 118. of Meeting which sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM is enclosed with this Annual Report.
The Notice No dividend was paid by the Company during the year to 31March 2017. specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
Post-balance sheet events All proxy votes will be counted and the numbers for, against or The Company completed a placing of shares on 3 April 2017, raising withheld in relation to each resolution will be announced at the c. 50m before expenses by the issue of 37,735,849 ordinary shares.
Annual General Meeting and published on the Companys website.
There have been no other balance sheet events that either require Interests in voting rights adjustment to the financial statements or are important in the At the date of this report the Company had been notified, or was aware understanding of the Companys current position.
of, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, of the following Research and development significant interests: Innovation, specifically in IT, is a critical element of AOs strategy and therefore to the future success of the Group.
Accordingly, the majority Percentage of of the Groups research and development expenditure is Number of voting rights predominantly related to the Groups IT systems.
ordinary over ordinary shares voting shares of Indemnities and insurance Shareholder rights notified 0.25p each The Company maintains appropriate insurance to cover Directors John Roberts 109,339,261 23.83% and Officers liability for itself and its subsidiaries.
The Company also Steve Caunce excluding Persons 52,145,815 11.37% indemnifies the Directors under an indemnity, in the case of the Closely Associated Non-Executive Directors in their respective letters of appointment and in the case of the Executive Directors in a separate deed of indemnity.
Odey Asset Management LLP 40,099,295 8.74% Such indemnities contain provisions that are permitted by the director Baron Capital Group, Inc, BAMCO, 39,473,998 8.00% liability provisions of the Companies Act and the Companys Articles.
Baron Capital Management & 36,694,698 Ronald Baron Environmental Ruane, Cunniff & Goldfarb Inc. 32,674,857 7.12% Information on the Groups greenhouse gas emissions is set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility section on page 33 and forms part of Chris Hopkinson 22,605,429 4.93% this report by reference.
Rovida Holdings 21,470,991 4.68% Julie Holroyd 19,461,670 4.24% Political donations During the year, no political donations were made.
Camelot Capital Partners LLC 18,729,276 4.08% Baillie Gifford & Co Ltd 18,173,720 3.96% External branches N K Stoller 17,629,098 3.84% As part of its strategy on international expansion, the Group established a branch in Germany on 18 July 2014 via its subsidiary AO Deutschland Limited, registered in Bergheim.
Group companies have also been incorporated in the Netherlands and Belgium.
Financial instruments Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, including hedging policies and exposure of the entity to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk, are given on pages 108 to 111 in note 35 to the consolidated financial statements.
Independent Auditor KPMG LLP was appointed as the external auditor of the Company with effect from 21 July 2016 in place of Deloitte LLP, following shareholder approval.
Resolutions to authorise the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration are to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 83 Directors Report continued Disclosure of information to Auditor Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect Each of the Directors has confirmed that: of the annual financial report i So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the ii The Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view as a Director to make him herself aware of any relevant audit of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware company and the undertakings included in the consolidation of that information.
taken as a whole: and the strategic report includes a fair review of the development and This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006. undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of that they face.
the Annual Report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary applicable law and regulations.
for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in Julie Finnemore accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and Company Secretary have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on AO World Plc the same basis.
5 June 2017 Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 84
