96 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 4.
Governance 4 Other Activities I reviewed and summarised the Reviewed and approved the Audit responses and presented them for Committee Report for 2016 17.
Reviewed reports on credit controls discussion at a committee meeting.
Received reports on, and monitored, The responses were positive, with just key governance and regulatory Reviewed our performance and two areas highlighted for improvement.
Our The first was in further enhancing the review took the form of a questionnaire Reviewed the committees terms of support for Corporate Assurance and circulated to all committee members, reference in light of the UK Corporate Risk.
Significant progress has been as well as others who regularly attend Governance Code 2016 and EU made in this area in the last year but committee meetings, seeking their legislation and recommended these there is more to do.
The second area, views on matters such as committee to the board for approval.
is to continue to enhance the external composition, roles and responsibilities, audit performance evaluation process.
the dynamics and culture of meetings and the interaction with Corporate Assurance and Risk and KPMG.
Our Priorities In last years annual report we set out our priorities, over and above our business as usual work, for 2016 17.
Below we report on the status of these and set out our priorities for 2017 18.
2016 17 Comments Continue to monitor progress of the investment in business A presentation was made to the committee on the investment in information systems.
Due to the significance of the matter, the board received regular updates on the investment, including a further two presentations.
The committee also approved the reappointment of KPMG as the independent programme assurance provider for 2017 18.
Work closely with the incoming Chief Financial Officer, when I have held a number of meetings with Anna Manz since she joined Johnson Matthey to help ensure a successful introduction to the appointed, to help ensure a successful induction to the business, workings of the committee and to assist in her induction process.
including supporting the business if there is a gap between Den Jones leaving and the new Chief Financial Officer being appointed.
Start the detailed planning for the external audit tender which As discussed on page 95. is intended to be undertaken in 2017.
2017 18 Continue to monitor progress of the investment in business information systems.
Plan and conduct the tender of the external audit.
On behalf of the Audit Committee: Alan Ferguson Chairman of the Audit Committee
