72 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 4.
Governance Board of Directors Board Diversity Gender Male Female 67% 33% Board Tenure 610 years 03 years 3 3 3 36 years Dorothy Thompson retired as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 20th July 2016.
Den Jones resigned from the board as Group Finance Director at the Annual General Meeting on 20th July 2016 and left Johnson Matthey on 31st July 2016.
Anna Manz joined the board as Chief Financial Officer on 17th October 2016.
Jane Griffiths was appointed as a Non-Executive Director, joining the board with effect from 1st January 2017.
Simon Farrant General Counsel and Company Secretary Joined Johnson Matthey: 1994 Experience Appointed Company Secretary in 1999 and Group Legal Director in 2007.
He is a Solicitor and Attorney and Counselor-at-Law State of New York.
73 Tim Stevenson, OBE Chairman Robert MacLeod Chief Executive Anna Manz Chief Financial Officer Appointed to board: March 2011 Appointed to board: June 2009 Appointed to board: October 2016 Experience Experience Experience Tim was appointed Chairman in July 2011.
Tim was Robert was appointed as Chief Executive in June 2014 Anna joined Johnson Matthey as Chief Financial Chairman of The Morgan Crucible Company plc from having joined Johnson Matthey as Group Finance Ocer in October 2016.
She was previously Group December 2006 to July 2012 and Chairman of Travis Director in 2009.
Previously he was Group Finance Strategy Director and a member of the Executive Perkins plc from November 2001 to May 2010.
He Director of WS Atkins plc and a Non-Executive Committee at Diageo plc.
During 17 years at Diageo, has also sat on a number of other boards including Director at Aggreko plc.
He is a Chartered Accountant Anna held a series of senior roles, including Finance National Express plc, Partnerships UK and Tribal PLC.
with a degree in Chemical Engineering.
Director Spirits North America, Group Treasurer and He was Chief Executive at Burmah Castrol plc from Finance Director Asia Pacic.
Anna is a qualied Other Current Appointments 1998 to 2000.
He is a qualied barrister and is Lord management accountant with a degree in Chemistry.
Non-Executive Director at RELX PLC, RELX NV and Lieutenant of Oxfordshire.
Other Current Appointments Other Current Appointments Non-Executive Director at ITV plc.
International Experience Director of the Emmott Foundation Limited.
UK, US International Experience Committees China, India, Ireland, Kenya, Korea, Nigeria, Sector Experience Remuneration Committee, Nomination Committee Singapore, UK, US Chemicals, Oil and Gas, Professional Services Chairman Sector Experience International Experience Manufacturing, Media Spain, UK Sector Experience Chemicals, Manufacturing, Oil and Gas, Retail Alan Ferguson Senior Independent Director Odile Desforges Non-Executive Director Jane Griffiths Non-Executive Director Appointed to board: January 2011 Appointed to board: July 2013 Appointed to board: January 2017 Experience Experience Experience Alan was appointed a Non-Executive Directorof Odile's automotive industry experience began with Jane is currently Company Group Chairman of Janssen Johnson Mattheyin January 2011 and as Senior the French Government's Transport Research Institute EMEA, the pharmaceutical arm of Johnson & Johnson Independent Director in July 2014.
He was previously and developed with Renault SA and AB Volvo.
Since joining J&J in 1982 Jane's roles have Chief Financial Ocer and a Director of Lonmin Plc.
held senior positions in purchasing, product planning, included international and aliate strategic marketing, Prior to this he was Group Finance Director of development and engineering, including as Chairman sales management, product management, general The BOC Group.
Before joining BOC, he worked for and Chief Executive Ocer of the Renault-Nissan management and clinical research.
Jane is Director and Inchcape plc for 22 years and was Group Finance Purchasing Organization RNPO and most recently Chair of the J&J Corporate Citizenship Trust in EMEA, a Director from 1999 until 2005.
He is a Chartered as Executive Vice President, Engineering and Quality sponsor of the J&J Women's Leadership Initiative.
Accountant and sits on the Business Policy Panel of at Renault.
She was appointed a Knight of the French Other Current Appointments the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Company Group Chairman of Janssen EMEA, Director Other Current Appointments Other Current Appointments and Chair of the Johnson & Johnson Corporate Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Non-Executive Director of Safran SA, Dassault Citizenship Trust in EMEA.
In addition to the above Committee at Croda International Plc, The Weir Group Systmes, Imerys and Faurecia.
current appointments, Jane is Director of Johnson & PLC and Marshall Motor Holdings plc, where he is also Johnson Innovation Limited and a member of the Committees Senior Independent Director.
Corporate Advisory Board of the 'Your Life' campaign.
Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Committees Nomination Committee Committees Audit Committee Chairman, Remuneration Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, International Experience Committee, Nomination Committee Nomination Committee France, Japan, Sweden, UK International Experience International Experience Sector Experience South Africa, UK Africa, Middle East, UK Aerospace, Automotive, Defence, Manufacturing, Sector Experience Technology Sector Experience Automotive, Chemicals, Mining Pharmaceuticals Colin Matthews, CBE, FREng Chris Mottershead Non-Executive Director John Walker Sector Chief Executive, Clean Air Non-Executive Director Appointed to board: January 2015 Appointed to board: October 2013 Appointed to board: October 2012 Experience Experience Experience Prior to joining Kings College in 2009, Chris had a John joined Johnson Matthey in 1984 and was Colin has been Chief Executive Ocer of Heathrow 30 year career at BP, most recently as Global Advisor appointed Division Director, Emission Control Airport previously BAA, Hays plc and Severn Trent on Energy Security and Climate Change.
Before this, Technologies in 2009 after holding a series of plc.
He was also Managing Director of Transco and he was Technology Vice President for BPs Global Gas, positions within the division in the US, Asia and Engineering Director of British Airways.
Prior to this Power and Renewables businesses, and was also the Europe.
He was appointed Executive Director, he worked in strategy consulting for the motor technical manager for its North Sea exploration and Emission Control Technologies in October 2013 industry and at General Electric Company.
He is a Chartered Engineer and division subsequently renamed Clean Air Sector also served as Non-Executive Director of Mondi plc.
Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.
Other Current Appointments Other Current Appointments International Experience Non-Executive Chairman at Highways England and Senior Vice President of Quality, Strategy and Australia, China, France, Germany, India, Japan, Renewi plc.
Innovation at Kings College London and Director Malaysia, UK, US of King's College London Business Limited.
Committees Sector Experience Non-Executive Director of The Carbon Trust, Carbon Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee Automotive, Chemicals Trust Investments Limited and Imanova Limited.
Chairman, Nomination Committee Committees International Experience Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Canada, France, Japan, UK Nomination Committee Sector Experience International Experience Aerospace, Infrastructure, Professional Services, UK, US Technology, Utilities Sector Experience At the date of approval of this annual report, Energy, Oil and Gas the Board of Directors of Johnson Matthey is as detailed above.
Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report
