106 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2017 4.
Governance Approach to Recruitment Remuneration The recruitment policy provides an appropriate framework within which to attract individuals of the required calibre to lead a company of Johnson Mattheys size, scale and complexity.
The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration package for any appointment to an Executive Director position, either from within or outside Johnson Matthey.
The following table sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the appointment of an Executive Director and the approach to be adopted by the Remuneration Committee in respect of each component.
Area Policy and operation Overall The policy of the board is to recruit the best candidate possible for any board position and to structure pay and benefits in line with the Remuneration Policy set out in this report.
The ongoing structure of a new recruits package would be the same as for existing directors, with the possible exception of an identifiable buy-out provision, as set out below.
Base salary or fees Salary or fees will be determined by the Remuneration Committee in accordance with the principles set out in the policy table on page 100.
Benets and pension An Executive Director shall be eligible for benefits and pension arrangements in line with the companys policy for current Executive Directors, as set out in the policy table on pages 102 and 103.
For new hires the cash supplement payable will be more aligned to that payable to other employees.
Annual incentive The maximum level of opportunity is as set out in the policy table on page 101.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to set different performance targets for a new externally appointed Executive Director, or adjust performance targets and measures in the case of an internal promotion, to be assessed over the remainder of the financial year.
In this case any bonus payment would be made at the same time as for existing directors, and any such award would be pro-rated for the time served in the performance period.
Long term incentive The maximum level of opportunity is as set out in the policy table on page 102.
In order to achieve rapid alignment with the companys and shareholder interests, the Remuneration Committee retains discretion to grant a PSP award to a new externally appointed Executive Director on or soon after appointment if they join outside of the normal grant period.
Replacement awards The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to grant replacement buy-out awards in cash or shares to a new externally appointed Executive Director to reflect the loss of awards granted by a previous employer.
Where this is the case, the Remuneration Committee will seek to structure the replacement award such that overall it is on an equivalent basis to broadly replicate that foregone, using appropriate performance terms.
If granted, any replacement buy-out award would not exceed the maximum set out in the rules of the 2017 Performance Share Plan Rules 350% of base salary.
If the Executive Directors prior employer pays any portion of the remuneration that was anticipated to be forfeited, the replacement awards shall be reduced by an equivalent amount.
Other The Remuneration Committee may agree that the company will meet certain mobility costs, relocation costs, including temporary living and transportation expenses, in line with the companys prevailing mobility policy for senior executives as described in the policy table on page 102.
In the case of an internal promotion to the board, the company will honour any contractual commitments made prior to the promotion.
Service Contracts and Policy on Payment for Loss of Office The following table summarises relevant key provisions of Executive Directors service contracts and the treatment of payments on termination of employment.
The full contracts of service of the Executive Directors as well as the terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the registered office of the company during normal business hours as well as prior to and during the forthcoming AGM of the company.
In exceptional circumstances, the Remuneration Committee may authorise, where it considers it to be in the best interests of the company and shareholders, entering into contractual arrangements with a departing Executive Director, for example a settlement, confidentiality, restrictive covenant or other arrangement, pursuant to which sums not set out in the following table may become payable.
Full disclosure of the payments will be made in accordance with the remuneration reporting requirements.
The following table describes the contractual conditions pertaining to the contracts for Robert MacLeod, Anna Manz and John Walker and for any future Executive Director.
