ALL OF OUR PEOPLE SHARE A PASSION FOR DELIVERING THE SERVICE OUR CUSTOMERS DESERVE, HELPING THEM GET THROUGH STRESSFUL LIFE CHANGES SUCH AS MOVING HOME.
Our Unrivalled Service A Brand based on People We are about much more than just storage.
We are about people and their possessions.
Whether its a house move, setting up a business or a DIY project, we understand these are all key life moments where it can get a bit stressful.
At Big Yellow, our people help to take the stress away.
We work hard to understand our customers requirements and give the best service possible whether it is face to face, over the phone or through our user friendly website, mobile site or online chat.
Our customer support centre is also on hand seven days a week to provide an additional layer of customer service.
Excellent customer service is at the heart of our business.
We measure customer service standards through a programme of mystery shopping and online customer reviews which are externally managed.
Over the year, we have achieved an average net promoter score of 77 which we believe compares favourably to other consumer facing businesses.
Customer reviews are published on the website and show an extremely high level of satisfaction.
We also invite customers to submit reviews to a third party review site which are currently averaging 9.5 out of 10.
OUR PEOPLE ARE OUR MOST IMPORTANT ASSET 12 CONTENTS 14 Chairmans Statement 16 Strategic Report 16 Our Strategy and Business Model 18 Operational and Marketing Review 22 Portfolio Summary Big Yellow Stores 23 Our Stores 27 Portfolio Summary Armadillo Stores 28 Store Performance 31 Financial Review 37 Principal Risk and Uncertainties 40 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 58 Independent Assurance Statement on the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 60 Directors, Officers and Advisers 61 Directors Report 64 Corporate Governance Report 68 Report of the Nominations Committee 70 Remuneration Report 85 Audit Committee Report 88 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 89 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Big Yellow Group PLC 94 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 95 Consolidated Balance Sheet 96 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 97 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 97 Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt 98 Notes to the Financial Statements 125 Company Balance Sheet 126 Company Cash Flow Statement 127 Company Statement of Changes in Equity 128 Notes to the Financial Statements ibc Ten Year Summary 13
