Delivering on our priorities Industry challenge Consistently delivering on our 76% of car buyers claim that transparent pricing priorities of cars is the most 1 important thing to them.
A clear focus on our six operating priorities allows us to monitor our strategic progress and deliver results, consolidating our position at the forefront of the UK automotive marketplace.
1 Progress during the last year: Increase consumer audience, advert 582m cross platform minutes each month.
views and use of our valuations tools 2% We continue to operate the UKs largest increase in advert views year-on-year.
digital automotive marketplace with an average of 582 million cross platform minutes and 55 million cross platform visits per month, viewing an average of 247 million 17m full page advert views per month and consumer valuations conducted conducting over 17 million valuations as on site over the year.
consumers seek to understand the private sale or part-exchange value for their cars.
Video car adverts New ways to view stock Video adverts help reassure car buyers that they are buying a vehicle from a reputable and trusted retailer.
Its another vital way retailers can deliver transparency with car buyers that builds trust.
16 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Key performance indicators page 22 2 Promote trust and fairness in the marketplace As an industry that has a low perception of trust with consumers, its essential that the industry works together to drive greater levels of transparency and therefore trust.
If growth of transparency is adopted industry-wide, it will remove some of the friction thats currently felt in the car buying process and lead to people changing their cars more often.
Progress during the last year: Forced removal of misleading adverts that deliberately misinform consumers.
We implemented an extra layer of security with two-factor verification on our dealer portal accounts.
We launched Dealer Reviews for our retailer customers, as well as forming partnerships with major review platform providers, to enable them to show a level of trust to car buyers.
We continued to harmonise retailer pricing structures and created new packages for financial year 2018.
The new packages, including the starter package, provide retailers with products that allow them to convey trust and transparency with consumers, i. e. 100 Images, Dealer Reviews, Live Chat, and Part-Exchange Guide.
Price Indicator Creating price transparency Powered by our valuations algorithm, we launched good, great and low price indicators onto the marketplace so consumers get transparency in the pricing of cars.
Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 17 Delivering on our priorities continued 3 Grow ARPR in a balanced, sustainable way by creating value for our customers We continually innovate to develop new and enhance existing products and services for consumers, retailers and manufacturers to ensure we are always delivering value.
Weve made significant strides in improving our valuations data, which has allowed us to provide adjusted valuations based on spec, something that the rest of the industry has struggled to achieve.
We have also enhanced our Dealer Portal with new functionality that allows group reporting, enabling self-serve of a dealer groups performance dashboard, and a new look stock management dashboard, so retailers can assess levels of response and adjust their advertising and pricing accordingly.
Progress during the last year: Physical car stock on site has increased year-on-year by 3%.
Portal is now utilised by around 87% of our retailer customers.
Weve increased prices to reflect the value we deliver to our customers, adding more products as standard into our packages.
We migrated all of our customers onto a new monthly billing system, Singleview, helping us to improve our customer service as well as our effectiveness to cross sell products.
Increased car stock on our marketplace 000s % 460 20 440 15 420 400 10 380 5 360 340 0 320 300 -5 2015 2016 2017 Year-on-year growth rate in that month 12 month rolling total 18 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Key performance indicators page 22 i-Control We have continued to develop the functionality of our data intelligence solutions, i-Control and Retail Check.
Users of these tools will now exclusively be able to see adjusted guide price valuations based on adding spec.
4 Extend the penetration of products outside of our core classified proposition We have removed sales commissions from our sales and service teams and implemented a new challenger sales approach.
This ensures our teams are equipped to provide strategic business consultancy and are therefore more able to articulate value in products that sit outside of our core classified offering.
We have also continued to develop products outside of our core, for example products that allow retailers to manage and market their businesses more effectively.
Progress during the last year: We have increased penetration of products outside of our core selling proposition, growing usage of our Managing products, i-Control and Retail Check.
We gained FCA authorisation allowing us to show a retailers own finance deals on their adverts on AutoTrader.
Launched new website templates in order for us to compete more effectively.
Launched a new retailer brand advertising proposition.
2,500 retailer forecourts using our data-driven Managing products, i-Control or Retail Check Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 19 Delivering on our priorities continued 5 Enhance our relevance and value to manufacturers AutoTrader is spontaneously top of mind for almost a quarter of 2 consumers when looking to buy a new car.
Coupled with an increase of over 6,000 brand new make model variants onto our marketplace, this has increased the sales leads and amplified the value we now offer to manufacturers and their networks.
We have also continued to build key relationships with manufacturers and their media agencies and are working with them to leverage our data and insight to target buyers at the right time in their car buying journey.
Progress during the last year: Updated over 300 new car make model Developed our cross platform audience pages, enabling consumers to make an targeting, beginning to embed our data enquiry with a local retailer.
management platform, helping us to target audiences more effectively.
Continued to develop new advertising and creative formats so manufacturers Increased Display advertising revenue and their retailer networks can reach new from manufacturers and their media car buyers at the right time, on the right agencies by 16%.
channel with the right message.
Virtual stock This year we extended our discovery search with the addition of over 6,000 brand new, make model variants to our marketplace, what we have called virtual stock.
1 3 of new car buyers state that AutoTrader would be one of their first destinations when 2 looking to buy a brand new car.
2 A utoTrader Brand Tracking Data from Acacia Avenue January February 2017.
20 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Key performance indicators page 22 6 Operate a simpler, leaner and more data-oriented business As part of the Groups digital culture, incorporating an agile and lean working ethos, we have continued to find ways of operating more efficiently whilst ensuring that teams are truly data-driven, resulting in every team being assigned their own dedicated data analyst.
In a bid to operate a simpler and more efficient business, we have migrated all our 13,000 retailer forecourts onto a new billing system enabling our sales teams to manage and monitor product penetration as well as customer value.
Data-driven product development Understand Build Data Learn Measure Progress during the last year: 100% migration of retailer forecourts onto new billing system, Singleview Developed the AutoTrader Way methodology to standardise the approach to product development, placing data at the heart of everything we do.
Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 21
