The Investment Manager The Templeton Emerging Markets Group TEMG or the Investment Manager is a large, experienced team of emerging market equity specialists.
TEMG is one of the pioneers of emerging market investment with more than 25 years experience and a significant presence in these areas.
With over 50 portfolio managers and analysts, TEMG is one of the largest asset managers dedicated to emerging markets investing.
Their on-the-ground presence in 20 countries around the globe and years of relevant industry experience greatly assists their understanding of the companies researched for inclusion in the TEMIT portfolio.
TEMG analysts are responsible for researching emerging markets and deciding which companies, in their opinion offer the strongest risk and reward opportunities for TEMIT investors over the long term.
Investment Objective and Policy The Company seeks long term capital appreciation through investment in companies listed in emerging markets or companies which earn a significant amount of their revenues in emerging markets, but are listed on stock exchanges in developed countries.
It is intended that the Company will normally invest in equity investments.
However, the Investment Manager may invest in equity-related investments such as convertibles where they believe it is advantageous to do so.
The portfolio may frequently be overweight or underweight against the MSCI Emerging Markets Index and may be concentrated in a more limited number of sectors, geographical areas or countries than the benchmark.
The Company may also invest a significant portion of its assets in the securities of one issuer, securities domiciled in a particular country, or securities within one industry.
No more than 10% of the Companys assets will be invested in the securities of any one issuer at the time of investment.
The Board has agreed that TEMIT may borrow up to 10% of its net assets.
Portfolio Manager Carlos von Hardenberg is the lead portfolio manager for TEMIT.
Carlos has considerable research and investment expertise in emerging markets and has worked with TEMG for 15 years.
Carlos is supported by Chetan Sehgal, who also has considerable experience in emerging markets and whose key role is to act as the deputy portfolio manager for TEMIT, and by Dr. Mark Mobius, Executive Chairman of TEMG.
The investment team also draws on the support of the entire TEMG.
Carlos von Hardenberg Carlos was appointed as the lead portfolio manager of TEMIT in October 2015.
As well as managing the TEMIT portfolio, Carlos directs Franklin Templetons Frontier Markets investment strategy and manages a number of emerging and frontier markets portfolios for institutional and private investors.
He joined the TEMG in 2002 from Bear Stearns International and has significant experience in researching and investing in emerging market companies across the globe.
He has a MSc in investment management with distinction from London City University Business School and a BSc Hons in business studies from the University of Buckingham.
He speaks English, German and Spanish.
16 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk TEMIT ANNUREP 06 p16-17 The Investment Manager.
