Report of the Directors and Governance Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report, together with the Financial Statements of the Company, for the year ended 31 March 2017.
Board of Directors The TEMIT Board is responsible for setting strategy and direction, oversight of service providers and protection of shareholders interests.
Paul Manduca Chairman Paul Manduca was appointed to the Board and the Management Engagement Committee on 1 August 2015.
Paul took over as Chairman on 20 November 2015.
He was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 22 February 2016 and is Committee Chairman.
He is currently Chairman of Prudential plc, one of the worlds leading financial services groups with significant emerging market exposure.
Paul has had a long and successful career in asset management, both as a fund manager and as chief executive of fund management groups.
He is an independent Director.
Fees for the year 60,000: beneficial interest 5,000shares.
Attendance Record: Board 4 4, Nomination Committee 2 2 and Management Engagement Committee 2 2.
Christopher D Brady Christopher Brady was appointed to the Board on 12 December 2007 and the Management Engagement Committee on 12 June 2012.
After serving for over nine years, he will stand down at the conclusion of the AGM in July 2017.
He is the founding partner and Chairman of The Chart Group LLP.
Previously, he spent 14 years in corporate finance and capital markets, developing emerging markets investment vehicles, among other activities.
More recently, Chris principal activities in defence, security and intelligence take him, his companies and products to emerging markets in the Middle East, Africa and Southeast Asia.
He is a Director of Miami International Holdings, North American Rescue and PacStar Communications.
Fees for the year 35,000: beneficial interest nil shares.
Attendance Record: Board 4 4 and Management Engagement Committee 2 2.
34 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk TEMIT ANNUREP 12 p34 63 Board of Directors.
indd 34 6 29 17 7:08 PM Hamish N Buchan Hamish Buchan was appointed to the Board and the Audit Committee on 26 June 2008, the Management Engagement Committee on 12 June 2012 and the Nomination Committee on 18 July 2014.
Mr. Buchan is also the Senior Independent Director and is due to retire from these positions at the 2018 AGM.
He is currently Chairman of Personal Assets Trust plc and a Director of The Scottish Investment Trust plc.
Mr. Buchan has been involved with the investment company sector for over 40 years, and for 30 years was one of the leading UK Investment Trust sector analysts, working with Wood Mackenzie & Co and its successor owners.
Since semi-retiring in 2000, he has been a director of nine investment companies as well as Chairman of the Association of Investment Companies.
Fees for the year 35,000: beneficial interest 15,000 shares.
Attendance Record: Board 3 3, Audit Committee 4 4, Nomination Committee 2 2 and Management Engagement Committee 2 2.
David Graham David Graham joined the TEMIT Board and Audit Committee on 1 September 2016.
He is also a member of the Management Engagement Committee.
David is a Chartered Accountant whose career has been in investment management, firstly as an Asian fund manager with Lazards and then building businesses across Asia Pacific, Europe, Middle East and Africa for BlackRock and predecessor firms Merrill Lynch Investment Managers and Mercury Asset Management.
David has worked in HongKong, Tokyo and Sydney and has been a Representative Director in domestic, joint venture, fund management companies in India, China, Thailand and Taiwan.
David is an advisor to BlackRock in Asia Pacific and is one of BlackRocks nominated Directors on the Board of DSP BlackRock, a fund management joint venture in India.
He is also non-executive Director of the JPMorgan Chinese Investment Trust.
Fees from 1 September 2016 20,400: beneficial interest 5,000 shares.
Attendance Record: Board 3 3, Audit Committee 2 2 and Management Engagement Committee 1 1.
Peter O Harrison Peter Harrison was appointed to the Board on 30 November 2007 and became Chairman of the Audit Committee on 12 December 2007.
He was appointed to the Management Engagement Committee on 12 June 2012.
He has had over 30 years experience in the global auditing, accounting and advisory profession mainly at KPMG, where he specialised in financial services, including investment management and the funds business.
He was also Managing Partner responsible for the UK financial services practice.
He has also held a number of other senior non-executive Director roles in financial services and is currently Chairman of Masthaven Bank Limited.
Fees for the year 47,000: beneficial interest 4,330 shares.
Attendance Record: Board 4 4, Audit Committee 3 3 and Management Engagement Committee 2 2. www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 35 TEMIT ANNUREP 12 p34 63 Board of Directors.
indd 35 6 29 17 7:08 PM Directors Report continued Beatrice Hollond Beatrice Hollond joined the TEMIT Board and the Audit Committee on 1 April 2014.
She was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 22 February 2016 and the Management Engagement Committee on 1 April 2014.
Beatrice Hollond is a non-executive Director of M & G Group Limited and on the main Board of US based Brown Advisory.
She is Chair of Keystone Investment Trust and a non-executive Director of Henderson Smaller Companies Investment Trust and a Board Member of Telecoms Plus PLC.
She has had a long career in the investment industry, starting as UK equity analyst at Morgan Grenfell, before spending 16 years at Credit Suisse Management.
She has experience as a fund manager, as well as 12 years as a non-executive Director in the investment trust sector.
She is an independent Director.
Fees for the year 35,000: beneficial interest 6,250 shares.
Attendance Record: Board 4 4, Audit Committee 3 3, Nomination Committee 2 2 and Management Engagement Committee 2 2.
Simon Jeffreys Simon Jeffreys joined the TEMIT Board and Audit Committee on 15 July 2016.
Simon has been a non-executive Director of St James Place plc since 2014 and is Chair of their Audit Committee and a member of their Remuneration and Risk Committees.
Simon is on the board of directors and chairs the audit committees of SimCorp A S since 2011 and Henderson International Income Investment Trust since 2011.
He was previously chief administrative officer for Fidelity International and for most of his professional life was a partner in , where he was the global leader of the firms investment management and real estate practice.
Simon joined the Aon UK Limited Board as an independent non-executive Director in May 2009 and chaired the Aon UK Limited Audit Committee until November 2015 when he became Chairman of the Board.
Simon was also a Senior Advisor of the Wellcome Trust, having been that organisations Chief Operating Officer from 2009 to 2014.
Fees from 15 July 2016 24,800: beneficial interest 5,392 shares.
Attendance Record: Board 3 3, Audit Committee 1 2 and Management Engagement Committee 1 1.
Gregory E Johnson Gregory Johnson was appointed to the Board on 12 December 2007.
He is the Chairman of the Board and Director of Franklin Resources, Inc. and serves as the Chief Executive Officer of the company.
Mr. Johnson serves as a trustee, director or officer on a number of the companys subsidiaries and fund boards.
He joined Franklin in 1986 and has held numerous roles within the company.
Fees for the year nil: beneficial interest nil shares.
36 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
indd 36 6 29 17 7:08 PM The terms and conditions of the Directors appointments are set out in the Letters of Appointment, which are available for inspection on request at the registered office of the Company and at the AGM.
Board Changes and Succession Planning Neil Collins served on the Board from September 2006 to his retirement on the 15 July 2016.
Hamish Buchan, the Senior Independent Director, has agreed to remain on the Board until July 2018, in order to assist with a smooth transition following a number of Board changes due to retirement.
He offers himself for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
Although Hamish Buchan has been on the Board for more than nineyears, the Board has carefully considered his independence and believes he retains independence of character and of judgement.
Chris Brady and Peter Harrison, both having served for over nine years, will retire at the conclusion of the 2017 AGM.
The process to recruit a new Board member will commence in the first quarter of 2018.
Board Committees The primary focus of the Directors at regular Board meetings is the consideration of investment performance and outlook, market activity, share buy back activity, marketing, shareholder profile, investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
The Audit Committee comprises Peter Harrison Chairman, Hamish Buchan, David Graham, Beatrice Hollond and Simon Jeffreys.
The formal Report of the Audit Committee is on pages 53 to 57.
The Management Engagement Committee comprises Paul Manduca Chairman, Christopher Brady, Hamish Buchan, David Graham, Peter Harrison, Beatrice Hollond and Simon Jeffreys.
The role of the Committee is to review the performance of, and the contractual arrangements with the Manager.
The Management Engagement Committee has undertaken a formal investment review of TEMITs portfolio management during the year.
The review considered investment strategy, investment process, performance and risk, and was carried out through meetings between the Management Engagement Committee and members of the investment and risk management teams of the Manager.
The Nomination Committee comprises Paul Manduca Chairman, Hamish Buchan and Beatrice Hollond.
The role of the Committee is to review regularly the Board structure, size and composition and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that seem appropriate, to consider the rotation and renewal of the Board, approve the candidate specification for all Board appointments, approve the process by which suitable candidates are identified and short-listed, and to nominate candidates for consideration by the full Board, whose responsibility it is to formally make appointments.
The Committee also considers the effectiveness of individual Directors and makes recommendations to the Board in respect of re-elections.
The Committee keeps under review the balance of skills, independence, knowledge of the Company and experience and length of service of the Directors.
When the composition of the Board requires review, female candidates will be encouraged to apply and progress will be actively monitored in relation to diversity.
An external search consultant will be used to assist with the selection of candidates in relation to new appointments.
The Committee periodically reviews the level of Directors fees relative to other comparable companies and in the light of the Directors responsibilities.
In doing so, the Committee will access independent research www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 37 TEMIT ANNUREP 12 p34 63 Board of Directors.
indd 37 6 29 17 7:08 PM Directors Report continued and may obtain advice from external sources.
The Chairman of the Nomination Committee will attend the Companys AGM and will be prepared to respond to questions which may be raised by shareholders on matters within the Nomination Committees responsibilities.
A copy of the terms of reference for the Audit Committee, Management Engagement Committee and Nomination Committee are available to shareholders on the TEMIT website www.
co. uk or upon request via Client Dealer Services using the contact details provided on the inside back cover of this report.
The Board The TEMIT Board is responsible for setting strategy and direction, oversight of service providers and the success of the Company, including protection of shareholders interest as a whole.
The primary focus of the Directors at regular Board meetings is the consideration of investment performance and outlook, market activity, share buy back levels, marketing, shareholder profile, investor relations, peer group information, review of top risks, regulatory updates, corporate governance and industry issues.
Further details of the Directors responsibilities can be found in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities onpage 58.
In addition to the primary focus of the Board, the following important matters were considered at Board meetings during the year: Introduction and implementation of a gearing facility: Consideration of treasury shares: Three year marketing plan approved and contribution to marketing costs from the Manager agreed: In-depth review of investment strategy and portfolio management: Review of Risk Management Process and the interaction with the Investment Manager: Review of Top Risks: Agreement reached with the Manager on a revised management fee: Agreement to change the basis of allocation of expenses between income and capital: Agreement to change the service provider for shareholder analysis: and Approval of recommendation from Audit Committee in relation to selection of new audit partner.
Board Evaluation The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors including the Chairman.
The Board has also considered the independence of each Director.
In 2015, the Board evaluation was carried out by an external facilitator, Trust Associates Limited.
In the last year, the Chairman led the evaluation process which included the completion of questionnaires and discussions between the Chairman and each Director.
The experience, balance of skills, diversity and knowledge of the Board was considered as well as Board effectiveness, role and structure.
An evaluation of the Chairman by his fellow directors was facilitated by Hamish Buchan, the Senior Independent Director, who then met with the Chairman to discuss its content.
38 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
indd 38 6 29 17 7:08 PM The Chairman confirms that, following performance evaluation, each Directors performance continues to be effective and they demonstrate commitment to their role.
Formal performance evaluations will continue to take place at least annually with the appointment of an external facilitator every three years.
The next appointment of an external facilitator is due to be made in 2018.
Directors Conflicts of Interest The Companys Articles give the Directors authority to approve conflicts and potential conflicts with the Companys interests, where appropriate.
There are safeguards which apply when Directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict and these have been operated effectively.
Firstly, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to make the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Company maintains a register of Directors conflicts of interest which have been disclosed and approved by the other Directors.
Directors are reminded at each Board meeting to disclose any conflicts not previously disclosed.
Gregory Johnson is not present when the performance of the Manager and Investment Manager are considered.
Indemnification and Insurance The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with each of the Directors.
These are qualifying third party indemnity provisions and are in force as at the date of this report.
This information is disclosed in accordance with Sections 236 2 and 236 3 of the 2006 Act.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against the Directors.
The Company Principal Activity and Investment Company Status The Company is a public limited company in terms of the Companies Act 2006 and is an investment company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has been accepted as an approved investment trust by HM Revenue & Customs for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 April 2012, subject to continuing to meet the eligibility conditions of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the ongoing requirements of The Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011.
The Directors are satisfied that the Company intends to direct its affairs to ensure its continued approval as an investment trust.
The Company is an Alternative Investment Fund AIF under the European Unions Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 39 TEMIT ANNUREP 12 p34 63 Board of Directors.
indd 39 6 29 17 7:08 PM Directors Report continued Company Objective Our objective is that the Company provides long-term capital appreciation for private and institutional investors seeking exposure to global emerging markets, supported by both strong customer service and corporate governance.
Results and Dividends The capital gain for the year was 680.4 million 2016: loss of 384.9 million and the revenue profit was 19.0 million 2016: 21.8 million.
The full results for the Company are disclosed in the Income Statement on page 64.
The Directors propose an ordinary dividend of 8.25 pence per share 2016: 8.25 pence and, if approved by shareholders at the AGM on 13 July 2017, the dividend will be payable on 20 July 2017 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 16 June 2017.
Gearing As part of the Companys investment objective and policy, the Company may borrow up to 10% of its net assets.
During the year, the Board debated the merits of the Company borrowing with the aim of increasing investment returns.
While the Board recognises that gearing increases volatility, it was concluded that it may be in shareholders interests to borrow at a time when the outlook for emerging markets remains positive and interest rates are low.
On 31January 2017, the Company entered into a three year, 150 million, unsecured, multi-currency, revolving loan facility with The Bank of Nova Scotia, London Branch.
Under the facility, up to 150 million may be borrowed with drawings available in pounds sterling, US dollars and Chinese renminbi CNH.
The maximum amount of CNH which may be drawn down is the equivalent of 30 million.
The Company has no other debt.
The Manager has been granted discretion by the Board to draw down the debt as investment opportunities arise, subject to overall supervision by the Board.
By the year end, CNH 214,100,000 and USD 73,338,000 24,900,000 and 58,500,000 respectively had been drawn down both of which are repayable within one year.
Financial Share Capital and Discount Changes in the share capital of the Company are set out in Note 10 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
40 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
indd 40 6 29 17 7:08 PM Share Buy Backs The Board is once again seeking shareholder permission to continue its programme of share buy backs as outlined on page 47.
A key point in the Investment Managers mandate is to take a long-term view of investments and one of the advantages of a closed end fund is that the portfolio structure is not disrupted by large inflows or outflows of cash.
However, the Board and the Investment Manager recognise that the returns experienced by shareholders are in the form of movements in the share price, which are not directly linked to NAV movements, and the shares may trade at varying discounts or premiums to NAV.
Many shareholders, both professional and private investors, have expressed a view that a high level of volatility in the discount is undesirable.
A less volatile discount, and hence share price, is seen as important to investors.
For this reason, TEMIT uses share buy backs selectively with the intention of limiting volatility and where it is in the interests ofshareholders.
2017 2016 Shares bought back and cancelled during the year 16,395,704 20,925,302 Proportion of share capital bought back 5.50% 6.56% Cost of share buy backs 89.4m 93.6m The benefit to NAV 0.80% 0.84% The benefit to NAV 13.7m 13.1m Auditor The Audit Committee has recommended that Deloitte LLP, who were appointed in 2009, be reappointed as the Companys auditor.
Deloitte LLP has expressed a willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution proposing their reappointment will be submitted at the AGM.
Further details on the assessment of the auditor can be found within the Report of the Audit Committee on page 56.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant information of which the Companys auditor was unaware and that each Director had taken all steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves appraised of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor was notified of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provision of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 41 TEMIT ANNUREP 12 p34 63 Board of Directors.
indd 41 6 29 17 7:08 PM Directors Report continued Substantial Shareholdings As at 18 May 2017 and 31 March 2017, the Company had been notified that the following were interested in 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company.
Name Number of shares 18 May 2017 % City of London Investment Management Company Limited 34,784,442 12.38 Lazard Asset Management LLC Group 32,659,321 11.63 Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 18,523,449 6.59 Old Mutual Plc 17,039,167 6.07 Rathbone Brothers Plc 10,394,852 3.70 Name Number of shares 31 March 2017 % City of London Investment Management Company Limited 37,538,889 13.33 Lazard Asset Management LLC Group 31,407,534 11.15 Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 20,764,697 7.37 Old Mutual Plc 17,026,379 6.05 Rathbones Brothers Plc 10,242,030 3.64 Principal Service Providers Alternative Investment Fund Manager, Secretary and Administrator Franklin Templeton International Services S. r. l. FTIS is the Alternative Investment Fund Manager, Secretary and Administrator with the role of investment management delegated to Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML and Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited FTIML.
The main secretarial duties involve compliance with statutory and regulatory obligations which the Company must observe.
The annual ad valorem fee rate for the services provided by FTIS, including investment management, risk management, secretarial and administration services, is 1.10% of shareholders funds.
With effect from 1 July 2017 the annual ad valorem fee paid to FTIS will be reduced to 1.00% of shareholders funds up to the value of 2 billion and 0.85% of shareholders funds above 2 billion.
The agreement between the Company and FTIS may be terminated by either party, but in certain circumstances the Company may be required to pay compensation to FTIS of an amount up to one years fee.
Compensation is not payable if at least one years notice of termination is given.
Details of the Remuneration Policy of the Alternative Investment Fund Manager and amounts attributable to the Company are available to existing shareholders upon request at the registered office of the Company.
42 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
indd 42 6 29 17 7:08 PM The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of investment management services to the Company on an ongoing basis, and a formal review is conducted annually by the Management Engagement Committee, which consists solely of Directors independent of Franklin Templeton.
Gregory Johnson is not present when the Managers and Investment Managers performance is reviewed.
When assessing the performance of the Manager and Investment Manager, the Board believes it is appropriate to make this assessment over a medium to longterm timeframe, which is in accordance with the long-term approach taken to investment.
In the opinion of the Directors, the continuing appointment of FTIS is in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole.
Custodian JP Morgan Chase Bank acts as global custodian to the Company and receives a fee for the provision of custody and nominee services to the Company under a custody agreement which contains provision for the exclusion or limitation of liability as set out in the custody agreement.
The custody agreement may be terminated by either party giving the other 90 days notice.
Depositary J. P. Morgan Europe Limited performs the role of depositary for the Company, by carrying out custody and other services, including monitoring cash flows, confirming ownership and ensuring income is properly applied.
The depositary agreement may be terminated by either party giving the other 90 days notice.
A detailed list of service providers, along with addresses, can be found in the General Information section on page 88.
Corporate Governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how the Company applies the principles identified in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board considers that the Company has complied with the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 throughout the year ended 31 March 2017.
The UK Code can be viewed at www.
Association of Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code Throughout the year ended 31 March 2017, the Company complied with the provisions of the AIC Guide and AIC Code.
A statement explaining TEMITs compliance with the AIC Code principles can be found at www.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 43 TEMIT ANNUREP 12 p34 63 Board of Directors.
indd 43 6 29 17 7:08 PM Directors Report continued Additional Information for New Zealand Shareholders As a result of a requirement for Overseas Issuers listed on the New Zealand Stock Exchange, the following should be noted by New Zealand shareholders: a The corporate governance rules and principles in TEMITs home exchange jurisdiction in the United Kingdom may differ from the New Zealand Stock Exchange corporate governance rules and the principles of the Corporate Governance Best Practice Code.
b Investors may find more information about the corporate governance and principles of TEMITs home exchange in the United Kingdom in the above Corporate Governance statement and online at www.
c The Company relies on the Financial Reporting Act Dual-listed Issuers Exemption Notice 2015, issued by the New Zealand Financial Markets Authority, which exempts it from certain financial reporting obligations under the Financial Markets Conduct Act 2013.
Schedule of Reserved Matters The Board has formally adopted a Schedule of Reserved Matters, which details the matters which the Board has agreed are specifically reserved for their collective decision.
These matters include, inter alia, approval of the Half-Yearly and Annual Financial Statements, recommendation of the dividend, approval of any preliminary results announcements of the Company, approval of any proposed changes to the Companys investment objective and or policy, appointment or removal of the Companys Manager or Investment Manager, gearing, Board membership and Board committee membership and any major changes to the investment objective, philosophy or policy of the Company, other than any such changes delegated to the Investment Manager under the Investment Management Agreement.
The day to day investment management of the portfolio of the Company is delegated to the Investment Manager, which manages the portfolio in accordance with the investment objectives of the Company as set by the Board.
Environmental, Social, Community, Ethical Issues and Human Rights As an investment trust, the Company has no significant direct social, community, environmental or employee responsibilities.
Its ethical policy is focused on ensuring that its funds are properly managed and invested within the guidelines approved by the Board.
The Board receives regular reports on the policies and controls in place.
The Investment Manager invests in companies that it considers to be well-managed and subject to appropriate corporate governance.
A well-managed company is considered to be one which complies with all the relevant legislation and which meets the environmental, social, community, ethical and human rights requirements of the country in which it operates.
It is important to recognise that local laws and requirements of emerging markets do not necessarily equate with those of developed countries.
Environmental, social, governance and human rights issues have become increasingly important to companies worldwide as they seek to balance organisational goals with the expectations of their stakeholders in an increasingly complex operating environment.
When companies manage these stakeholder relationships effectively, they are more successful at managing risks and capturing opportunities placing them in a better position for long-term success.
44 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
indd 44 6 29 17 7:08 PM Recognising the importance of these considerations, the Investment Manager became a signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment UNPRI in 2013.
Becoming a signatory is a natural extension of the Investment Managers existing practices to integrate environmental, social and governance ESG considerations within the investment process.
In addition, the Investment Manager has established a dedicated environmental, social and governance team within the Investment Risk division to support and enhance ESG integration within the Investment Manager and provide firm wide support and participation in Responsible Investing Initiatives such as UNPRI.
As a demonstration of the Investment Managers on going commitment to enhance effectiveness and understanding in implementing the Principles, the Investment Manager has also become a member of the International Corporate Governance Network ICGN and the United Kingdom Sustainable Investment and Finance Association UKSIF.
We report on our greenhouse gas emissions within the Strategic Report on page 14.
As a long-term investor, the Investment Manager performs extensive bottom-up investment analysis, employing rigorous and comprehensive processes to assess both the risk and return potential of the investments it considers for the Company.
The depth of its research provides comprehensive insights into the many factors that affect the value of an investment, which may include environmental, social, governance and human rights issues.
The Investment Manager determines the extent to which various research inputs are included and weighted in its investment decisions.
Activities in the Field of Research and Development The Company does not undertake activites in the field of research and development.
Institutional Shareholder Voting and Engagement As an institutional investor, the Company recognises its responsibility that the companies in which it invests should aspire to appropriate levels of corporate governance.
As a matter of policy, the Company aims to utilise its votes in shares held in the relevant underlying portfolio companies at the general meetings of these companies.
The Company has engaged with the Investment Manager in relation to its approach to the Stewardship Code the Code.
The Company and the Investment Manager generally support the Principles of the Code as outlined below.
On going monitoring of investee companies and dialogue with management are fundamental to the Investment Managers investment approach.
The strategy on intervention with investee companies is dealt with on a caseby-case basis and is usually a judgement made by the Investment Manager based on the research done on each investee company for the investment decision making progress.
In all cases, the Investment Manager holds regular review meetings with the senior management of investee companies.
At the same time, there may be instances in which activism is not consistent with the Investment Managers fiduciary duty.
For example, in the process of company research and monitoring, a significant problem or risk may be identified, and the Investment Manager may decide it is better simply to sell a position than seek to undertake a lengthy engagement with management.
The Investment Manager has adopted proxy voting policies and procedures which cover voting guidelines, processing and maintenance of proxy records and conflicts of interest.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 45 TEMIT ANNUREP 12 p34 63 Board of Directors.
indd 45 6 29 17 7:08 PM Directors Report continued Summary information on the exercise of proxies is reviewed quarterly by the Board.
Voting records for the Company detailing the proxies voted for investee companies are not currently published.
The Company considers that there is limited demand for such detailed disclosure and therefore the administrative burden and expense is not justified.
Risk Management Objectives and Policy The Company invests in equities and other investments for the long term to achieve its investment objectives, as stated on page 8.
This creates potential exposure to the risks as stated on pages 12 and 13.
Further details on the AIFMD risk disclosures can be found on the Companys website.
Internal Control Details of the Companys system of internal controls can be found on pages 55 and 56.
Annual General Meeting The AGM on Thursday 13 July 2017, will be held at Stationers Hall, Ave Maria Lane, London.
Ordinary Business It is proposed to receive and adopt the Directors and Auditors Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2017.
It is proposed to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy and Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2017.
It is proposed to declare an ordinary dividend of 8.25 pence per share, payable on 20 July 2017 to shareholders on the register as at close of business on 16 June 2017.
It is proposed to elect David Graham and re-elect each of the other current Directors with the exception of Chris Brady and Peter Harrison who will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM.
It is proposed to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditor and to authorise the Directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
Special Business The Special Business to be dealt with at the forthcoming AGM of the Company is: i Authority for the Allotment of New Shares The resolutions to allot shares are set out in resolutions 13 and 14 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
These resolutions, if passed, will give your Directors power to allot for cash equity securities of the Company and or to sell equity securities held as treasury shares up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 3,511,109 being an amount equal to 5% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 25 May 2017 as if Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act did not apply this section requires, when shares are to be allotted for cash or shares held as treasury shares are sold, that such shares first be offered to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings of shares, this entitlement being known as pre-emption 46 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
The authorities contained in resolutions 13 and 14 will continue until the AGM of the Company in 2018 and your Directors envisage seeking the renewal of this authority in 2018 and in each succeeding year.
Your Directors will not make any allotment of new shares other than in accordance with pre-emption rights at a price less than the net asset value per share.
ii Authority to Purchase Own Shares At the AGM of the Company held on 15 July 2016, a Special Resolution was passed authorising the Company to purchase its shares in the market, a maximum of 14.99% of the shares in issue on 15 July 2016 or 43,985,737 shares, whichever is lower, up to the conclusion of the AGM in 2017.
The present authority expires at the end of the AGM on 13 July 2017.
The Directors are seeking renewal of the authority to purchase the Companys shares in the market, being a maximum of 14.99% of the shares in issue on 13 July 2017 or 42,105,217 shares, whichever is the lower, at the2017 AGM.
This is set out in resolution 15 of the notice of the AGM.
Any shares purchased pursuant to this authority may be cancelled or held in treasury pursuant to the Companies Acquisition of own shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003.
Purchases will only be made for cash at a cost which is below the prevailing net asset value per share.
Under the rules of the UK Listing Authority, the maximum price which may be paid is the higher of: a 5% above the average market value of the shares for the five business days before the purchase is made: and b the higher of the last independent trade price and the highest current independent bid price on the London Stock Exchange.
The minimum price payable for the shares will be the nominal value of 25 pence per share.
The authority to purchase shares whether for cancellation or to be held in treasury will only be exercised if to do so would be in the best interests of shareholders generally and would result in an increase in net asset value per share for the remaining shareholders.
The purpose of holding some shares in treasury is to allow the Company to re-issue those shares quickly and cost-effectively, thus providing the Company with greater flexibility in the management of its capital base.
Whilst in treasury, no dividends are payable on or voting rights attach to these shares.
Other than in accordance with a dispensation from the UK Listing Authority, no shares will be purchased by the Company during periods when the Company would be prohibited from making such purchases by the rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Directors envisage seeking the renewal of the relevant authority in 2018 and in each succeeding year.
iii Notice period for general meetings At the AGM of the Company held on 15 July 2016, a Special Resolution was passed authorising the Company to call general meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 days clear notice, up to the conclusion of the AGM in 2017.
The Directors are seeking renewal of the authority to call general meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 days clear notice, up to the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2018.
This is set out in resolution 16 of the notice of the AGM.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 47 TEMIT ANNUREP 12 p34 63 Board of Directors.
indd 47 6 29 17 7:08 PM Directors Report continued This resolution is required to reflect the implementation of the EU Shareholder Rights Directive which requires that all general meetings must be held on 21 days notice, unless shareholders agree to a shorter notice period.
The Directors only intend to call a general meeting on less than 21 days notice where the proposals are time sensitive and the short notice would clearly be an advantage to the shareholders as a whole.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
The Company will also need to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Directive before it can call a general meeting on 14 days notice.
Recommendation The Directors believe that all the resolutions proposed are in the best interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole, and recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of all the resolutions.
The results of the votes on the resolutions at the AGM will be published on the Companys website www.
Going Concern The Companys assets consist of equity shares in companies listed on recognised stock exchanges and in most circumstances are realisable within a short timescale.
Having made suitable enquiries, including considerations of the Companys investment objective, the nature of the portfolio, expenditure forecasts and the principal risks and uncertainties described within the Annual Report, the Directors are satisfied that the Company has adequate resources to continue to operate as a going concern for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the Financial Statements and for the foreseeable future and, as such, a going concern basis is appropriate in preparing the Financial Statements.
By order of the Board Paul Manduca 7 June 2017 48 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
