Market overview The automotive market today The UK automotive marketplace continues to grow.
Used car volumes are benefitting from previous new car growth, which is expected to decline modestly from the record highs reached in 2017.
2.7m 2.6% 8.2m 11% new cars registered in increase in new car used cars sold in the 12 growth in finance agreements 1 1 the 12months to March 2017 registrations in the 12 months months to March 2017 forused cars in the 12 months 1 2 to March 2017 to March 2017 UK automotive market and macroeconomic conditions New and used car sales volumes of attractive finance propositions has UK economy and EU Referendum The number of vehicles in the UK continues underpinned levels of new and used car considerations to grow, fuelled by increases in both new car transactions.
86% of private new car sales Since Britain voted to leave the European registrations and the average scrappage were purchased using dealership finance, Union, consumer spending and service age.
The number of new cars registered in and the total value of finance agreements sector growth have remained steady, the 12months to March 2017 increased for for used cars grew 11% in the 12 months to helping the UK economy to grow by 0.7% in 2 a fifth consecutive year to 2.7 million units March 2017.
High levels of finance uptake Q3 and Q4 of 2016.
GDP grew by 2.0% in 2016 growth of 2.6% according to the Society have contributed to a reduction in the and similar levels are predicted for 2017. of Motor Manufacturers and Traders average length of car ownership to 3.2 years However, inflation has climbed steadily in 1 SMMT.
Sales to fleet customers were from 3.6 years since 2011, as new cars are the past two years, reaching 2.7% in April 2017 particularly strong, up 6.3% year-on-year, introduced into the used car market at the and estimated to rise further with the fall in whilst the number of new cars registered to end of finance agreements.
the pound raising the prices of imported retail individuals was broadly flat after four goods and raw materials.
Interest rates Despite the exceptionally high performing consecutive years of growth, despite the remain low, with the Bank of England cutting first quarter of the year, and the continuation dip in consumer confidence following the its base rate from 0.5% to 0.25%: this of low interest rates, the industry expects that Brexit result.
continued low level of interest rates has new car transactions will begin to plateau or provided consumers with attractive car 2017 started strongly with a record rise in decline in 2017, and new car registrations were finance deals and supported the strong new car registrations in the first quarter.
down by 0.6% year-on-year for the five months new car market.
1 This was in part due to a very strong March to May 2017.
We expect the strong new car as consumers looked to buy ahead of an market performance in recent years will Whilst we have seen fairly limited impact increase in vehicle excise duty effective continue to have a positive impact on used car to date from the result of the European 1 April 2017. transactions, building on the 8.2 million used Referendum, the UKs decision to leave the cars sold in the 12 months to March 2017, EU does continue to cloud future growth Low rate finance and new car desirability which increased by 4.9% over the same expectations as it is not clear whether Britain are key drivers to the growth the market is period last year.
will follow a hard or soft Brexit strategy.
Turn experiencing at this time.
The continuation to page 33 for more details about the impact of the EU Referendum on AutoTrader.
2 Fleet and Leasing Association FLA data for 12 months to March 2017.
04 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The role of digital platforms The trust in the car buying journey model The importance of trust in Financing a car todays marketplace With 86% of new cars Consumers now approach car buying in bought on finance in the 2 the same way as most other purchases.
This 12 months to March 2017, means a growing dependence on online tools buyers also want to know and services that offer more transparency in what the deposit and the retail process.
Transparency creates monthly payment is likely trust which is important because it drives to be.
55% of recent car consumer confidence and influences buyers said they worked buying decisions.
out their monthly budget when researching their In the car buying journey, transparency on 4 next car.
price alleviates the need to haggle, as car buyers are well informed on whether the The introduction of our advertised price is fair and reflects the dealer finance tool on our market.
This is instilled further by our price full page adverts has indicators which inform car buyers as increased engagement to how the advertised price compares with car buyers on the to the market price.
With over half of car buyers thinking Dealer reviews of the monthly payment Reviews by other car buyers also play an 4 during the research process, increasingly influential role, influencing over this product has the ability to extend 3 one third of car purchase decisions.
Similar the car buying journey beyond research to other retail sectors, reviews left by other to a transactional phase.
consumers offer buyers more transparency over the whole process.
New cars 28% of buyers are open to purchasing a Transparent valuations 5 new car, highlighting how undecided In addition to clear and transparent buyers are on their next purchase.
The information on price, car buyers also demand growth of nearly new or younger used transparency on other aspects of the buying cars also offers more choice, blurring the and selling process.
Car buyers may want to lines between new and used and leaving know the value of their car if considering its car buyers more open to influence.
As sale, either through part-exchange or a a result, car buyers rely more heavily private transaction.
Having clear information on online tools to help them make a on the likely financial returns for different purchase decision.
selling methods gives sellers more options and also makes processes easier and helps The launch of our new car virtual stock to make decisions quicker.
enables consumers to see new car options alongside used cars and therefore offer We anticipate that the growing reliance more choice to car buyers.
on online tools by car buyers will increase engagement with AutoTraders consumer We anticipate that the continued products and its marketplace in general.
development of this product will help AutoTraders valuations tool is used position AutoTrader as a new and used 422,000 times by consumers each month car destination, increasing engagement and our Part-Exchange Guide is used 117,000 with our existing users and also attracting times per month.
new audiences who may have not considered AutoTrader as a new car marketplace.
3 A utoTrader Research conducted for AutoTraders Click Awards May 2016 by Acacia Avenue.
Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 05 Market overview continued Driving efficiencies in todays complex market The automotive market, with nearly 11 million car transactions each year, is complex and often inefficient.
We believe that by improving transparency, we can help remove some of the friction thats currently felt in the car buying process, which will lead to people changing their cars more often a win for consumers, retailers and the industry as a whole.
Through the evolution of our digital platforms and our innovative data products we continue to make the car buying process easier for Consumers, Trade and Manufacturers.
Manufacturers 2.7m new car registrations Consumers Trade New cars sold 1.3m New cars direct to consumers via retailers 1.2m 3.0m 9.4m New Used TradeconsumerUsed car sales to-trade cars sold to consumers to-consumer cars cars 5.2m to consumers transactions new and used transactions The role we play New car editorial Part-exchange of used cars and reviews New cars Display advertising The role we play The role we play New and used Classied advertising 0.1m car search listings Finance solutions Vehicle Check Forecourt Dealer Reviews management tools and ratings Valuations Valuations Creating a trusted Price Indicator 1.4m marketplace Private sales Dealer websites Motoring services Retailer brand Motoring advice Business advertising Direct car sales to businesses Fleet & lease customers Commercial buyers of new cars Third parties Auction making cash Used car sales to immediate cash buyers Buying and selling offers to by all types of car traders consumers 06 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Consumers Trade Manufacturers Owners of the 34 million Retailers involved in the sale of New cars are delivered into cars in the UK involved in the new and used cars to consumers.
the market from manufacturers purchase and sale of both They are also typically involved into fleet and lease direct to new and used cars through in part-exchanging cars as well businesses and sold to consumers the ecosystem.
as sourcing and disposing of via a franchise network.
Manufacturers 2.7m new car registrations Consumers Trade New cars sold 1.3m New cars direct to consumers via retailers 1.2m 3.0m 9.4m New Used TradeconsumerUsed car sales to-trade cars sold to consumers to-consumer cars cars 5.2m to consumers transactions new and used transactions The role we play New car editorial Part-exchange of used cars and reviews New cars Display advertising The role we play The role we play New and used Classied advertising 0.1m car search listings Finance solutions Vehicle Check Forecourt Dealer Reviews management tools and ratings Valuations Valuations Creating a trusted Price Indicator 1.4m marketplace Private sales Dealer websites Motoring services Retailer brand Motoring advice Business advertising Direct car sales to businesses Fleet & lease customers Commercial buyers of new cars This symbol indicates Third parties Auction AutoTraders interaction making cash Used car sales to immediate cash buyers Buying and selling with the market.
Turn over offers to by all types to find out more about the of car traders consumers services we offer to each of these audiences... Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 07 Consumers Consumers 3.0m 9.4m c3 on.
s0 um m er- 9.4m cars sold to consumers to-consumer consumernew and used transactions cars sold to consumers to-consumer new and used transactions Trade Trade Tradeto-trade Tradetransactions to-trade transactions Manufacturers Manufacturers Market overview continued How we make the market simpler and more efficient Consumers buy from trade retailers or buy and sell to each other using an automotive platform such as AutoTrader, or through other means.
Reviews are very helpful, very insightful: something I always look at to get a good understanding of what Im buying.
I know how important online reputation is and how much it lends towards the credibility of a business.
Car buyer January 2017 Trade retailers buy new cars directly from manufacturers, and used cars from auction New Used houses, other retailers or 5.2m N car ew s U csed ars 5 used.
ca2 r salem s directly from the consumer.
cars cars to consumers used car sales to consumers Part-Exchange Guide allows customers to get a valuation from an independent, trusted source, prior to contacting us.
It manages the customers expectations and puts us and the customer on the same page.
Shelbourne Motors October 2016 New cars are delivered into the market into fleet and lease direct to businesses and sold to consumers via a franchise.
2.7m 2.7 new car rem gistrations new car registrations The content partnership with AutoTrader provided a trusted and credible platform on which to highlight all the ways in which the Tipo gives you more for less on any car journey.
Fiat Brand Communications Manager January 2017 08 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our business model page 10 The role we play N ew and used car search listings V aluations Mo toring services Consumers can search from around We provide free vehicle valuations We offer consumers a variety 450,000 used cars and 6,000 new cars offering both a private sale price as of services to help them make on the marketplace each month, using well as a part-exchange price.
an informed decision about the a standard make model search or via car they are looking to buy, these P rice Indicator discovery search if they arent sure include: vehicle check, finance, Powered by our valuations, these ofthe exact vehicle they want.
good, great or low price indicators give Vehicle Check consumers full price transparency so Mo toring advice A free standard five point vehicle they can understand the price they are We feature over 48,000 expert and check so consumers can quickly paying compared to the market value.
owner reviews, as well as regularly assessthe provenance of a vehicle.
updated editorial and advice P rivate sales articles to help both confident and D ealer Reviews and ratings Consumers can list their vehicles unconfident car buyers in their Over 5,000 retailers feature in over for sale directly to other consumers.
325,000 reviews, helping consumers make an informed and trusted decision aboutwho they want to buy from.
The role we play C lassified advertising F orecourt management tools secure marketplace.
We remove Our core classified platform reaches the Powered by both our own and misleading adverts and also operate UKs largest automotive audience.
Our third-party data, we offer data two-factor verification on our product packages enable retailers to intelligence solutions i-Control and platforms to protect our customers.
compete effectively on the marketplace.
Retail Check enabling retailers to buy Dealer websites Our starter retailer package now the right stock, at the right price.
We provide mobile-optimised includes products such as 100 images, V aluations websites for our retailers which Live Chat, Dealer Reviews, and the An improvement in the underlying featuremany of our core tools, Part-Exchange Guide.
We offer data that powers our valuations has i. e. Part-Exchange Guide, finance progressively higher levels giving retailers allowed us to launch spec-adjusted calculator and Dealer Reviews.
the opportunity to pay for greater valuations which power price prominence and stand out in a search.
R etailer brand advertising indicators consumers see on the We offer retailers a range of display Finance solutions marketplace.
Our valuations also advertising packages so they can After gaining FCA authorisation, we can power our part-exchange tool.
promote their business as well as now enable retailers to display their C reating a trusted marketplace individual vehicles.
own finance calculator as standard on We invest in technology and a team their full page adverts on AutoTrader.
that is focused on creating a safe and The role we play N ew car editorial and reviews N ew cars Display advertising Make model pages for all new cars We extended our discovery search Our platforms enable improve the buying journey, and the toinclude over 6,000 brand new car manufacturers topromote their extra content enhances AutoTraders make model variants.
These new cars brands to the largest and most position in the new car market.
are unregistered and do not physically engaged automotive classified exist, and are calledvirtual stock.
The change was designed to allow manufacturers toadvertise their stock in front of buyers earlier in the car buying journey.
Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 09
