Directors report Strategic report Governance Financial statements The Directors have pleasure in submitting 2017 Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 10.00 am on their Report and the audited financial 21September 2017 at the Companys registered office at 4th Floor, 1 statements of AutoTrader Group plc the Tony Wilson Place, Manchester, M15 4FN.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the resolutions to be proposed and specifies the deadlines for Company and its subsidiaries together the exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in Group for the financial year to 31 March 2017. relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
All proxy votes will be counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to Statutory information each resolution will be announced at the AGM and published on Information required to be part of the Directors report can be found the Companys website.
elsewhere in this document, as indicated in the table below and is incorporated into this Report by reference: Board of Directors The following individuals were Directors of the Company for the Section of Annual Report Page reference whole of the financial year ending 31March 2017, and to the date of approving this report unless otherwise stated: Employee involvement Strategic report: corporate social responsibility page 39 Ed Williams Employees with disabilities Strategic report: corporate Trevor Mather social responsibility page 43 Sean Glithero Financial instruments Note 2 to the consolidated David Keens financial statements Jill Easterbrook Future developments Strategic report Jeni Mundy of the business pages 2 to 43 Greenhouse gas emissions Strategic report: corporate Nathan Coe was appointed as a Director on 1 April 2017.
All Directors social responsibility page 42 will stand for election or re-election at the 2017 AGM in line with the recommendations of the Code.
Information required by LR 9.8 Appointment and replacement of Directors Information required to be included in the Annual Financial Report by At each Annual General Meeting each Director then in office shall LR 9.8 can be found in this document as indicated in the table below: retire from office with effect from the conclusion of the meeting.
When a Director retires at an Annual General Meeting in accordance Section of Annual Report Page reference with the Articles of Association of the Company, the Company may, by ordinary resolution at the meeting, fill the office being vacated by Allotment of shares Note 22 to the consolidated re-electing the retiring Director.
In the absence of such a resolution, during the year financial statements the retiring Director shall nevertheless be deemed to have been Directors interests Remuneration report page 67 re-elected, except in the cases identified by the Articles.
Significant shareholders Directors report page 74 Results and dividends Going concern Risk management page 32 The Groups and Companys audited financial statements for the year Long-term incentive Directors remuneration report are set out on pages 79 to 122. schemes pages 62 to 68 The Company declared an interim dividend on 10 November 2016 Powers for the Company Directors report page 73 of 1.7pence per share which was paid on 27 January 2017. to buy back its shares Significant contracts Directors report page 74 The Directors recommend payment of a final dividend of 3.5 pence per share 2016: 1.0 pence per share to be paid on 29 September 2017 Significant related party Directors report page 74 to shareholders on the register of members at 1 September 2017, agreements subject to approval at the 2017 AGM.
Statement of corporate Corporate governance governance statement pages 44 to 72 Amendment of the Articles The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Management report No amendments are proposed to be made to the existing Articles This Directors report, on pages 73 to 75, together with the Strategic of Association at the forthcoming AGM.
report on pages 2 to 43, form the Management Report for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
Authority to allot shares Under the 2006 Act, the Directors may only allot shares if authorised The Strategic report to do so by shareholders in a general meeting.
The authority The Strategic report, which can be found on pages 2 to 43, sets conferred on the Directors at the 2016 AGM under section 551 of the out the Groups strategy, objectives and business model: the 2006 Act expires on the date of the forthcoming AGM, and ordinary development, performance and position of the Groups business resolution 13 seeks a new authority to allow the Directors to allot including financial and operating key performance indicators : ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 6,498,786 a description of the principal risks and uncertainties: and the 649,878,622 shares, representing approximately two thirds of the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, Companys existing share capital at 8 June 2017, of which 324,890,572 performance and position of the Groups business.
shares representing approximately one third of the Companys UK Corporate Governance Code issued ordinary share capital can only be allotted pursuant to a rights The Companys statement on corporate governance can be found in issue.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising this the Corporate governance statement, the Report of the Nomination authority which will expire at the conclusion of the AGM in 2018 Committee, the Report of the Audit Committee and the Directors or 20 December 2018 if earlier.
remuneration report on pages 44 to 72, all of which form part of this Authority to purchase own shares Directors report and are incorporated into it by reference.
The Company commenced a share buyback programme during the year.
By resolutions passed at the 2016 AGM the Company was authorised to make market purchases of up to 99,905,974 of its Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 73 Directors' report continued ordinary shares, subject to minimum and maximum price restrictions.
Change of control A total of 26,292,510 ordinary shares of 0.01 each were purchased in Save in respect of a provision of the Companys share schemes which the year to 31 March 2017, being 2.63% of the shares in issue at the time may cause options and awards granted to employees under such the authority was granted.
The average price paid per share was schemes to vest on takeover, there are no agreements between the 387.9p with a total consideration paid inclusive of all costs of Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation 102.6million.
4,211,957 shares were purchased to be held in treasury for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, with the remainder having been cancelled.
The Directors will seek purported redundancy or otherwise because of a takeover bid.
authority from shareholders at the forthcoming AGM for the Significant contracts Company to purchase, in the market, up to a maximum of 10% of its The only significant agreements to which the Company is a party that own ordinary shares excluding shares held in treasury either to be take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company cancelled or retained as treasury shares.
following a takeover bid, and the effect thereof, are the Term Loan and Share capital and control Revolving Credit Facility agreements, which contain customary The Companys issued share capital comprises ordinary shares prepayment, cancellation and default provisions including, if required of 0.01 each which are listed on the London Stock Exchange by a lender, mandatory prepayment of all utilisations provided by that LSE:AUTO.
L. The ISIN of the shares is GB00BVYVFW23.
lender upon the sale of all or substantially all of the business and assets of the Group or a change of control.
The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2017 and 8 June 2017, comprises 978,971,146 of 0.01 each.
4,203,277 shares are Interests in voting rights held in treasury.
Further information regarding the Companys issued At the year end the Company had been notified, in accordance share capital and details of the movements in issued share capital with Chapter 5 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and during the year are provided in note 22 to the Groups financial Transparency Rules, of the following significant interests in the issued statements.
All the information detailed in note 22 forms part of ordinary share capital of the Company: this Directors report and is incorporated into it by reference.
At 31 March 2017 At 8 June 2017 Details of employee share schemes are provided in note 26 to the Percentage Percentage Group financial statements.
of voting of voting Number rights over Number rights over Rights attaching to shares of ordinary ordinary of ordinary ordinary All shares have the same rights including voting and dividend rights shares voting shares of shares voting shares of and rights on a return of capital and restrictions as set out in the Shareholder rights notified 0.01 each rights notified 0.01 each Articles, described below.
Except in relation to dividends which Blackrock Inc. 107,192,743 10.99% 107,294,221 11.00% have been declared and rights on a liquidation of the Company, the CI Investments shareholders have no rights to share in the profits of the Company.
However, following any grant of authority from shareholders, the Company may purchase or contract to purchase any of the shares on or off market, subject to Transactions with related parties the Companies Act 2006 and the requirements of the Listing Rules.
There were no related party transactions in the year, other than compensation paid to Directors and Key Management as disclosed No shareholder holds shares in the Company which carry special in note 6 to the Group financial statements.
rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no shares relating to an employee share scheme which have rights with regard Research and development to control of the Company that are not exercisable directly and solely Innovation, specifically in software, is a critical element of by the employees, other than in the case of the AutoTrader Group AutoTraders strategy and therefore of the future success of Share Incentive Plan, where share interests of a participant in such the Group.
Accordingly, the majority of the Groups research and scheme can be exercised by the personal representatives of a development expenditure is predominantly related to this area.
deceased participant in accordance with the Scheme rules.
Since 30 September 2013, the Group has changed its approach to technology development such that the Group now develops its core Voting rights infrastructure through small-scale, maintenance-like incremental Each ordinary share entitles the holder to vote at general meetings improvements, and as a result the amount of capitalised of the Company.
A resolution put to the vote of the meeting shall be development costs has decreased as less expenditure meets decided on a show of hands unless a poll is demanded.
On a show the requirements of IAS 38 Intangible assets.
of hands, every member who is present in person or by proxy at a general meeting of the Company shall have one vote.
On a poll, every Indemnities and insurance member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for The Company maintains appropriate insurance to cover Directors every share of which they are a holder.
The Articles provide a deadline and officers liability for itself and its subsidiaries and such insurance for submission of proxy forms of not than less than 48 hours before was in force for the whole of the financial year ending 31March 2017. the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned The Company also indemnifies the Directors under a qualifying meeting.
No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting indemnity for the purposes of section 236 of the Companies Act either in person or by proxy, in respect of any share held by him, unless 2006: in the case of the Non-Executive Directors in their respective all amounts presently payable by him in respect of that share have letters of appointment and in the case of the Executive Directors in a been paid.
Save as noted, there are no restrictions on voting rights separate deed of indemnity.
Such indemnities contain provisions that nor any agreement that may result in such restrictions.
are permitted by the Director Liability provisions of the Companies Act and the Companys Articles.
Restrictions on transfer of securities The Articles do not contain any restrictions on the transfer of ordinary Environmental shares in the Company other than the usual restrictions applicable Information on the Groups greenhouse gas emissions is set out in where any amount is unpaid on a share.
Certain restrictions are also the Corporate Social Responsibility section on page 42 and forms imposed by laws and regulations such as insider trading and part of this report by reference.
marketing requirements relating to close periods and requirements Political donations of the Companys share dealing code whereby Directors and certain There were no political donations made during the year or the employees of the Company require approval to deal in the previous year.
74 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Post balance sheet events The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting On 25 April 2017, AutoTrader Limited, a subsidiary of the Group, records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys acquired 100% of the share capital of Motor Trade Delivery Limited transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the MTD for an undisclosed sum.
MTD revenues and profits for their last financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure financial year end were less than 1% of the revenue and profits of the that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
The acquisition accounting has not yet been concluded as of They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are the date of this report.
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
External branches The Group had no active registered external branches during the Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also reporting period.
responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Financial instruments Statement that complies with that law and those regulations Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, including hedging policies and exposure of the entity The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk, are given in the corporate and financial information included on the Companys note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Disclosure of information to auditors in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors has confirmed that: Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the annual so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information financial report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and The Directors confirm, to the best of their knowledge: the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make him herself aware of any relevant audit the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of that information.
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance taken as a whole: and with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and Report and the Financial Statements the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance that they face.
with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Financial Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Company Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs Approval of Annual Report as adopted by the European Union EU, and have elected to prepare The Strategic report and the Corporate governance report were the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK approved by the Board on 8 June 2017.
Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard Applicable in the UK and Republic Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial Claire Baty statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view Company Secretary of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of the 8 June 2017 profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 75
