Investment Managers Process Investment Philosophy The Investment Manager employs a time-tested investment philosophy built upon a disciplined, yet flexible, long-term approach to value-oriented emerging markets investing which allows the portfolio managers to look beyond short-term news, noise, and emotion.
Value Our goal is to identify those companies that appear to be trading at a discount to what our estimates indicate to be their projected future intrinsic value which, over time, should produce a strong share price return.
Patience On a short-term basis, stocks may overreact to news and noise.
On a long-term basis, we believe that markets are efficient and that patience will reward those who have identified undervalued stocks.
Bottom-up We identify value through rigorous fundamental analysis and a worldwide network of experienced research resources.
Research is carried out on a company by company basis in different countries and industries to determine what we consider the economic worth of a company to be, based on many factors including projected future earnings, cash flow or asset value potential as well as management capability and governance.
The Investment Manager follows a rigorous five step process: 1.
Identify Potential Bargains All portfolio managers are also research analysts, Does this stock meet TEMGs criteria of valuation, resulting in a deep and experienced research team.
While our philosophy remains unchanged, continual Is it a potential bargain within the global universe, refinement and improvement is part of the TEMG culture.
itssector and on a historical basis?
TEMG is able to leverage 60 years of global investing by Franklin Templeton Investments to build an extensive network of local contacts around the world.
In Depth Fundamental Analysis Within the framework of a disciplined, long-term Is this stock a candidate for the TEMG Action List?
approach, analysts look beyond short-term noise to Is the stock trading at a substantial discount to what estimate long-term economic worth.
ourresearch indicates the company may be worth over Bottom-up fundamental analysis, industry knowledge and the long-term?
access to company management drive original research.
3. Review Team Evaluation A collaborative team culture that leverages the Has analysis met TEMG standards?
experience of the entire TEMG produces comprehensive Does the recommendation pass the TEMG Review Teams research insights.
Allocate Portfolio Taking into account the investment objective and What do we consider to represent the best combination guidelines, the portfolio is constructed with attention to of stocks for creating a diversified fund with the greatest diversification and risk levels.
The process seeks to reduce portfolio turnover.
The fund combines the potential of our best ideas with the risk benefits of diversification.
Portfolio Evaluation and Attribution Analysis Portfolios are subject to weekly review, while a What are the performance contributors detractors?
semi-annual review evaluates methodology, resources, themes, country level issues and global trends.
TEMG investment process combines the benefits of individual and team portfolio management.
18 Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC www.
co. uk TEMIT ANNUREP 07 p18 Investment Manager's Process.
indd 18 6 29 17 7:07 PM Investment Risk Management Investment in emerging market equities inevitably involves risk in a volatile asset class, and portfolios constructed from the bottom up may be exposed to risks that become evident when viewed from the top down.
Franklin Templeton Investments FTI uses a comprehensive approach to managing risks within our portfolios.
The goal of our investment risk management process is not to avoid risk, but to ensure that risks are understood, intended and compensated.
This philosophy is integrated into each step of the investment process: Risk management is led first and foremost by experienced portfolio managers.
It is integrated within each step of their fundamental, research-driven process, and includes regular interaction with the independent Performance Analysis and Investment Risk PAIR team.
The PAIR team consists of over 100 investment risk and performance professionals across 20 global locations.
PAIR is responsible for the independent preparation and monitoring of risk management information and for the reporting of any exceptions to senior management and the Board of the Company.
A monthly executive risk summary report is reviewed by FTIs Executive Investment Risk Committee as an input to the senior management reporting process.
PAIR also provides regular performance analysis versus the benchmark and peers to identify absolute and relative performance trends or outliers.
Exposure and attribution analysis is another key measure to support the integration of investment risk insight into each step of the investment process.
Risk Management Our approach Dedicated Risk Management Specialists Recognised PORTFOLIO Identify and understand risk at the security, Provide robust analytics and critical, MANAGERS portfolio and operational level unbiased insight Locally positioned to work consultatively with portfolio teams around the globe Oversight Committees Rational Focus on most complex risk factors: Affirm that identified risks are an intended Counterparty Risk Pricing and Liquidity and rational part of each portfolios strategy Complex Securities Global Products Tools and Platforms Centrally supported, best-in-class platforms for: Rewarded Data Analytics and Modelling Verify that every risk provides the potential Portfolio Compliance for a commensurate long-term reward Trade Monitoring and Execution Building from this philosophy and within the boundaries of the overall investment strategy or potential regulatory restrictions, the portfolio manager and PAIR will agree upon guidelines that reflect the Companys risk profile.
As part of the ongoing risk management, potential performance in stressed markets or under anticipated scenarios are assessed and discussed.
Using their specific expertise and with an independent view, the PAIR group can provide risk-related information to the Investment Manager which can provide valuable insight for consideration in the portfolio construction process.
For additional information with respect to the AIFM risk management framework, visit the Investor Disclosure document on the website.
co. uk Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC 19 TEMIT ANNUREP 08 p19-33 Risk Management Final.
