Strategic Report Business Review In managing this risk the Board: Discount control mechanism DCM reviews the Companys Investment Objective in relation to The Board undertakes a regular review of the level of market, and economic, conditions and the operation of the discount premium and consideration is given to ways in Companys peers: which share price performance may be enhanced, including the effectiveness of marketing, share issuance and share discusses at each Board meeting the Companys future buy-backs, where appropriate.
development and strategy: reviews the shareholder register at each Board meeting: The Board implemented the DCM in 2004.
This established a actively seeks to promote the Company to current and target level of no more than a 6% share price discount to the ex-income NAV per share.
potential investors: and, has implemented a discount control mechanism.
Under the DCM, the Companys shares being offered on the stock market, when the discount reaches a level of 6% or The operation of the discount control mechanism and more, may be bought back and held as treasury shares See Company promotional activities have been delegated to Glossary on page 73.
Treasury shares can be sold back to Frostrow, who report to the Board at each Board meeting on the market at a later date at a discount narrower than that at these activities.
which they were bought and no greater than a 5% discount to Company promotion the cum income NAV per share.
The Company has appointed Frostrow to provide marketing Shareholders should note, however, that it remains possible and investor relations services, in the belief that a for the share price discount to the NAV per share to be well-marketed investment company is more likely to grow greater than 6% on any one day.
This is due to the fact that over time, have a more diverse and stable shareholder register the share price continues to be influenced by overall supply and will trade at a superior rating to its peers.
and demand for the Companys shares in the secondary Frostrow actively promotes the Company in the following ways: market.
The volatility of the NAV per share in an asset class Engaging regularly with institutional investors, discretionary such as healthcare is another factor over which the Board wealth managers and a range of execution-only platforms: has no control.
Frostrow regularly talks and meets with institutional In recent years the Companys successful performance has investors, discretionary wealth managers and execution-only generated substantial investor interest.
Whenever there are platform providers to discuss the Companys strategy and to unsatisfied buying orders for the Companys shares in the understand any issues and concerns, covering both market, the Company has the ability to issue new shares at a investment and corporate governance matters: small premium to the cum income NAV per share.
This ensures that there is no asset dilution to existing Making Company information more accessible: Frostrow works to raise the profile of the Company by targeting key shareholders and stops the market price going to a significant and possibly unsustainable premium.
groups within the investment community, holding annual investment seminars, overseeing PR output and managing Details of share buy-backs and issuance are set out on the Companys website and wider digital offering, including page 30.
Portfolio Manager videos and social media.
Social, economic and environmental matters Disseminating key Company information: Frostrow performs the Investor Relations function on behalf of the Company and The Directors, through the Companys Portfolio Manager, manages the investor database.
Frostrow produces all key encourage companies in which investments are made to corporate documents, distributes monthly Fact Sheets, adhere to best practice with regard to corporate governance.
Annual Reports and updates from OrbiMed on portfolio and In light of the nature of the Companys business there are no market developments: and relevant human rights issues and the Company does not have a human rights policy.
Monitoring market activity, acting as a link between the The Company recognises that social and environmental Company, shareholders and other stakeholders: Frostrow issues can have an effect on some of its investee companies.
maintains regular contact with sector broker analysts and other research and data providers, and conducts periodic The Company is an investment trust and so its own direct investor perception surveys, liaising with the Board to provide environmental impact is minimal.
The Board of Directors up-to-date and accurate information on the latest consists of six Directors, four of whom are resident in the UK, shareholder and market developments.
one is resident in the U. S. and one in Canada.
The Board Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 24 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 Strategic Report Business Review holds the majority of its regular meetings in the United The Directors also took into account the liquidity of the portfolio when considering the viability of the Company over Kingdom, with one meeting held each year in New York, and has a policy that travel, as far as possible, is minimal, thereby the next five years and its ability to meet liabilities as they fall due.
In addition, the Board noted that shareholders have an minimising the Companys greenhouse gas emissions.
Further details concerning greenhouse gas emissions can be opportunity to vote on the continuation of the Company every five years: a resolution regarding the continuance of the found within the Report of the Directors on page 30.
Company will next be put to shareholders at the Annual Board diversity General Meeting to be held in 2019.
The Board is supportive of the recommendations of Lord The Directors do not expect there to be any significant Davies report that the performance of corporate boards can change in the principal risks that have been identified or the be improved by encouraging the appointment of the best adequacy of the mitigating controls in place, and do not people from a range of differing perspectives and backgrounds.
envisage any change in strategy or objectives or any events The Company recognises the benefits of diversity on the Board, that would prevent the Company from continuing to operate including gender, and takes this into account in its Board over that period as the Companys assets are liquid, its appointments.
The Company is committed to ensuring that any commitments are limited and the Company intends to Director search process actively seeks persons with the right continue to operate as an investment trust.
The Directors qualifications so that appointments can be made, on the basis believe that only a substantial financial crisis affecting the of merit, against objective criteria from a diverse selection of global economy could have an impact on this assessment.
To this end the Board will dedicate time to Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable considering diversity during any director search process and expectation that the Company will be able to continue in keep in mind that the Davies Review of Women on Boards operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next recommended that UK Listed Companies in the FTSE 100 five year period.
should be aiming for a minimum of 25% of females on the Board.
Alternative performance measures Male Female The Financial Statements on pages 52 to 70 set out the Directors of the Company 5 1 required statutory reporting measures of the Companys financial performance.
In addition, the Board assesses the The Company does not have any employees.
Therefore there Companys performance against a range of criteria which are is no employee information to disclose.
viewed as particularly relevant for investment trusts, which Long term viability are summarised on page 3 and explained in greater detail in the Strategic Report, under the heading Key Performance The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the Indicators on pages 20 and 21. principal risks facing the Company including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, Performance and future developments solvency or liquidity.
The Board has drawn up a matrix of risks facing the Company and has put in place a schedule of An outline of performance, investment activity and strategy, investment limits and restrictions, appropriate to the and market background during the year, as well as the future Companys investment objective and policy, in order to outlook, is provided in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 mitigate these risks as far as practicable.
The principal risks and 5 and the Portfolio Managers Review and Sector Outlook and uncertainties which have been identified, and the steps on pages 12 to 19. taken by the Board to mitigate these as far as possible, are It is expected that the Companys strategy will remain shown on pages 22 to 24. unchanged in the coming year.
The Board believes it is appropriate to assess the Companys viability over a five year period.
This period is also deemed appropriate due to our Portfolio Managers long-term By order of the Board investment horizon and also what we believe to be investors Frostrow Capital LLP horizons, taking account of the Companys current position Company Secretary and the potential impact of the principal risks and 14 June 2017 uncertainties as shown on page 22 to 24.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 25
