Board of Directors Nicholas Bull FCA John Ford Chairman since 22 July 2016 Director Appointed 22 July 2016 Appointed 4 February 2010 Member of the: Member of the: Nomination and Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Investment Committee Management Engagement Committee Chairman Nomination and Remuneration Committee Mr Bull is the Senior Independent Director of Coats Group plc.
He is Mr Ford is Fidelity Internationals Global Chief Investment Ocer, Fixed Income, Multi Asset and Real Estate and has been a member also a Member of Council of the University of Exeter, a Trustee of the Design Museum and Deputy Chairman of the Trustees of the Conran of its Global Operating Committee since 2008.
Prior to this, he was Chief Investment Ocer for Fidelity Internationals Asia Pacic Foundation.
He was a Director, then Chairman, of hotels group fide Vere from 2010 until the completion of its asset disposal programme in region from 2008.
He joined Fidelity in 2005 as the Hong Kong based Managing Director of its operations in South East Asia 2015.
He was also Chairman of the Advisory Board of City stockbroker, Westhouse Securities.
Previously Mr Bull worked for 30 years as a before becoming the Chief Investment Ocer in 2006 for Japan.
He has worked in the asset management industry since 1986, having corporate finance practitioner with Morgan Grenfell subsequently Deutsche Bank, Socit Gnrale and ABN AMRO in London, Sydney, spent 19 years at Schroders.
He was located in Asia for much of that time and worked in a number of dierent countries in the Singapore and Hong Kong.
He is a qualied Chartered Accountant.
region including Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore and Malaysia.
Peter Pleydell-Bouverie DL Senior Independent Director since 22 July 2016 Director Appointed 1 November 2011 Appointed 4 February 2010 Member of the: Member of the: Audit Committee Audit Committee Investment Committee Investment Committee Chairman Management Engagement Committee Management Engagement Committee Nomination and Remuneration Committee Chairman Nomination and Remuneration Committee Ms Scott is a non-executive Director of Pacic Horizon Investment Mr Pleydell-Bouverie is an investment professional with over Trust PLC, Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC and Allianz 30 years of investment experience, particularly in the Far East Technology Trust PLC.
She worked in the asset management industry and emerging markets.
His current non-executive positions include in Hong Kong from 1992 to 2008, where she was Managing Director acting as CIO and Trustee on investment committees for family and Country Head of Schroder Investment Management Hong Kong and charitable trusts.
He is also a Deputy Lieutenant of the County Limited and Chairman of the Hong Kong Investment Funds Association.
He spent ten years with FIL where he was investment Director until 1996, managing Japanese-focused unit trusts, oshore funds, pension funds and the Fidelity Emerging Markets Fund.
Prior to this, he was an associate Director at Kleinwort Grieveson Investment Management and fund manager at Grieveson, Grant and Co, where he also managed Asia-focused investment funds.
David Causer FCA Vera Hong Wei Director Director Appointed 4 February 2010 Appointed 24 March 2016 Member of the: Member of the: Audit Committee Chairman Audit Committee Investment Committee Investment Committee Management Engagement Committee Management Engagement Committee Nomination and Remuneration Committee Nomination and Remuneration Committee Mr Causer is a non-executive Director and Audit Committee Chairman Ms Wei has over 18 years experience in the Chinese financial of Schroder Income Growth Fund plc.
He is a qualied Chartered industry spanning central bank, commercial bank and Accountant and a member of the Securities Institute.
He has held a asset management sectors.
She is Chief Executive of Sloan number of senior positions within financial services organisations, Education Ltd.
Her previous roles include Managing Director of including as Finance Director of Mercury Asset Management Greenwoods Asset Management, Vice General Manager of Ping Group plc and as a Managing Director of Merrill Lynch Investment An Annuity in Shanghai, Head of Corporate Banking at Shenzhen Managers until 2001.
He was Finance Director of The British Red Development Bank and Director of The Peoples Bank of China.
He is also a Trustee of a number of charities and a former public member of Network Rail.
All the Directors are non-executive directors and all are independent, with the exception of John Ford.
20 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
