Governance Board of Directors Sir Martin Smith Sarah Bates Dr David Holbrook A Director since 2013 A Director since 2007 Chairman Seeks annual re-election by shareholders Seeks annual re-election by shareholders A Director since 2007 Sarah Bates is currently Chair of St Jamess Dr David Holbrook is Chairman of the Seeks annual re-election by shareholders Place Plc and a non-executive Director of Polar Nominations Committee and is the Senior Sir Martin Smith has been involved in the Capital Technology Trust plc and of JPMorgan Independent Director.
He is a qualified financial services sector for more than 40 years.
David co-manages Cambridge He was a founder and senior partner of Phoenix Chair of the Association of Investment Universitys Seed Funds in the Life Sciences.
He Securities, becoming Chairman of European Companies.
She is a member of the Universities is also a Venture Partner at MTI Partnership Investment Banking for Donaldson, Lufkin & Superannuation Fund Investment Committee, LLP, a leading early stage venture capital Jenrette DLJ following the acquisition of and has a number of voluntary appointments on investor, having been General Partner and Head Phoenix by DLJ.
He was subsequently a founder charity or pension fund investment committees.
of Healthcare Investing for 13 years.
David of New Star Asset Management Ltd. and has a She attended Cambridge University and has an attended London and Oxford Universities, and number of other directorships and business MBA from London Business School.
has an MBA from Harvard Business School.
He interests, including being Chairman of GP has held senior positions in a number of blue Bullhound, and a directorship with Oxford Shareholding in the Company: 7,200 chip biopharmaceutical organisations including Capital Partners and Energy Works PLC.
His pro-bono interests include serving as Shareholding in the Company: Chairman of the Orchestra of the Age of 1,094 Enlightenment and serving on the boards of a number of other arts organisations including the Royal Academy of Music, the Glyndebourne Arts Trust and the Science Museum Foundation.
He has chaired the English National Opera and is a Governor of the Ditchley Foundation.
Shareholding in the Company: 11,871 Beneficial 2,725 Trustee Meeting attendance The number of scheduled meetings held during the year of the Board and its Committees, and each Directors attendance level, is shown below: Management Engagement & Nominations Remuneration Type and number of meetings Board Audit Committee Committee Committee held in 2016 17 4 2 1 1 Sir Martin Smith 4 1 1 Sarah Bates 4 2 1 1 Jo Dixon 2 1 Dr David Holbrook 4 2 1 1 Samuel D. Isaly 3 Humphrey van der Klugt 4 2 1 1 Doug McCutcheon 4 2 1 1 Retired from the Board on 21 September 2016 All of the serving Directors attended the Annual General Meeting held on 21 September 2016.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 26 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 Governance Board of Directors Samuel D. Isaly Humphrey van der Klugt, FCA Doug McCutcheon A Director since 1995 A Director since 2016 A Director since 2012 Seeks annual re-election by shareholders Seeks annual re-election by shareholders Seeks annual re-election by shareholders Sam Isaly is Managing Partner of OrbiMed Humphrey van der Klugt is Chairman of the Doug McCutcheon is Chairman of the Capital LLC, the Companys Portfolio Manager, Audit Committee.
He is a Director of JPM Management Engagement & Remuneration and has been a worldwide healthcare Claverhouse Investment Trust plc and Allianz Committee.
He is the President of Longview Asset investment specialist for more than 30 years Technology Trust PLC.
He was formerly Management Ltd. and Gormley Limited, having worked in New York and Europe with Chairman of Fidelity European Values PLC and a independent investment firms.
Until 2012, Doug Chase Manhattan, Socit Gnrale, Crdit Director of Murray Income Trust PLC and was an investment banker at S. G. Warburg and Suisse and UBS Warburg.
BlackRock Commodities Income Investment then UBS for 25 years, most recently as the head Trust plc.
Prior to this Humphrey was a fund of Healthcare Investment Banking for Europe, the Shareholding in the Company: manager and Director of Schroder Investment Middle East, Africa and Asia-Pacific.
Doug is 3,600 Management Limited and in a 22 year career involved in several philanthropic organisations was a member of their Group Investment and with a focus on healthcare and education.
Prior to joining attended Queens University, Canada.
Schroders, he was with Peat Marwick Mitchell & Shareholding in the Company: Co now KPMG where he qualified as a 15,000 Chartered Accountant in 1979.
Shareholding in the Company: 1,500 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 27 Governance Report of the Directors The Directors present their Annual Report on the affairs of and Frostrow receiving 1.5%, for fees payable to March 2018 the Company together with the audited financial statements following which no further fees will be payable to Frostrow and the Independent Auditors Report for the year ended further details can be found on page 21 respectively.
Provision 31 March 2017. is made within the daily NAV per share calculation as required and in accordance with generally accepted accounting standards.
Significant agreements Details of the services provided under these agreements are In order to ensure that only sustained outperformance is included in the Strategic Report on pages 21 to 22. rewarded, at each quarterly calculation date any performance fee payable is based on the lower of: Alternative Investment Fund Management i The cumulative outperformance of the portfolio over the agreement Benchmark as at the quarter end date: and As described on page 21, Frostrow is the designated AIFM for the Company on the terms and subject to the conditions of the ii The cumulative outperformance of the portfolio over the alternative investment fund management agreement between Benchmark as at the corresponding quarter end date in the the Company and Frostrow the AIFM Agreement.
The effect of this is that outperformance has to be maintained The notice period on the AIFM Agreement with Frostrow is for a twelve month period before it is paid.
12 months, termination can be initiated by either party.
In addition, a performance fee only becomes payable to the During the year under review, Frostrow charged a variable extent that the cumulative outperformance gives rise to a total base fee, which was dependent on the size of the Company fee greater than the total of all performance fees paid to date.
and a performance fee of 1.5% of outperformance against the Benchmark as set out below.
Further details of these The performance fee charge for the year was 4.7m 2016: arrangements and also of changes made that took effect reversal of 5.5m and consisted of: from 1 April 2017 can be found on page 21.
1.3m which became payable due to outperformance that had been achieved as at 30 September 2015 and Portfolio management agreement maintained to 30 September 2016: and Under the AIFM Agreement Frostrow has delegated the A provision for potential future performance fee payments portfolio management function to OrbiMed, under a portfolio of 3.4m 2016: no provision made as at 31 March 2017. management agreement between it, the Company and Frostrow the Portfolio Management Agreement.
The maximum amount that could become payable by 31 March 2018, is 3.4m.
OrbiMed receives a periodic fee equal to 0.65% p. a. of the Companys NAV and a performance fee as set out in the Depositary agreement Performance Fee section below.
Its agreement with the The Company appointed J. P. Morgan Europe Limited the Company may be terminated by either party giving notice of Depositary as its Depositary in accordance with the not less than 12 months.
AIFMD on the terms and subject to the conditions of the Depositary agreement between the Company, Frostrow and Performance fee the Depositary the Depositary Agreement.
Dependent on the level of long-term outperformance of the Company, OrbiMed and Frostrow are entitled to a Under the terms of the Depositary Agreement the Company performance fee.
The performance fee is calculated by has agreed to pay the Depositary a fee calculated at 1.75bp reference to the amount by which the Companys NAV on net assets up to 150 million, 1.50 bps on net assets performance has outperformed the Benchmark see inside between 150 million and 300 million 1.00bps on net assets front cover for details of the Benchmark.
between 300 million and 500 million and 0.50bps on net assets above 500 million.
The fee is calculated quarterly by comparing the cumulative performance of the Companys NAV with the cumulative The Depositary has delegated the custody and safekeeping of the Companys assets to J. P. Morgan Securities LLC the performance of the Benchmark since the launch of the Company in 1995.
The performance fee amounts to 16.5% of any Prime Broker pursuant to a delegation agreement outperformance over the Benchmark, OrbiMed receiving 15% Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 28 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017
