Strategic Report Portfolio SUMMARY Market value % of Investments 000 investments Equities including options & swaps 1,147,003 96.2 Unquoted debt securities variable rate 18,390 1.5 Convertible debt securities 15,403 1.3 Unquoted debt securities fixed rate 12,085 1.0 Total of all investments 1,192,881 100.0 Portfolio distribution By sector 2017 2016 Emerging Market Life Sciences Tools and Services basket swaps Unquoted debt 2.6% Unquoted debt 1.8% 3.3% 2.1% Life Sciences Emerging Market Tools and Services basket swaps 3.3% 4.6% Pharmaceutical 30.7% Healthcare Equipment Supplies Technology Healthcare Providers 11.8% Services 13.7% Healthcare Providers Services 12.4% Pharmaceutical Healthcare Equipment 38.7% Supplies Technology 16.5% Biotechnology Biotechnology 28.6% 29.9% By geography 2017 2016 Asia 6.5% Emerging Markets 12.1% Europe 15.4% North America 66.0% Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 10 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 Asia 9.3% Europe 10.0% Emerging Markets 14.7% North America 66.0% Strategic Report OrbiMed Capital LLC OrbiMed was founded in 1989 and has evolved over time to be holders with MD and or PhD credentials, healthcare industry the largest dedicated healthcare investment firm in the veterans, and finance professionals with over 20 years of world.
OrbiMed has managed the Companys portfolio since experience.
Strong returns and many investment The firm has a global investment horizon and the OrbiMed awards signify the aggregate talents of this exceptional team.
footprint now spans three continents with offices in New York, OrbiMed had over U. S. $13 billion in assets under San Francisco, Herzliya Israel, Shanghai, and Mumbai.
management as of 31 March 2017, across a range of funds, The team that manages the Companys portfolio is as follows: including investment trusts, hedge funds, mutual funds, Samuel D. Isaly, is the Managing Partner at and private equity funds.
OrbiMed and also a Director of the Company.
Mr Isalys biographical details can be found on Investment strategy and process page 27 of this Annual Report.
Within the guidelines set by the Board, the OrbiMed team work constantly to identify sources of outperformance, or alpha, with a focus on fundamental research.
In healthcare, Sven H. Borho, CFA, is a founding Partner of there are many primary sources of alpha generation, OrbiMed.
He is a senior member of the public especially in therapeutics.
Clinical events such as the equity team and he is a portfolio manager for publication of new clinical trial data is a prominent example OrbiMed's public equity and hedge funds.
and historically has been the largest source of share price Sven has played an integral role in the growth volatility.
Regulatory events, such as new drug approvals by of OrbiMed's asset management activities.
He U. S. European, or Japanese regulatory authorities are also started his career in 1991 when he joined OrbiMed's stock moving events.
Subsequent new product launches are predecessor firm as a Senior Analyst covering European carefully tracked and forecasted.
Other sources include legal pharmaceutical firms and biotechnology companies events and, of course, merger and acquisition activity.
He studied business administration at Bayreuth The team has a global focus with a universe of coverage that University in Germany and received a M. Sc.
covers the entire spectrum of companies, from early stage Accounting and Finance, from The London School of companies with pre-clinical assets to fully integrated Economics: he is a citizen of both Germany and Sweden.
The universe of actively Trevor M. Polischuk, Ph.
D. is a Public Equity covered companies is approaching 1,000.
Partner focused on the global pharmaceutical OrbiMed emphasises investments in companies with industry.
Previously, he worked at Lehman underappreciated products in the pipeline, high quality Brothers as a Senior Research Analyst management teams, and adequate financial resources.
A covering the U. S. pharmaceutical industry.
disciplined portfolio construction process is utilised to ensure Trevor began his career at Warner Lambert as the portfolio is focused on high conviction positions.
Finally, a member of the Pharmaceutical Global Marketing Planning the portfolio is subject to a rigorous risk management team.
In this role, he coordinated marketing activities for the process to moderate portfolio volatility.
second generation gabapentinoid product, Pregabalin.
Trevor holds a Doctorate in Neuropharmacology & Gross Human The team Anatomy and an M. B.
A. from Queen's University, Canada.
The OrbiMed Public Equity Investment Team continues to expand.
Led by founding partner, Samuel D. Isaly, now over 80 investment professionals cover all aspects of research, trading, finance, and compliance.
This includes over 20 degree Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 11 Strategic Report Portfolio Managers Review Samuel D. Isaly All of the healthcare sub-sectors in which the Company invests were positive contributors to performance.
sterling compared to the U. S. $ during the period also Performance Review influenced performance.
The year ended 31 March 2017 can be mostly characterised by two political events of notable import that shaped the The net result was a significant rise in global healthcare performance of global healthcare equities.
The MSCI World Healthcare Index, measured on a net U. K. referendum that resulted in its decision to leave the total return, sterling adjusted basis, advanced 24.5% for the European Union and the U. S. Presidential election that year ended 31 March 2017.
The Company was able to resulted in a Republican sweep of the White House, Senate, outperform this.
Its net asset value per share total return was and House of Representatives, created a volatile year in equity 28.9% and its share price total return was 35.5%.
markets that was exacerbated by significant fluctuations in Overall, since the Companys inception in 1995 to 31 March global currencies, most notably sterling.
Nevertheless, 2017, the total return of the Companys net asset value per healthcare stocks did in fact finish the period higher.
share is 2,728.1%, equivalent to a compound annual return of The start of the Companys financial year bore witness to a 16.5%.
This compares to the blended Benchmark rise of market rebound in healthcare stocks after rhetoric pouring out 1,175.6%, equivalent to a compound annual return of 12.3%.
of the U. S. Presidential race and investor concerns about Chinas economy dramatically depressed share prices in the Contribution to Performance three-month period immediately preceding this year.
As a Absolute positive contribution was generated in most result, the first quarter of the period was positive, as stocks subsectors, including pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, traded more on industry fundamentals rather than specialty pharmaceuticals, medical devices, healthcare macro-economic concerns.
However, this came to a dramatic services, life science tools & diagnostics, and emerging head in June 2016, where performance of global equity markets.
The lone exception was generic pharmaceuticals.
markets in the month could be summarised in one word Outperformance was generated via multiple ways.
Britains decision to leave the European Union sent the was most critical, with overweight positioning in emerging markets into a swoon as investors turned to a risk off biotechnology and medical device stocks.
Astute stock picking strategy, buying defensive names and selling uncertainty.
As a in the life science tools space, medical devices, and healthcare result, healthcare stocks performed well although services managed care also fueled outperformance.
biotechnology stocks, given their risk profile, notably lagged.
Leverage also played an important role in the Companys The Brexit tailwind lasted through July but then investor focus performance during the year, contributing 3.2% to returns as a reverted to the highly contested U. S. Presidential election race, result of strong market conditions.
The level of leverage where drug pricing and putative reform legislation were a employed during the year remained stable at around 16% continuous topic, led primarily by the Democratic presidential slightly lower than last year and this reflected our positive nominee, Hillary Clinton.
The result was a dramatic sell-off in overall view on the outlook for the healthcare sector.
Notably, global healthcare equities ahead of the November election, eight individual positions added 1.0% or more to performance where healthcare stocks reached a 52-week low in U. S. $.
whereas only one position detracted more than 1.0% from However, in an election result that was heard around the performance.
Some offsets to outperformance included world, Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump was overweight positioning in large capitalisation biotechnology elected as the 45th President of the United States, including and underweight positioning in large capitalisation Republican control of both The House of Representatives and pharmaceuticals.
The top contributor during the Companys financial year was Whilst still volatile, the election results re-stimulated investor the medical device maker, Wright Medical.
The company, interest in healthcare, pushing stocks higher as the threat of which develops devices and instruments for a number of drug price reforms in the U. S. partially abated and the promise medical applications such as joint replacement, trauma, of U. S. tax reform increased.
Additionally, the weakening of sports medicine, as well as orthobiologic products, entered Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 12 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017
