Portfolio Managers Review The portfolios holdings in financials detracted from performance Dale Nicholls Portfolio Manager since against the Index.
The largest overweight position relative to 1 April 2014 has over twenty years the MSCI China Index is China Pacific Insurance.
He joined low penetration of life insurance products in China, the growth Fidelitys Tokyo office in 1996 as an potential remains significant over the medium-term.
The companys analyst and began to take an interest in the dynamics of the Chinese market.
focus is on higher margin products and improving its sales force.
He regularly visited Chinese companies However, the insurance sector came under regulatory scrutiny to get a clear view of the key supply and demand dynamics following a series of big investments by insurance companies not of the industries he covered.
In 2003 he became portfolio related to their core business.
In addition, there were concerns manager of the Fidelity Pacific Fund and retains over their property and casualty business performance.
I believe management of that portfolio today.
He spends much of his these concerns are overdone and China Pacific Insurance is time travelling within China to meet the management teams significantly undervalued.
and competitors of companies in which he may or does MARKET OVERVIEW invest, visiting well over 100 companies a year.
On the whole, China has showed signs of economic improvement reflected in a clear acceleration in nominal GDP growth.
As Despite a fairly large decline in the Chinese market in April May mentioned in previous reports, the biggest overhangs to sentiment 2016, the market has significantly rewarded investors over the towards China have been falling economic growth, oversupply year.
Economic fundamentals have clearly improved and this has in old China industries like steel and coal and the rapid been reflected at the company level, with many announcing much acceleration of credit growth.
The government has embarked improved 2016 annual results.
Over this period, the MSCI China on a supply-side reform programme that has had meaningful Index rose by 37.6% and the Companys NAV outperformed this, impact.
For example, coal mines and steel mills have cut output, posting a 38.8% total return.
Pleasingly, the Companys share price which has helped trim some of the oversupply in these sectors, recorded an even stronger total return of 45.8%, which also means a factor supporting the move of the Producer Price Index PPI the share price discount to NAV has closed at 13.2% from a high of into positive territory for the first time in over four years.
However, these total returns are in sterling terms and played a role in economic stabilisation as demonstrated in the sterlings depreciation post-Brexit did boost the numbers as the reported GDP growth of 6.9% in Q1 2017. underlying assets held by the Company are in foreign currencies.
The growth in credit remains my greatest concern and so I am PERFORMANCE REVIEW encouraged by increased efforts by regulators and The Peoples The Companys NAV outperformed the MSCI China Index over the Bank of China PBOC to address this, particularly in the shadow review period.
Hutchison China Meditech HCM, a longstanding banking areas.
Growth in corporate debt has clearly slowed.
On top 10 position in the portfolio, returned over 70%.
HCM is a the issue of reform in general I am hopeful of a renewed focus Chinese pharmaceutical company listed on the UK AIM market following the major political transition taking place towards the with a strong traditional Chinese medicine business generating end of this year.
With the majority of the Standing Committee strong cash flows for the company to support its R&D efforts.
The members of the Politburo changing, I believe we will see improved company continues to develop its exciting pipeline including a prospects for more reform-minded leadership.
number of advanced oncology drugs where it is teaming up with INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITIES global multi-nationals like Astra Zeneca.
In March 2017, HCM Ultimately the investment returns for the Company are an outcome announced positive phase 3 data on a colon cancer drug it is of the companies in which we invest.
While I look for ideas across developing called fruquitinib, putting it one step closer to being all industries, here are some areas and themes that I focus on and marketed.
Its share price rallied significantly on this news and the believe can help drive future returns.
Company continues to hold this position with strong prospects from other potential market leading drugs in their pipeline.
In Consumer addition, HCM dual listed on the Nasdaq market in March 2016, The growth of the consumer sector along with changes in the way broadening the potential investor base to the US market and its that people consume have been key investment themes throughout in-depth coverage of the healthcare sector.
It will continue to be an important economic driver over the next five to ten years supported by the development of the China Sanjiang Fine Chemicals was also a major contributor as Chinese middle class and the governments policy of moving from we saw a significant widening of price spreads across a range of an investment and export led economy towards an economy led chemical products, and it rallied from very low valuations.
China Meidong Auto, a car dealership based in the Guangdong As well as rising penetration across a range of categories we see region, was another contributor to returns.
Its share price more consumers search for higher quality and service, a trend that local than doubled over the year as the company continues to execute companies are tackling with increasing innovation in both product its strategy well, integrating acquired businesses against the development and marketing.
A position in Yihai was initiated at backdrop of strong auto sales.
Yihai manufactures condiments for hot pot, 6 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 a popular style of cuisine in China, and has a strong market have benefited from recent tariff adjustments and I believe there position in the mid to high end segment.
It is the main supplier is good potential for progress in other areas such as railways.
to the Haidilao hot pot restaurant chain, one of Chinas fastest Elsewhere, there are also encouraging signs of supply-side reform in growing restaurant chains, so it also benefits from the expansion certain old economy sectors reflected in falling steel and coal output.
In addition, Yihai is using its brand recognition at China Petroleum & Chemical is a significant SOE holding.
The Haidilao to develop a retail business that enables customers to company is exploring the possibility for the spin-off and IPO of its enjoy the same experience at home.
garage forecourt retail convenience store business, which along with aggressive plans to develop this business should be positive in terms of recognising its intrinsic value which currently does not seem to be reflected in the companys valuation.
Research In general, the Company continues to leverage the significant research resources at its disposal to dig deep in the market for smaller companies that are not well covered and understood, and thus offer greater opportunities for mis-pricing.
I look for investment ideas across a range of different markets and find significant value in many of the HK listed small caps.
With increased connection between markets such as the Stock Connect Program which allows mainland Chinese investors to buy Hong Kong listed names via the Shanghai and Shenzhen exchanges, I think there is good potential for valuation discrepancies between the markets to Haidilao hot pot cuisine.
normalise which could act as a tailwind for these names.
The Companys portfolio is positioned to benefit from the strong Unlisted Companies outlook for consumption in services, with holdings spanning areas While there is significant opportunity in listed companies focused such as restaurants, education, travel, and financial services.
on China across a range of stock markets, there is a great deal Rising internet penetration is also supporting the structural shifts of activity and innovation in exciting companies that have not in consumption, with e-commerce continuing to take share from reached the listing stage.
Following last years shareholder vote, traditional retailing.
The fact that ecommerce penetration in China the Company now has the ability to hold up to 10% in unlisted has already surpassed many western markets, including the US, companies, and I see this ability to gain exposure to a broader exemplifies the speed of structural change in many parts of the subsection of the entrepreneurial activity in China as a key strength Chinese economy.
We are seeing new business models emerge of the Company.
At the time of writing there are four unlisted holdings exemplified by growth in online businesses such as flash sales, now representing around 4% of the portfolio.
Firstly Xiaoju Kuaizhi live video streaming, and a range of education services.
The Didi Chuxing, the leading ride-sharing player in China, cemented Company holds a position in Ctrip, Chinas largest online travel their dominance in the acquisition of Uber China last year.
China tourism, both domestic and outbound, is a huge second one is China Internet Plus Holdings formerly Meituan, market with significant growth potential.
Online booking is growing the leader in China in so-called offline-to-online services.
They at an even faster rate, and Ctrip is the best positioned business to aim to effectively be the Alibaba of the services sector in areas take advantage of this with over 60% market share.
Following its like food delivery, restaurant reservations and ticket bookings.
The acquisition of Qunar, Ctrip covers all markets from mass to luxury.
third is Shanghai Yiguo E-commerce Yiguo a leading fresh food Ctrips online traffic continues to grow significantly, which translates to e-commerce company, which aims to create a farm-to-table strong and increasing pricing power with hotels and airlines, which in e-commerce platform.
It is the exclusive operator of the fresh food turn should support improving profitability over the medium term.
segment on Alibabas T-Mall Supermarket and both Alibaba and its management team are strategic investors.
This is a relatively State Owned Enterprises SOEs underdeveloped industry in China and one that offers huge growth The portfolio remains very much focused on private companies potential as consumers become more health conscious whilst also that will benefit from Chinas new consumption growth drivers.
There continues to be a number of However, I do not ignore state owned companies, particularly interesting unlisted opportunities available across a range of sectors.
those that have quality assets with potential for the returns on those assets.
On the whole the pace of SOE reform has been Since the end of the financial reporting period, the Company disappointing relative to the agenda laid out in the 3rd plenum, has added a fourth unlisted position in Aurora Mobile Limited but there are signs of progress.
Jiguang, a leading app developer service provider and big data platform in China.
By the end of 2016, Jiguang served over A number of SOEs have the potential to benefit from changes in 400,000 apps in China and worked with 200,000 developers, regulation especially around more market-oriented pricing in areas holding dominant market share in the App Push Notification like transportation.
The Companys holdings in the airport sector Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 7 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Portfolio Managers Review continued Service segment in China.
Jiguang should structurally benefit OUTLOOK from the fast-growing mobile software as a service and big data Looking ahead, I remain positive on the investment opportunities application market, and has first mover advantage in this field with that I see in the market in China.
Challenges remain but it its depth and unique data granularity.
continues to be a dynamic economy and market, with huge variation in trends between the winners and losers fertile ground GEARING for bottom up stock pickers such as myself.
While the market At the beginning of the reporting period the market valuations has moved up, valuations on the whole remain compelling in were at multi-year lows.
Reflecting the value in the significant a global context.
One wonders if what has become a relatively opportunities in the market, the portfolio increased gearing to take stable and predictable policy environment compared to much of advantage of this.
Short index positions were added for hedging the West might also start to get reflected in valuations.
The gap purposes and short stock positions as valuations on certain stocks between Chinas share of the global economy and its share of became stretched relative to fundamentals.
This meant that gross global stock markets remains significant, and I remain confident gearing has remained at elevated levels, but net gearing long this will close over time.
It is a matter of time before A-shares positions - active short positions was slowly reduced to around move into global indices.
The prospects for an acceleration in the 122%.
More recently, the portfolio has increased short positions as reform process are also improving.
Looking back, it has been an some areas of the market have rallied significantly and valuations exciting, interesting and ultimately fruitful three years in charge of look stretched.
Overall, the current level of gearing reflects my the Companys portfolio.
I very much look forward to capitalising view that while valuations in general are less compelling, there on the opportunities in the market to deliver further growth in NAV are still enough attractive opportunities to warrant considerable and the share price.
net exposure to the market.
Dale Nicholls Portfolio Manager 9 June 2017 8 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
