Strategic Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting the Strategic Report of The Company may invest through equities, index linked, equity linked the Company.
The Chairmans Statement and Portfolio Managers and other debt securities, cash deposits, money market instruments, Review form part of the Strategic Report.
foreign currency exchange transactions, equity related securities, forward transactions and other interests including derivative Business and Status instruments.
Forward transactions and derivatives, including futures, options and contracts for difference, may be used to enhance The Company carries on business as an investment company portfolio performance as well as for efficient portfolio management and has been accepted as an approved investment trust by and hedging.
The Companys interest in any single investment will HM Revenue & Customs under Sections 1158 and 1159 of the not, on acquisition, exceed 15% of the portfolio value.
Corporation Tax Act 2010, subject to the Company continuing to meet eligibility conditions.
The Directors are of the opinion that the The Investment Managers are not required to ensure that Company has conducted its affairs in a manner which will satisfy the Companys cash resources are fully invested at all times.
the conditions for continued approval.
Accordingly, there may be times when the Company holds cash or money market instruments pending investment.
The Company is registered as an investment company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and its ordinary shares The Company may invest in China A Shares both directly through are listed and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
It is not a the Investment Managers Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor close company and it has no employees.
QFII license and indirectly through third parties who have a QFII facility.
Objective The Companys objective is to achieve long-term capital growth During the year the Company invested in equity linked notes, from an actively managed portfolio made up primarily of securities futures, put options and long and short contracts for difference issued by companies listed in China or Hong Kong and Chinese and utilised the QFII licence of the Investment Manager.
The Company may also invest in listed companies with significant interests in China and Hong Unlisted securities Kong.
The Company is permitted to invest up to 10% of Gross Assets in unlisted securities which carry on business, or have significant Strategy interests, in China or Hong Kong.
In order to achieve the objective, the Company operates as an investment company which has an actively managed portfolio of As at 31 March 2017, the Company held three unlisted investments investments.
As an investment company, it is able to gear and the with a fair value of 37,179,000 2016: 20,317,000 representing Board takes the view that long-term returns for shareholders can 2.7% 2016: 2.0% of Gross Assets.
be enhanced by the use of gearing in a carefully considered and monitored way.
Use of Derivative Instruments The Company may use derivative instruments for efficient portfolio As part of the strategy, the Board has delegated the management management, gearing and hedging purposes.
They may also be of the portfolio and certain other services.
The Portfolio Manager used to achieve the investment objective i. e. to enhance portfolio aims to achieve a total return on the Companys net assets over performance.
the longer-term in excess of the equivalent return on the MSCI China Index the Benchmark Index, as expressed in UK sterling.
The Board has adopted a policy that the Gross Asset Exposure of The stock selection approach adopted by the Portfolio Manager is short positions held by the Company will not in aggregate exceed considered to be well suited to achieving the objective.
The Board 15% of Gross Assets.
recognises that investing in equities is a long-term process and that the Companys returns will vary from year to year.
As at 31 March 2017, the Companys exposure to short derivative instruments represented 6.3% 2016: 3.7% of Gross Assets.
The Companys objective, strategy and principal activity have remained unchanged throughout the year ended 31 March 2017.
It is the Boards policy that total exposure to any single counterparty from all activities, including, but not limited to, the Investment Policy management of cash and the use of derivatives should not exceed The Company invests in a diversified portfolio consisting primarily 15% of Gross Assets.
Derivative exposures are included after the of securities issued by companies listed in China or Hong Kong netting off of off-setting positions and allowing for any collateral and Chinese companies listed on other stock exchanges.
The placed by the counterparty with the Company.
Company may also obtain exposure to other listed companies which have significant interests in China or Hong Kong.
As at 31 March 2017, the Companys largest exposure to any single counterparty from all derivative activities was 2.3% 2016: 14.8% of Gross Assets.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 9 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Strategic Report continued Investment in other Investment Companies large or mega-cap companies such as  where mispricing appears.
Stock selection is bottom-up and The Board has set a limit of 15% on the proportion of the unconstrained by Benchmark allocations.
Companys Gross Assets that can be invested in the securities of other listed investment companies including listed investment The Portfolio Manager has identified the growth of the middle trusts which themselves do not have stated investment policies.
class and a refocusing on Chinas economy towards domestic consumption as key drivers of its economy and stock market in the As at 31 March 2017, the Company held no investments in other coming years: he therefore focuses on those products and services investment companies 2016: nil.
that cater for this growth within China.
Borrowing and Gearing policy Performance The Board considers that long-term capital growth can be The Companys performance for the year ended 31 March 2017, enhanced by the judicious use of borrowing.
The Board is including a summary of the years activities, and details on responsible for the Companys gearing strategy with day-to-day trends and factors that may impact the future performance of decisions being made by the Investment Manager within the remit the Company are included in the Chairmans Statement and the set by the Companys Prospectus.
Portfolio Managers Review on pages 3 to 8.
The Forty Largest Holdings, the Distribution of the Portfolio, the Attribution Analysis The Company may borrow up to 25% of Net Assets and the Gross and the Record since Launch are on pages 14 to 19.
Asset Exposure of the Company, whether from borrowing or the use of derivatives, may not exceed the Net Assets of the Company Results and Dividends by more than 30%.
The Portfolio Manager is responsible for The Companys results for the year ended 31 March 2017 are operating within these limits.
set out in the Income Statement on page 40.
The total return per ordinary share was 62.93 pence of which the revenue return was During the year, the Gross Asset Exposure of the Company did not 2.92 pence.
exceed the Net Assets of the Company by more than 30%.
As at 31 March 2017, Gross Asset Exposure in excess of Net Assets was The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 2.50 pence 27.6% 2016: 27.2%.
per ordinary share be paid on 31 July 2017 to shareholders who appear on the register as at close of business on 30 June 2017 Foreign Exchange Hedging Policy ex-dividend Date 29 June 2017.
The Companys Financial Statements are denominated in UK sterling, while investments are made and realised in currencies Key Performance Indicators other than UK sterling, including Chinese renminbi, Hong Kong dollars and US dollars.
It is the policy not to hedge the underlying The key performance indicators KPIs used to determine the currencies of the holdings in the portfolio but rather to take the performance of the Company and which are comparable to those currency risk into consideration when making investment decisions.
reported by other investment companies are set out below.
Dividend Policy Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March The Companys objective is to achieve long-term capital growth, 2017 2016 and thus the Board does not expect dividends to constitute a % % material element of any return to shareholders.
However, in order to continue to qualify as an investment company, the Company is Net Asset Value total return 38.8 0.0 required by Section 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 to pay Share Price total return 45.8 -4.5 a large enough dividend for the year so that the Company does not retain an amount which is greater than 15% of its income for MSCI China Index total return 37.6 -16.2 the year.
Discount to Net Asset Value 13.2 17.2 Investment Management Philosophy, Style and Process Ongoing charges 1.16 1.20 The Portfolio Manager makes full use of Fidelitys extensive Sources: Fidelity and Datastream investment research presence and investment licenses in China.
He focuses on undervalued companies which have good longIn addition to the KPIs set out above, the Board regularly considers term growth prospects, robust cash flow generation and strong the costs of running the Company in order to ensure that they management teams.
Company visits and management meetings remain reasonable and competitive.
Long-term performance is comprise an important part of the investment process.
He has a also monitored and the Record since Launch on page 19 shows bias to small and medium-sized companies, where lower levels this performance.
of research by competitors can lead to greater opportunities for mispricing but he is not constrained to these.
He also invests in 10 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 Principal Risks and Uncertainties and Risk Management regularly in the form of comprehensive reports considered by the Audit Committee.
The Board determines the nature and extent As required by provision C. 2.1 of the 2014 UK Corporate of any risks it is willing to take in order to achieve its strategic Governance Code, the Board has a robust ongoing process objectives.
for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company.
The Board, with the The Manager also has responsibility for risk management for the assistance of the Alternative Investment Fund Manager FIL Company.
It works with the Board to identify and manage the Investment Services UK Limited the Manager, has developed principal risks and to ensure that the Board can continue to meet a risk matrix which, as part of the risk management and internal its UK corporate governance obligations.
controls process, identifies the key risks that the Company faces.
The risks identified are placed on the Companys risk matrix and The Board considers the following as the principal risks and graded appropriately.
This process, together with the policies and uncertainties facing the Company: procedures for the mitigation of risks, is updated and reviewed Principal Risks Description and Risk Mitigation Market risk Investing in an emerging market such as the Peoples Republic of China PRC subjects the Company to a higher level of market risk than investment in a more developed market.
This is due, among other things, to the existence of greater market volatility, lower trading volumes, the risk of political and economic instability, legal and regulatory risks, risks relating to accounting practices, disclosure and settlement, a greater risk of market shut down, standards of corporate governance and more governmental limitations on foreign investment than are typically found in developed markets.
The Portfolio Managers success or failure to protect and increase the Companys assets against this background is core to the Companys continued success.
The Board reviews material economic, market and legislative changes at each Board meeting.
The Company has exposure to a number of companies with all or part of their business in Variable Interest Entity VIE structures.
These are entities where there is a controlling interest that is not based on the majority of voting rights and may result in a risk to investors being unable to enforce their ownership rights in certain circumstances.
The proportion of the portfolio invested in companies operating a VIE structure is monitored on a monthly basis by the Manager and holdings are reported to the Board.
Performance risk The achievement of the Companys performance objective relative to the market requires the taking of risk, such as strategy, asset allocation and stock selection, and may lead to underperformance of the Benchmark Index.
The Company has a clearly defined strategy and investment remit.
There is a clearly defined Management Agreement, and borrowing derivative limits are also set by the Companys Prospectus.
The portfolio is managed by a highly experienced Portfolio Manager.
The Board relies on the Portfolio Managers skills and judgement to make investment decisions based on research and analysis of individual stocks and sectors.
The Board reviews the performance of the portfolio against the Companys Benchmark Index and that of its competitors and the outlook for the market with the Portfolio Manager at each Board meeting.
The emphasis is on long-term investment performance and the Board accepts that by targeting long-term results the Company risks volatility in the shorter-term.
Performance for the financial year is outlined in the Chairmans Statement and Portfolio Managers Review on pages 3 to 8.
Discount control risk Due to the nature of investment companies, the Board cannot control the discount at which the Companys share price trades to Net Asset Value.
However, it can influence this through its share repurchase policy and through creating demand for shares through good performance and an active investor relations programme.
The Companys share price, NAV and discount volatility are monitored daily by the Manager and regularly reported to the Board.
Further details are provided in the Chairmans Statement on page 4.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 11 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY Strategic Report continued Principal Risks Description and Risk Mitigation Gearing risk The Company has the option to invest up to the total of any loan facilities and to use contracts for difference CFDs to invest in equities.
The principal risk is that while in a rising market the Company should benefit from gearing, in a falling market the impact would be detrimental.
Other risks are that the cost of gearing may be too high or that the term of the gearing inappropriate in relation to market conditions.
The Company has a US$150,000,000 fixed rate unsecured facility agreement with Scotiabank Europe PLC which has been fully drawn down.
Additional geared exposure is achieved through the use of long CFDs.
The Board regularly considers gearing and gearing risk.
Currency risk The functional currency and presentational currency of the Company in which it reports its results, is UK sterling.
Most of its assets and its income are denominated in other currencies, mainly Hong Kong dollars, US dollars and Chinese renminbi.
Consequently, it is subject to currency risk on exchange rate movements between UK sterling and these other currencies.
It is the Companys current policy not to hedge against currency risks.
The loan facility is denominated in US dollars and, therefore, the effect of US dollar exchange rate movements on assets denominated in US dollars will be offset by the effect on this loan.
Further details can be found in Note 19 to the Financial Statements on pages 54 to 63.
Other risks facing the Company include: Viability Statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 UK Corporate Cybercrime risk Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the The risk posed by cybercrime is rated as significant and the Board Company over a longer period than the twelve month period required receives regular updates from the Manager on cybercrime threats.
by the Going Concern basis.
The Company is an investment trust The Managers technology team continues to take initiatives to with the objective of achieving long-term capital growth.
The Board strengthen the control environment in relation to such emerging consider long-term to be at least five years and accordingly, they threats.
believe five years is an appropriate investment horizon to assess the viability of the Company, although the life of the Company is not Tax and Regulatory risks intended to be limited to this or any other period.
There is a risk of not complying with the tax and regulatory In making an assessment on the viability of the Company, the requirements in the UK, China and Hong Kong.
Board has considered the following: A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could The ongoing relevance of the investment objective in prevailing lead to a loss of investment trust status resulting in the Company market conditions: being subject to tax on capital gains.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company as The Board monitors tax and regulatory changes at each set out above and their potential impact: Board meeting and is provided with regular briefings from the Association of Investment Companies as well as details of industry The future demand for the Companys shares: and the Managers lobbying activities.
The Companys share price discount to the NAV: Operational risks Service providers The Company relies on a number of third party service providers, The liquidity of the Companys portfolio: principally the Manager, Registrar, Custodian and Depositary.
It is dependent on the effective operation of the Managers The level of income generated by the Company: and control systems and those of its service providers with regard to the security of the Companys assets, dealing procedures, Future income and expenditure forecasts.
accounting records and the maintenance of regulatory and legal requirements.
They are subject to a risk-based programme of The Companys performance has been strong since launch.
internal audits by the Manager.
In addition, service providers own The Board regularly review the investment policy and considers internal controls reports are received by the Board on an annual it to be appropriate.
The Board has concluded that there is a basis and any concerns are investigated.
reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next five years based on the following assumptions: 12 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 The Investment Managers compliance with the Companys Socially Responsible Investment investment objective, its investment strategy and asset The Managers primary objective is to produce superior financial allocation: returns for the Companys shareholders.
It believes that high standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make good The fact that the portfolio comprises sufficient readily business sense and have the potential to protect and enhance realisable securities which can be sold to meet funding investment returns.
Consequently, its investment process takes requirements if necessary: social, environmental and ethical issues into account when, in the Managers view, these have a material impact on either The Boards discount management policy: and investment risk or return.
The ongoing processes for monitoring operating costs which Corporate Engagement are considered reasonable in comparison to the Companys The Board believes that the Company should, where appropriate, total assets.
take an active interest in the affairs of the companies in which it invests and that it should exercise its voting rights at their In addition, the Directors assessment of the Companys ability to general meetings.
Unless there are any particularly controversial operate in the foreseeable future is included in the Going Concern issues which are then referred to the Board, it delegates the statement in the Directors Report on page 21. responsibility for corporate engagement and shareholder voting to the Investment Managers.
These activities are reviewed regularly Board Diversity by the Investment Managers corporate governance team.
The Board carries out any candidate search against a set of objective criteria on the basis of merit, with due regard for Future Developments the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
As at Some trends likely to affect the Company in the future are 31March 2017, there were four male Directors and two female common to many investment companies together with the Directors on the Board.
The factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Employees, Social, Community and Human Rights Issues Chairmans Statement and the Portfolio Managers Review on The Company has no employees and all of its Directors are pages 3 to 8. non-executive and its day-to-day activities are carried out by third parties.
There are therefore no disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
By order of the Board FIL encourages Environmental, Social Governance ESG FIL Investments International considerations in its investment decision making process.
It has Secretary been a signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible 9 June 2017 Investment UNPRI since 2012 and submits an annual report detailing how it incorporates ESG into its investment analysis.
The Company has not adopted a policy on human rights as it has no employees and its operational processes are delegated.
As an investment company, the Company does not provide goods and services in the normal course of business and has no customers.
Accordingly, the Board consider that the Company is not within the scope of the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas or diesel fuel and consequently does not have a measurable carbon footprint.
FIL Investment Services UK Limited and FIL Investments International are registered with the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme administered by the Environment Agency.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2017 13 Job No: 29380 Proof Event: 19 Black Line Event: 5 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: FCSS Annual Report 2016 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE STRATEGY
