Strategic Report Portfolio Managers Review and fatigue that can lead to heart failure, lung transplantation, ImmunoGen, is a small biotechnology company developing and death.
Innovation and category leadership in PAH has Antibody Drug Conjugates ADCs as treatment for cancer.
Its been the hallmark of the Swiss company, Actelion.
The lead program, mirvetuximab, is an ADC targeting folate companys most recent offering is called Uptravi selexipag receptor alpha FR.
The drug showed very impressive and has shown unprecedented efficacy in treating PAH.
After objective response rates as single agent in patients with garnering worldwide approval in 2015, Uptravi approached FR-positive platinum-resistant ovarian cancer in early study.
blockbuster status in 2016, sparking merger & acquisition However, the data deteriorated in a subsequent update, with M&A interest.
Ultimately, global pharmaceutical giant, lowered response rates that disappointed investors.
Johnson & Johnson JNJ, struck a deal to acquire Actelion for Underwhelming clinical updates, coupled with investor U. S. $30 billion, representing more than an 80% premium to concerns on the uncertainties in the development path of the unaffected share price.
mirvetuximab, led the stock to underperform during the year.
Pricing pressure for U. S. pharmaceuticals has increased over Detractors from Performance the last three years.
The therapeutic category most adversely Detractors in the fiscal year were largely idiosyncratic in affected has been diabetes, in particular insulin pricing.
The nature, with individual stocks from different sectors declining perfect storm of incumbent players, each with a new product primarily due to unexpected news flow.
offering that offers little new in terms of differentiation, Such was the case of Ono Pharmaceutical, the Osaka-based coupled with the approval and launch of a biososimilar insulin, mid-cap pharmaceutical company who helped pioneer a swung the leverage pendulum in favour of the payers.
The launch of Opdivo diabetes leader, Novo Nordisk, was caught in this storm and nivolumab at the beginning of 2016 in Japan for the was slow to realise the mounting pressure.
The result was treatment of a type of lung cancer in patients where multiple downgrades of the companys long term growth chemotherapy had previously failed was an immense success targets, causing the share price to re-rate lower.
However, that success drew the attention of Coherus Biosciences, is a pure-play biosimilars company the Ministry of Finance and even the Prime Minister of Japan, working on developing biosimilar versions to a number of Shinzo Abe, himself.
As usage climbed, federal authorities blockbuster biotechnology products, including Neulasta, grew concerned over the cost of paying for the drug.
Due to a Enbrel, and Humira.
Shares of the company declined in the quirk in the domestic drug pricing system, Opdivos price in period due to an adverse legal ruling that will make it more Japan for lung cancer was the highest in the world, a difficult for Coherus to overcome the patents protecting complete reversal of what the typical case is in Japan for a Humira, AbbVies U. S. $16 billion drug for rheumatoid arthritis, drug price.
Thus, with the enormous uptake and high price, psoriasis, and inflammatory bowel disease.
There is also some the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare slashed the price investor scepticism that Coherus will be able to get its by 50%.
While many investors expected a price cut for Opdivo biosimilar Neulasta approved on-time in June 2017, as the in Japan, as is the typical practice in Japan, both the severity U. S. Food and Drug Administration FDA has not yet and quick timing were unprecedented.
The share price sagged announced an advisory panel to review the drug.
first-in-class biosimilars approved to date have had advisory Further exacerbating downside in Onos share price was the panels.
We believe Coherus will eventually succeed in getting unexpected clinical trial failure of Opdivo as a treatment for its biosimilars approved and would expect rapid uptake for the frontline lung cancer.
The global trial, conducted by Onos products.
partner Bristol-Myers Squibb, did not demonstrate any Shares of Impax Laboratories, a U. S. -based generic drug difference in efficacy between Opdivo and chemotherapy in company, declined sharply during the year, as the company fell patients who were newly diagnosed with metastatic lung victim to the severe pricing erosion experienced by many other cancer.
This was a shocking result given Opdivos previous players in the generic pharmaceuticals sector during the fiscal success in all other previous lung cancer trials conducted and year.
Although the company successfully closed a significant the success of a competitors similar drug in the same setting acquisition during the year, the transaction was much less only weeks earlier.
This time, the share price fell sharply.
accretive than expected, forcing management to cut Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 14 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 Strategic Report Portfolio Managers Review previously-issued financial guidance.
Impaxs Board of Directors, in response to managements missteps and poor execution, forced the companys CEO out in late December 2016.
Derivative Strategy OrbiMed continues to employ a derivative overlay strategy to create additional outperformance.
While the strategy has generated meaningful outperformance since 2006, the contribution in the last two years has been negligible.
The options strategy is primarily used to create target entry prices for favoured stocks, leverage specific catalysts and capture special situation opportunities.
Two derivative specialists implement the strategy in careful consultation with the portfolio management team.
OrbiMed adheres to strictly defined risk limits and in practice maintains a net exposure well below the 5% restriction.
Samuel D. Isaly OrbiMed Capital LLC Portfolio Manager 14 June 2017 Contribution by Investment Principal contributors to and detractors from net asset value performance Contribution for the year to Contribution 31 March 2007 per share Top 5 000 pence Wright Medical 26,386 56.5 Exact Sciences 23,418 50.2 Incyte 21,346 45.7 Boston Scientific 21,102 45.2 Actelion 15,800 33.8 108,052 231.4 Bottom 5 Impax Laboratories 4,100 8.8 Coherus Biosciences 4,592 9.8 Novo Nordisk 4,909 10.5 ImmunoGen 5,049 10.8 Ono Pharmaceutical 17,396 37.3 36,046 77.2 based on 46,695,120 being the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year ended 31 March 2017. not owned in the portfolio as at 31 March 2017.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 15 Strategic Report Sector Outlook favourable outcome for the drug industry than a Democratic Large Capitalisation Pharmaceuticals victory, as it appeared to lessen the likelihood of any dramatic Currency effects notwithstanding, global pharmaceutical government action to control drug prices.
Indeed, President stocks posted mostly modest gains in the year.
Whilst the New Trumps platform had largely been based on jobs, trade, taxes, York Stock Exchange ARCA Pharmaceutical Index DRG and national security rather than lowering prescription drug returned over 21% sterling terms, the return in local currency prices.
Nevertheless, there is some uncertainty about was a more subdued 5.6%.
The U. S. Presidential election specifically what President Trump intends to do with his remained both an overhang and a headwind that significantly healthcare policy going forward, including the repeal and diminished the appetite of investors to bet heavily on the replace of Obamacare, or the Affordable Care Act ACA.
Moreover, with the broader markets outpacing the pharmaceutical sector by over 10.0% in the period in local Despite some remaining opaqueness in Washington D. C. the currency, investors preferred to dine at smorgasbord of fundamentals of biotechnology companies remain strong.
financials, technology, materials, industrials, and energy over Innovation continues, with companies such as Biogen, pharmaceuticals.
launching a new product Spinraza nusinersen for spinal muscular atrophy and Amgen, announcing positive results Looking ahead to 2017, we expect the group to resume trading from a cardiovascular outcomes trial of their on fundamentals instead of macro concerns.
This should be a cholesterol-lowering drug Repatha evolocumab.
Innovation positive for the group as we anticipate a multitude of catalysts from emerging biotechnology companies also remains strong.
First and foremost is positive earnings For example, we should see new product approvals in the gene momentum as revenue headwinds from patent expirations are therapy space for blindness and the anti-cancer therapeutic currently at an ebb.
New product launches over the past three known as CAR-T. years have been robust and we see important inflection points ahead for many companies in this universe.
Additionally, Valuations of large-capitalisation biotechnology companies important catalysts should play out in the coming year in remain very reasonable, even though earnings growth has oncology, cardiovascular, immunology, rheumatology, and slowed as the revenue bases of the companies have gotten neuroscience, just to name a few.
Finally, we expect important larger.
Valuations are seen by many investors as sufficiently legislative news flow about putative tax reform in the United compelling that an acquisition of a large-capitalisation States which could trigger a business development shopping biotechnology company by a larger pharmaceutical company spree for large capitalisation pharmaceutical companies, would not be surprising.
Additionally, Republican plans to fattening their pipelines and their valuations.
institute a tax repatriation holiday should allow On the regulatory side, the environment for new drug large-capitalisation U. S. biotechnology companies to approvals continues to be favourable.
President Trump has repatriate overseas cash at a reduced tax rate, increasing the said repeatedly that he would like to expedite the approval of cash balances they have to make acquisitions of smaller new drugs, and his nominee to head the FDA, Scott Gottlieb, is biotechnology companies and add assets to their pipelines.
Once there is more clarity about Specialty Pharmaceuticals President Trumps plans for drug prices, we would expect Branded drug franchise pricing concerns have plagued therapeutic stocks to recover in a more convincing way.
specialty pharmaceutical stocks over the past year and were a Biotechnology major reason behind the groups lacklustre performance.
Whilst much of the healthcare sector remained range bound Although the pricing environment remains challenging, the heading into the U. S. Presidential election in November 2016, outlook for specialty pharmaceutical stocks, in general, looks perhaps none was more affected than biotechnology stocks.
fairly bright with several names poised for recovery.
Current Fears over a potential Hillary Clinton victory and her proposed valuations largely reflect expectations of reduced pricing policies to reduce drug prices continued to act as an overhang power, allowing investors to better appreciate the varied on the sector.
strategies employed by companies in this group.
Over time, we believe investors will increasingly reward players with durable The surprise election victory of President Donald Trump briefly franchises and attractive growth profiles.
We also anticipate catalysed a relief rally in biotechnology, sending the Nasdaq that a greater focus on proprietary pipelines will drive Biotechnology Index up 9% local currency on the day after the increased interest.
In our opinion, proprietary pipelines for election.
Investors perceived the Republican sweep of the certain companies remain significantly undervalued, setting presidency and both chambers of Congress as a more Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 16 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 Strategic Report Sector Outlook the stage for share price outperformance upon favourable data several years.
That view remains unabated as we look ahead to disclosures.
As a result, we view a select group of companies 2017, with new product innovation in cardiology, orthopaedic with significant pipeline disclosures over the next 12-15 extremities, and surgical robotics poised to unleash a new months as particularly attractive.
wave of revenue growth for the sector in the 2018-2020 timeframe.
In Europe, we have become more constructive on a select group of companies benefiting from improving trends, new The macro environment is stable, with healthy procedure launch cycles, and increased M&A activity.
We expect M&A to volume growth providing stability against normal but remain a dominant theme, especially with recent sector importantly not intensifying pricing pressures.
Political devaluation, as players continue to pursue creative business headwinds are navigable: the sector is largely insulated from combinations driven by potential revenue, operating and tax potential healthcare reform given much greater exposure to synergies.
Medicare covered lives vs. commercial, and tax reform represents a solid tailwind for the majority of companies.
M&A Generic Pharmaceuticals remains a key theme for the sector, with further large There was a significant correction in generic pharmaceutical acquisitions still possible and ample opportunity for portfolio stock prices over the year.
Uncertain dynamics in the U. S. rationalisation, divestments, and smaller tuck-in acquisitions.
generic drug market made investors wary of the sector.
Against this backdrop, we continue to favour companies with Significant and sustained pricing erosion, stemming from the differentiated growth profiles in durable sectors such as consolidation of pharmacy and wholesaler distribution cardiology, where transcatheter heart valve market growth and channels, has destabilised large-scale and niche generic several other emerging product categories are promising, players alike, resulting in reported earnings shortfalls, surgical robotics which is gaining further traction and downwardly-revised revenue and earnings forecasts, recognition as a replacement for surgery, and orthopedic worsened leverage ratios, and depressed valuations.
extremities implants biologics which offer uniquely strong In Europe, market conditions for generic companies were revenue growth in the orthopaedic industry.
Some sizable markets like France, Italy, and Spain demonstrated better growth potential as generic Healthcare Services utilisation ramped up from relatively modest levels.
In these 2016 bore witness to important repositioning for the markets, pricing erosion was more moderate and largely in Companys investment across healthcare services.
Exposure line with expectations, in stark contrast to the rapidly to Medicaid Health Maintenance Organisations HMOs in the deteriorating conditions observed in the U.
Throughout Asia, U. S. was significantly reduced after the recent Presidential economic expansion, favourable demographics, supportive election.
These companies were big winners under the ACA, governmental policies, and other contributing factors continue benefiting from accelerating patient enrollment in their plan to drive robust generic utilisation throughout the region.
In offering and earnings growth as many U. S. states expanded contrast, the Japanese generic market saw decelerating Medicaid eligibility under the law.
volume growth and extreme pricing concerns.
"However, those tailwinds are over and going forward we Looking ahead, recent commentary from both a large global foresee operational headwinds for Medicaid HMOs under the generic company and a major wholesaler leads us to believe Trump administration, including potential ""repeal and replace"" that U. S. market dynamics could deteriorate further over the of the ACA, including block grants also known as funding next few quarters."
Thus, large global generic companies cuts.
appear best-positioned within this sector.
We believe solid We are bullish on commercial and Medicare HMOs, because performance in key European and Asian markets could offset ACA-related taxes and regulations will be repealed and weaker U. S. performance for the large diversified players.
"We ""replace"" would further privatise Medicare."
There are also anticipate further consolidation of the generic industry: macro catalysts for these stocks like corporate tax reform however recent transactions indicate that unfavourable U. S. 100% domestic business and rising interest rates.
We remain dynamics have impaired acquisition premiums.
cautious on the drug supply chain including distributors and pharmacy benefit managers due to deteriorating Medical Devices fundamentals highlighted by decelerating drug price inflation Entering 2016, our collective view on the Medical Devices and intensifying competition.
sector was notably more positive than at any point in the past Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 17
