Strategic Report OUR BUSINESS MODEL We apply our placemaking expertise to our high quality portfolio to generate enduring demand from a broad range of occupiers Inputs How we create value Capital Efficiency We apply our placemaking We finance our business with a combination of expertise to create great places equity and debt.
We manage the balance to adjust the scale and risk profile of the Company.
These Our scale brings operational efficiencies, influence are Places People Prefer.
andaccess to opportunities, as well as the capacity to invest in our portfolio.
We have choices over how to allocate our capital.
We can invest in the existing portfolio, develop new properties or purchase properties.
We evaluate the prospective returns of each option to inform our allocation of capital.
We also consider returning surplus capital to shareholders.
Customer Orientation We can choose to sell properties to crystallise the value that we We understand our create.
This provides capital for reinvestment into opportunities with customers preferences greater prospective returns for shareholders.
We monitor opportunities and identify major long to dispose of assets which are not aligned with our strategic priorities or do not meet our return aspirations on an ongoing basis.
term trends impacting our markets, to ensure that For more information on Capital Efficiency see pages 22 and 23. the places we create and operate respond to peoples changing lifestyles.
Expert People We have proven expertise in the areas required to deliver most For more information on Customer value from our portfolio.
As well as established property skill sets Orientation see pages 16 and 17. such as asset management and development, we are investing in capabilities required to ensure our properties meet the changing ways that people work, shop and live including data analytics and insights, marketing and customer service.
For more information on Expert People see pages 24 and 25.
We undertake around 44,000 Our relationships and partners customer surveys each year to understand what our Our relationships with a range of stakeholders occupiers and their customers including our customers, investment partners and employees want from and the communities in which we operate are our places key to our success.
For more information on our stakeholders see page 15.
Positive outcomes for our stakeholders reinforce our relationships 10 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Outputs Financial performance Rental income from our properties, less operating and finance costs, is recognised as our Underlying Profit.
As a Real Estate Investment Trust REIT we are required to distribute at least 90% of tax exempt property 50m income to shareholders as dividends.
invested in enhancing environments across the portfolio in the last year Other income, expenses and movements in the valuation of our properties translate to movement in our net asset value.
For more information on our financial performance see pages 39 to 42.
Right Places We have assembled a high Our understanding of quality portfolio on a large long term trends and our scale.
We focus on multi-let customers has driven a retail across the UK and focus on places in well office-led campuses in London connected locations where which are increasingly mixed we can control the broader use.
Our customer focus environment to deliver and our actions to enhance a better experience.
We our places drive enduring Positive outcomes apply our placemaking demand for our properties for our stakeholders framework to create from a broad range Dividends and long term capital growth for shareholders Places People Prefer.
Enjoyable, convenient experiences For more information on which promote wellbeing for the Right Places see pages 18 to 21. users of our properties Improving sales performance and productivity for our occupiers Attractive sustainable environments, events, jobs and skills development We benefit from our scale and for our local communities operate our assets over the long Profitable, collaborative business for our suppliers term to create sustainable Enjoyable, challenging, rewarding value for all stakeholders.
workforour employees Positive outcomes for our customers reinforce demand for our places British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11
