FINANCIAL POLICIES AND PRINCIPLES We focus on having an appropriate balance of debt and equity funding which enables us to deliver our property strategy Leverage Monitoring and controlling our debt Counterparties We manage our use of debt and equity finance We monitor our debt requirement by focusing We monitor the credit standing of our to balance the benefits of leverage against the principally on current and projected borrowing counterparties to minimise our risk exposure risks, including a magnification of property levels, available facilities, debt maturity and in placing cash deposits and arranging valuation movements.
A loan to value ratio interest rate exposure.
Regular reviews are made of the LTV measures our leverage, primarily on analysis to assess the impacts of proposed external credit ratings of the counterparties.
a proportionally consolidated basis including transactions, movements in interest rates our share of joint ventures and funds and and changes in property values on key balance Foreign currency excluding non-controlling interests.
At 31 sheet, liquidity and profitability ratios.
We Our policy is to have no material unhedged March 2017, our proportionally consolidated also consider the risks of a reduction in the net assets or liabilities denominated in LTV of 29.9% was higher than the Group availability of finance, including a temporary foreign currencies.
disruption of the debt markets.
When attractive terms are available, the We aim to manage our LTV through the property Based on our current commitments and Group may choose to borrow in currencies cycle such that our financial position would available facilities, the Group has no requirement other than Sterling, and will fully hedge the remain robust in the event of a significant fall to refinance until early 2021 irrespective of foreign currency exposure.
This means we do not adjust whether the settlement of the 1.5% 2012 our approach to leverage based on changes convertible bond is with equity or debt.
Consequently our British Lands committed bank facilities total LTV may be higher in the low point in the 1.8 billion, of which 1.3 billion was undrawn cycle and will trend downwards as market at 31 March 2017. yields tighten.
For more on managing our risks, including Debt finance financial risks, see pages 46 to 53.
The scale of our business combined with the quality of our assets and rental income means Managing interest rate exposure that we are able to approach a diverse range of We manage our interest rate profile debt providers to arrange finance on attractive independently from our debt, considering the terms.
Good access to the capital and debt sensitivity of underlying earnings to movements markets is a competitive advantage, allowing in market rates of interest over a five year us to take opportunities when they arise.
The Board sets appropriate ranges of hedged debt over that period and the The Groups approach to debt financing for longer term.
British Land is to raise funds predominantly on an unsecured basis with our standard financial Our debt finance is raised at both fixed and covenants set out on page 45.
Derivatives primarily interest rate flexibility and low operational cost.
Our joint swaps and caps are used to achieve the desired ventures and funds are each financed in interest rate profile across proportionally ring-fenced structures without recourse consolidated net debt.
Currently 60% on average to British Land for repayment and are of projected net debt is hedged over the next five secured on the relevant assets.
years, with a decreasing profile over that period.
The use of derivatives is managed by a Derivatives Presented on the following page are the Committee, using delegated authority from the five guiding principles that govern the way Board.
The interest rate management of joint we structure and manage debt.
ventures and funds is considered separately by each entitys Board, taking into account appropriate factors for its business.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 43 Strategic Report FINANCIAL POLICIES AND PRINCIPLES CONTINUED Our five guiding principles Diversify We monitor finance markets and seek to access different sources of finance when the relevant market conditions are favourable our sources to meet the needs of our business and, where appropriate, those of our joint ventures and funds.
The scale and quality of our of finance business enables us to access a broad range of unsecured and secured, recourse and non-recourse debt.
We develop and maintain long term relationships with banks and debt investors.
We aim to avoid reliance on particular sources of funds and borrow from a large number of lenders from different sectors in the market across a range of geographical areas, with a total of 30 debt providers in bank facilities and private placements alone.
We work to ensure that debt providers understand our business, adopting a transparent approach to provide sufficient disclosures to enable them to evaluate their exposure within the overall context of the Group.
These factors increase our attractiveness to debt providers, and in the last five years we have arranged 4.6 billion British Land share 3.9 billion of new finance in unsecured and secured bank loan facilities, US Private Placements and convertible bonds.
In addition we have existing long dated debentures and securitisation bonds.
A European Medium Term Note programme has also been maintained to enable us to access Sterling Euro unsecured bond markets when it is appropriate for our business.
4.5bn total drawn debt proportionally consolidated Phase The maturity profile of our debt is managed with a spread of repayment dates, reducing our refinancing risk in respect of timing maturity and market conditions.
We monitor the various debt markets so that we have the ability to act quickly to arrange new finance of debt as opportunities arise which meet our business needs.
As a result of our financing activity, we are comfortably ahead of our portfolio preferred refinancing date horizon of not less than two years.
The current range of debt maturities is within one to 19 years.
In accordance with our usual practice, we expect to refinance facilities ahead of their maturities.
7.7 years average debt maturity proportionally consolidated Maintain In addition to our drawn debt, we always aim to have a good level of undrawn, committed, unsecured revolving bank facilities.
liquidity These facilities provide financial liquidity, reduce the need to hold resources in cash and deposits, and minimise costs arising from the difference between borrowing and deposit rates, while reducing credit exposure.
We arrange these revolving credit facilities in excess of our committed and expected requirements to ensure we have adequate financing availability to support business requirements and new opportunities.
1.3bn undrawn revolving credit facilities Maintain Our facilities are structured to provide valuable flexibility for investment activity execution, whether sales, purchases, flexibility developments or asset management initiatives.
Our revolving credit facilities provide full operational flexibility of drawing and repayment and cancellation if we require at short notice without additional cost.
These are arranged with standard terms and financial covenants and generally have maturities of five years.
Alongside this unsecured revolving debt our secured term debt in debentures has good asset security substitution rights, where we have the ability to move assets in and out of the security pool.
1.8bn total revolving credit facilities Maintain We use both debt and equity financing.
We aim to manage LTV through the property cycle such that our financial position would strong balance remain robust in the event of a significant fall in property values and we do not adjust our approach to leverage based on changes sheet metrics in property market yields.
We manage our interest rate profile independently from our debt, setting appropriate ranges of hedged debt over a five year period and the longer term.
29.9% A- 3.6x LTV proportionally consolidated senior unsecured interest cover proportionally consolidated credit rating 44 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Group borrowings Secured borrowings times cover : there are no LTV covenants.
Unsecured financing for the Group includes Secured debt with recourse to British Land is These securitisations have quarterly bilateral and syndicated revolving bank facilities provided by debentures at fixed interest rates amortisation with the balance outstanding with initial terms usually of five years, often with long maturities and limited amortisation.
reducing to approximately 20% to 30% of extendable : US Private Placements with These are secured against a combined pool of the original amount raised by expected final maturities up to 2027: and the convertible assets with common covenants: the value of maturity, thus mitigating refinancing risk.
bonds maturing in 2017 and 2020. those assets is required to cover the amount of these debentures by a minimum of 1.5 times There is no obligation on British Land to Secured debt for the Group excluding debt and net rental income must cover the interest remedy any breach of these covenants in the in Hercules Unit Trust which is covered under at least once.
We use our rights under the debt arrangement of joint ventures and funds.
Borrowings in our joint ventures and funds debentures to withdraw, substitute or add is provided by debentures with longer maturities properties or cash collateral in the security up to 2035. pool, in order to manage these cover ratios effectively and deal with any asset sales.
Unsecured borrowings and covenants The same financial covenants apply across Secured debt without recourse to British each of the Groups unsecured facilities.
Land comprises a fixed rate debenture of 30 These covenants, which have been consistently million for BLD Property Holdings Ltd to 2020 agreed with all unsecured lenders since secured by a small portfolio of properties.
2003, are: Net Borrowings not to exceed 175% The 295 million secured bank loan for TBL of Adjusted Capital and Reserves Properties Limited and its subsidiaries was Net Unsecured Borrowings not to repaid early on 30 September 2016. exceed 70% of Unencumbered Assets Borrowings in our joint ventures and funds No income or interest cover ratios apply External debt for our joint ventures and to these facilities, and there are no other funds has been arranged through long dated unsecured debt financial covenants in securitisations or secured bank debt, according the Group.
to the requirements of the business of each venture.
The Unencumbered Assets of the Group, not subject to any security, stood at 6.6 billion Hercules Unit Trust and its joint ventures have as at 31 March 2017. term loan facilities maturing in 2019 and 2020 arranged for their business and secured on Although secured assets are excluded property portfolios, without recourse to British from Unencumbered Assets for the covenant Land.
These loans include LTV ratio with calculations, unsecured lenders benefit from the maximum levels ranging from 40% to 65% surplus value of these assets above the related and income based covenants.
debt and the free cash flow from them.
During the year ended 31 March 2017, these assets The securitisations of Broadgate 1,616 million, generated 49 million of surplus cash after Meadowhall 670 million and the Sainsburys payment of interest.
In addition, while Superstores portfolio 367 million, have investments in joint ventures do not form part weighted average maturities of 11.4 years, of Unencumbered Assets, our share of free 9.7 years, and 5.9 years respectively.
The key cash flows generated by these ventures are financial covenant applicable is to meet interest regularly passed up to the Group.
and scheduled amortisation equivalent to 1 Unsecured financial covenants 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 At 31 March % % % % % 1 Net borrowings to adjusted capital and reserves 31 40 38 34 29 2 Net unsecured borrowings to unencumbered assets 23 31 28 29 26 Highest during the year to 31 March 2017: 1 34% 2 29% British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 45
