Strategic Report OUR STRATEGY Our strategy for creating Places People Prefer Our strategy determines how we create Places People Prefer and informs our annual priorities Customer Orientation Right Places Responding to changing lifestyles Creating great environments, For our priorities for the Expand the use of data and analytics inside and out year ahead go to page 8. to drive insight Focus on mixed use, lifestyle real estate Leverage technology to develop high quality, Position our places to appeal to a wider For more information on value-added services for our occupiers range of occupiers how we performed in the Develop our brand to be recognised Invest in existing assets and emerging last year go to page 26 and 27. for creating Places People Prefer locations which benefit from regeneration and growth Places People Prefer Our sustainability focus areas are Capital Efficiency Expert People aligned to our strategic priorities: Disciplined use of capital The knowledge and skills to deliver Recycle capital to maximise performance Maintain and enhance key skills sets, Manage our development exposure and particularly in technology, customer service financial leverage while maintaining and insights Wellbeing Community the benefits of scale Promote an inclusive and diverse culture Leverage expertise through cross-team collaboration FutureSkills and proofing opportunity Creating Places This generates Together with an People Prefer long term growth optimal capital For more information see drives enduring in rents and structure this w w w. britishland.
com demand for our capital value delivers sustainable sustainability properties long term value 14 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our objective is to deliver sustainable long term value for all our stakeholders We do this by creating Places People Prefer Investors Access to high quality, liquid real estate investment Stable, growing dividend Sustainable long term returns For more information on our financial performance go to pages 39 to 42.
Occupiers High quality, vibrant environments which drive footfall and customer loyalty, Consumers and encourage employee Convenience and a mix retention of occupiers Flexible space which can Outstanding customer adapt to changing needs services and facilities Affordable and efficient buildings High quality environments which promote wellbeing For more information Choice of leisure and on our major occupiers, entertainment activities see the table on page 166.
To read more on Customer Orientation go to pages 16 and 17.
Suppliers A fundamental role as partners in delivering placemaking Regular communication and transparency Consistent commercial terms for profitable partnership Shared insights, innovation and skills development Investment partners For our Supply Chain Charter Access to high quality go to w w w. britishland.
com real estate Local communities suppliers Access to our data-driven Inclusive places with a insights and capabilities sense of community Employees Asset management and Meaningful local relationships Potential to develop skills development skills Facilities and services that and opportunities Strong relationships connect with and enhance Working with some of the including with local authorities the overall area best people across the most and communities Places which support exciting projects in the sector Scale of investment local jobs and skills An inclusive environment and financing Opportunities to make For our Local Charter go a positive difference to w w w. britishland.
com community To read more on Expert People go to pages 24 and 25.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15 Strategic Report OUR STRATEGY CUSTOMER ORIENTATION Customer Orientation Responding to As well as benefiting from this, retailers also Understanding our save on delivery costs and create additional changing lifestyles Retail customers opportunities to engage consumers.
The We use our insight into customers needs and volume of click and collect transactions identify major long term trends to create We collect geographic and in the UK is forecast to double over the next environments which reflect changing lifestyles demographic data on local five years.
Our Local centres already capture catchments, including online 46% more click and collect transactions Who are our customers?
data from c. 3 million individuals than the national average evidencing how Our customers are the end users of our We collect operational data including the combination of convenient locations, properties as well as our occupiers.
We engage footfall, dwell time and sales on the free car parking and quality environments with the people who visit our Retail centres and majority of our multi-let assets appeal to the click and collect shopper.
our Office properties, as well as the employees We undertake 40,000 shopper and residents who work and live, in and around surveys each year In Offices our focus is on understanding them, to provide buildings and environments We collect data from c. 12 million visits perspectives on the workplace of todays office which meet their changing needs.
to our Retail centre websites each year workers.
This year we launched the Office Agenda, a website where we engage with How we understand our customers senior decision makers amongst current and Our Insight team operates across the business, Our research shown in the chart below shows prospective occupiers on issues which matter to collecting and analysing data to develop our that click and collect and store browsing boosts them.
Todays occupiers see their workspace as understanding of who our customers are, how physical sales by 5%, rising to 9% for nona tool to attract and retain key talent so our first they behave, what they experience and what grocery spend.
Click and collect customers are area of focus was on what made a great place to their preferences are.
This knowledge and the incredibly valuable because they spend around work, with particular emphasis on millennials long term trends impacting our business set 50% more than the average shopper, including who will be the principal users of our space over out on page 12 to 13 inform our approach spend in addition to the items being collected.
Our survey of over 1,000 for each asset within our portfolio.
office workers revealed that location and transport links were the most important In Retail we use this information to understand factors, and in London, 93% of millennials said the preferences of people visiting our centres the buzz of a location was also important.
and others within our catchments.
This helps 89% Around 90% of London millennials want food & us to balance our space appropriately between of all UK retail sales touch a physical store beverage and retail options nearby, illustrating retail, leisure and food & beverage and guides which brands we should be targeting.
It provides valuable feedback on what people like about our True Value of Stores research 4bn 13bn services and environments and where we can 18bn improve, and helps us assess the impact of 8bn 5bn enhancements we undertake.
We collect data on trading and occupancy cost ratios so we can identify occupiers who are under or over trading and locate them in the most appropriate space.
For each centre, we are able to map the shopper 89% of total retail Boost missions the centre serves and understand 265bn 278bn 313bn sales in 2015 5% the potential range of consumer journeys it can capture.
This informs our vision of how to position the centre and what changes we should make to profitably grow footfall and consumer spend for our occupiers.
Physical store Click and Online sales True value Online sales Online Mail order and Total retail sales Collect sales browsed of stores not browsed pureplay TV shopping sales The main structural shift impacting UK spending in store in store sales habits in recent years has been the increasing role of the internet.
We create places that enable Total online sales our occupiers to trade profitably across a range Online sales of store operations of channels.
To help us better understand the Online that touches the store role of physical space in each channel, we Source: GlobalData British Land, July 2016 partnered with retail consultancy GlobalData to quantify the True Value of Stores.
For more information see ww w. britishland.
com T rueValueofStores 16 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Retail sales by channel Understanding our Office customers We surveyed 1,000 office workers and decision makers on what makes a great place to work and a further 1,000 on smart office technology We surveyed 1,500 visitors and 250 employees across our campuses on their experience We measure footfall across our campuses We run focus groups with existing and Reflecting customer needs At Glasgow Fort, we have responded to customer prospective occupiers about what they feedback by increasing car park capacity and the need from a campus Insight provided by our data attracted range of restaurants.
In the year we completed the occupiers to new formats and locations.
development of a 600 space multi-storey car park incorporating a further four restaurants with gardens featuring natural play elements for children.
These enhancements contribute to an environment which just how closely work and social lives now To read about how we create places has enabled us to attract operators including overlap.
This insight supports our focus on which reflect customer preferences Superdry, Wahaca and Smiggle.
campus environments with a mix of retail and using our placemaking framework, leisure uses and influences the way we design go to pages 18 to 21. and configure new buildings.
How we engage with our occupiers through to key strategic decision makers.
We Surveys across our campuses were also We aim to develop collaborative long term share trends we have identified and research supportive of our approach.
Customer relationships with our occupiers.
We have a we have collected around how workers would satisfaction levels were high scoring 4 out of 5, structured client relationship management like to and do use their office space.
This helps with architecture and landscaping, overall programme and are happy to share our insights our occupiers meet the changing needs of atmosphere and safety all scoring particularly on consumer behaviours and todays workforce todays workforce and improve their overall well.
The combined net promoter score for all of with our customers.
In turn, this approach helps us our campuses a measure of willingness among beneficial in leasing discussions as we to refine our own proposition.
office workers to recommend their place to work position our assets to appeal to a broader was above the benchmark for London.
We will range of occupiers.
One new area of focus for us is flexible monitor this on an ongoing basis to assess our workspace.
Technology is driving change in performance in meeting customer needs.
In Retail we use our detailed understanding peoples working patterns, creating demand of local catchments, demographics, spending for quality space which is flexible in terms of Looking forward, technology is providing patterns and consumer preferences to effectively both the configuration of the physical space and the capacity to make our buildings smarter, target new occupiers.
Across our portfolio, we the lease arrangements.
Our campus-based with systems that can adapt automatically, for can identify areas where retailers are underoffice portfolio positions us well to address example moderating lighting and temperature represented, and where our catchments match this growing need, whether in respect of small to individual needs.
This was the second area the profile of their target shopper.
Combined and expanding businesses or larger companies of focus in the Office Agenda and our surveys with persuasive footfall and sales data, and the requiring added flexibility.
We have established showed that 87% of decision makers would modern, attractive environments at our centres, a small in-house team to deliver against these require smart technology in their office next we are successfully attracting occupiers needs, so in June 2017 we will launch our first time they moved.
This will be a focus for us to geographies and retail formats in which flexible workspace at Broadgate with plans in the coming years and we will be making they have not previously operated.
to roll out this offer across our campuses.
100 Liverpool Street smart from the start.
In Offices we have established a consistent Broadgate Estates The Office Agenda is available at approach to our relationships with all levels We provide a consistent and high standard http: officeagenda.
com of occupier: from our day-to-day contacts of customer service across our portfolio through our property management company British Land workplace survey: Broadgate Estates, which is responsible for What makes an ideal ofce?
the day-to-day operation of our assets as well as those of third parties.
In autumn 2016 we completed the transition of the management of our Retail assets to Broadgate Estates.
Having a single organisation responsible for all assets enables us to rapidly capture and transfer best practice learnings across our portfolio.
World Host training and accreditation has been rolled out across our campuses and multi-let retail XX% centres, improving the quality of customer service across the portfolio.
Further initiatives to enhance the experience of customers at our places are planned.
For more information on Broadgate Estates, Location Safety & Public Communal Buzz of Nearby Nearby Outdoor Ecogo to w w w. broadgateestates.
co. uk Security transport areas location food & retail areas friendly beverage All London Millennials % From a survey of over 1,000 UK office workers conducted in December 2015 and January 2016.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 17 98.3 99.1 91.6 90.8 87.4 96.3 84.1 98.2 81.7 92.7 80.8 91.7 74.5 87.2 73.0 84.4 72.2 77.1 Strategic Report OUR STRATEGY RIGHT PLACES Right Places Creating great environments, Our strategic focus inside and out We design engaging, sustainable places Offices Retail which bring people together through Lifestyle orientated mixed use offices Multi-let lifestyle centres the right mix of occupiers, services and activities.
Campuses Regional Large, office-led mixed use Attracting visitors from a wide Our strategic focus lifestyle campuses catchment for a planned trip Together with the long term trends see pages 12 and 13 we have identified, it is our understanding of our customers that guides our strategic focus on creating Places People Prefer.
Standalone Local Single assets and small clusters Fitting into the daily life of local communities In Retail our approach reflects our understanding of the consumer, so we provide places where people can shop, eat, and be entertained: places which are convenient and accessible, and which connect with local communities.
We classify our multi-let retail centres as Regional The importance of London important driver of returns.
We discuss which attract visitors from a wide catchment, We expect London to remain a leading our approach to managing our capital further and Local which reflect the needs of global City.
It plays host to an ecosystem in Capital Efficiency on pages 22 and 23. local communities.
Our research tells of interrelated businesses and its unique us that convenience is the most important attractions including the ease of doing Creating Places People Prefer consideration in any shopping trip, so we business, its intellectual capital, culture, Our understanding of our customers concentrate on assets which are well served diversity and reputation for innovation helps us assess the potential of our assets.
by public infrastructure and where parking underpin its long term appeal.
We believe For each asset, we create a business is widely available.
Our strategy is to own it will continue to benefit from population plan of how to achieve that potential.
and operate assets which are the preferred growth and urbanisation, driving long term Our placemaking framework provides destination for the journeys they serve within demand for our places.
In the months a consistent approach to enhancing their catchments.
We are active in disposing following the EU referendum several our assets as We Connect, We Design, of single-let retail assets which dont leading global businesses from a range We Enhance and We Enliven.
provide opportunities for us to deploy of sectors, including technology and our placemaking expertise.
finance, reaffirmed their commitment to Connect is about providing places which London with significant leases, providing are convenient and easily accessible, with In Offices our main focus is on office-led a strong vote of confidence in the City.
car parking or public transport nearby: it is campuses which also include a mix of retail, also about connecting with people through leisure and residential to create attractive Deploying our capital our branding and marketing and leveraging and engaging environments.
They reflect Our focus on Right Places informs our technology to engage with users of our the lifestyle of todays workforce and appeal investment decisions what to acquire, places efficiently and with impact.
Importantly, to a broad range of occupiers.
Together our what to develop, which capital projects to it is also about our connections within the three London campuses, Broadgate, Regents invest in and what to sell.
All properties community and occupiers.
We work with Place and Paddington Central account for that we purchase must be aligned with our community organisations, local people and 78% of our office portfolio following the sale strategic focus and have the potential to employers to ensure our places meet their of The Leadenhall Building.
We also own meet the evolving needs of changing lifestyles.
needs and foster a sense of community.
standalone assets and small clusters of We are active in selling those properties assets in strong locations with well-managed within our portfolio which do not meet these environments.
These provide liquidity in the criteria.
Development and capital projects Offices portfolio, allowing us to develop and are the main ways that we can enhance trade more opportunistically.
our properties to better meet customers evolving demands and have been an 18 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Right Places is about identifying the best locations and using our placemaking expertise to deliver Places People Prefer.
Animating our space Umbrella Street was an innovative, eye-catching public art installation created from dozens of multi-coloured umbrellas, helping to enliven SouthGate, our Regional retail centre in Bath.
In its Retail first week, sales and footfall at SouthGate increased by 20%.
It was enjoyed by five million people and was a popular fixture on social media, reaching Regional Local more than 200,000 Twitter users and 40,000 Missions include leisure-dominated Missions include local neighbourhood Facebook users.
trips, family day out and the big shopper, convenient leisure and single ticket shop item pick-up Typically 30 occupiers Typically 15-30 occupiers Footfall 10 million, spend Footfall often 8 million, spend 100 million per annum 100 million per annum Drive-time 20 minutes Drive-time 15 minutes Dwell 60 minutes Dwell 60 minutes Our focus on design is about creating places Retail offer covers multiple categories Retail offer covers multiple categories which are both functional and attractive, and with depth of choice in each and includes local services and which complement the surrounding area.
amenities We consult extensively with local people before any development.
At Canada Water for example we launched our fourth public consultation Significant leisure and food & beverage, Convenient leisure and food & in May this year ahead of submitting planning.
e. g. restaurants, cinema beverage, e. g. gym and coffee shops The next step in our framework is to enhance our places with the right mix of uses retail, office, residential, places to eat, drink and be entertained and to target an occupier mix which is appropriate for the catchment.
We use our data to guide everything from the occupiers we Offices target to their optimal location at our schemes.
It also informs where and how we invest in The benefits of campuses The role of standalone assets enhancements to secure the best return.
Our campuses account for 78% Small clusters and more of our Offices portfolio opportunistic single site assets Finally, our programme of events, the hospitality we show our customers and the Office-led, mixed use environments Strong locations within distinctive features of our properties enliven reflecting changing lifestyles well-managed environments our buildings and their environments, making Placemaking enhances and enlivens Benefit from regeneration or them places people enjoy visiting, spending environments, appealing to a broader infrastructure improvements time and returning to.
Our partnership with range of occupiers organisations such as the National Literacy Provide future refurbishment Trust both strengthens our links with local Benefit from strong and improving and development potential communities and helps enliven our spaces.
infrastructure Shorter investment time horizon Our work with the New Diorama Theatre at Provide a range of flexible providing portfolio liquidity Regents Place is a good example of how we accommodation for occupiers are engaging with local communities at our Provide greater location flexibility campuses.
We have made more than 40,000 Drive long term growth through for occupiers sq ft of rehearsal space available to them on development a temporary basis, creating one of the largest performing arts spaces of its kind in London.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 19 Strategic Report OUR STRATEGY RIGHT PLACES Community and creativity Placemaking is how we create 121 young carers from our communities explored their creativity this year through our award-winning art:space initiative attractive and engaging real estate with arts charity Create.
They worked with professional artists at Eden Walk in Kingston, Paddington Central, SouthGate in Bath, Surrey Quays, Whiteley in Fareham and at our head office to deliver creative activities, enlivening our places.
Communication Accessibility Community 90% Digital connectivity, branding Convenience Supporting communities of our car parking and marketing and access for local people spaces are free and occupiers Funding community projects The Regents Place Community Fund, a joint initiative between British Land and our occupiers has invested 30,000 this year in local community projects including a jobs club for people at risk of homelessness, a health club for the over 60s, mentoring for students and accessible theatre performances for local residents.
52% of our London assets are close to Crossrail stations Improvements driving performance We invested 6 million enhancing the environment at our Local centre Tollgate in Colchester, reconfiguring the car park, improving landscaping and signage, Attracting new brands adding a playground and installing Our 60 million refurbishment of a series of mosaics including one Meadowhall is on track to complete designed by local schoolchildren.
The improvements ERV growth in the year following have already helped attract new completion of the works was 14%.
brands to Meadowhall including Neals Yard, Nespresso, Hawes & Curtis, Flannels and Ghost London.
Promoting wellbeing We have completed our programme of public Form Authenticity Function realm improvements at Paddington Central, Efficient and effective How our users feel and Facilities timed to coincide with the launch of 4 Kingdom buildings and spaces interact with the space and safety Street.
Landscaped areas and outdoor seating create places to relax and spend time outside the office and an art installation Message from the Unseen World, a tribute to computer scientist Alan Turing, now spans the width of Bishops Bridge Road enlivening the space underneath the bridge.
20 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Over 10% target retail, food & beverage allocation at Broadgate.
Currently less than 4% A broader range of uses Our plans for the redevelopment of 100 Liverpool Street at Broadgate will add 90,000 sq ft of retail space including a rooftop restaurant.
This builds on the success of Broadgate Circle, which brought 11 new brands to this part of the City, and is instrumental in creating a vibrant, mixed use destination Occupier mix Segment mix Occupier service at Broadgate.
Occupiers and Balance of different Supporting occupiers and campus community segments and uses British Land value add Upgrading the offer Since acquiring Ealing Broadway in 2013, we have re-let 30% of the centre to new occupiers.
This includes brands attracted by the enhanced environment following our 15 million refurbishment such as Smiggle and Clas Ohlson.
We have transformed the dining offer with new brands including Wagamama, Wasabi, Limeyard, Turtle Bay and Chicken Shop.
Innovating to drive footfall This year we expanded Eats from the Street, our pop-up dining concept which saw the British Land Routemaster bus visit 10 of our Regional and Local retail centres serving the best in British street food.
The concept was extended later in the year, with Street Style, a fashion and beauty event, which ran across seven retail centres.
These initiatives widen our retail, dining and leisure offering, and create more dynamic shopping environments.
Bringing people together Seasonal events at Broadgate included ice skating at Christmas, which attracted 24,000 skaters and live screening of sporting events, over the summer, such as the Olympics and Wimbledon.
Our regular events include Broadgate Live, our weekly music session and our artisan food markets which are held twice monthly.
Leveraging technology to entertain We launched Freezys Christmas Adventure, an app-based childrens game, at 21 Regional and Local centres across our portfolio.
The virtual present hunt ran over six weeks and was one of the UKs largest ever augmented reality games in retail property.
The app was downloaded almost 6,000 times generating over 16,500 competition entries.
Customer service Events Memorable experience On site hospitality Bringing people together Creating lasting, positive and customer service and attracting visitors impressions British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 21 Strategic Report OUR STRATEGY CAPITAL EFFICIENCY Over the last five years we have sold 4.8 billion of assets and reinvested 4.2 billion in acquisitions and developments better aligned with our Capital strategic priorities.
Efficiency Disciplined use of capital The scale and nature of our portfolio and our actions to create optionality in the last We allocate capital, manage our finances few years mean that we have a range of value and partner with like-minded organisations enhancing development opportunities available to deliver sustainable long term value.
We believe that we will maximise returns over the medium term by retaining flexibility Capital allocation to pursue many of these opportunities when We take a disciplined approach to allocating market demand justifies it.
The benefits to our capital.
We forecast returns for each of shareholders of a more immediate capital Superstore sales We have continued to dispose of superstores our properties annually and we are active return are an important consideration for with 226 million of sales since March 2016. in selling assets with lower prospective the Board and this is assessed periodically Standalone superstores are now 4% of returns, providing capital for reinvestment alongside other uses of capital.
our portfolio, down from 13% in 2012. into opportunities with greater returns for shareholders.
Assets with lower prospective For more information on our development returns are generally those where we do not pipeline, see tables on pages 29 to 31. have the opportunity to apply our placemaking expertise to create value.
This includes singlelet retail assets and those assets where the Debt and leverage greatest opportunities for us to add value have We employ both debt and equity financing.
already been realised, such as completed, We manage the mix between them to balance well-let developments.
These properties are the benefits of leverage, including a greater often attractive to investors who wish to take income return, against the risks, including Recycling capital a more passive approach to property ownership a magnification of the impact of property We sold Debenhams flagship Oxford Street store for 400 million in July 2016 on terms agreed ahead or who attribute greater value to stable income valuation movements.
Loan to value LTV of the referendum.
This disposal reflects the results over a longer time horizon.
on a proportionally consolidated basis of our capital allocation process and our strategic is our primary measure of leverage.
We focus on multi-let assets where we can control We have choices over how to invest our capital aim to manage our LTV through the property the wider environment.
and assess the returns available both on cycle such that our financial position would opportunities within the portfolio and acquiring remain robust in the event of a significant new properties.
Often investments within the fall in property values.
This means we do portfolio, or acquiring properties adjacent to not adjust our approach to leverage based our existing holdings, result in complementary on changes in property market yields.
This is particularly the case on our campuses.
Risk on investments The scale of our business, the quality of our within the portfolio is also moderated by assets and the security of our rental stream our existing knowledge of properties and enable us to access a broad range of debt stakeholders such as occupiers and finance on attractive terms.
We raise debt planning authorities.
from a variety of sources across a spread of maturities to ensure the Group and its Developments have delivered some of our joint ventures and funds are appropriately strongest returns, but are inherently higher financed with actively managed refinancing risk, particularly when pursued on a speculative risk.
We also maintain significant undrawn basis.
We manage our development exposure revolving loan facilities to provide flexibility carefully, limiting it to 15% of the total portfolio and support current and future requirements by value with a maximum of 8% to be developed of the business.
speculatively i. e. without a pre-let or sale at any time.
For more on our approach to financing, see pages 43 to 45 for our Financial Our development exposure moves within this policies and principles.
range depending on our appetite in the prevailing market conditions.
Reflecting the uncertainty leading up to the EU referendum and since its result our speculative development exposure has moderated to just 4%.
22 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Investing in partnership Together with GIC our joint venture partner, we are investing in Broadgate to create a vibrant, world class, mixed use destination.
In 2015 we completed the redevelopment of Broadgate Circle and in 2016, UBS took occupation of 5 Broadgate.
We have now commenced the 520,000 sq ft redevelopment of 100 Liverpool Street, which includes 90,000 sq ft of retail.
40% of assets in joint ventures and funds Making sense of BREEAM Our analysis shows that the additional investment to achieve BREEAM Excellent sustainability ratings on our office schemes is less than 1% of design and construction costs.
In our experience, buildings with strong sustainability ratings are easier to rent and achieve higher occupancy levels.
We also believe that they perform better over time, providing high quality spaces that promote wellbeing and are futureproofed against climate change regulations.
4m sq ft of BREEAM Excellent offices, shops, homes and leisure space Crystallising value from development Strategic partnerships Along with our partners Oxford Properties, we We use strategic partnerships to achieve exchanged on the sale of The Leadenhall Building this benefits of scale and spread risk.
This decision to sell reflected that the greatest 40% of our owned assets by value are in joint invested in development and acquisitions value creation opportunities from development and leasing had been realised.
The price, which was ventures and funds, including Broadgate ahead of valuation, crystallised an annualised IRR and Meadowhall.
Within these structures, of 25% since our commitment to develop in 2010 we typically provide asset management, and demonstrates investors continuing appetite development, corporate and finance services, for well let, well located buildings in London.
for which we earn fees, enhancing our overall returns and strengthening our relationships with partners, key customers and suppliers.
Energy efficient by design We focus on achieving high sustainability 1.5bn standards on our developments, optimising assets sold since March 2016 energy efficiency and generating renewable Reducing our footprint energy on site, rather than buying offsets for We are fitting 24,000 sq ft of solar carbon neutrality.
Our approach delivers cost panels at Serpentine Green, Peterborough, following the success of a pilot at savings for occupiers, well managed buildings St Stephens, Hull.
This installation for the people who work, shop and live in is expected to generate a return on them and better assets for investors.
We have investment of 13% over 25 years and delivered energy savings for occupiers of save 3,300 tonnes of carbon, as well as reducing reliance on the National Grid.
13 million over six years, at the same time as optimising lighting, temperatures and air quality for wellbeing and efficiency.
We are also improving energy modelling and piloting Soft Landings to close the gap between 97% efficient design and performance.
of all electricity we purchase across our portfolio comes from renewable For more information on sources, working towards 100% as an RE100 partner carbon reduction, see page 38.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 23 Strategic Report OUR STRATEGY EXPERT PEOPLE Expert People 3% we are working towards apprentices making up 3% of our UK supplier workforce by 2020 The knowledge and skills security position as well as rolling out cyber awareness training across both British Land and to deliver Broadgate Estates.
As our business becomes increasingly mixed use, we are also improving We employ Expert People and work the way we work across our teams leveraging with specialist partners to create insight, skills from different parts of the business develop skills and build capacity.
Our Insight team now works across the portfolio and we are increasingly Our 650 employees are split between British integrating operations across our core team Land and our property management business at British Land and Broadgate Estates in Broadgate Estates.
The scale of our operations functions such as technology, HR and finance.
has enabled us to attract an expert team, with the range of capabilities required to own and We are focused on creating a culture which operate real estate successfully, and respond encourages diversity and inclusion, so the policy to the changing needs of our markets.
We throughout British Land is to employ the best have access to a broad network of contacts, candidates available in every position regardless spanning occupiers, planners, Government of sex, race, ethnic origin, nationality, colour, and local authorities, strategic partners age, religion or philosophical belief, sexual and investors, so we see many of the most orientation, marriage or civil partnership, attractive investment opportunities as well as pregnancy, maternity, gender reassignment partnering and funding possibilities.
We are a member of People least 33% womens representation across closely with industry experts and specialists in Property, a forum for Human Resources Executive Committee members and their direct so we develop buildings which benefit from directors in real estate, and a signatory to reports as reported in the Hampton-Alexander the latest technologies and provide spaces their guidelines on diversity and inclusion in Review in November 2016. that promote wellbeing and productivity.
We are also working towards the National Equality Standard, which sets out Promoting health and wellbeing across the Our people strategy focuses on creating equality, diversity and inclusion criteria against business is an important part of our culture.
a team who can deliver Places People Prefer.
which businesses are assessed annually.
This year we launched a Wellbeing Committee Nurturing talent and supporting development which will focus on mental health and personal is an important part of the culture at British For the second year running, Chris Grigg wellbeing and we have updated our policy on Land.
We have a formal annual appraisal was ranked in the top 20 Ally Executives by Shared Parental Pay to provide equal enhanced process for each member of our team and Outstanding and the Financial Times and benefits for all parents following the birth or empower all employees to progress their we are pleased that BL Pride, our lesbian, adoption of a child.
We also set out new flexible careers with personal development plans.
gay, bisexual, transgender LGBT and allies working guidelines and are leveraging We operate a range of online resources to help network established in November 2015 technology to enhance both productivity employees develop their skills and work with marched in the 2016 London Pride Parade and employee wellbeing.
We encourage Cambridge University to run a Leadership in in support of the Albert Kennedy Trust.
the recruitment of underrepresented ethnic Real Estate programme.
Forty of our staff have minorities through our support for initiatives benefited from this programme since it was Our womens network had a very successful year, such as Pathways to Property, Budding launched in 2014.
We are also rolling out hosting four career management workshops Brunels and UrbanPlan UK.
These schemes all training focused on pitching and negotiating for women, as well as four In Conversation encourage young people from a wide range of skills, recognising the importance of these events which are open to everyone.
Parental backgrounds to consider careers in real estate.
aspects of customer engagement as well leave coaching has been introduced and the Our volunteering programme offers our staff as people management.
This year we have mentoring scheme we piloted last year for opportunities to connect with local communities embedded new capabilities, particularly in women has now been rolled out across the and develop their skills, particularly through customer-focused research and marketing, company, offering guidance and support to both skills-based volunteering for example as charity where we are using data analytics to generate male and female employees.
We currently have trustees and school governors.
90% of British insights into customer behaviour and digital three female Directors on the Board, Lucinda Land staff took part in volunteering activities resources to keep them up to date with Bell, Chief Financial Officer, and Lynn Gladden and 16% undertook skills-based volunteering activities around the portfolio.
We are investing and Laura Wade-Gery, both Non-Executive throughout the year.
in technology across the business, upgrading Directors.
As at 31 March 2017, 47% of our core operational systems, and using employees across British Land and Broadgate Both British Land and Broadgate Estates artificial intelligence solutions to help ensure Estates were female, including three out of 10 participate in the Best Companies survey our network is better protected.
We are mindful of our Executive Committee.
This placed us in published in The Sunday Times.
This survey of cyber security and have enhanced our the top 20 of FTSE 100 companies having at provides an objective measure of employee 24 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 satisfaction and valuable feedback on how we member of APRES, an action programme on can focus our actions in this area to improve responsible and ethical sourcing across the Being an apprentice at further.
As part of our continuous programme construction industry.
of employee engagement, both British Land Meadowhall and then and Broadgate Estates host company meetings Our gender split 2017 2016 progressing into a permanent where directors update the team on business activities, financial results and strategy.
M F M F role here, every day is Colleagues at all levels of the business are British Land 52% 48% 52% 48% different and I am always offered the opportunity to participate in our Broadgate Estates 53% 47% 52% 48% well-established all-employee share schemes, faced with something aligning their interests with those of shareholders.
We have long recognised the importance of Chloe Simmonite, Customer Service Read more about our Expert People and developing the skilled workforce of tomorrow Assistant at Meadowhall their views at ww w. britishland.
com blogs for our business and markets.
Through our To read more about skills development Bright Lights skills programme, we partner go to ww w. britishland.
com skills with occupiers, suppliers and local authorities to support apprenticeships, training, work Developing future talent For our Supply Chain Charter go to experience, internships and employment at Over 100 apprentices have worked w w w. britishland.
We support the Pathways to on the construction of Clarges and 4 Kingdom Street through Property scheme, and are pleased to have our Bright Lights skills and For more information on the Board recruited one of the graduates to join our own employment programme.
of Directors see pages 56 to 59. graduate scheme, starting in September 2017.
Over 21,500 people benefited from our skills, For our Modern Slavery Act Disclosure employment and educational initiatives this go to w w w. britishland.
Our Supply Chain Charter sets out 12 principles we require our suppliers to work towards and we partner with occupiers and suppliers on fair working practices including the Living Wage Foundation.
Encouraging creativity British Land is in the We entered a new design partnership Our respect for human rights is embedded with the Royal College of Art, the worlds in how we do business.
We are a signatory Top 20 number one art and design university, challenging students to produce creative to the UN Global Compact which supports a of FTSE 100 companies having at least 33% womens responses to development opportunities core set of values, including human rights, and representation across executive committee members across our portfolio.
This year, the first have made appropriate disclosures in respect and direct reports, as reported in the Hamptonof a three year partnership, has seen of the Modern Slavery Act.
We are also a Alexander Review, November 2016 students consider opportunities to innovate in the residential and office markets.
Helping women succeed Our womens network hosted conversation events with Nicola Shaw, CEO of High Speed I, Natasha Stromberg, Founder of Genderbuzz and architect Amanda Levete, who designed the Museum of Art, Architecture and Technology in Lisbon and the entrance, gallery and courtyard of the V&A.
Providing training, skills and employment Through our Bright Lights programme, we helped around 70 young people embark on careers in retail and hospitality this year.
We delivered Bright Lights Starting Out in Retail and Hospitality in partnership with our retail and leisure occupiers and The Source Skills Academy, which we established with Sheffield City Council in 2003.
Supporting vulnerable young people We partner with the Albert Kennedy Trust, a charity which provides accommodation and support for vulnerable LGBT people.
We sponsor a room in their safe house 75% and this year seven British Land volunteers of Bright Lights retail and hospitality spent time at the safe house helping with trainees progressed into employment decorating and gardening.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 25
