Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS Our Board develops strategy and leads British Land to achieve long term success Non-Executive Chairman About the Board Board Composition as at 31 March 2017 Board of Directors 8% 30% 62% Non-Executive Chairman N Independent Non-Executive Directors John Gildersleeve Executive Directors Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in September 2008 and as Chairman on 1 January 2013.
1 Directors core areas of expertise Skills and experience: John is deputy chairman and senior independent director of Spire Healthcare Group plc and deputy chairman of TalkTalk Property 33% Telecom Group PLC.
He was formerly chairman of Carphone Warehouse Finance 39% Group, New Look Retail Group, EMI Group and Gallaher Group: a 11% Retail and consumer non-executive director of Dixons Carphone plc, Lloyds TSB Bank PLC, Public sector Vodafone Group and Pick n Pay Stores South Africa and an executive 11% director of Tesco plc.
6% Academic 1 Some Directors are represented in more than one category.
Executive Directors appointments 50% 50% appointed internally appointed externally Length of Non-Executive Directors tenures Under 3 years 44% 3 to 6 years 12% Over 6 years 44% Executive Directors Chris Grigg Chief Executive Board Committee membership key Appointed to the Board in January 2009.
Skills and experience: Chris has more than 30 years experience in A R Audit Remuneration the real estate and financial industries in a range of leadership roles.
Committee member Committee member Until November 2008, Chris was chief executive of Barclays Commercial Bank, having joined Barclays in 2005.
Prior to that, Chris spent 20 years N Nomination C hairman of a at Goldman Sachs.
Chris is a non-executive director of BAE Systems plc, Committee member Board Committee a member of the board of the British Property Federation and of the executive board of the European Public Real Estate Association.
56 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Executive Directors Lucinda Bell Tim Roberts Chief Financial Officer Head of Offices and Residential Appointed to the Board in March 2011 and as Chief Financial Officer Appointed to the Board in July 2006. in May 2011.
Skills and experience: Before joining British Land in 1997, Tim Skills and experience: Lucinda is a chartered accountant with over was a partner at Drivers Jonas, in the Investment Agency team.
She is Chairman of Broadgate Estates He was formerly a non-executive director of Songbird Estates.
Limited, British Lands property management business.
Lucinda Tim is Trustee of LandAid, the property industry charity, and is a non-executive director of Rotork plc, where she is Chair of the Chair of their Grants Committee.
Audit Committee and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
She is a member of the Accounting for Sustainability CFO Leadership Network.
Senior Independent Director R N Charles Maudsley Lord Turnbull Head of Retail and Leisure Senior Independent Director Appointed to the Board in February 2010.
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in April 2006.
Skills and experience: Charles joined British Land from LaSalle Skills and experience: Lord Turnbull entered the House of Lords in 2005 Investment Management where he was Co-Head of Europe, Managing as a Crossbench Life Peer.
He retired as Secretary of the Cabinet and Director of the UK business, a member of the Management Board Head of the Home Civil Service in July 2005.
Lord Turnbull previously and an International Director.
Prior to joining LaSalle he was with held the positions of Permanent Secretary of HM Treasury and AXA Real Estate Investment Managements for seven years where Permanent Secretary at the Department of the Environment.
He was he was Head of Real Estate Fund Management in the UK.
formerly a non-executive director of Prudential PLC, Arup Group and Frontier Economics Ltd and chairman of BH Global Limited.
Lord Turnbull will step down from the Board at the end of the 2017 AGM.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57 Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED Non-Executive Directors A A Aubrey Adams Simon Borrows Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in September 2008.
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in March 2011.
Skills and experience: Aubrey is group chair of L&Q, the housing Skills and experience: Simon is the chief executive of 3i Group plc and a association and residential developer.
He is also chairman of the board member of the supervisory board of Peer Holdings BV, the Dutch holding of trustees of Wigmore Hall.
Aubrey was formerly head of property within company for 3is investment in Action, the non-food discount retailer.
He RBSs Restructuring Division, and has variously been a non-executive worked for 28 years in the banking and finance industry, most recently as director of Pinnacle Regeneration Group Limited, senior independent chairman of Greenhill & Co. International LLP.
He was also chief executive director of Associated British Ports PLC, non-executive chairman officer of Baring Brothers International Limited, the corporate finance of Unitech Corporate Parks PLC, Air Partner PLC and Max Property division of ING Barings and was a non-executive director of Inchcape plc.
Group PLC and chief executive of Savills PLC.
Simon will step down from the Board at the end of the 2017 AGM.
R R N Lynn Gladden William Jackson Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in March 2015.
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in April 2011.
Skills and experience: Lynn is Shell Professor of Chemical Engineering Skills and experience: William is Managing Partner of Bridgepoint, one at the University of Cambridge, commissioner of the Royal Commission of Europes leading private equity groups, which he has led since 2002. for the Exhibition of 1851, a fellow of the Royal Society and the Royal He also serves as chairman of the board of Pret A Manger and president Academy of Engineering and a non-executive director of IP Group plc.
of Dorna Sports SL, the rights holder to the Moto GP world motorcycling She was formerly a member of the Council of the Engineering and championships.
He has served on a range of boards during his career Physical Sciences Research Council and held the position of pro-viceand has extensive operational and transactional experience.
William chancellor for research at the University of Cambridge until the end will become Senior Independent Director at the end of the 2017 AGM.
58 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 2 R A Laura Wade-Gery Lord Macpherson of Earls Court Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in May 2015.
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in December 2016.
Skills and experience: Laura is a trustee of the Royal Opera House Skills and experience: Lord Macpherson is chairman of C. Hoare & and Aldeburgh Music and a member of the Government Digital Strategy Co and a director of The Scottish American Investment Company PLC.
Between July 2011 and September 2016 Laura was He was the Permanent Secretary to the Treasury for over 10 years from executive director Multi Channel at Marks and Spencer Group plc.
2005 to March 2016, leading the department through the financial crisis Previously, Laura served in a number of senior positions at Tesco PLC and the subsequent period of banking reform.
Lord Macpherson trained and was a non-executive director of Trinity Mirror plc.
as an economist working at both the CBI and Peat Marwick Consulting.
Company Secretary 1 A N Tim Score Elaine Williams Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in March 2014.
Skills and experience: Tim is a non-executive director of Pearson plc Skills and experience: Elaine was appointed Company Secretary and and HM Treasury, an independent member of the Football Associations General Counsel in 2015.
She was formerly Deputy Group Company audit committee and a senior advisor to Brunswick Group on financial Secretary at HSBC Holdings plc and, prior to that, a partner matters.
He was chief financial officer of ARM Holdings PLC from 2002 at Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer.
to 2015 and has held senior financial positions at Rebus Group Limited, William Baird plc, LucasVarity plc and BTR plc.
From 2005 to 2014, he was a non-executive director of National Express Group PLC, including time as interim chairman and six years as senior independent director.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2017 59
