pp01-19 Strategy 30 05 2017 15:33 Page 08 Strategy Strategic Report Portfolio Managers Report For the year ended 31 March 2017 unwinding of the recent commodity Market Review share price gains.
After a volatile start to 2016, the The holdings in the tobacco sector again UK stock market rose strongly over the delivered a strongly positive contribution twelve month period under review.
This to performance despite a lack of was driven initially by rising commodity enthusiasm for bond proxies prices and a continued absence of companies offering low stable growth, inflationary pressures globally, and then, steady dividends and low volatility that following the EU referendum, by the prevailed for much of the period.
The sector was boosted by M&A activity, sharp fall in value of sterling.
August 2016 also marked a low point in 10 year with a proposed merger of two of the government bond yields.
Reynolds became more convinced that the American accepted a cash and shares US Federal Reserve was intent on offer from British American Tobacco, tightening monetary policy due to creating a combined entity which is well Mark Barnett ongoing positive US economic momentum positioned to exploit next generation Portfolio Manager and further job creation.
The UK equity products, particularly the US e-cigarette market rose in response to this economic market.
The deal is expected to be outlook, a trend which accelerated concluded in Q3 2017.
I expect Tobacco following the election of Donald Trump as companies to continue delivering cash US President.
Sector performance was flow and dividend growth while valuations remain discounted relative to influenced in the second half of the year by a rotation towards industries that other staples and corporate activity is would benefit from more reflationary still very much on the agenda.
economic policy in the United States and a gradual rise in bond yields.
AstraZeneca also performed strongly over the period.
Chief executive Pascal Portfolio Strategy and Review Soriot characterised 2017 as a potential The Companys net asset value, inflection point for the companys including reinvested dividends, rose by return to long-term growth, with the 14.4% during the period under review, upcoming launch of several lifecompared with a return of 22.0% total changing medicines for cancer, return by the FTSE All-Share index.
respiratory and metabolic diseases built on the solid foundations of a science-led pipeline.
The European Against a strong market backdrop, the James Goldstone portfolios performance was held back by pharmaceutical sector as a whole did Deputy Portfolio Manager its zero weighting in the mining sector not perform well in 2016 as the market and by the absence of holdings in HSBC focused increasingly on the risks and Royal Dutch Shell.
These share associated with new product trials, the 25 May 2017 prices rose strongly, benefiting from overall pricing environment in the weakened sterling and, in the case of US and the challenge of replacing Royal Dutch Shell, from the recovering mature drug portfolios.
The zero weighting in UK long term outlook has not changed: the domestic banks was, however beneficial fide-rating of the sector suggests that to portfolio performance.
major companies succeeding in bringing genuinely innovative drugs to market could see a meaningful boost to their The absence of mining stocks had share prices and to the portfolios benefited the portfolios performance over the previous two years, but the holdings across the sector.
recovery across the sector in the past year meant that the portfolio missed out Other significant positive contributions on one of the major positive trends of to portfolio performance came from the the past 12 months.
While perhaps not holdings in BP, Burford Capital, a bubble, the valuation of the sector Compass, G4S, Homeserve, Raven now looks extended and vulnerable to a Russia, RELX and Rentokil Initial.
pull-back in key commodity prices.
Supply discipline has improved following The portfolios holdings in companies the shock of the 2011-2015 downturn, particularly exposed to the fall in sterling and perceived challenges to the UK but demand growth in China remains economy performed poorly in the under pressure.
I am not planning to change my position and expect some aftermath of the referendum.
The stock market was also inclined to fide-rate 08 pp01-19 Strategy 30 05 2017 15:33 Page 09 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc companies which warned of lower profits devices and technologies.
Confirming delivering a double-whammy impact this, Circassia saw its share price rise on the share price via a fall in both in March as it confirmed a new strategic earnings and P E ratios.
collaboration with AstraZeneca in combating respiratory disease.
Notable amongst these was the holding in Capita, which fell sharply in value as it Other domestically focused holdings downgraded full-year earnings forecasts, to deliver negative share price blaming a slow-down in specific trading performance included Derwent London, N. Brown, Game Digital, Secure Trust businesses, one-off costs and problems Bank and TalkTalk Telecom.
with a major contract with TFL, along with delayed client decision-making since the EU referendum.
The company In terms of portfolio activity during later confirmed the departure of its chief period, I took advantage of the executive Andy Parker and expects divergences in sector performance 2017 to be a transitional year for the following the Brexit vote and the business, as it completes a number of US election.
My feeling at the time was disposals, embeds internal structural that the sterling fall was excessive, the changes, and re-positions for a return to implications for sector performance growth in 2018. were being over-simplified and that opportunities to go against consensus were arising.
I was able to add to some The holdings in the travel sector of the less fashionable positions in easyJet and Thomas Cook warned of the negative impact of weaker sterling domestic stocks in real estate, retail, and were additionally impacted over the travel & leisure and financials at much period by concerns over terrorist activity lower prices, while raising money and and by air traffic control strikes.
The taking profits in the internationally share prices of both companies rose into focused companies that had received period end, as they confirmed more a short-term boost from the weakness of positive trading updates than had been sterling.
New investments were made in feared by the market and on the back of Aviva, Next, Secure Trust Bank and some renewed sterling strength.
The holdings in Reckitt Benckiser and BT detracted from performance an Smith & Nephew were sold.
update on accounting irregularities in the groups Italian division prompted Outlook a sharp sell-off, which worsened after The steady rise in the UK stock market a profit warning from the company over the last 12 months has created an highlighted a more challenged outlook environment where the valuation and, for domestic public services contracts.
by consequence, the index level are Towards the end of the period, the vulnerable to disappointment: there is group was also hit by a record fine for a sense of complacency in several areas.
cuts in broadband delay pay-outs.
The main driver of improved earnings growth has been a combination of a The portfolios new holding in Next recovery in commodity prices and a weighed on performance, following a collapse in sterling in the absence of disappointing Christmas trading update.
a continuation in these trends the Into the end of the period, however, underlying earnings growth of the Nexts share price rose as the company market remains lacklustre.
It is plausible maintained its profit outlook for 2017, to envisage an environment which is despite a challenging clothing market.
more positive towards sterling, given the consensus pessimism priced in over the The share price of Circassia fell sharply last 12 months, and that factor alone on news that its cat allergy drug had may be sufficient to restrain further failed to meet the primary end point of gains, particularly in the FTSE 100 phase III trials.
While this was very index.
In addition, the change in the disappointing and surprising news the US interest rate environment may act as drug had performed well in Phase 2 a headwind for the time being, although trials it is noteworthy that Circassia given the continued low inflation outlook retains significant cash on its balance it is unlikely that the US Federal Reserve sheet and that, over the past year, the will raise rates more than four times this company has also made significant year.
diversification into respiratory drugs, 09 pp01-19 Strategy 30 05 2017 15:33 Page 10 Strategy Strategic Report Portfolio Managers Report For the year ended 31 March 2017 The overall political backdrop remains the other major influence in equity markets.
There are electoral cycles in many major economies, including the UK again, accompanied by a heightened threat from geopolitics which may yet prove disruptive for business confidence.
For the foreseeable future it appears likely that the economic backdrop will remain more predictable than the political one.
In conclusion, it is anticipated that the stock market may struggle to make significant overall progress.
The portfolio is well positioned, invested in a diversified range of companies which have the scope to increase in value, driven either by sustainable dividend growth or from companies that can improve or transform their financial prospects regardless of the wider economic environment.
In addition, a number of holdings, having fallen temporarily out of favour, have significant recovery potential.
The Portfolio Manager The Deputy Portfolio Manager The portfolio manager, Mark Barnett, is James Goldstone is a fund manager at based in Henley-on-Thames.
Based in Henley-onHead of UK Equities at Invesco Thames, James was appointed Deputy Perpetual, specialising in UK equity Manager of The Edinburgh Investment income investing.
Mark started his Trust plc in July 2016 and manages UK investment career in 1992 at Mercury equity pension and pan-European equity Asset Management joined Perpetual in mandates including Invesco Perpetual 1996.
He graduated in French and Select Trust plc and Keystone Politics from Reading University in 1992 Investment Trust plc.
Prior to joining and has passed the associate Invesco Perpetual in August 2012, examinations of the Association for James was co-head of pan-European Investment Management and Research sales at Banco Espirito Santo in London.
James began his career in pan-European equity sales at Credit Lyonnais in 2001 and went on, via HSBC and Dresdner Kleinwort, to specialise in UK equity sales.
James graduated with a First Class Honours Degree in French from Manchester University.
