pp20-41 Governance 30 05 2017 15:42 Page 28 Governance Directors Report For the year ended 31 March 2017 Business and Status The Board The Company was incorporated and At the year end the Board comprised six non-executive Directors.
Brief biographical registered in Scotland on 1 March 1889 details of the Directors are shown on page 22.
The Companys Corporate as a public limited company, registered Governance Framework is set out on page 23.
This shows the key objectives of the number SC1836.
It is an investment Board and also the membership and key objectives of the Boards supporting company as defined by section 833 of committees which deal with specific aspects of the Companys affairs: the Audit, the Companies Act 2006 and operates Management Engagement and Nomination Committees.
as an investment trust within the meaning of the Corporation Tax Act The Board regards all of the Directors to be wholly independent of the Companys 2010 and the Investment Trust Manager.
The Directors have a range of business, financial and asset management Approved Company Tax Regulations skills as well as experience relevant to the direction and control of the Company.
HM Revenue & Customs have approved the Companys status as an Chairman investment trust and, in the opinion of The Chairman of the Company is Jim Pettigrew.
He has been a member of the the Directors, the Company has Board since 2005 and was the audit committee chairman until 22 July 2011, when conducted its affairs so as to enable it to he was appointed as Chairman.
Senior Independent Director The Companys Senior Independent Director is Sir Nigel Wicks.
Corporate Governance Board Balance The Corporate Governance Statement The Directors have a range of business, financial or asset management skills and set out on page 24 is included in this experience relevant to the direction and control of the Company.
Board Responsibilities The Directors are equally responsible under United Kingdom law for the proper conduct of the Companys affairs and for promoting the success of the Company by directing and supervising its affairs within a framework of effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
In addition, the Directors are responsible for ensuring that their policies and operations are in the interest of all of the Companys shareholders and that the interests of creditors and suppliers to the Company are properly considered.
The Board is committed to the prevention of corruption in the conduct of the Companys affairs and, taking account of the nature of the Companys business and operations, has put in place procedures for and on behalf of the Company that the Board considers adequate to prevent persons associated with it from engaging in bribery.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its consideration, which clearly define the Directors responsibilities.
The main responsibilities include: setting long-term strategy: setting the Companys objectives, policies and standards: ensuring that the Companys obligations to shareholders and others are understood and complied with: selecting an appropriate Manager: approving accounting policies and dividend policy: determining dividends payable: managing the capital structure: reviewing investment performance: assessing risk: approving borrowing: and reviewing, and, if agreed, approving recommendations made by the Boards committees.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board will be available for inspection at the AGM and is otherwise available at the registered office of the Company and on the Companys section on the Managers website.
The Board ensures that shareholders are provided with sufficient information in order to understand the risk:reward balance to which they are exposed by holding their shares, through the portfolio details given in the half-yearly and annual financial reports, factsheets and daily NAV disclosures.
28 pp20-41 Governance 30 05 2017 15:42 Page 29 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc The Board meets on a regular basis at least four times each year.
Additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Regular contact is maintained by the Manager with the Board between formal meetings.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda, which includes a review of the investment portfolio with a report from the Manager on the current investment position and outlook, strategic direction, performance against stock market indices and the Companys peer group, asset allocation, gearing policy, cash management, revenue forecasts for the financial year, investment policy guidelines, marketing and shareholder relations, corporate governance, regulatory changes and industry and other issues.
To enable the Directors of the Board to fulfil their roles, the Manager ensures that all Directors have timely access to all relevant management, financial and regulatory information.
There is an agreed procedure for the Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take legal advice at the Companys expense up to an initial cost of 10,000, having first consulted with the Chairman.
Finally, the Board as a whole undertakes the responsibilities which would otherwise be assumed by a remuneration committee, determining the Companys remuneration policy.
The Board takes into account all factors which are deemed necessary in order to ensure that members of the Board are provided with appropriate compensation and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Company.
The remuneration of Directors is reviewed periodically and reported on in more detail in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Audit Information The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Committees The Board has three committees: the Audit Committee, the Management Engagement Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Each Committee has written terms of reference, which clearly define each Committees responsibilities and duties.
The terms of reference of each Committee are available for inspection at the AGM, at the registered office of the Company and also available on the Companys section of the Managers website.
The Audit Committee The composition and activities of the Audit Committee are summarised in the Audit Committee Report on page 25, which is included in this Directors Report by reference.
The Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee comprises all directors under the chairmanship of Jim Pettigrew.
The Committee meets at least annually to review the investment management agreement and to review the services provided by the Manager.
29 pp20-41 Governance 30 05 2017 15:42 Page 30 Governance Directors Report For the year ended 31 March 2017 The Nomination Committee All Directors are members of the Nomination Committee which is chaired by Jim Pettigrew.
The Committee meets at least once a year to review the composition of the Board and its committees and evaluating whether they have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company: and making recommendations to the Board for the re-election of directors at AGMs.
The Committee is also responsible for identifying and nominating to the Board suitable candidates taking into consideration the above requirements: the ability of any new director to devote sufficient time to the Company to carry out his or her duties effectively: and with due regard for the benefits of diversity including gender.
The Board has not set any measurable objectives in respect of the latter.
No changes to the composition of the Board were recommended following the current years review.
The Board has noted the implication of provisions in the UK Corporate Governance Code that non-executive directors who have served for more than nine years should be presumed not to be independent.
The AIC does not believe that this presumption is appropriate for investment companies and therefore does not recommend that long-serving directors be prevented from forming part of the independent majority of an investment trust board.
Accordingly, the Board considers that the independence of Jim Pettigrew and Sir Nigel Wicks, who have served on the Board over nine years, is not compromised by their length of service, but to the contrary, is strengthened by their experience.
No Director has a contract of employment with the Company.
Directors terms and conditions of appointment are set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and will also be available at the AGM.
A Director can be removed from office without notice or compensation upon being served with a written notice signed by all the other Directors.
Appointment, Re-election and Tenure New Directors are appointed by the Board following recommendation by the Nominations Committee.
The Articles of Association require that a Director shall be subject to election at the first AGM after appointment and re-election at least every three years thereafter.
However, in accordance with the UK Code of Corporate Governance, the Board has resolved that all Directors shall stand for annual re-election at the AGM.
On being appointed to the Board, Directors are fully briefed as to their responsibilities and are continually updated throughout their term in office on industry and regulatory matters.
The Manager and the Board have formulated a programme of induction training for newly appointed Directors.
They have also put arrangements in place to address ongoing training requirements of Directors which include briefings from key members of the Managers staff and which ensure that Directors can keep up to date with new legislation and the changing risk environment.
Board, Committee and Directors Performance Appraisal The Directors recognise the importance of the AIC Codes recommendation in respect of evaluating the performance of the Board as a whole, the Committees of the Board and individual Directors.
During the year, the Board appointed an external consultant, Lintstock Limited, to undertake an extensive review of the Board structure, the Committees and individual Directors together with consideration of their independence.
The conclusion was that the performance of the Board as a whole, the Committees, the Chairman and the individual Directors was deemed effective.
30 pp20-41 Governance 30 05 2017 15:42 Page 31 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings All Directors are considered to have a good attendance record at Board and Committee meetings of the Company.
The following table sets out the number of scheduled Directors meetings held during the year and the number of meetings attended by each Director.
In addition, Directors attended a number of ad hoc meetings during the year.
Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings The number of scheduled meetings held during the year to 31 March 2017 and the attendance of individual Directors are shown in the table below: Management Scheduled Audit Engagement Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings held 4 3 1 1 Meetings attended: Jim Pettigrew 4 3 1 1 Victoria Hastings 4 3 1 1 Gordon McQueen 4 3 1 1 Glen Suarez 3 2 0 0 Maxwell Ward 4 3 1 1 Sir Nigel Wicks 4 3 1 1 Jim Pettigrew is not a member of the Audit Committee but was in attendance at the meetings.
Glen Suarez could not attend due to illness on one day of scheduled meetings.
Directors Directors Interests in Shares The Directors interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 39.
Disclosable Interests No Director was a party to, or had any interests in, any contract or arrangement with the Company at any time during the year or at the year end.
Directors Indemnities and Insurance The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance which provides appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its Directors.
In addition, deeds of indemnity have been executed on behalf of the Company for each of the Directors under the Companys Articles of Association.
Subject to the provisions of UK legislation, these deeds provide that the Directors may be indemnified out of the assets of the Company in respect of liabilities they may sustain or incur in connection with their appointment.
31 pp20-41 Governance 30 05 2017 15:42 Page 32 Governance Directors Report For the year ended 31 March 2017 Conflicts of Interest A Director must avoid a situation where he or she has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or has the potential to conflict with the companys interests.
The Articles of Association of the Company give the Directors authority to authorise potential conflicts of interest and there are safeguards which apply when Directors decide whether to do so.
Firstly, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors can impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Directors have declared any potential conflicts of interest to the Company.
The Register of Potential Conflicts of Interests is kept at the registered office of the Company.
It is reviewed regularly by the Board and Directors know to advise the Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of any potential conflicts of interest.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Companys systems of internal financial and non-financial controls the internal controls which are designed to safeguard the Companys assets and which have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of this report.
The Companys internal controls and risk management systems have been reviewed with the Manager against risk parameters approved by the Board.
The Board reviews, at least annually, the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance and risk management systems.
The Companys system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve the Companys investment objective and or adhere to the Companys investment policy and or investment limits.
This system can therefore provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that necessary actions would be taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from their review and that no significant failings or weaknesses occurred throughout the year ended 31 March 2017 and up to the date of this annual financial report.
The Board reviews financial reports and performance against forecasts, relevant stock market criteria and the Companys peer group.
In addition, the Manager and custodian maintain their own systems of internal controls and risk management and the Board and the Audit Committee receive regular reports from the Internal Audit and Compliance Departments of the Manager.
Formal reports are also produced annually on the internal controls and procedures in place for the operation of secretarial and administrative, custodial, investment management and accounting activities.
The programme of reviews is set up by the Manager and the reports are not necessarily directed to the affairs of any one client of the Manager.
Going Concern The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors consider this is the appropriate basis as they have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being taken as 12 months after the signing of the balance sheet, for the same reasons as set out in the Viability Statement.
In considering this, the Directors took into account both ongoing expenses and any obligations under the Companys borrowing both the debenture and the bank facility.
The Directors also considered revenue forecasts and future dividend payments in determining the going concern basis.
32 pp20-41 Governance 30 05 2017 15:42 Page 33 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc The Manager The Manager is Invesco Fund Managers Limited IFML.
The Manager is an associated company of Invesco Asset Management Limited IAML.
IAML continues to manage the Companys investments under delegated authority from the Manager.
The Directors have delegated to the Manager the responsibility for the day-to-day investment management activities of the Company.
The Manager also provides full administration, company secretarial and accounting services to the Company, ensuring that the Company complies with all legal, regulatory and corporate governance requirements and officiating at Board meetings and shareholders meetings.
The Manager additionally maintains complete and accurate records of the Companys investment transactions and portfolio and all monetary transactions from which the Manager prepares half-yearly and annual financial reports on behalf of the Company.
Investment Management Agreement IMA The Manager provides investment and administration services to the Company under an investment management agreement dated 22 July 2014.
The agreement is terminable by either party by giving not less than three months notice.
Prior to this, IAML provided these services.
The management fee is calculated on 0.0458333% of the market capitalisation of the Companys ordinary shares at each month end and paid monthly in arrears.
There is no performance fee.
Assessment of the Manager The Management Engagement Committee has carried out a review following the Companys 2017 financial year end and considers that the continuing appointment of IFML as Manager is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Company Secretary The Board has direct access to the advice and services of the corporate company secretary, Invesco Asset Management Limited, which is responsible for ensuring that the Board and Committee procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The company secretary is also responsible to the Board for ensuring timely delivery of information and reports and that the statutory obligations of the Company are met.
Finally, the company secretary is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
Stewardship The Board considers that the Company has a responsibility as a shareholder towards ensuring that high standards of Corporate Governance are maintained in the companies in which it invests.
To achieve this, the Board does not seek to intervene in daily management decisions, but aims to support high standards of governance and, where necessary, will take the initiative to ensure those standards By order of the Board are met.
The principal means of putting shareholder responsibility into practice is through the exercise of voting rights.
The Companys voting rights are exercised on Invesco Asset Management Limited an informed and independent basis.
Company Secretary The Companys stewardship functions have been delegated to the Manager.
The 25 May 2017 Manager has adopted a clear and considered policy towards its responsibility as a shareholder on behalf of the Company.
As part of this policy, the Manager takes steps to satisfy itself about the extent to which the companies in which it invests look after shareholders value and comply with local recommendations and practices, such as the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A copy of the Managers Stewardship Policy, which is updated annually, can be found on the Managers website at www.
33 pp20-41 Governance 30 05 2017 15:42 Page 34 Governance Directors Report For the year ended 31 March 2017 Relations with Shareholders Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Board and the Manager.
The prime medium by which the Company communicates with shareholders is through the half-yearly and annual financial reports, which aim to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Companys activities and results.
Shareholders can also visit the Companys section of the Managers website in order to access copies of the annual and half-yearly financial reports, pre-investor information, factsheets and stock exchange announcements.
At each AGM, a presentation is made by the Manager following the formal business of the meeting and shareholders have the opportunity to attend, vote and most importantly to communicate directly with the Board.
There is a regular dialogue between the Manager and major institutional shareholders to discuss aspects of investment performance, governance and strategy and to listen to shareholder views in order to help develop an understanding of their issues and concerns.
General presentations to both institutional shareholders and analysts follow the publication of the annual results.
All meetings between the Manager and shareholders are reported to the Board.
The Company Secretary ensures that all non-spam correspondence addressed to the Company is reported to the Board and dealt with in a timely matter.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions The Company has no employees or premises and does not purchase electricity, heat, steam or cooling for its own use.
Accordingly, the quantifiable amount of carbon dioxide equivalent produced by the Company annually is zero tonnes.
Share Capital Capital Structure At the year end, the Companys allotted and fully paid share capital consisted of 195,666,734 ordinary shares of 25p each.
To enable the Board to take action to deal with any significant overhang or shortage of shares in the market, it seeks approval from shareholders every year to buy back and issue shares.
No shares were bought back or issued in the year.
Restrictions There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Company, no special rights with regard to control attached to securities, no agreements between holders of securities regarding their transfer known to the Company, no restrictions on the distribution of dividends and the repayment of capital, and no agreements to which the Company is party that might affect its control following a successful takeover bid.
Voting At a general meeting of the Company, every shareholder has one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, one vote for each share held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy or present in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at a general meeting.
Repurchase Powers The Boards current powers to repurchase shares and proposals for their renewal are disclosed on page 36.
34 pp20-41 Governance 30 05 2017 15:42 Page 35 The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc Substantial Holdings in the Company The Company has been notified of the following holdings of 3% and over of the Companys share capital carrying unrestricted voting rights: 30 April 2017 31 March 2017 Shares % Shares % Hargreaves Lansdown, stockbrokers EO 13,533,037 6.92 13,379,282 6.84 Alliance Trust Savings 11,687,028 5.97 11,622,166 5.94 Charles Stanley 9,144,086 4.67 9,091,862 4.65 Brewin Dolphin, stockbrokers 8,907,620 4.55 8,996,033 4.60 Aberdeen Retail Plans 7,859,960 4.02 7,916,405 4.05 Investec Wealth & Investment 7,725,982 3.95 7,721,142 3.95 Rathbones 7,513,867 3.84 7,594,221 3.84 Disclosure Required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 The above rule requires listed companies to report certain information in a single identifiable section of their annual financial reports.
The Company confirms that all such reporting applied to only non-applicable events for the year to 31 March 2017.
Individual Savings Account ISA The ordinary shares of the Company are qualifying investments under applicable ISA regulations.
Business of the Annual General Meeting AGM The following summarises the business of the forthcoming AGM of the Company, which is to be held on 20 July 2017 at11 am.
The notice of the AGM and related notes can be found on pages 66 to 68.
All resolutions are ordinary resolutions unless otherwise identified.
Resolution 1 is for members to receive and consider this Annual Financial Report AFR, including the financial statements and auditors report.
Resolution 2 is to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy as set out on page 38.
Resolution 3 is to approve the Annual Statement and Report on Remuneration.
It is mandatory for listed companies to put their Annual Statement and Report on Remuneration to an advisory shareholder vote.
The Annual Statement and Report on Remuneration is set out on pages 38 to 40 of this AFR.
Resolution 4 is to declare the final dividend for the year.
Resolutions 5 to 10 are to re-elect Directors.
Biographies of the Directors can be found on page 22.
Resolutions 11 and 12 are to reappoint the auditor and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration.
KPMG LLP have expressed their willingness to hold office until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
35 pp20-41 Governance 30 05 2017 15:42 Page 36 Governance Directors Report For the year ended 31 March 2017 Special Business Resolution 13: Authority to Allot Shares is an Ordinary Resolution seeking renewal of the current authority for the Directors to allot up to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital, this being an aggregate nominal amount of 4,891,668 as at 25 May 2017.
Resolution 14: Authority to Allot Shares is a Special Resolution which seeks renewal of the current authority to allot equity securities pursuant to a rights issue or to issue up to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital otherwise than in connection with a rights issue, dis-applying preemption rights.
This will allow shares to be issued to new shareholders, within the prescribed limits, without having to be offered to existing shareholders first, thus broadening the shareholder base of the Company.
The Directors will not dilute the interests of existing shareholders by using the authority to issue shares at a price which is less than the Net Asset Value calculated with debt at market value of the existing shares in issue at that time.
These authorities will expire at the next AGM of the Company or fifteen months after the passing of the resolutions, whichever is the earlier.
Special Resolution 15: Authority to Buy Back Shares This resolution seeks to renew the Directors authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital, this being 29,330,443 ordinary shares as at 25 May 2017.
The authority will expire at the Companys next AGM or 15 months following the passing of this resolution, if earlier.
The principal purpose of share buy backs is to enhance the net asset value for remaining shareholders and purchases will only be made if they do so.
In accordance with the UK Listing Rules, the maximum price which may be paid for a share must not be more than the higher of: i 5 per cent.
above the average of the mid-market values of the shares for the five business days before the purchase is made: or ii that stipulated by the regulatory technical standards adopted by the EU pursuant to the Market Abuse Regulation from time to time.
The minimum price which may be paid will be 25p per share, this being the nominal value of a share.
In making purchases, the Company will deal only with member firms of the London Stock Exchange.
The Company will finance the purchase of ordinary shares by using its existing cash balance or by selling securities in the Companys portfolio.
The Directors might consider holding repurchased shares as treasury shares with a view to possible resale.
Special Resolution 16: Notice Period for General Meetings The EU Shareholder Rights Directive increased the notice period for general meetings of companies to 21 days unless certain conditions are met in which case it By order of the Board may be 14 days notice.
A shareholders resolution is required to ensure that the Companys general meetings other than Annual General Meetings may be held on Invesco Asset Management Limited 14 days notice.
Accordingly, Special Resolution 16 will propose that the period of notice for general meetings of the Company other than AGMs shall not be less Company Secretary than 14 days notice.
It is intended that this flexibility will be used only where the 25 May 2017 Board believes it is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole, and an explanation will be provided.
The Directors have carefully considered all the resolutions proposed in the Notice of AGM and, in their opinion, consider them all to be in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
The Directors therefore recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each resolution.
