pp20-41 Governance 30 05 2017 15:42 Page 22 Governance The Directors Jim Pettigrew Victoria Hastings Glen Suarez Jim Pettigrew was Victoria Hastings Glen Suarez was appointed to the was appointed to appointed to the Board on the Board on Board on 24 May 27 October 2005 23 May 2013.
Glen is and became the has over 25 years Chairman of Chairman on experience in the Knight Vinke Asset 22 July 2011. investment Management.
Prior He is a Chartered management to joining Knight Accountant, industry and is Vinke, he was a Chairman of a non-executive Partner in Soditic Scottish Financial Enterprise, past director of Impax Environmental Markets Limited and before that he was Head of President of the Institute of Chartered plc and both JPMorgan Asset European Utilities at Morgan Stanley.
Accountants of Scotland, and a member Management UK Ltd and JPMorgan He is a specialist in the banking and of the Association of Corporate Asset Management International Ltd. energy sectors, and is a Fellow of the Treasurers.
Following a number of Her roles have included investment Institute of Chartered Accountants in finance function positions in Scotland director at JO Hambro Capital England and Wales, Royal Society of and London including: Group Treasurer Management: chief investment officer, Arts and a member of the Capital of Sedgwick Group plc: Group Finance private clients at Merrill Lynch Markets Advisory Committee.
Director of ICAP plc, a FTSE 100 Investment Managers London : a fund company and the worlds largest manager in the Merrill Lynch European specialist inter-dealer broker: Chief Equity team: non-executive director of Operating and Financial Officer of Charter European Trust and Henderson Sir Nigel Wicks Ashmore Group plc: and Chief Executive Global Trust plc.
She is also a trustee of Officer of CMC Markets plc.
He is Moorfields Eye Charity.
Sir Nigel Wicks, currently Chairman of CYBG plc, the GCB, CVO, CBE Senior Independent Director of Crest was appointed to Nicholson Holdings plc, Chairman of the Board on Royal Bank of Canada Europe Limited Maxwell Ward 24 May 2005 and and a non-executive director of is the Senior Rathbone Brothers plc and Rathbone Maxwell Ward was Independent Investment Management Limited.
After Board on 8 August working for The 2011.
Mr Ward British Petroleum joined Baillie Company, Sir Nigel joined HM Treasury Gordon McQueen Gifford in 1971 in 1968.
He worked for Prime Ministers becoming a Harold Wilson, James Callaghan and Gordon McQueen partner in the firm Margaret Thatcher.
He was the UKs the was appointed to in 1975 and was Executive Director at the International the Board on head of the UK Monetary Fund and World Bank, the 31 May 2011 and Equity Department from 1981 until his Prime Ministers representative is Chairman of the retirement in April 2000.
He was also Sherpa for the Economic Summits of Audit Committee.
a member of the firms Management and the Group of Seven Industrialised He is a Chartered Investment Policy Committees and Nations and he was the Treasurys Accountant and a Chairman of Baillie Gifford Overseas.
Second Permanent Secretary Fellow of the From 1989 until 2000 he was manager responsible for international financial of Scottish Mortgage and Trust plc.
He was past Chair of the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Scotland.
He is a former Following his retirement from Baillie Committee on Standards in Public Life Finance Director of Bank of Scotland and Gifford, he floated The Independent and formerly the Chairman of Euroclear until 2003, he was an Executive Director Investment Trust plc and has been its plc, The British Bankers Association and of HBOS plc, where his main role was managing director since.
He is a former a Commissioner of the Jersey Financial Chief Executive, Treasury.
He is a former non-executive director of Aegon UK plc Services Commission.
non-executive director and audit and Foreign and Colonial Investment committee Chairman of Scottish Trust plc.
Mortgage Investment Trust plc and Shaftesbury plc.
He is a non-executive director and Audit Committee Chairman All Directors are non-executive and of JPMorgan Midcap Investment considered independent.
All Directors are members of the Management Engagement and Nomination Committees.
Member of the Audit Committee 22
