Lines of business Business and Public Sector We sell communications and IT services in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
Weve around 1.2m business and public sector customers and lead the field in fixed voice, networking and broadband.
Were passionate about helping all our customers succeed from Markets and customers large government departments, big household names and public We have around 1.2m customers, including over sector organisations right through to small businesses and new start-ups.
We created our Business and Public Sector line of business on Major customers include: 1 April 2016 by combining three organisations into one: the original retailers like the Co-Operative Group: BT Business organisation, EEs business division, and parts of Global utilities like Northumbrian Water: Services UK corporate and public sector teams.
Our 10,000 people public sector organisations like Norfolk County Council: provide local, regional and national coverage across the UK.
financial organisations like eSure: and educational institutions like Kingston University.
We now have three customer-facing units focused on providing communication solutions and IT services to help create business The telecoms market we serve has revenue of 8bn, and we outcomes for our customers: estimate the adjacent IT services market has revenue of 14.5bn.
Convergence of these markets to create more integrated services is TRADING UNIT CUSTOMERS already underway, a trend we expect to accelerate.
Small & Medium Businesses in the UK with up to At 10bn, the public sector market for IT and telecoms is a Enterprises 100 employees, ranging from sole substantial part of our addressable market.
Challenges in the traders through to more complex public sector remain substantial as the market continues to organisations including schools change.
For example, larger systems integration contracts are and colleges.
being disaggregated and replaced by smaller contracts, while the devolution agenda is increasingly shifting procurement decisions and Corporate Businesses in the UK with between spend to the regions.
Public Sector and Public sector central and local Overall were focused on four main product markets: Fixed voice: Major Business government, health, higher Mobility: Fibre and connectivity: and Networked IT services.
Businesses in the UK with over 1,000 Fixed voice employees.
For some time the market for fixed voice services has been Multinational corporates with transitioning from traditional voice to Future IP Voice.
Market majority of BT business in the UK.
analysts such as IDC believe that IP Voice will become the dominant business voice service by 2018.
Corporates and public sector in Northern Ireland.
The fixed voice market is largely fragmented as the market leader, Corporates, public sector and we compete against more than 950 resellers and fixed network wholesale customers in the operators, including companies such as Azzurri, Colt Group, Daisy Republic of Ireland.
Group, Gamma, KCOM Group, O2 and Unicom.
Mobility Mobility and mobile device usage continues to grow as a way for customers to cut costs, improve productivity and deliver a richer customer experience.
This growth is taking place against a backdrop of increasing risks concerning security, privacy and compliance.
Our main competitors in this area are O2 and Vodafone.
Both offer fixed products as well as mobile and are increasingly selling converged services.
66 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 67 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Fibre and connectivity Mobility Broadband services are still migrating to fibre in order to meet the Our mobile portfolio offers a range of handsets and tablets and a need for faster communication speeds.
Were the largest business choice of voice and data tariffs.
broadband provider in the UK.
BT One Phone is a converged proposition combining office Networking is moving from physical provision to software-based, switchboard and mobile needs into one cloud-based solution mainly virtual provision.
Its expanding into the wide area networking space delivered through the customers mobile phone.
through technologies such as Software Defined Networking SDN.
See page 71 for more details.
Fibre and connectivity We provide a range of internet access options including: BT Business Ethernet and dedicated internet access services are growing strongly, Broadband over copper connections : BT Business Infinity over fibrewith businesses becoming increasingly reliant on connectivity.
Were to-the-cabinet FTTC and  FTTP : and BTnet the leading provider of fixed networking services in the UK.
Networked IT services Our networking solutions are ideal for customers who want to The IT services market is diverse, ranging from off-the-shelf connect offices together or connect to the internet over dedicated hardware sales to large outsourced solutions.
Products include Ethernet, IP Virtual Private Network services, SIP trunking which transports voice calls over IP networks, Areas of the market experiencing growth include cloud services, leased lines, cabling infrastructure and local area networking hosting, infrastructure and security, all of which offer attractive solutions.
opportunities for us to expand our share of the overall market.
Networked IT services Competition is fragmented, with providers often focused on specific Our specialist IT services team provide solution design, delivery, customer-types, industries or technologies.
Our main competitors are management and in-life support, built around five core product Computacenter, Dimension Data, CDW, Logicalis, SCC and Softcat.
areas: end-user computing: Security is increasingly important for companies as they face an unified communications and collaboration: evolving range of cyber security threats.
networking: security: and data centres, cloud and hosting.
Products and services We offer a wide choice of voice, connectivity and These services are supported by partnerships with the likes of Cisco, HP and Microsoft.
These range from standalone products and converged propositions to managed services and customised solutions.
Together these meet the needs of our customer base that varies from small start-ups to large enterprises and public sector organisations.
Fixed voice Our fixed-voice services range from calls and lines, to fully-managed office phone systems and contact centre solutions across both our traditional and IP Voice portfolio.
Weve a broad Future Voice portfolio of Cloud Unified Communications services, BT Cloud Phone and BT Cloud Voice, aimed at the full spectrum of customers we serve.
BT Cloud Voice, a feature-rich, cloud-based phone system with the flexibility to meet the demands of the modern, agile business 66 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 67 Lines of business continued Business and Public Sector continued Performance in the year strategic Performance in the year operating Our order intake of 3.4bn was up 7% with the Our continued investments in our people and inclusion of EE orders offsetting public sector our portfolio has helped improve the customer decline.
During the year weaker trading in the experience we provide while positioning us to public sector, driven by a number of contracts exploit the market move to convergence.
coming to an end, contributed to our revised group outlook.
1 Business & Public Sector 12-month rolling order intake Delivering great customer experience Year ended 31 March Weve made good progress on our journey to become the market leader for customer experience.
m 3,800 Our Net Promoter Score has improved by 12.4 points and our Right 3,600 First Time measure by 6.1%.
Were resolving complaints 11% more quickly than last year.
3,400 This year weve: 3,200 followed up with 20,000 customers on specific pain points to improve their end-to-end experience: 3,000 launched our first Customer Experience Lab in Dundee to trial innovative customer service solutions and new ways of 2,800 supporting our customers: Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 invested in people with more than 200 new advisers joining our 2016 2017 service teams, including new apprentices: and delivered over 30,000 hours of training to our customer service advisers to improve the customer experience.
Contracts we won or re-signed this year include: CUSTOMER CONTRACT 2 Royal Mail.
A four-year deal for wide-ranging Investing for growth network and ICT services, covering voice, Were still investing to improve and future-proof our products and data, and customer contact centres.
Whatever tomorrow brings, we aim to be ready.
Renewal of existing WAN and managed services deal by adapting our service This year weve: model to meet Glanbias global expansion enriched our Future Voice portfolio by adding new features such needs particularly in the US.
as portal and app enhancements: upgraded our Infinity Broadband portfolio to address the Ardagh Group.
Extension of existing WAN contract, demand for higher speeds, offering up to 76Mbps as standard: addition of global SIP, completion of improved the wi-fi performance and reliability of our Business a Cisco PBX replacement project and Hub and expanded our Smart Diagnostics capability to fix issues deployment of BT Microsoft One Cloud.
proactively: and expanded our range of cloud-based services for SME customers, Metropolitan Police.
100m networking and IT contract to for example Mozy Backup, our new flexible cloud back-up deliver high-speed fixed and wireless solution.
networks, together with a range of Cloud and IT services, to help underpin its 3 technology transformation programme.
Transforming our costs Surrey County Our public services network contract was Weve achieved major cost synergies by integrating EE and Business Council.
extended for a further two years, growing and Public Sector.
The creation of Business and Public Sector gave us the opportunity The number of business lines we provide fell by 9% as customers to align our customer service operations more effectively.
The first continue to migrate to VoIP.
This has been partly offset by growth in stage of this reorganisation brought together around 2,000 of our the number of IP lines, up 78%.
Were seeing strong take-up of our people into a single centre of excellence for UK and Republic BT Cloud Voice and BT Cloud Phone services with user numbers up of Ireland managed services.
Weve brought around 800 engineers from across BT Group into Business and Public Sector.
The result is a unified field service team focused on the provision and maintenance of equipment on customers premises.
These changes will allow us to better serve our customers while driving efficiency and reducing costs.
68 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 69 3,477 3,726 3,475 3,163 3,228 3,094 3,212 3,369 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION In last years report, we set out our top priorities for this year, the SME revenue was up 37% due to growth in mobile from the table below summarises the progress weve made against them.
addition of EE customers, while also benefiting from an increase in revenue from IP lines, partly offset by a decline in traditional switch Review of last years priorities revenue.
WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID Corporate revenue was up 37% with growth in mobile revenue We said wed We integrated 1,600 people within 60 driven by EE offset by a reduction in equipment sales.
successfully launch days of concluding the EE acquisition our new Business and the new organisation went live on Public Sector and Major Business revenue was down 12%, with the and Public Sector 1 April 2016.
However, lower trading in inclusion of EE revenue more than offset by the decline in public organisation.
Public Sector driven by the completion sector revenue.
Public sector still faces challenges as we have a small of a number of large contracts led to a number of large contracts coming to an end.
decline in underlying profits and a revised performance outlook.
Foreign exchange movements had a 52m positive impact on a Republic of Ireland revenue, where underlying revenue excluding transit was down 2%.
We said wed Weve made our full range of propositions introduce our full available across BT and EE.
Operating costs were up 12% 2015 16: 0% and EBITDA was up portfolio of fixed, a 8% 2015 16: 2% as a result of EE.
Underlying EBITDA adjusted mobile and IT for the acquisition of EE was down 10%, reflecting the revenue services to existing decline in public sector.
Depreciation and amortisation went up by BT customers and 24% 2015 16: 21% reflecting the impact of EE.
Capital expenditure went up by 122m 2015 16: 7m decrease b and adjusted for the acquisition of EE was up 81m.
Operating We said wed Weve upgraded Infinity Broadband to cash flow went up 17% 2015 16: 3% reflecting the higher develop and up to 76Mbps as standard, expanded EBITDA and the timing of working capital movements.
integrate our our range of cloud-based services and portfolio of introduced new features to BT Cloud products and Voice.
Priorities for the year ahead managed services.
Over the next 12 months well continue We said wed carry Our Net Promoter Score has improved on improving by 12.4 points and our Right First Time to invest for the future to deliver a great the customer measure by 6.1%.
customer experience and sustainable experience we provide.
Performance in the year financial Our top priorities for 2017 18 are: Revenue was up 11% 2015 16: 1% while underlying revenue excluding transit adjusted Drive growth from greater sales coverage, acquiring and cross-selling to customers for the acquisition of EE was down 6% increase the average number of products sold per customer.
Underlying profits declined Differentiate through an integrated experience and portfolio, in the year, impacted by a number of large delivered on the best network public sector contracts coming to an end.
The growth in the strategic portfolio areas of IP Voice, Mobile, Networking and ITservices.
remaining business performed well, led by good growth in mobile.
Continue to improve the customer experience we provide further improvements in NPS.
2017 2016 2015 Year ended 31 March m m m Revenue 4,758 4,294 4,247 a Underlying excluding transit adjusted for the acquisition of EE 6 % 2 % n a Operating costs 3,230 2,880 2,867 EBITDA 1,528 1,414 1,380 Depreciation and amortisation 352 284 235 Operating profit 1,176 1,130 1,145 Capital expenditure 275 153 160 Free cash flow 1,293 1,101 1,070 a Excludes specific items, foreign exchange movements and disposals and from 2016 17 is calculated as though EE had been part of the group from 1 April 2015. b Includes EEs historical financial information as though it had been part of one group from 1 April 2015, under the new organisational structure.
68 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 69
