THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Lines of business Wholesale and Ventures At Wholesale and Ventures W&V we help other companies provide fixed or mobile telephony services, as well as running a number of BTs specialist business units.
On 1 April 2016 we integrated BT Wholesale with EEs wholesale Ventures team and some of BTs specialist business units to form Wholesale Our ventures provide a range of solutions to over 1,000 enterprise and Ventures.
Weve 3,800 people, including 900 in BT Fleet and customers including law firms, energy providers and mobile payment 700 in BT Supply Chain.
We also handle millions of directory enquiries and 999 calls, and deliver the Phone Book to over 21m homes and businesses.
Markets and customers Our wholesale business helps communications Market trends The key wholesale market trends this year were: providers CPs and other organisations to fewer calls, more IP voice services.
This year people made provide fixed or mobile telephony services.
But takeup of business-grade IP voice services is accelerating: ventures provide mass-market services such bandwidth in demand.
46% of all our wholesale broadband as directory enquiries and payphones, and lines ordered this year were delivered over fibre, while average data usage over our fibre lines rose by 18%: and enterprise services including BT Fleet and BT more mobile.
The MVNO market is expanding as existing Redcare.
MVNOs add 4G and new MVNOs launch.
Wholesale: Fixed network services We provide wholesale fixed network services to over 1,400 customers including Sky, TalkTalk, Telefonica O2, Three and Virgin Media, as well as overseas CPs operating in Great Britain.
We also provide specialist media and broadcast services to 1,000 organisations including the BBC, Channel 4, ITV, Sky, Premier League we provide a range of solutions to Productions and Viacom18.
over 1,000 enterprise customers Wholesale: Mobile network services We help Mobile Virtual Network Operators MVNOs that want to offer own-brand mobile plans but dont own a mobile network.
We support 30 MVNO brands with 3.8m mobile customers between 21m them.
we deliver the Phone Book We also use the EE network to provide machine-to-machine services, to over 21m homes and businesses as explained on page 76.
1,400 46% we provide wholesale fixed network wholesale broadband lines services to over 1,400 customers delivered over fibre 3.8m 18% data usage over fibre lines rose we support MVNOs with 3.8m by 18% mobile customers between them PB BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 75
