Lines of business Global Services Were a leading global business communications provider, supplying ICT services to 5,500 multinational companies in 180 countries.
By combining our global strengths in networks, ICT and innovation around 7,200 people across key European business hubs, and have with our deep expertise and global delivery model weve become an extensive network of more than 1,000 PoPs.
a trusted partner for our customers.
We provide them with the services they need to create the digital transformation of their In the UK, we serve multinational companies and financial services businesses.
During the year, we identified inappropriate behaviour in our Italian The Americas is important because 70% of our top customers have business.
This is an extremely serious matter and has no place in BT.
We operate in 28 countries in Latin America For full details of what we found, how we responded and what we and the Caribbean, as well as the US and Canada.
will do going forward see page 6.
In Asia, Middle East and Africa were helping multinationals expand Global Services serves multinational companies headquartered into these areas, while supporting local companies as they grow around the world.
Weve been simplifying how we work to provide a internationally.
We help our customers from 26 offices.
sharper focus on our global customers.
Were structured around four regional operations providing expertise in key industry sectors.
Outside the UK, use of the incumbents access network under non-discriminatory terms and conditions is important to provide a competitive service to our customers.
We still campaign for fair markets as we expand our business.
Global Services revenue by region Year ended 31 March 2017 30% UK 12% AMEA 21% Americas Americas UK Continental Europe Asia, Middle East & Africa Key industry sectors: Media and Business Services Financial Services Retail and Consumer Goods Automotive 37% Continental Europe Technology and Telecoms Energy and Resources Travel, Transport and Logistics Manufacturing Global Services strategic review We have undertaken a strategic review of Global Services, with the objectives of improving its market and financial performance, its risk Markets and customers profile, and the long-term value that it delivers to BT.
Global Services Customers is most differentiated with large, multinational customers, who We work with 5,500 customers across 180 countries worldwide.
Our demand high quality, secure communications.
Its product portfolio focus is on our major accounts, which generated 78% of our revenue is industry-leading across a range of areas, including networking, in 2016 17.
72% of revenue was from customers served in multiple security, cloud collaboration and contact centres.
Technology trends mean that we are now less dependent on owning We also keep focusing on growing our share of customer spend by crossphysical local network access assets around the world, creating the selling products and services in line with our Cloud of Clouds strategy.
opportunity to reposition Global Services as a more focused digital business.
We will prioritise innovation of cloud-based platforms that Regions deliver our products and services, with BTs global network at the Weve over 17,000 people worldwide in 63 countries.
Our 20 highest core, to support the digital transformation of our customers.
As we priority countries, including the UK and other key countries where our implement this strategy, we will ensure that we optimise the value of major customers are based, generate over 90% of our revenue.
our global and our local network assets.
Continental Europe is our largest region by revenue.
We employ 70 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 71 S I n e n r o v B v i a c T t e i A o THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION To enable this strategic repositioning, we are restructuring our Global BT Connect Services organisation to a simpler operating model.
This will involve a Network services are at the core of our Cloud of Clouds strategy.
two-year restructuring of our operations, the costs of which will be treated as a specific item.
They connect our customers to their people, their own customers and the cloud.
We offer a range of flexible, intelligent hybrid and Key market trends secure IP, Ethernet and internet virtual private network services.
Our customers are globalising and transforming their businesses.
These include direct connectivity to third-party cloud services Theyre using services from the cloud to gain competitive advantage providers and the latest Network Function Virtualisation NFV and by increasing efficiencies and decreasing IT costs.
They want: Software Defined Networking SDN solutions the new generation a greater choice of cloud service providers: of networking technologies that are giving us a new way to build high performance across their network and IT service: and manage corporate networks that are fit for the digital age.
flexible, end-to-end secure service: and a trusted partner to provide ICT services.
We use a range of access technologies to deliver our network services to over 180 countries.
The network continues to be the critical infrastructure that connects our customers to their cloud services, their sites, their employees, BT Security customers and suppliers.
As customers seek more flexible and agile With cyber-attacks a daily event, cyber security is firmly on the models, theyre increasingly adopting software-based network boardroom agenda for many companies.
technologies to achieve the right balance between performance, service, security and cost.
We use the expertise weve gained from protecting BT to deliver managed security services, threat intelligence analysis and In this market, our main competitors are global telecoms companies management, and consultancy services, helping our customers such as AT&T, NTT, Orange and Vodafone.
We also compete against protect their organisations from this growing threat.
regional telecoms companies such as Singtel.
BT One People communicate using technology in many different ways by Products and services phone, instant messaging, email, audio and video conferencing and data-sharing, either at their desks or on mobile devices.
Our portfolio strategy, known as Cloud of Clouds, brings together our six core product families and Businesses want these channels to be integrated and to work together easily and reliably.
a network of partners to support the delivery of global network and IT infrastructure services.
Our collaboration services help customers improve productivity and cut costs by transforming the way they communicate with their customers, colleagues, partners and suppliers.
Our six core product families BT Contact Our contact centre services help our customers build stronger relationships with their customers.
We offer a number of ways for them to communicate, including email, web chat, video, social media and the phone either via automated systems or dedicated advisers.
Our cloud contact solutions give companies more control over their costs, allowing them to change capacity in response to demand.
BT BT Compute Security BT Compute Businesses want reliable but flexible ICT platforms and services for their applications, data storage and security.
We provide ICT services BT across our global network from 48 data centres around the world, with 22 of them supporting our cloud services.
Our services range Connect BT BT from traditional telehousing and colocation to the latest public, Contact One private and hybrid cloud solutions.
BT Advise BT for Our global team of around 2,000 consultants work closely with customers to understand their business needs and current Industries capabilities so we can create a set of recommendations based on our portfolio.
We develop a plan to help customers achieve benefits such as cutting costs, increasing productivity or becoming more agile.
70 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 71 f d n r v o i f s r m e o m B B T T Lines of business continued Global Services continued BT for Industries Were also recognised as a Leader in the IDC ITMarketScape: Asia Our industry-specific solutions help customers overcome particular Pacific Managed Security Services 2016 Vendor Assessment.
Our cloud collaboration portfolio is now being used by more than For example: one million employees of global organisations.
our Digital Consumer solution enables retailers to provide an online experience to shoppers in physical stores: Performance in the year strategic our Field Force Automation solutions provide mobile workers with access to corporate applications regardless of their location: and BT Radianz, the worlds largest secure, financial services cloud 1 community, helps customers cut costs, get to market faster and Delivering great customer experience perform the best trading options.
Were using customer feedback and insight to inform our decisions and enhance our customers experience.
We implemented the Net Promoter Score NPS system in April 2016, so we conduct monthly online surveys to gauge Our footprint and product portfolio Supporting customer loyalty and identify actionable insight.
mean we can take the role of our customers We also use Customer Thermometer, our transactional survey leader and trusted partner to our programme, to regularly gauge customer experience at key customers, helping them at every digital points of interaction.
stage of their digital transformation transformation Finally, we use Right First Time RFT measures and operational journey.
We support that journey in KPIs, such as speed of delivery and repair, billing and product three areas: quality to provide a snapshot of how were performing.
Digital customer creating a richer experience for end During the year we improved: customers.
IP Connect Global on-time delivery by 18%: the performance of our complex contracts by 22%: Digital business increasing business agility and innovation baseline NPS by 13 percentage points: and through cloud-based solutions.
Digital employee creating a productive business At the same time we recognise theres more to be done, so weve environment through seamless employee collaboration.
put a rigorous plan in place to help us continually improve.
This plan addresses key areas of focus, such as lead times, on-time delivery, We do this by providing high-performance, integrated project management skills and service delivery communications.
and secure network and IT infrastructure services to global customers our Cloud of Clouds portfolio strategy.
2 Investing for growth Performance in the year Weve invested in a new generation of networking technologies, giving us an innovative way to build and manage corporate Were a global leader for managed networked networks.
Our network In the last year weve been named as: Were investing in dynamic network services to give our customers a Leader in Gartners February 2017 Magic Quadrant for greater choice, security, resilience, service and agility in the rollout a Network Services, Global : of high-performance networks.
Were using our expertise in SDN a Leader in the August 2016 Gartner Global Magic Quadrant for and NFV technology, as well as our global infrastructure, to further a Unified Communications as a Service, Worldwide : improve our portfolio of network services.
a Leader in the October 2016 Gartner Magic Quadrant for a Contact Center as a Service, Western Europe : and We work with a range of organisations to deliver our dynamic a Leader in the June 2016 Gartner Magic Quadrant for network services, including Cisco and Nokia, who will contribute a Managed Hybrid Cloud Hosting, Europe.
technology to our software-defined WAN service.
a Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation.
Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartners research organisation and should not be construed as statements of fact.
Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.
The Gartner Report s described herein, the Gartner Report s represent s research opinion or viewpoints published, as part of a syndicated subscription service, by Gartner, Inc. Gartner, and are not representations of fact.
Each Gartner Report speaks as of its original publication date and not as of the date of this Annual Report and the opinions expressed in the Gartner Report s are subject to change without notice.
72 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 73 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our products and services Performance in the year operating We completed the acquisition of IP Trade SA, a provider of We achieved a total order intake of 4.6bn, unified communications and collaboration solutions for trading floor environments.
down 10% reflecting challenging international We launched a mobile collaboration service in the UK as well as corporate market conditions.
a new mobile roaming service for our global customers, building on our acquisition of EE.
The table below summarises the progress weve made on the top Were accelerating our efforts to be the worlds leading cloud priorities we set out in last years report.
services integrator, and expanded our network of partners to include Oracle, Microsoft and T-Systems.
Review of last years priorities Were helping our customers understand what digital can mean WHAT WE SAID WHAT WE DID for their organisation and how best to use it as an enabler for growth and change through an Advise two-day workshop.
We said wed Were on track to achieve this ambition.
We introduced Trend Micros Deep Security protection for grow our share of Weve been focusing on deepening physical, virtual, and cloud servers on our Cloud Compute spending with our customer relationships and cross-selling platform.
Global Accounts by our portfolio.
We also integrated Zscaler cloud security access points into 10% over the next our global network, and Symantecs latest technology into our three years.
We said wed We achieved double-digit growth across High-growth regions achieve doublecloud unified communications and Were continuing to invest for our customers across Latin America, digit percentage Cloud Compute.
Excluding the delay of helping them increase productivity and become more competitive.
annual growth milestone-related revenue with a major For example, weve opened a contract design hub in Brazil and rates in the revenue customer, we also achieved double-digit added a unified communications service node in So Paulo.
we generate from growth across security.
security, cloud unified communications and 3 Cloud Compute over Transforming our costs the next three years.
Weve continued to focus on reducing our costs, with underlying operating costs excluding transit adjusted for the acquisition of EE We said wed We raised our baseline net promoter score down 1%.
increase our net by 13 percentage points in 2016 17. promoter score by at Our cost transformation programme uses our tried-and-tested least ten points over approach to improve process efficiency, reduce the cost of failure, the next three years.
enhance the network and improve the value for money we get from our suppliers.
For example: Contracts we won this year include: Operating model review in AMEA.
Weve established a CUSTOMER CONTRACT consistent and standardised set of principles to improve our Alstom Unified communications and performance in countries where we have a low number of BT One.
Weve combined our design and delivery functions to enable faster, more consistent delivery of services at lower cost.
Bridgestone Europe Network infrastructure and managed Contract reviews.
Weve reviewed opportunities across BT Connect, BT One, cloud services connecting more than shared services and third-party costs.
Weve also introduced BT Contact.
200 sites across 20 countries in Europe, improvements in the delivery and in-life support stages of Middle East and Africa.
contracts to improve their profitability.
Were evaluating our existing global data centre Grupo Santander We consolidated our relationship with estate and consolidating our sites to lower our cost base while BT Connect.
International Network outsourcing contract to help Airlines Group the company simplify its IT systems and BT Connect.
Komatsu Global IT infrastructure covering 26 sites BT Connect, across 15 countries in Europe, AsiaBT Compute.
Michelin Comprehensive managed network services BT Connect.
Randstad Global IT infrastructure providing cloud BT Connect, connectivity to more than 3,500 sites BT One.
72 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 73 Lines of business continued Global Services continued c EBITDA increased 3% 2015 16: 3%.
Underlying EBITDA adjusted Performance in the year financial for the acquisition of EE was down 11% and excluding the results of Revenue went up by 8% 2015 16: decreased our Italian business was up 1%.
We have described the issues in Italy on page 6.
Depreciation and amortisation was up 4% 3% including a 470m positive impact from 2015 16: down 5%.
Operating profit decreased by 1m foreign exchange movements and a 17m 2015 16: up 36m.
Our key revenue Capital expenditure went up by 2% 2015 16: down 13%.
EBITDA measure, underlying revenue excluding transit less capital expenditure increased by 10m to 134m compared with an increase of 65m last year.
adjusted for the acquisition of EE, decreased by 2% 2015 16: was flat, and excluding the Our operating cash outflow of 245m was 396m worse than last year, as we have unwound the effects of improper working capital revenue of our Italian business was flat.
transactions in our Italian business.
a a 2017 2016 2015 Priorities for the year ahead Year ended 31 March m m m Revenue 5,479 5,074 5,218 Over the next 12 months well continue to Underlying revenue excluding transit focus on delivering improved operational adjusted for the acquisition of EE 2 % 0% n a efficiency and great customer experience.
Operating costs 4,984 4,595 4,753 EBITDA 495 479 465 Depreciation and amortisation 439 422 444 Our top priorities for 2017 18 are: Operating profit 56 57 21 implement a leaner and more customer-focused operating Capital expenditure 361 355 406 model: grow our cloud-based services and our security portfolio at Free cash flow 245 151 28 double-digit rates: and launch a new digital customer experience, leveraging b c automation and portfolio innovation eg NFV SDN.
In AMEA underlying revenue decreased by 4% 2015 16: up 10% due to milestone-related revenue in the prior year.
In c Continental Europe, underlying revenue excluding transit decreased 5% 2015 16: down 1% and, excluding the revenues of our Italian business, was up 3% see page 6.
Underlying revenue excluding transit adjusted for the acquisition of d EE in the UK was up 5% 2015 16: 2%.
The Americas decreased 6% 2015 16: decreased 10% due to the ongoing impact of a major customer insourcing services.
a Operating costs went up by 8% 2015 16: down 3% reflecting EE, the impact of foreign exchange movements and the impact of our investigation into our Italian business.
Underlying net operating costs excluding transit adjusted for the acquisition of EE were down 1%.
a Revised to reflect the outcome of the investigation into our Italian business and reorganisation of our segments, see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
b Asia Pacific, the Middle East and Africa AMEA.
c Excludes specific items, foreign exchange movements and disposals and for 2016 17 is calculated as though EE had been part of the group from 1 April 2015. d United States & Canada and Latin America Americas.
74 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017
