THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Regulation outside the UK can hit our revenue too.
For example, Pensions overly-restrictive licensing requirements or ineffective regulation of access to other networks mean we might not be able to compete Link to strategy fairly.
Regulation can also define and control the terms of access to 2 Transform our costs Trend necessary regulated inputs, which raises our costs.
Link to business model Whats changed over the last year?
Financial capital Theres been a lot of regulatory activity in different areas over the Human capital last year.
Ofcom has started market reviews in relation to wholesale Social capital narrowband access, wholesale local access and wholesale broadband access.
Weve summarised this in the Regulation section on page38.
We have a large funding obligation to our defined benefit DB pension schemes.
The largest of these, the BT Pension Scheme BTPS In March 2017 Ofcom found that Openreach had breached or Scheme, represents over 97% of our pension obligations.
The its contractual and regulatory obligations by inadequately and BTPS faces similar risks to other UK DB schemes: things like future retrospectively applying Deemed Consent between January low investment returns, high inflation, longer life expectancy and 2013 and December 2014: and that Openreach then failed to regulatory changes may all mean the BTPS becomes more of a compensate communications providers fully.
As a result of the financial burden.
findings, Ofcom imposed a fine on BT and Openreach agreed to compensate communications providers outside of BT in full.
See Potential impact page 41 for further information.
The last funding valuation of the BTPS, as at 30 June 2014, provides certainty over scheme funding until the forthcoming Alongside the standard cycle of market reviews, in March 2015 valuation, due to start in June 2017, is concluded.
Ofcom announced an overarching strategic review of the digital communications market.
In March 2017 we reached agreement If theres an increase in the pension deficit at the next valuation date, with Ofcom on the legal separation of Openreach, subject to we may have to increase deficit payments into the Scheme.
Higher consultation by Ofcom and changes to legislation to retain the deficit payments could mean less money available to invest, pay out Crown Guarantee on Openreach employees.
Under this arrangement as dividends or repay debt as it matures, which could in turn affect Openreach will have its own board and make its own investment our share price and credit rating.
decisions, within an overall budget set by BT.
Although we believe that this is a good solution for BT and the UK communications Were considering a number of options for funding the deficit after market, we will face the risks and challenges that come with the next valuation, as at 30 June 2017.
These options include operating an independent business within BT.
considering whether there are alternative approaches to only making cash payments, including arrangements that would give the BTPS a How were mitigating the risks prior claim over certain BT assets.
Our team of regulatory specialists includes economists, accountants and lawyers.
Together with legal experts and external advisers Whats changed over the last year?
they check for potential disputes with other CPs and look for The pension deficit of the BTPS is calculated as the value of the opportunities to change regulatory rules.
They talk regularly with assets less the value of the liabilities.
The deficit at the valuation date regulators and other key influencers to understand their outlook will influence the deficit payments we agree.
and to make our position clear.
Their insight also helps us to forecast future regulatory outcomes.
We can then build sensible expectations A number of things affect the liabilities, including expected future into our financial plans and investment decisions.
investment returns at the valuation date.
When considering expected future returns, we review different factors including yields We push for fair, proportionate, consistent and evidenced-based or returns on government bonds, which have fallen in the year and regulation everywhere we do business.
Whenever there are market have dropped significantly since 30 June 2014.
If a lower future reviews, charge controls and disputes or investigations we put investment return is assumed at the next valuation our liabilities forward evidence and analysis.
This helps us manage the risks would likely go up.
around decisions in any particular year.
Asset returns have been positive over the year with strong returns We can appeal any regulatory decisions we think are wrong, from equities and government bonds.
albeit the basis upon which these appeals are judged in the UK has changed under the Digital Economy Act.
We can also raise How were mitigating the risks disputes or complain under the relevant regulatory framework The investment performance and liability experience are regularly or competition law where we have problems getting access to reviewed by both us and the Trustee of the BTPS.
We also consider wholesale services such as wholesale pay-TV channels or to the associated risks and possible mitigations.
The investment other access networks.
strategy aims to mitigate the impact of increases in the liabilities, for example by investing in assets that will increase in value if future Were also working hard to deliver a great customer experience, inflation expectations rise.
The assets held are also well diversified, going beyond our minimum regulatory obligations.
softening the impact of sharp drops in the value of individual asset classes.
This helps us maintain a reasonable balance of risk and return.
Our financial strength and cash generation provide a level of protection against the impact of changes in the funding position of the BTPS.
The funding liabilities also include a buffer against future negative experience, as legislation requires that we calculate liabilities on a prudent basis.
48 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 49
