THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Group performance Group Finance Directors introduction Our results this year have been significantly impacted by the findings from our investigation into our Italian business, Openreachs historical practices on Deemed Consent and the headwinds we face in the UK public sector and international corporate markets.
The performance of our UK consumer, business and wholesale activities have been in line with our expectations and the integration of EE into the group is going well.
Our results for the year were below our intoOpenreachs historical practices on are also restructuring the Global Services expectations.
We saw good performance Deemed Consent.
Our reported operating organisation and accelerating ongoing from our UK consumer, business and profit, which includes specific items, was transformation programmes in other lines b wholesale activities but this was more down 12%.
Our adjusted operating profit of business.
We anticipate that these than offset by what we found in our Italian was up 8% reflecting a strong first year transformation programmes will cost around business, Openreachs historical practices on contribution from EE.
300m over the next two years, with most Deemed Consent and the headwinds we face of this being incurred in 2017 18.
This in the UK public sector and international Reported profit before tax was down 19% restructuring cost will be treated as a specific b corporate markets.
to 2.4bn and adjusted profit before tax item and will payback in about 2 years.
Reported EPS of 19.2 Reported revenue increased by 27% to pence was down 33% and adjusted EPS of For 2017 18, we continue to expect 24.1bn.
Our key measure of the groups 28.9 pence was down 9%.
underlying revenue excluding transit to a revenue trend, underlying revenue be broadly flat year on year and adjusted excluding transit adjusted for the acquisition Net cash inflow from operating activities EBITDA to be in the range 7.5bn to of EE, was down 0.2%.
c cash flow was 2.8bn, down 10% which Our investigation into our Italian business includes earlier than expected customer identified 268m of prior year errors, for collections that will reverse next year.
which we revised the prior periods, and a specific item charge of 260m in the In addition, we are also expanding and current year for changes in accounting accelerating areas of our cost transformation estimates and investigation costs.
We are simplifying our central Simon Lowth also recorded a specific item charge of Group Functions and our internal service Group Finance Director 342m following Ofcoms investigation unit, Technology, Service & Operations.
We 11 May 2017 Alternative Performance Measures We assess the performance of the group using a variety of performance measures.
These measures are not defined under IFRS and therefore termed non-GAAP measures.
A reconciliation from these non-GAAP measures to the nearest prepared measure in accordance with IFRS is presented on pages 252 to 254.
The alternative performance measures we use may not be directly comparable with similarly titled measures used by other companies.
a Excludes specific items, foreign exchange movements and disposals and is calculated as though EE had been part of the group from 1 April 2015. b Before specific items, which are defined on page 252. c Before specific items, pension deficit payments and the cash tax benefit of pension deficit payments.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 91
