Our principal risks continued Strategic and financial risks continued Whats changed over the last year?
Political risk The most significant development was the referendum on 23 June 2016 by which the UK voted to leave the EU.
That was Link to strategy 1 immediately followed by political change, a fall in sterling, UK bond Deliver great customer experience 2 credit rating downgrades and uncertainty for business and foreign Invest for growth Trend direct investment.
On 29 March 2017, Article 50 was triggered initiating a two-year period of negotiation for the UK to leave the Link to business model EU.
In the same month, Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon Financial capital confirmed she would seek the approval of the Scottish Parliament Human capital to open discussions with the UK Government on legislating for a Social capital second Scottish independence referendum.
UK Prime Minister Theresa May has said that permission would not be forthcoming during Brexit Across our operations we are exposed to the effects of political and negotiations, potentially opening the possibility of a referendum in geopolitical risks, in particular: 2019 or 2020.
Further change may also now follow as a result of the In the UK, internet access is increasingly seen as an essential General Election called for 8 June 2017.
From a telecoms perspective, part of peoples lives.
As a result, the level of political debate and this has been played out against the backdrop of the progression of focus on issues such as quality and speed of service has increased.
the Digital Economy Act and in particular debate around Ofcoms As well as providing a critical element of the UKs national Digital Communications Review see page 39, and of dialogue on the infrastructure, we are also engaged in supporting high profile European Electronic Communications Code revisions.
programmes such as BDUK and the Emergency Services Network.
The result of the UK referendum to leave the European Union How were mitigating the risks Brexit has significantly increased political uncertainty.
This has We maintain strong engagement with the UK Government, key been exacerbated by the possibility of further political change departments such as DCMS and BDUK, MPs, peers, the media and across the United Kingdom, most notably a second referendum with consumer bodies: and with Governments and politicians in that may be held on Scottish independence.
Brussels and in our key markets around the world.
We seek to inform Outside the UK, political and geopolitical risk can impact our public debate around telecommunications through fact-based business through changes in the regulatory and competitive evidence concerning the market and BTs role within it.
landscape, but also as a direct threat to our people and assets as a result of social unrest or a break down in the rule of law.
As explained in the case study on page 51, we have set up a programme across the business to help us understand and manage Potential impact the risks associated with Brexit.
This will also consider other Political uncertainty can have direct financial consequences across potential impacts such as those associated with a second Scottish the economy, impacting for example foreign exchange rates, the Independence referendum, and is led by a steering group chaired availability and cost of capital, interest rates and also resulting in by the group finance director.
Weve also offered our views to changes in the tax regime.
For BT specifically, the most significant Government and business groups on related policy areas, including impact of political risk is its potential interaction with some of our responding to Parliamentary inquiries.
In the UK, we are seeing an increasing overlap between political debate and the regulatory environment, with the Outside the UK, our Public Affairs and regulatory teams work to potential that our Communications Industry Regulation risk increases help support governments and regulators in ensuring that markets as a result.
work in an open and fair way for the benefit of customers and competition.
Geopolitical risks are tracked by a committee, with The impacts of Brexit are still uncertain while the UKs future our security and business continuity teams particularly focused on relationship with the EU is determined.
However, there is the protecting our people and our assets.
potential for our costs to increase for example through any changes required to our systems to reflect new taxes or customs duties : Financial risk regulatory risk to increase as a result of any future divergence with the EU regime, including on data flows: supplier disruption to occur Link to strategy as a result of challenges in suppliers own organisations and supply 1 Transform our costs chains: and for delivery of a great customer experience to become 2 Invest for growth Trend more challenging if it becomes harder for us to recruit and retain talent.
Link to business model Financial capital Geopolitical risk outside the UK can most clearly impact our Social capital Communications Industry Regulation risk, but also our Security and Resilience risks where it poses a threat to the continuity of our operations.
In common with other major international businesses, we are exposed to a variety of financial risks.
These include treasury risks, which arise principally from market risk including interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk, credit risk, and liquidity risk.
They also include tax risk, principally that we need to understand fully the current and future tax consequences of business decisions to comply with tax rules and avoid financial and reputational damage.
50 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 51 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Potential impact If there is an adverse movement in foreign exchange and interest rates there could be a negative impact on the groups profitability, cash flow, and balance sheet.
Sensitivity in the income statement and shareholders equity arising from interest rate and foreign exchange volatility is shown in note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The failure of Treasury counterparties to honour financial obligations could have an adverse impact on the groups liquidity for example from the loss of cash deposits and profitability for example from increased finance expenses.
A deterioration in liquidity could have an adverse impact on the Boards assessment of going concern, particularly if combined with an inability to refinance maturing debt.
Brexit If we fail to comply with tax rules then we could face financial penalties and reputational damage.
Beyond compliance, if we Once the Government decided to hold a dont adequately reflect the current and future tax consequences referendum on the UKs membership of the in our business decisions, we might make bad decisions resulting in financial loss and potentially financial misstatements, as well as European Union, we realised this would create reputational damage.
The risk of this Whats changed over the last year?
increased after Britain voted to leave the EU.
Following the UK referendum to leave the European Union, we saw increased volatility in foreign exchange rates.
However, we continue How we managed the risk to face the same treasury risks as in financial year 2015 16.
We decided early on that we needed to understand what risks and opportunities Brexit might create for us, so ahead of the From a taxation perspective, BTs business continues to evolve vote we set up a programme bringing together functions rapidly, creating different tax consequences, for example the across the business.
acquisition of EE and the DCR.
Global tax rules also continue to evolve, for example the OECDs Base Erosion and Profit Shifting The results of this work were reported to the Operating project and the prospect of US tax reform, changing the current and Committee.
We then ramped up the activity after the vote, future tax consequences of business decisions.
forming a steering group chaired by the group finance director.
This continues to meet on a regular basis, overseeing work that How were mitigating the risks is being done by our various sub-projects.
These are looking We have a centralised treasury function whose primary role is to at areas such as the tax, people, procurement, systems and manage liquidity and funding requirements as well as our exposure commercial impacts of Brexit.
Weve also offered our views to to associated financial and market risks, including credit risk, interest Government on related policy areas, including responding to rate risk and foreign exchange risk in-line with Board approved Parliamentary inquiries.
These risk management policies are described in detail in note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Board reviews The result, and what we learnt liquidity and funding requirements of the group on an ongoing basis.
We had trialled similar approaches during previous events such as the Eurozone crisis and the Scottish independence A strong governance framework is also at the heart of our mitigation referendum.
Weve a framework for managing taxes that is set centrally and agreed by the Board.
We employ specialist teams This experience helped us make sure that senior leaders across BT to manage and assure the operation of this framework.
We pay tax understand how geopolitical events such as Brexit can impact us.
in accordance with the laws of the countries where we do business.
Weve also been able to explain to Government what we believe However, in some areas these laws arent clear, and it can take many their priorities should be for our sector when negotiating with years to agree an outcome with a tax authority or through litigation.
Nevertheless, we always seek to deal with tax authorities in an open and constructive manner, engaging specialist external advice where More broadly, weve recognised that we need to work together as required.
a business to manage such risks.
And we also appreciate that our customers can take confidence from us developing plans to get through uncertain times.
50 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 51
