Our principal risks continued Operational risks How were mitigating the risks Security and resilience Were investing in improvements across the full range of technology, processes and people for both security and continuity risks.
Link to strategy 1 Deliver great customer experience Trend Our cyber defence programme is focused on segmenting our IT estate to enhance access control and limit the spread of attacks.
Link to business model Weve improved our strategic defences against Denial of Service Financial capital DoS attacks in order to limit the disruption from high volumes Intellectual capital of malicious traffic and from slower, more sophisticated attacks Manufactured capital that mimic legitimate data flow.
Weve deployed more scanning, monitoring and logging tools to identify intrusions and to detect The security and continuity of our services are critical factors in anomalous data traffic as early as possible.
Weve also invested in our commercial success.
Our networks and systems are constantly the development of cyber security skills that are deployed around exposed to many different threats, and our customers expect the the clock to apply threat intelligence to our defences and manage highest standards of protection and recovery planning to minimise live incidents.
any impact on our services.
Weve completely revised the frequency and scope of our Cyber-attacks on our own IT systems and those of our customers vulnerability testing using a risk-based approach to setting priorities, are becoming more frequent and sophisticated, and were and weve increased resources for proactive penetration testing investing heavily to keep pace with this growing threat to steal and ethical hacking.
Were adopting a more rigorous approach to data or equipment or damage our infrastructure.
However, service auditing our suppliers security and are increasingly asking suppliers interruption can result from many other sources.
These include to substantiate their responses with evidence of compliance with our physical threats like fire, explosion, flooding, overheating, extreme security policies and contract terms.
cold or power failure: logical threats such as equipment failure or problems encountered with software upgrades or major changes: Our flood preparedness programme has seen us double the size of our or disruptions in our supply chain.
Emergency Response Team and their associated capabilities.
Weve enhanced our extreme weather monitoring processes and our ability Potential impact to map warnings to specific assets.
This, together with the production In the event that our protective measures fail to prevent or contain a of specific flood defence plans for our critical sites, allows us to major security or continuity incident we might incur major financial respond more rapidly and appropriately to fast-changing weatherloss, long-term damage to reputation and loss of market share.
Weve also enhanced our ability to provide emergency Regulatory sanctions, fines and contract penalties might be applied, communications support to local communities should these become contracts might be terminated, and costly concessions might be isolated following storm damage.
We continue to invest in resilience needed, together with unplanned and rapid improvements to retain and recovery capabilities in response to a range of threats.
We might also miss opportunities to grow revenue and launch new services ahead of the competition.
Major contracts Whats changed over the last year?
Link to strategy The acquisition of EE has substantially changed our security risk, 1 Deliver great customer experience adding large volumes of bank account and credit card data which 2 Transform our costs are attractive to hackers.
The rapidly escalating cyber threat is 3 Invest for growth Trend recognised as a major risk faced by organisations across the world, and were clearly seen as a legitimate target for cyber-incidents.
Link to business model Were also exposed to collateral damage from attacks on our Financial capital suppliers and customers by highly motivated and well-resourced nation state actors and criminal gangs.
We responded to several potentially serious cyber-attacks during the year, and attempts to We have a number of complex and high-value national and compromise our systems using known hacking tools have repeatedly multinational customer contracts.
The revenue and profitability failed.
Weve made real progress on improving risk controls, but of these contracts are affected by things like: variation in cost: more needs to be done to make sure we can keep up with the achieving cost savings anticipated in contract pricing both in terms growing threat.
The two major data breaches announced by Yahoo of scale and time : delays in achieving agreed milestones owing in September and December 2016 both included BT mail account to factors either in or out of our control: changes in customers records dating from 2013 and 2014.
Some of these accounts needs, their budgets, strategies or businesses: and our suppliers are still vulnerable because their owners have never changed their performance.
Any of these factors could make a contract less passwords.
The customers affected were quickly advised to reset profitable or even loss-making.
their passwords, and forced resetting of passwords will be applied where necessary.
The degree of risk varies with the scope and life of the contract and is typically higher in the early stages.
Some customer contracts need Following the impacts of the winter storms of 2016 17, and the investment in the early stages, which we then expect to recover over publication of the UK National Flood Resilience Review, its clear that the life of the contract.
the risk of extreme weather events is increasing.
In response, our flood preparedness programme has seen major enhancements in our defence and response capabilities.
52 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 53
