THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Wholesale Ethernet: presence in BT exchanges Ventures Products and services Several of our ventures provide well-known services nationwide: Broadband and Ethernet We provide CPs with broadband and Ethernet connections between 999: we handle the nations 999 calls on behalf of BT and all other their core network and their customers.
Connect can serve 96% of premises with copper-based broadband 2015 16: 95% and more than 26.5m premises with fibre.
Our Directory Enquiries: calling 118 500 gives people easy access to all older broadband network brings our total coverage to more than listed phone numbers.
Payphones: we provide most of the UKs payphones, whether in Wholesale Ethernet lets customers connect over 99% of business public places or on private premises.
premises at speeds of up to 10Gbps.
Wholesale Optical extends those speeds to 100Gbps.
This year we extended our own fibre-based The Phone Book: we deliver this to over 21m UK homes and Ethernet to many more exchanges and third-party datacentres.
Wholesale Ethernet: present in BT exchanges Other ventures are more enterprise-oriented: As at 31 March BT Cables: we manufacture, source and supply cabling for telcos, railways and other industries.
2,000 BT Fleet: we source, manage and maintain BTs fleet of 33,000 1,500 vehicles.
We manage a further 58,000 vehicles for external customers including the AA and National Grid.
1,000 This year we bought Pelipod, a dataBT Redcare: we provide secure signalling between on-site alarm Pelipod driven secure storage company.
Pelipod systems and central alarm receiving centres.
500 specialises in delivering items directly to a secure box thats easy to access and BT Supply Chain: we hold and dispatch products such as mobile 0 close to an engineers place of work.
If companies have a large field 2014 2015 2016 2017 engineering team we can manage their vehicles, supply their engineers, return any surplus supplies to base and provide real-time Our Managed Ethernet Access Service MEAS uses Ethernet data for route management.
Performance in the year strategic technology to carry mobile voice and data traffic to and from mobile operators transmission masts.
Tikit: we provide IT solutions to law and accountancy firms in the 1 UK, where we supply more than two-thirds of the top 100 law firms, Voice and across Europe, North America and Australia.
Delivering great customer experience CPs use our IP Exchange IPX platform to carry their customers Right First Time RFT tracks our ability to deliver orders and repair voice calls beyond the reach of their own voice network.
IPX is now Big data and messaging: our data scientists help companies and faults on time, every time.
used by over 170 CPs, including most of the UKs biggest operators.
local authorities planning and decision-making.
This year we achieved our best RFT result for many years, up 7.5%, CPs without their own voice network can use Wholesale Calls, Managed solutions including fulfilling 93% of broadband orders on time up from 91% which routes calls for them end to end.
The CP maintains the We combine our products with third-party components and our own last year.
customer relationship through its own sales, customer service professional services to create managed solutions that solve specific and billing.
We changed the way we measure customer satisfaction.
We now measure customers Net Satisfaction, as the difference between Hosted communications those who score us very high 9 and those who score us lower six Traditionally, businesses have made and received calls over phone or less.
Our score in the former BT Wholesale business was 36.6, lines via a switchboard.
Wholesale SIP-Trunking delivers the calls 33,000 up by 2.6.
During the year we extended the measure to include over broadband or Ethernet while Wholesale Hosted Centrex moves three of our ventures.
On this basis, our score overall was 44.8. the switchboard capability into BTs network.
Similarly, our Hosted vehicles sourced, managed and Contact Centres replace the systems and services needed to handle maintained for BT Fleet large numbers of inbound or outbound customer calls.
Were using 3D printing to improve the 3D customer experience in our Supply Chain printing Mobile Virtual Network Operator business.
3D printing shortens the time We were named Best Wholesale Operator at MVNO World Congress it takes to get practical ideas off the 2016.
Customers can use their brand, build their own retail drawing board and out into the field.
Now 58,000 propositions, sell mobile plans through their channels and own Openreach, a Supply Chain customer, is therelationship with the end customer, while we do the rest.
vehicles managed for trialling a range of 3D printed prototypes external customers for example, a cable-threading needle which makes it easier for engineers to add new circuits in a roadside cabinet without snagging other wires.
