Resources, relationships and sustainability continued This year we invested around 520m 2015 16: around 470m Research and development inR&D.
Over the last ten years weve been one of the largest a Commercial success increasingly depends on investors in R&D both in the UK, and globally in the telecoms sector.
innovation thats why we invest so much in Our research activities keep producing new inventions.
The result we filed patent applications for 102 inventions 2015 16: 97, and as of 31 March 2017 had a worldwide portfolio of more than is a track record of scientific breakthroughs, 4,900 patents and applications.
engineering successes and commercial progress.
Open innovation Our proud history of innovation No-one has a monopoly on good ideas.
Thats why were always keen We can trace our origins back to 1837, when Sir William Fothergill to work with partners, universities and customers from around the Cooke and Sir Charles Wheatstone filed a patent for the worlds first world.
We call it our open innovation model.
From this they founded The Electric Telegraph Company, the seed business that eventually grew into BT.
We have eight global development centres including Adastral Park, And weve kept innovating ever since you can read more about our our UK technology headquarters.
Its an innovation campus we share innovation story here: with over 90 high-tech companies, and is a workplace for around 3,800 people.
This year we continued to grow our development www.
You can also see some of our past innovations in the Science Weve extensive, long-standing, joint-research programmes with Museum, including Cooke and Wheatstones electric telegraph and Cambridge University UK, Massachusetts Institute of Technology parts from Colossus, the worlds first programmable computer.
US, Tsinghua University China, Khalifa University UAE and over 30 other universities globally.
102 4,900 patent applications for patents and applications in inventions filed in 2016 17 our worldwide portfolio Innovation milestones 1926 1943 1968 We established the worlds Tommy Flowers, working in The worlds first digital first two-way, Trans-Atlantic the telecoms division of the telephone exchange was conversation by radio GPO, developed the worlds installed by us in London.
telephone, from our wireless first programmable electronic station near Rugby.
1984 1980 We installed the worlds first We laid the worlds first, 140Mbps commercial  optical fibre mode optical fibre link between submarine cable in Loch Fyne.
1999 2013 2016 Our live data call over a GPRS We conducted the worlds first Our super-channel speed of network was a world first.
G. fast trial in Ipswich, with our 5.6Tbps in our core network partner Huawei.
G. fast is one of set the record for the fastest the technologies that underpins data transmission over an our ultrafast broadband vision.
a C omparison based on total R&D spend 2006 07 to 2015 16.
Source: EU Industrial R&D Investment Scoreboard, http: iri.
html 32 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 33 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Tommy Flowers Institute Examples of our R&D activities this year include: This year we launched the Tommy Flowers Institute, a new Higher Education ICT training institute at Adastral Park.
Long-reach VDSL trial Building on last years lab tests, were trialling long-reach VDSL in Working with partners from across the ICT sector, weve designed the Isfield, Sussex and on the Isle of Lewis.
Institute to create world-class research leaders who can collaborate across multiple academic disciplines.
Theyll focus on solving some of the challenges facing UK businesses, exploring areas such as cybersecurity, Big Data, autonomics and converged networks.
EAD Rapid Ethernet Access Direct EAD is Openreachs Ethernet product, offering data rates from 100Mbps to 10Gbps on a single fibre seepage 86.
Weve developed EAD Rapid, a method to quickly provision a second Tommy Flowers was an engineer who Who was EAD circuit where one already exists using the same fibre.
This means joined the General Post Office research that customers dont have to wait for a second fibre to be installed Tommy station at Dollis Hill in London in 1930. before their new service will work.
Hehad a particular interest in the use Flowers?
of electronics for telephone exchanges.
Customer Exchange In November 1943 Flowers developed premises Filter Filter Colossus at the Ministry of Defences Standard circuit code-breaking facility in Bletchley Installed fibre Park.
The worlds first programmable EAD Rapid computer, Colossus was designed to circuit counter the reputedly unbreakable Lorenz cipher.
The thermionic valve-based, programmable Colossus Self-organising networks interworking successfully broke the Lorenz cipher Self-organising network SON technology automates the and went on to provide information planning, set up, management and repair of mobile networks.
critical to the success of the D-Day Weve established a test lab at Adastral Park to test SON equipment.
landings and Allied war effort.
This led to a world-first demonstration of SON interoperation between different vendors 4G products.
After the war, Flowers went on to direct ground-breaking research in the field of telecommunications, including the development of the first all-electronic telephone exchange.
5G Were working with a range of Macrocells partners to deliver Macrocells our 5G service ambitions, conducting trials of 5G-ready radio equipment at BT labs.
Small cells Interference coordination Interference coordination 32 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 33
