Our principal risks continued Strategic and financial risks It also means transforming our costs.
We take a forensic approach, Growth in a competitive market supported by a team of specialists, to identifying opportunities to better manage our cost base and maximise our ability to invest in Link to strategy 3 customer experience and growth.
However, these opportunities Invest for growth Trend are becoming more challenging to identify and deliver as our cost transformation programme matures.
Link to business model Financial capital If we do all this, well grow our revenue profitably and sustainably.
Intellectual Capital Weve been investing in five key areas: providing differentiated content, services and applications, making our UK network the best Our markets are characterised by: in the country, becoming a fully converged service provider, securing c onstant, rapid change: market leadership in all our UK segments and meeting the needs of str ong, new competition: multinational customers.
Our transformation programmes continue f alling prices and in some markets falling revenues: to drive service and productivity improvement.
We can also seek t echnology changes: changes in regulation to make things fairer.
mark et and product convergence: cust omers moving between providers: and r egulation to promote competition and cut wholesale prices.
Communications industry regulation Link to strategy Potential impact 1 Deliver great customer experience Its important we grow our revenue profitably and sustainably to 2 Transform our costs protect our cash flow.
Failure to do so could limit our ability to invest Trend in the business or pay dividends.
Its also important that we manage Link to business model our cost base to be able to invest in growth opportunities.
Financial capital Manufactured capital Whats changed over the last year?
Weve been executing our strategy by: extending our 4G and fibre broadband coverage: Regulation affects much of what we do.
making good progress on integrating EE and hitting our synergy targets: and In the UK, where Ofcom identifies concerns with the competitiveness investing to improve customer experience and the products of markets, it can set regulatory rules that require us to provide we offer.
certain services on specified terms to our customers.
The rules it imposes are assessed every three years via a series of market reviews Our leading competitors have also been very active.
Important focused on the supply of network access services to wholesale developments included: customers for example, the supply of fixed access lines to support Virgin Media expanding its UK network: the provision of phone or broadband services, or the supply of Sky and Gamma launching new mobile services: business connectivity services.
Ofcom can extend or remove rules as 21st Century Foxs bidding for the share in Sky it didnt a result of its findings in a market review.
Where controls are placed already own: on our prices, these can be tightened or relaxed following a review Sky launching a Now-TV branded triple-play bundle without of the expected costs of future supply.
Ofcom will investigate our a contract: and compliance with any regulatory rules in place and can impose fines TalkTalks continued success at growing its data revenues.
and restitution on us if we dont comply.
The level of competitive risk facing the business has worsened over Ofcom also has powers to regulate the terms on which we get the last 12 months.
Some of our leading telecoms competitors have supplied with certain services by others for instance, mobile taken important steps to grow their revenues.
In addition the threat call termination and wholesale access to certain pay-TV channels.
from new competitors, enabled by disruptive technologies, continues This can increase our costs and affect the scope of services we can to increase.
Leading players, operating in adjacent markets, still view provide to customers.
Ofcom can also sort out disputes between telecoms services as an attractive growth opportunity.
In particular us and other communications providers about the terms on which OTT providers, who already dominate messaging, are services are supplied.
now increasingly turning their attention to voice.
Outside the UK, general licensing requirements can make it tough There are also economic risks that could threaten revenue growth: for us to enter markets and compete.
Regulation will also define the Downside risks to the UK and global economy are bigger than terms on which we can buy wholesale services from others.
Its unclear how much the UK economy will be impacted by the Potential Impact vote to leave the European Union, nor is it clear what trade Certain of our revenues come from supplying wholesale services arrangements will be agreed after the UK leaves.
to markets where Ofcom has found us to have significant market power.
Most of these revenues relate to services where regulatory How were mitigating the risks rules require us to cut average prices each year by a specific, realWe stick to our strategy, which means: term percentage for a three-year period.
broadening and deepening our customer relationships: providing a great customer experience: and Where other telecoms providers ask Ofcom to resolve disputes investing for growth.
with us, theres a risk that Ofcom may set the prices at which we supply services, and or make us provide additional services.
In some circumstances, Ofcom can adjust past prices and make us pay back amounts to wholesale customers.
48 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 49
