How were organised Employees by division We have six customerfacing lines of business: 28% Openreach Consumer, EE, Business 4% Wholesale and Ventures and Public Sector, Global 8% Consumer Services, Wholesale 9% EE and Ventures, and 10% Business and Public Sector Openreach.
12% TSO Theyre supported by 13% Group Functions our internal service unit, 16% Global Services Technology, Service and Consumer Operations as well as Were the largest provider of consumer fixedGroup Functions.
line voice and broadband services in the UK.
Were also the second-largest provider of pay-TV sports PG56-90 to read more channels in the UK and a leading innovator in broadcasting about our lines of business technology.
During the year we secured an extension to our broadcast rights for the UEFA Champions League and the UEFA Europa League until 2021 which puts our business in a strong position.
2nd largest provider of pay-TV sports channels in the UK Openreach Business and Public Sector We sell communications and IT services in We build the network that connects Britains the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
homes and businesses to the future.
Weve around 1.2m business and public sector customers and lead Were responsible for providing services over the local access the field in fixed-voice, networking and broadband.
We have three network, sometimes referred to as the last mile, as well as customer-facing units providing communications solutions and IT installing and maintaining the fibre and copper communications services to SMEs, corporates and public sector customers.
networks that connect homes and businesses.
26.5m c1.2m premises passed by our fibre network customers 8 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION a a Adjusted revenue by line of business Adjusted EBITDA by line of business Year ended 31 March 2017 Year ended 31 March 2017 20% Consumer 15% EE 9% Openreach 13% Consumer 21% Openreach including internal 8% Wholesale and Ventures 34% Openreach 23% Global Services 11% Wholesale and Ventures 19% Business and Public Sector 7% Global Services 21% EE 20% Business and Public Sector a a Before specic items.
EE Wholesale and Ventures Were the UKs largest mobile network We help other companies provide fixed or operator and we also offer fixed broadband mobile telephony services, as well as running and TV.
a number of BTs specialist business units.
We employ 9,000 people with 67% directly helping customers We provide wholesale fixed network services to over 1,400 through our shops and contact centres.
Our 4G mobile network is customers.
We support 30 mobile virtual network operators.
the biggest and fastest in the UK.
And our ventures provide mass market services such as directory enquiries and payphones, as well as enterprise services.
80% 1,400 4G geographic coverage 99% population coverage wholesale customers Global Services Technology, Service and Operations Were the internal technology unit responsible Were a leading global business communications for creating and operating our global provider, supplying ICT services to 5,500 networks, platforms and IT systems.
We work closely with each of our lines of business, creating Our performance for the year has been impacted by the new products for them and making sure that services evolve challenges in the international corporate markets and the to reflect the changing needs of their customers.
And we make outcome of our investigation into our Italian business.
We will sure that BTs networks and systems are reliable and resilient.
be implementing a new operating model in response to these We also manage BTs research and development and our challenges, explained on page 70. worldwide patent portfolio.
180 4,900 worldwide portfolio of patents and applications countries served Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 9
