Our principal risks continued Strategic and financial risks continued Whats changed over the last year?
Political risk The most significant development was the referendum on 23 June 2016 by which the UK voted to leave the EU.
That was Link to strategy 1 immediately followed by political change, a fall in sterling, UK bond Deliver great customer experience 2 credit rating downgrades and uncertainty for business and foreign Invest for growth Trend direct investment.
On 29 March 2017, Article 50 was triggered initiating a two-year period of negotiation for the UK to leave the Link to business model EU.
In the same month, Scottish First Minister Nicola Sturgeon Financial capital confirmed she would seek the approval of the Scottish Parliament Human capital to open discussions with the UK Government on legislating for a Social capital second Scottish independence referendum.
UK Prime Minister Theresa May has said that permission would not be forthcoming during Brexit Across our operations we are exposed to the effects of political and negotiations, potentially opening the possibility of a referendum in geopolitical risks, in particular: 2019 or 2020.
Further change may also now follow as a result of the In the UK, internet access is increasingly seen as an essential General Election called for 8 June 2017.
From a telecoms perspective, part of peoples lives.
As a result, the level of political debate and this has been played out against the backdrop of the progression of focus on issues such as quality and speed of service has increased.
the Digital Economy Act and in particular debate around Ofcoms As well as providing a critical element of the UKs national Digital Communications Review see page 39, and of dialogue on the infrastructure, we are also engaged in supporting high profile European Electronic Communications Code revisions.
programmes such as BDUK and the Emergency Services Network.
The result of the UK referendum to leave the European Union How were mitigating the risks Brexit has significantly increased political uncertainty.
This has We maintain strong engagement with the UK Government, key been exacerbated by the possibility of further political change departments such as DCMS and BDUK, MPs, peers, the media and across the United Kingdom, most notably a second referendum with consumer bodies: and with Governments and politicians in that may be held on Scottish independence.
Brussels and in our key markets around the world.
We seek to inform Outside the UK, political and geopolitical risk can impact our public debate around telecommunications through fact-based business through changes in the regulatory and competitive evidence concerning the market and BTs role within it.
landscape, but also as a direct threat to our people and assets as a result of social unrest or a break down in the rule of law.
As explained in the case study on page 51, we have set up a programme across the business to help us understand and manage Potential impact the risks associated with Brexit.
This will also consider other Political uncertainty can have direct financial consequences across potential impacts such as those associated with a second Scottish the economy, impacting for example foreign exchange rates, the Independence referendum, and is led by a steering group chaired availability and cost of capital, interest rates and also resulting in by the group finance director.
Weve also offered our views to changes in the tax regime.
For BT specifically, the most significant Government and business groups on related policy areas, including impact of political risk is its potential interaction with some of our responding to Parliamentary inquiries.
In the UK, we are seeing an increasing overlap between political debate and the regulatory environment, with the Outside the UK, our Public Affairs and regulatory teams work to potential that our Communications Industry Regulation risk increases help support governments and regulators in ensuring that markets as a result.
work in an open and fair way for the benefit of customers and competition.
Geopolitical risks are tracked by a committee, with The impacts of Brexit are still uncertain while the UKs future our security and business continuity teams particularly focused on relationship with the EU is determined.
However, there is the protecting our people and our assets.
potential for our costs to increase for example through any changes required to our systems to reflect new taxes or customs duties : Financial risk regulatory risk to increase as a result of any future divergence with the EU regime, including on data flows: supplier disruption to occur Link to strategy as a result of challenges in suppliers own organisations and supply 1 Transform our costs chains: and for delivery of a great customer experience to become 2 Invest for growth Trend more challenging if it becomes harder for us to recruit and retain talent.
Link to business model Financial capital Geopolitical risk outside the UK can most clearly impact our Social capital Communications Industry Regulation risk, but also our Security and Resilience risks where it poses a threat to the continuity of our operations.
In common with other major international businesses, we are exposed to a variety of financial risks.
These include treasury risks, which arise principally from market risk including interest rate risk and foreign exchange risk, credit risk, and liquidity risk.
They also include tax risk, principally that we need to understand fully the current and future tax consequences of business decisions to comply with tax rules and avoid financial and reputational damage.
50 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 51
