THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Major contracts often involve implementing new systems and How were mitigating the risks communications networks, transforming legacy networks and At both group and line of business-level we have governance, developing new technologies.
Delays or missed milestones might risk management and reporting processes in place.
Independent have an impact on us recovering these upfront costs.
Theres a audits and the checks and balances in individual contracts provide substantial performance risk in some of these highly-complex assurance through an independent review programme.
progress, we monitor how were doing on these risks and mitigation actions, and report the result to senior management.
A separate, Potential impact dedicated team provides assurance for our BDUK and ESN projects.
If we dont manage to meet our commitments under these contracts or if customers needs, budgets, strategies or businesses change The BT Academy helps support skills development and learning then our expected future revenue, profitability and cash generation initiatives.
These help our Contract Management Profession to better may go down.
Unexpectedly high costs associated with fulfilling identify and manage risk.
We also update new training collateral particular transformational contracts could also hit profitability.
whenever we learn something new.
The scope and availability of Earnings may drop.
Contracts may even become loss-making training options continues to improve through BT-wide learning and through loss of revenue, changes to customers businesses due development initiatives.
to, for example, mergers or acquisitions, business failure or contract termination.
In fact weve invested in risk training, and assess the management of our contracts against a best practice framework weve developed One of our largest and highest risk contracts is the delivery of a key based on our knowledge of running and managing major element of the UK Emergency Services Network ESN on our EE programmes.
The complexities described above all apply to this programme.
So far delivery has gone well, but there are still plenty of challenging parts of the programme to be delivered including aspects of the contract that are not in our control.
Were still delivering contracts with local authorities through regional fibre deployment programmes, including the Broadband Delivery UK programme BDUK.
As with our other major contracts, if we fail to deliver these contracts successfully it might lead to reduced future revenue, profitability and cash generation.
As well as carrying a higher reputational risk, these contracts present specific risks around deployment, delivery and our ability to recover public funding.
We also have an obligation to potentially either reinvest or repay grant funding depending on lots of different factors including how many customers take up a new service.
Contract management and automation Whats changed over the last year?
Our ability to successfully manage Weve acquired EE and with it the Emergency Services Network major contracts is critical to maintaining ESN programme, which is a high-profile contract delivered with several partners and managed by the Home Office.
To date weve performance and providing a great customer delivered on our commitments but its still a high-risk programme experience.
and is being managed as such.
How we managed the risk Tough market conditions continue and the impact of the UK voting How we handle both contractual obligations and risk is key to to leave the EU has meant some customer programmes have been success.
To help our management community weve introduced delayed, which has had an impact on the business.
Customers are a contract lifecycle management system.
This will centralise the requiring more flexibility in their contracts.
storage, access and retention of all contract documents.
The majority of our first phase of BDUK contracts have now The result, and what we learnt completed deployment, with the remainder closing in 2017 18.
Our contract lifecycle management system promises many Were now mid-delivery of the second phase of contracts SEP. benefits.
Once its rolled out across the business, itll help us Whilst these contracts are smaller in scale and coverage, the understand our contractual obligations and make sure every deployment challenges are significantly greater in terms of the contract has a dedicated owner.
Itll also help with allocating geography encountered as we reach further into the final 5%.
work and by providing an online risk register, make sure risks are understood and agreed across the business.
Finally, it should While our broadband contracts and ESN carry a different risk profile make it simpler to develop our expertise as we adopt a single to other major corporate contracts, we apply our governance and way of working across contract management.
reporting processes to make sure we identify risks and mitigation activities and report them to management.
52 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 53
