Resources, relationships and sustainability continued Weve extended our programmes to EE which has already helped Our networks and physical assets bring sickness absence down across the group.
Were always looking Our network, service and IT platforms support for ways to improve, and have introduced  to shorten recovery time for our people undergoing surgery.
In short, the products our customers rely on around we know that keeping our people healthy and happy is good for the world.
them, good for business and good for society.
Network platforms Pay and benefits Our UK fixed-line network is one of our most valuable assets and We regularly review our pay and benefits to make sure our our investment in fibre broadband is key to providing services to UK remuneration is competitive when compared to other companies consumers.
Our fibre broadband network now passes more than of a similar size and complexity.
26.5m UK premises, and we provide FTTP to more customers than any other UK service provider.
To meet the demand from businesses, Most of our UK-based engineering and support people are paid were continuing to expand the availability of Ethernet.
using terms and conditions negotiated through collective bargaining with our recognised trade unions, ensuring fairness for all.
Our This year weve had record levels of traffic across our UK network, yet managers pay ranges are also set at competitive levels.
Bonuses are the investments weve made in broadband technology mean that determined through a combination of business performance and more customers continue to get faster speeds over our network.
their personal contribution to the company.
Our global reach Our global network is supported by in-country networks and infrastructure.
We offer our widest range of network services, access technologies and coverage in the UK, with extensive networks in Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, the Republic of Ireland and Spain.
The scale and reach of our global multi-protocol label switching MPLS network is a key competitive differentiator, and weve enhanced it this year with the launch of a software-defined wide area network capability.
Were selectively expanding the reach of our network to support multinational companies in other regions.
Virtual private network VPN services are integral to our Cloud of Clouds vision see page 71.
They provide the convenience and security of a private network but over the public internet.
We use our MPLS network together with a combination of owned and leased fibre connections to connect our points of presence PoPs around the world.
For the final connection into the customers premises, we either use our own circuits, or lease connections from telecoms operators in that country.
Where we need to serve customers in very remote locations, we make use of our extensive satellite connections.
Our executives may also get long-term share awards to reward the creation of shareholder value.
The value they ultimately get is Security is an important part of our business.
The expertise weve determined by the groups performance over a three-year period.
gained from protecting our own networks helps us secure our Executive directors must retain incentive shares for a further twocustomers networks.
In line with regulatory obligations, incentives for people in Openreach The EE network are tied to a combination of personal contribution and Openreachs is the UKs largest performance, rather than that of the wider group.
These incentives are paid in cash, as opposed to BT shares.
4G network, now covering 80% of the We support our people by providing a range of retirement savings plans and country-specific benefits.
In the UK, our main defined UKs geography and benefit scheme is the BT Pension Scheme, while our main defined reaching over 99% contribution scheme is the BT Retirement Saving Scheme.
You can read more about these on page 101. of the population Sharing in success Around 52% of our people take part in one or more of our savingsrelated share option plans known as saveshare, which operate in over 25 countries.
In August 2016 almost 9,000 people in our 2011 saveshare plan were able to buy shares at 156p, representing an average gain of around 5,000 each.
30 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 31
