Resources, relationships and sustainability continued Brand and reputation Stakeholders Our organisation is made up of three strong As well as our own people, BTs main stakeholders brands: BT, EE and Plusnet.
Between them, are our customers, communities, shareholders, theycover UK and global markets for consumers, lenders, pension schemes, suppliers, government businesses and the public sector.
Weve worked and regulatory authorities.
hard to position all three so they maximise Our customers their reach while minimising overlap with Our customers include individuals, households, businesses of all sizes and public sector organisations.
This multi-brand approach gives usgreater agility in the market and increases You can read about our markets, customers and the services we offer them in our Lines of Business section, from page 56. our overallconsideration.
Interestingly, some of our customers are also our competitors.
Thats because we sell wholesale products and services to other BT communications providers in the UK and overseas.
BT is the biggest of our three brands in terms of overall brand value.
It stretches across consumer, Communities and society business and public sector markets and operates in Our purpose influences our decisions and actions.
invested 35.6m to help a number of initiatives that deliver social and environmental benefits, as well as stimulating economic growth.
This year, BT Sport continued to grow its viewership and win awards.
These included the best TV or This investment is a mixture of cash, time volunteered, and in-kind media innovation award for the BT Sport app at the contributions.
Over the past five years weve invested over 157m, Broadband World Forum.
an average of 1.08% of our adjusted profit before tax.
In the UK business market, BT has the highest Total investment in society awareness of any telecoms, networks and IT services Year ended 31 March brand.
We kept up the pace with strong business wins such as network and ICT services for Royal m 1.15% 1.12% 1.10% 1.01% 1.03% Mail Group and network infrastructure for the Cooperative Group.
BT was also positioned by Gartner, 40 Inc, as a Leader in the Magic Quadrant for Network Services, Global for the 13th consecutive time see 30 page 72.
20 Research company Millward Brown valued the BT brand at $18.6 billion in 2016.
Its possible that the 10 impact of our Italian investigation may cause this to decline when the 2017 valuation is published.
We 0 describe what were doing toredress this on page 6.
2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 EE Percentage of previous years adjusted profit before taxation EE is the UKs biggest mobile operator, positioned Investment time, cash and in-kind support firmly at the cutting edge of technology.
EE is also number one for spontaneous brand awareness, Connecting society despite being almost a decade younger than any other major UK mobile brand.
Our 2020 ambitions Plusnet More than 9 out of 10 people Plusnet has a distinctive market position, offering in the UK will have access UK consumers brilliant service at a great price.
to our fibre-based products 9 10 andservices This year, Plusnet won 21 awards, including the uSwitch awards for Best Customer Service and We will help 10m people Best Home Broadband, and a Silver at the IPA overcome social disadvantage, Effectiveness Awards for effective advertising through the benefits our 10m andbrand-building.
products and services canbring Working together We will help 5m children Were working on synergies and opportunities for our three big brands to receive better teaching in support each other wherever possible.
You can read more about this in computing and tech skills 5m the Consumer and EE sections on pages 56 and 62.
