Lines of business Consumer Were the largest provider of consumer fixed-line voice and broadband services in the UK.
Were also the second-largest pay-TV sports broadcaster in the UK and a leading innovator in .
Consumer and Plusnet our award-winning second brand connect Markets and customers our customers to information, entertainment, friends and family, Our broadband copper and fibre products are both at home and on the move.
available to over 99% of UK premises, and our We buy access to fixed-line and broadband infrastructure from home phone and mobile services are available to Openreach, and we use EEs mobile network to provide mobile phone services.
Everyone who has a BT internet connection with a sufficient broadband speed can sign up Consumer, Plusnet and EE all provide home phone, broadband, TV and mobile services.
The UK consumer telecoms market is highly competitive.
In Consumer brands December 2016, Ofcom found that UK prices for telecoms and TV services compared well to international benchmarks.
In 2016 the UK ranked second among six comparator countries France, Germany, Italy, Spain, UK and the US for a combination of standalone, bundled and lowest-available prices.
Within the UK market, our three consumer brands mean were well placed See page 62 to compete with the likes of Sky, Virgin Media, Talk Talk and Vodafone.
Home phone Home phone Home phone BT retail market share Broadband Broadband Broadband % BT TV YouView TV on EE TV 40 Plusnet 30 BT Sport BT Sport BT Sport app 20 Mobile Mobile Mobile 10 Our Consumer line of business offers products and services from both BT and Plusnet.
Subscriber numbers and market share data for home phone, retail broadband and pay-TV are reported at group level and 0 a b c can be found in this section.
Figures for mobile also reported at Home phone Retail broadband Pay-TV group level can be found in the EE section on page 62.
Consumer sells a range of devices including telephones, baby Home phone monitors and wi-fi extenders via high street retailers, the online According to Ofcom, the number of home phone lines in the UK is BT Shop and on our website, BT.
We work closely with our 26.4m.
The number of minutes of residential fixed line calls made in suppliers to make our products and business operations as sustainable 2016 fell by 12.8% year on year to 43.5bn, as people increasingly as possible, from the first link in the supply chain through to the prefer to use mobile phones, voice over IP or instant messaging end customer.
We also sell services to commercial premises, such as pubs and Broadband hotels, so they can access BT Sport or BT Wi-fi.
There were 25.3m fixed broadband residential and SME connections in 2016, an increase of 2.2% from the previous year.
We employ over 11,000 full-time equivalent employees.
Of these, 46% were fibre broadband connections.
Around10,000 of these directly help our customers through ourcontact centres.
TV and content There are approximately 18m pay-TV subscriptions in the UK.
a Home phone includes Consumer and EE analogue and ISDN channels WLR, including customers in Northern Ireland and Plusnet.
b Retail broadband Consumer including Plusnet and Northern Ireland, EE, B&Ps, and broadband lines sold by Global Services.
c TV refers to the total number of customers either with a BT Vision, YouView or EE TV box registered and enabled to receive video on demand including YouView from Plusnet.
