Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility We are committed to developing and 1.
Customers implementing a successful corporate Implement and maintain ethical, responsibility programme that sustainable and responsible principles benets key stakeholders.
We believe throughout the supply chain that a successful business must also Ensure the customer remains at the be a responsible business.
heart of everything we do We aim to: Treat customers fairly throughout the Achieve sustainable profits for our customer experience.
Employees Build enduring relationships with key Embed customer-focused values and stakeholders, including our customers, behaviours partners and the community Hire, develop and retain talented Value our employees people to ensure our customers enjoy a consistently good experience Respect the environment Provide a safe, healthy and inclusive Use our core skills to give something environment for our people.
back to our local communities.
Community Our corporate responsibility objectives Use our core skills to give something support our vision and values, with a focus back to the community on four areas: Support more vulnerable members of the community by helping them in their homes.
54 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Develop partnerships with charitable and community organisations closely aligned to our business activities and Our Customer Promises therefore maximise our contribution Before a Customer joins Support and encourage employee Well make it clear what theyre buying involvement in charitable giving and what it will do for them and volunteering, using relevant employee skills to support our local When a Customer joins communities.
Well tell them how much theyre paying, 4.
Environment what that buys them and how to claim Reduce our carbon emissions per When a Customer becomes a member employee Well make life easy for them Use resources eciently When a Customer makes a claim Support and educate customers and Well solve their problem quickly and easily employees to reduce emissions, their emergency is our emergency specifically in their homes.
If a Customer isnt happy These corporate social responsibility Well listen, say sorry and put things right principles are part of the way we operate wherever we can, as soon as we can on a daily basis and reect the way we deal with customers, our people, partners and the community.
Customers We promote a customer-focused culture and are proud of our excellent reputation for customer service and the many outstanding customer service awards we have won around the world.
Our Customer Promises outline our commitment to our customers: we make things easy for customers and treat them fairly, every step of the way.
All our people are committed to our customer promises - from management teams to those on the front line.
