THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our viability statement Assessment of prospects Viability statement An understanding of the groups strategy and business model is central In accordance with provision C2.2 of the 2014 revision of the UK to assessing its prospects, and details can be found on pages 16 Corporate Governance Code, the directors have assessed the prospects and22.
and viability of the group.
Our business model provides resilience that is relevant to any Although the directors have no reason to believe that the group will consideration of our prospects and viability.
In the UK, we benefit from not be viable over a longer period, the Board has chosen to conduct diversification across a number of markets and products, which has this review for a period of three years to 31 March 2020.
The Board increased as we moved into quad play through the launch of believes this is an appropriate timeframe as it aligns with the groups BT Sport and the acquisition of EE.
We also have a broad spread financial planning processes.
In addition, a number of our principal of customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and risks share a natural three-yearly cycle: for example the BTPS funding market sectors, serving the needs of customers in more than 180 valuation and Ofcoms market review cycle.
In support of this statement we have stress tested our forecast cash Our strategy of delivering great customer experience, transforming flows by assessing, through a probabilistic analysis, the range of our cost base and investing for growth is designed to support potential combined impacts our most significant risks could have on long-term and sustainable cash flow growth.
This assessment was informed by our judgements as to the potential financial impact of these risks if they materialise, We assess our prospects on a regular basis through our financial together with their likelihood of occurrence.
Our three year Medium Term Plan forecasts the groups profitability, cash flows and funding requirements, Our stress testing confirmed that existing projected cash flows and and is reviewed by the Board during the year.
The Medium Term cash management activities provide us with a buffer against the Plan is built from the bottom up forecasts of each of our Lines of impact of our most likely risks.
In the most extreme scenarios we Business, supplemented by items managed at a group level and tested, where all of our principal risks are assumed to materialise assumptions such as macro-economic activity and exchange rates.
over the three-year period, we have considered the further actions The performance of the group and our Lines of Business against these we could take to mitigate the negative cash flow impact and ensure forecasts is monitored monthly and this is supplemented each quarter additional liquidity.
These actions could include, for example, sale through a series of deep-dive Business Unit Reviews performed by the of assets, limiting or delaying discretionary capital expenditure and Operating Committee.
marketing activities, restricting share buyback programmes and reducing or ceasing dividend payments.
Beyond our core three-year planning horizon, the group also makes investments that have business cases covering a longer time period, In our viability assessment we have adopted a number of assumptions such as our network investments.
Significant capital expenditure designed to stress test our resilience.
For example, in making our investment cases are approved by the Design Council, a pan-BT assessments of the impact and likelihood of our risks, we have only investment board and, where appropriate, the Operating Committee taken into account the control activities that we have in place today.
and the Board after taking into account longer-term risks and We have not factored in any of the extensive future mitigation activity opportunities such as the economy, technology and regulation.
that we are undertaking to address these risks, thereby assuming such activity proves ineffective.
Whilst we do not expect this to happen, we Finally, our business and financial planning also takes into account our have adopted these pessimistic assumptions to add greater stress to longer-term obligations, including the funding of our defined benefit our viability testing.
We have also assumed that, should the need arise, we would have both the ability to renew existing debt facilities which mature over the three-year period and be able to raise new debt.
Based on the results of this analysis, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three-year period of their assessment.
54 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 55
