THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Mobile network IT systems platforms Well keep investing in 4G geographic coverage and capability, Our IT systems let us manage our processes, handle customer consolidating the EE networks position as the biggest and fastest information and deliver our products and services.
Theyre critical in the UK.
Specifically we aim to expand 4G to reach 95% of the to serving our customers and running our business.
UKs geography by the end of 2020.
EE customers already enjoy the fastest 4G speeds in the UK, while technology such as LTE Advanced Weve been simplifying the different technologies we use across BT.
Pro gives them much greater capacity.
For example weve been migrating EE people to BT systems so we can all benefit from using a single, consistent set of applications.
We have 120MHz of paired mobile spectrum.
This means were able to offer speeds of up to 360Mbps in areas served by our Progress this year 4G network.
This year weve: introduced systems and processes that mean we can sell BT We have access to over 18,500 basestation sites including those via products to EE customers: and the MBNL joint operation between EE and Hutchison 3G UK.
delivered the technology behind the new BT Call Protect Service page 57.
And weve improved the way we maintain and manage key mobile sites.
By insourcing work and integrating the EE and BT Properties engineering workforce weve achieved real service and productivity improvements.
We have around 7,000 properties in the UK and 1,700 across the rest of the world.
Wi-fi We run one of the worlds biggest wi-fi networks, with around 5.6m We lease the majority of our UK properties from Telereal Trillium, BT Wi-fi hotspots.
part of the William Pears group, as part of a sale and leaseback arrangement we signed with them in 2001.
88% of our UK Progress this year properties are operational sites housing fixed and mobile telecoms This year weve: and broadband equipment.
The rest are retail outlets, offices, upgraded almost 500 mobile basestations to offer up to contact centres, depots and data centres.
We also have our BT Sport 360Mbps.
Weve also switched on our first Gigabit-enabled TV studios in London.
basestations in London, with Cardiff following in April 2017: addressed the growing demand for digital transformation through In the UK, weve been busy rationalising office space, vacating offices the introduction of a cloud-based unified communications service in Belfast, Darlington, Langley, Leeds, Newcastle-under-Lyme and for business customers offering voice, messaging, conferencing the former EE headquarters building in Paddington.
and presence: demonstrated a world-record speed of 2Tbps over a 700km Outside the UK, weve consolidated a number of our key office live network fibre between London and Dublin.
This gives us locations in Amsterdam, Hong Kong, Madrid and Sydney to improve confidence that our core network will be able to cope with the operational efficiency.
growth of data traffic: and demonstrated the first live customer trial in Europe delivering a increased capacity by using three different passive optical network BT property portfolio UK technologies over the same fibre.
6,126 operational sites Service platforms 21 data centres We run a number of service platforms that combine our network and IT resources.
They underpin many of the key products we offer.
268 oces and depots Our BT TV platform supports a growing number of customers and 574 retail outlets were increasing the range of services it delivers.
We support BT Mobile, Plusnet Mobile and EE with our Mobile platform: it also underpins the Emergency Services Network ESN.
Progress this year This year weve: extended our BT Sport app to provide extra features during Premier League and FA Cup matches: added Dolby Atmos surround sound to Ultra HD football matches: and carried over one billion minutes per month on our BT a Excludes leased cell sites, retail concessions within other retailers premises and Conferencing service platform.
30 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017 Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 31
