Lines of business continued Consumer continued TV A good example of innovation in action was our coverage of the BT TV is available exclusively to our broadband customers.
TV content 2016 UEFA Champions League final.
We made this the most social is delivered via a YouView box, which includes content from a number sports broadcast ever by live-streaming the match on BT Sports of third parties, including Netflix.
Our ambition is to provide a YouTube channel and breaking new ground across social media.
selection of pay content at an attractive price.
BT Mobile BT Mobile is available as both SIM-only and a range of service plans BT TV comes in three different packages: with a choice of market-leading handsets.
BT broadband customers get a 5 month discount on BT Mobile service plans.
This year Starter BT Sport we launched BT Family SIM a service plan which lets BT Mobile Over 70 Freeview channels, plus BT Sport channels: AMC: customers purchase two or more SIM cards at a discounted price.
BoxNation and access to BT Store.
This package comes with a YouView box which lets people pause and rewind live TV.
Plusnet entered the quad-play market in November 2016 with the launch of Plusnet Mobile.
Entertainment Plus Includes 110 channels, as well as a YouView box, which lets customers record up to 300 hours of programmes, pause and Performance in the year strategic rewind live TV, and access seven days worth of catch-up TV.
It also includes access to the BT TV app.
Customer experience remains our top priority.
Total Entertainment 1 Offers 141 channels, including 21 in HD.
Also includes additional recording space on the set-top box: BT Sport in 4K Ultra HD and Delivering great customer experience BT Kids TV.
Last year we made an important investment in customer care.
This year weve made real progress in this area.
Even so, we continue to focus on making improvements.
Entertainment Plus and Total Entertainment are only available to BT Infinity broadband customers.
Weve added more than 2,200 additional FTE call centre roles in the UK and Ireland.
Weve also made important gains by making sure YouView TV on Plusnet is available to Plusnets fibre customers.
were easy to deal with, a key part of our Net Promoter Score.
It includes over 70 Freeview channels, plus BT Sport 1, as well as pay-TV channels.
Investing in online support 1.4m customers have the My BT app and can use it to get in touch EE TV provides more than 70 Freeview channels, as well as with us, while the percentage of online contacts that reach us via pay-TV channels.
The EE TV app works seamlessly on up to chat has grown from 6% in 2015 16 to 20% today.
Better systems and tools for our agents BT Sport Were in the process of deploying a new system to our frontline There are four main live BT Sport channels.
agents so they can help customers even more quickly and accurately.
This system is now live for more than 4,500 agents.
The BT Sport channels are available on BT TV, the BT Sport app to BT and EE customers, btsport.
Sky, TalkTalk and Virgin Media New diagnostics to help us detect and resolve faults TV customers can also purchase a BT Sport subscription.
Theres a Diagnostics are still progressing, while on-time repair performance discount on BT Sport for existing broadband customers, and an even improved by six percentage points over the course of the year.
On bigger discount for customers who take broadband and BT TV.
average, our customers now have landline faults fixed 24 hours quicker than last year.
BT Sport 4K UHD is the UKs first Ultra HD TV channel.
It has four times the detail of HD and is available exclusively to BT TV Total Simplifying our organisation Entertainment customers with BT Infinity broadband.
Weve broadened the skillsets of our agents and empowered them to take ownership of customers needs.
BT Sport is the exclusive live broadcaster of the UEFA Champions League and UEFA Europa League in the UK, with the rights secured Even so, work continues in this area until the end of the 2020 21 season.
We also broadcast games Although a lot of progress has been made in the year on customer from the Premier League and the FA Cup.
As well as football, BT experience, the criticism weve received from both the media and the Sport offers coverage of a range of different sports including Aviva regulatory authorities over the year reinforces the need to redouble Premiership Rugby, MotoGP, Cricket Australia, WTA tennis and most our efforts.
One specific issue we need to address is the growing recently, boxing.
This year, we broadcast over 11,000 hours of number of customers contacting us to discuss their monthly package livesport.
The increasing number of contacts offset the progress made in other areas such as fault resolution and providing services on time Innovation is a key part of our strategy at BT Sport.
Over the course and lowered the Right First Time score achieved by Consumer.
of this year, weve run trials broadcasting content using virtual reality.
Weve also launched Dolby Atmos sound on our Ultra HD channel.
Our BT Sport app and Ultra HD channel have won awards for innovation.
58 BT Group plc Annual Report 2017
