Lines of business continued Wholesale and Ventures continued Wholesale Ethernet: presence in BT exchanges Products and services Broadband and Ethernet In December we announced a fiveVirgin We provide CPs with broadband and Ethernet connections between year deal to provide wholesale mobile Mobile their core network and their customers.
Wholesale Broadband network services to Virgin Media, whose Connect can serve 96% of premises with copper-based broadband Virgin Mobile service has more than 3m 2015 16: 95% and more than 26.5m premises with fibre.
This replaces an existing older broadband network brings our total coverage to more than MVNO agreement between EE and 99% of all premises.
Virgin Media and extends its exclusivity to 2021.
Wholesale Ethernet lets customers connect over 99% of business premises at speeds of up to 10Gbps.
Wholesale Optical extends those speeds to 100Gbps.
This year we extended our own fibre-based Machine-to-machine Ethernet to many more exchanges and third-party datacentres.
Machine-to-machine services support the exchange of information between devices.
Companies can securely communicate with their Wholesale Ethernet: present in BT exchanges devices and improve their services features and reliability using our As at 31 March mobile and fixed networks.
Media services 2,000 Our media network connects major locations around the world where broadcast or film content is created or distributed.
1,500 In the UK it carries all of the nations digital terrestrial TV, as well as TV broadcasts from more than 150 sports and news locations.
1,000 Elsewhere, local partners help us link TV stations to major sports venues worldwide.
500 We also offer media services such as cloud-based content playout and media file acceleration.
0 2014 2015 2016 2017 Our Managed Ethernet Access Service MEAS uses Ethernet technology to carry mobile voice and data traffic to and from mobile operators transmission masts.
Voice CPs use our IP Exchange IPX platform to carry their customers voice calls beyond the reach of their own voice network.
IPX is now used by over 170 CPs, including most of the UKs biggest operators.
CPs without their own voice network can use Wholesale Calls, which routes calls for them end to end.
The CP maintains the customer relationship through its own sales, customer service and billing.
Hosted communications Traditionally, businesses have made and received calls over phone lines via a switchboard.
Wholesale SIP-Trunking delivers the calls This year we installed the UKs first over broadband or Ethernet while Wholesale Hosted Centrex moves Premier uncompressed outside broadcast the switchboard capability into BTs network.
Similarly, our Hosted League network for Premier League Contact Centres replace the systems and services needed to handle Productions PLP, a partnership large numbers of inbound or outbound customer calls.
Productions between the Premier League and international sports production Mobile Virtual Network Operator company IMG.
We were named Best Wholesale Operator at MVNO World Congress 2016.
Customers can use their brand, build their own retail We now provide live HD video feeds propositions, sell mobile plans through their channels and own between all 20 Premier League therelationship with the end customer, while we do the rest.
football stadiums and IMGs studios in London.
This means IMG can move its production facilities from the stadium to its studios: while PLP can eliminate the issues associated with distributing compressed video, such as delays and reduced image quality.
