THE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Subscription video on demand SVoD content providers such as Netflix Broadband and Amazon Prime are becoming increasingly popular, although We offer an ADSL broadband service, delivered over copper lines: this is largely as a complement to traditional pay-TV rather than and BT Infinity, our superfast broadband service which uses fibre as a replacement.
to deliver higher speeds and a more reliable service.
Data published by Ofcom found that 75% of SVoD users also had Examples of our broadband services include BT Broadband a subscription to a pay-TV service.
Unlimited, which has speeds of up to 17Mbps, and our premium package, BT Infinity 2 Unlimited, which uses fibre broadband for Mobile speeds of up to 76Mbps.
Where available,  We describe the UK mobile market, including BTs overall position, packages offer download speeds of up to 300Mbps.
in the EE section of this report starting on page 62.
In July 2016 we launched the BT Smart Hub.
Boasting the UKs most powerful wi-fi signal versus major broadband providers, it uses the latest technology to help customers enjoy wi-fi in more places in Products and services the home.
Thats why we sell home phone, broadband, TV and mobile services to our BT Smart Hub customers in a variety of packages.
Home phone We sell a range of home phone products and calling plans which let our customers choose the right service for their particular household needs.
We offer unlimited call packages and add-ons such as discounted international calls and calls to mobiles.
82% of all call minutes are made to UK geographic numbers ie excluding 03, 0845 and 0870 numbers.
Of these, 89% are made without an additional charge as they form part of inclusive calling plans.
Consumer home phone services include: BT Basic discounted line rental and inclusive calls to recipients of certain state benefits.
Were the only company to offer this sort of service in the UK.
This year, we improved our BT Basic package by including more types of calls to the services and adding a cap on spend: BT Call Protect a new, free service, available to all customers, that diverts nuisance calls to a junk voicemail box: and Our broadband packages also include the following products: Home Phone Saver 2020 a telephone-only package offering BT Wi-fi free, unlimited wi-fi access at around 5.6m UK line rental, unlimited calls and calling features.
The price is hotspots: guaranteed until 2020.
BT Cloud secure online and on-the-go access to data and photos: and Plusnet and EE also offer a home phone service with a variety of BT Web Protect a suite of security services which help to keep different calling plans.
our customers and their families safe online.
We offer targeted support to vulnerable customers and work with industry groups, such as Internet Matters, to promote internet safety.
Plusnet broadband is sold in three packages unlimited, with a download speed of up to 17Mbps: and two fibre broadband packages, fibre unlimited, with download speeds of up to 38Mbps, and unlimited fibre extra, with download speeds of up to 76Mbps.
EE broadband offers three similar products.
Annual Report 2017 BT Group plc 57
