Corporate governance report Board of directors 1.
28 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Rachel Kentleton Non-executive Chairman Finance Director Appointed to the board 22 Oct 2009 Appointed 3 January 2017 Appointed as Chairman 8 May 2015 Rachel joined PayPoint in January 2017.
Rachel is a qualified accountant and has held a number of finance and investor Nick retired as Chairman of UK investment banking at relations roles at Unilever, NatWest, Diageo and SABMiller.
He has worked in banking for more than Rachels most recent role immediately prior to joining 20 years, with the majority of this time at Cazenove & PayPoint was as Group Director, Strategy & Implementation Co, where he was a partner prior to incorporation.
Rachel is also a non-executive director of is currently a non-executive director of Primary Health Persimmon plc, where she is chair of the Audit Committee Properties plc.
and a member of the Risk and Nomination Committees.
David Morrison Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed 1 Jun 2015 Appointed 12 Jan 1999 Gill has held senior strategy and marketing positions at David has been Chief Executive of Prospect Investment John Lewis, Kingfisher, MasterCard and KPMG.
Most Management Prospect since 1999, when he started recently she was Group Marketing Director for The Cothe company.
He became a director of PayPoint in 1999 operative Group.
She was a Non-Executive Director of following an investment in the company by clients of Morgan Sindall plc for eight years and now has a portfolio Prospect.
Prior to establishing Prospect, he had worked in of Non-Executive Directorships.
She is a Trustee Director the venture capital sector with 3i, Abingworth Management for Willis Towers Watsons master trust pension fund and Botts & Company.
He is currently a non-executive LifeSight.
She is the Chair of the Customer Challenge Group director of Record plc and several private companies.
for Severn Trent Water plc.
She was recently appointed Advisory Board Member, Wiltshire Farm Foods.
Neil Carson OBE Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed 12 May 2017 Appointed 23 July 2014 Rakesh was appointed to the PayPoint board in May 2017.
Rakesh started his career as an electronic design engineer at Neil worked for 34 years for Johnson Matthey JM, the Marconi in 1983, before moving to Dowty as Chief Engineer FTSE 100 chemical company.
Starting as an engineering in 1989.
He was appointed Marketing Director of that graduate trainee, he worked in each of the divisions in business in 1993, when Ultra Electronics Ultra was formed.
a number of different roles serving global markets.
Rakesh has managed businesses and divisions across the full He joined the board of JM in 1999 as Division Director range of Ultras wide portfolio, with consistent success in of the Autocatalyst division and became the CEO in 2004, driving growth in the Ultra group.
He became Chief Executive standing down in 2014.
Neil was a founder member of of Ultra in 2011, a position which he holds to date.
the Prince of Wales Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change.
Neil is currently Chairman of TT Electronics.
He is also Honorary President of the Society for the Chemical 8.
He was awarded an OBE for services to the Chief Executive Chemical Industry in 2016.
Appointed 4 Aug 1998 Dominic joined PayPoint in 1997 as Retail Director and was 4.
Giles Kerr appointed to his current role in August 1998.
He was a Royal Non-executive director Naval officer for 12 years, following which he completed Appointed 20 Nov 2016 an MBA at the Cranfield School of Management.
In 1991, Dominic joined the Vodafone Group where he led a number Giles was formerly National Partner with Arthur Anderson of initiatives including the development of its SMS service & Co and previously held a number of positions with and a bid for the National Lottery, before becoming Sales and Amersham plc within finance and corporate development, Marketing Director for the indirect sales of mobile phones to culminating in his role as Group Finance Director.
In 1996, Dominic joined Granada plc as a director of is Director of Finance of Oxford University and is a nonGranada Technology Group and Managing Director of Granada executive director of BTG plc, Senior plc and Adaptimune Business Technology, supplying film and telecommunications Therapeutics plc.
products into the hotel and leisure sectors.
Tim Watkin-Rees Business Development Director Appointed 22 Sept 1998 Tim was a founder director of PayPoint in 1996 and has been responsible for group business development throughout the companys history.
He previously worked in retail banking and payments with Lloyds Bank, KPMG Management Consultants and Nexus later Sligos and now Atos.
He is an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 29 Corporate governance report continued Leadership team bios 1.
30 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.
Jon Marchant Chief Executive Chief Information Officer Dominic joined PayPoint in 1997 as Retail Director and was Jon joined PayPoint in early 2011 and is responsible for appointed to his current role in August 1998.
He was a Royal all aspects of IT management and retail operations within Naval officer for 12 years, following which he completed the business.
An experience IT and operations leader an MBA at the Cranfield School of Management.
In 1991, and change specialist, he has worked in several bluechip Dominic joined the Vodafone Group where he led a number financial services and retail organisations during his career of initiatives including the development of its SMS service including Halifax, Co-operative Group, Capital One and and a bid for the National Lottery, before becoming Sales and Scottish Widows.
Marketing Director for the indirect sales of mobile phones to retailers.
In 1996, Dominic joined Granada plc as a director of 6.
Katy Wilde Granada Technology Group and Managing Director of Granada Human Resources Director Business Technology, supplying film and telecommunications Katy joined PayPoint as HR Director in 2012 with responsibility products into the hotel and leisure sectors.
for the development and implementation of our people agenda.
Prior to joining PayPoint Katy worked for RSA 2.
Tim Watkin-Rees Insurance Group where she held a number of senior business Business Development Director partnering roles in the UK and latterly in the Emerging Markets Tim was a founder director of PayPoint in 1996 and has been business where she was responsible for ensuring the delivery responsible for group business development throughout the of the HR agenda across 22 countries in Central and Eastern companys history.
He previously worked in retail banking and Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Latin America.
payments with Lloyds Bank, KPMG Management Consultants Prior to that Katy spent seven years at General Electric where and Nexus later Sligos and now Atos.
He is an Associate of she held HR roles in both their consumer finance and insurance the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
Katy has a degree in International Business and Modern Languages from Aston University and is a Chartered 3.
Rachel Kentleton Member of the CIPD.
Finance Director Rachel joined PayPoint in January 2017.
Lewis Alcraft accountant and has held a number of finance and investor Commercial Director relations roles at Unilever, NatWest, Diageo and SABMiller.
Lewis was appointed to his current role of Commercial Rachels most recent role immediately prior to joining Director in 2015 and leads PayPoints broader commercial PayPoint was as Group Director, Strategy & Implementation agenda, across retail and client partners.
On joining the at easyJet.
Rachel is also a non-executive director of business in 2007, Lewis led PayPoints relationship with Persimmon plc, where she is chair of the Audit Committee BBC TV Licensing, before moving on to various roles and a member of the Risk and Nomination Committees.
including heading PayPoints product and client teams.
Susan Court Prior to PayPoint Lewis was a senior client manager at CPM, a marketing agency within the Omnicom group of companies.
Head of Legal Company Secretary 8.
Mugur Dogariu Susan joined PayPoint in 1999 as sole in-house counsel, Managing Director, PayPoint Romania directly from private practice, and has been responsible for the legal and regulatory aspects of the PayPoint group Mugur has been Managing Director of PayPoint Romania since August 2008 and has overseen impressive growth in throughout her tenure.
the retail network to over 11,000 stores across Romania, as Having been directly involved in the PayPoint IPO in 2004, well as transaction growth from over 1 million in 2008 2009, Susan has been responsible for establishing an in-house to 75 million in 2016 17. legal team and ensuring its full integration into the PayPoint Mugur previously held senior management roles in sales group in order to service rapid growth and change in and marketing for Nestle, Rhone Poulenc, Renania Trade the business while taking account of the ever-evolving and Interbrands Marketing & Distribution.
Mugur holds regulatory payments landscape.
an Executive MBA from ASEBUSS and The Kennesaw State University, as well as a Professional Certificate in Management from the British Open University and a degree from the University of Agronomic Sciences and Veterinary Medicine of Bucharest.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 31 Corporate governance report continued Chairmans statement on governance Dear Shareholder, Neil Carson also notified the board, during the year, of his intention to step down as a director, due to his other I am pleased to present the Corporate Governance report external commitments.
An extensive and rigorous search on behalf of the PayPoint plc board.
This report gives process was initiated to identify a new non-executive insight into the corporate governance workings of the director and the board was unanimous in supporting board as well as details of how the principles of the UK the appointment of Rakesh Sharma on 12 May 2017.
Corporate Governance Code the Code have been applied Rakesh brings valuable experience to the board and his during the year under review.
appointment strengthens the boards composition in terms of relevant experience, knowledge and skills.
Upon Culture and values The board continues to set the right tone from the top his appointment, Rakesh became a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, and he will take by providing entrepreneurial leadership through good governance and accountability for the benefit and over the chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee when Neil steps down.
On behalf of the board, I thank Neil protection of our shareholders, and the sustainable growth of the business as a whole.
One of the key developments in for his service and welcome Rakesh with whom the board looks forward to working closely.
the culture of PayPoint during the year, which was endorsed by the board, was the establishment and implementation As was reported in last years annual report, David Morrison of formal corporate values to underpin operations of the is due to retire from the board at the 2017 annual general day-to-day activities and overall business.
The values meeting, however the board has decided that in view adopted which are: Accountable, Enquiring, Team player, of the recent appointment of a new independent nonCustomer focused, Ambitious and Passionate, reinforce the executive director, there would be no further appointment culture of good governance across the organisation and made to replace David on the board at this time.
However, demonstrate the willingness within PayPoint to work in a the board will continue to keep its composition under positive manner with our clients, retailers, employees and review, and make any directorate changes as it deems other stakeholders.
Further details of the PayPoint values necessary or required.
Taking into consideration the size are on page 26. and the business of the Company, the board determined that it has the appropriate balance of skills, experience, Board changes and succession independence and knowledge to enable the discharge of its As I stated in my Chairmans statement at the beginning responsibilities effectively, and that it will continue to do so of this annual report on page 3, George Earle retired as after the departure of David Morrison.
Finance Director and board member at the end of the financial year under review.
George had served on the board In light of the various changes to the boards composition, for 12 years in which time he made a significant contribution succession planning remained at the forefront of the to the Company in his robust and prudent management boards agenda throughout the year, with the Nomination of its financial affairs.
On behalf of the board, I would like Committee leading the process to ensure that it was formal, to thank George for his personal commitment and service rigorous and transparent, and making recommendations for to PayPoint.
The board was delighted to welcome Rachel board appointments.
Details of succession planning and the Kentleton as successor to George Earle.
Rachel joined process by which the new directors were appointed are set PayPoint and the board on 3 January 2017.
Rachel brings out in the Nomination Committee report on page 40. considerable financial and operational experience together with a wide knowledge of investor relations and strategy.
The board acknowledges that its composition during the year did not comply with the Code in that the independent non-executive directors made up less than half of the board, however, as was detailed in the 2016 annual report, this composition will remain as is to ensure continuity in light of the number of changes to the boards membership, until the retirement of David Morrison at the 2017 annual general meeting, at which time the composition of the board will become compliant with the Code.
32 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Oversight Board committees In February 2017, the board held a strategy session at In this corporate governance section of the annual which the strategic plan of the Company which had been report, the board committees, of Audit, Nomination and approved by the board in 2016 was reviewed to ascertain Remuneration, have reported on their activities for the year that the general direction of the business continued to under review see pages 42, 40 and 46.
These activities be in line with the strategic plan.
Throughout the year the comprise the roles and responsibilities delegated by the board continuously monitored progress in the business and board to each committee, but for which the board retains against strategy with reference to the KPIs which are set overall responsibility.
Some of the key activities undertaken out on page 15. and reported on for each committee include: the Audit Committee - risk management and external audit tender The board devoted sufficient time to consider in depth the see page 42 : Nomination Committee succession planning key activities and transactions that occurred during the and director appointment see page 41 : Remuneration year, including, the launch of the PayPoint One terminal, Committee - consultation with major investors on the the sale of the Mobile payments business and the new directors remuneration policy see page 46. arrangement with respect to Collect.
In each case the board determined that there were strong governance In conclusion, the board remains confident of the strategic processes in place to ensure their proper implementation.
plan and of the governance processes in place to bring about its delivery in order to ensure sustainable growth of Effectiveness the business.
We hope that this Governance Report serves The board conducted an internal evaluation during the its purpose of providing you with insight into the corporate year, the overall conclusion of which was that all the board governance of PayPoint plc.
members were very satisfied with the performance of the board and each of the committees.
The details of Nick Wiles this evaluation process including the suggestions for Chairman improvements therein, are set out on page 38.
25 May 2017 With the constant change in the regulatory environment the board considers it of utmost importance to keep abreast, either through specific training or general briefings, of changes in regulations that would have a significant impact on the organisation.
For instance, the board received targeted training on the new Market Abuse Regulations that came into effect during the year under review.
All directors are given the opportunity of going out on field visits to retailers, in order to give them a broader view of the Groups operations.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 33 Corporate governance report continued A copy of the Code can be found at https: www.
uk Compliance statement Our-Work Codes-Standards Corporate-governance UKThe board considers that throughout the year under review, .
aspx it has complied with the provisions of the September 2014 This report describes how the principles of corporate version of UK Corporate Governance Code the Code as governance in the Code have been applied by the Company.
issued by the Financial Reporting Council, with the exception that for the financial year under review only three of the four Leadership non-executive directors were determined by the board to be independent.
The independent non-executive directors Corporate governance structure 1 were Neil Carson, Gill Barr and Giles Kerr.
David Morrison is The board has in place, a sound corporate governance the non-executive director who was not considered to be structure with clearly defined roles and responsibilities independent.
Therefore throughout the year, less than half as shown in the chart below.
This governance structure of the board were independent non-executive directors, enables the proper implementation of the strategic aims of excluding the Chairman, and the reason for this deviation the Company resulting in the growth of the business, and from Code provision B1.2 is addressed on page 32. ensuring that the interests of the shareholders and wider stakeholders are protected in the process.
The board The board is collectively responsible for the long term success of but still retains overall responsibility and has a schedule of the Company and provides effective leadership by setting the matters reserved for its approval which is contained in the strategic aims of the Company and overseeing the efficient delegated authorities document.
This allows for in depth review implementation of these aims in order to achieve sustainable and insight into applicable matters by the committees before growth of the business.
The current board members are as they report back to the board.
The delegated authorities shown on page 28.
The board delegates certain roles and including the roles and responsibilities of each of the committees responsibilities to board committees and to the Chief Executive can be found at https: www.
com en-gb about investor-relations corporate-governance Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Market disclosure Summary of responsibilities Summary of responsibilities Summary of responsibilities Committee include: include: include: This committee was - Monitoring the statutory - Review structure, size and - Determining the policy established by the board audit of the financial composition of the board for board approval on during the year under review.
statements and financial - Consider succession remuneration of the Its main responsibility is reporting process planning for directors Chairman and executive overseeing the disclosure of - Monitoring the - Identify and nominate directors information by the Company effectiveness of internal candidates to fill board - Exercising discretion on to ensure that it meets its controls and risk vacancies remuneration issues in line obligations under the new management with policy Market Abuse Regulation.
More information can be - Establishing and - Establishing the Its members are the Chief found on pages 40. overseeing the relationship with Executive, the Finance relationships with the remuneration consultants Director and the Company Companys auditors Secretary.
More information can be More information can be found on pages 46. found on pages 42.
Chief Executive The Chief Executive is responsible for running the Groups business and in doing so, he delegates authority to the executive board, to the managing director and finance director of PayPoint Romania and to the managing director and finance director of PayPoint Payment Services Limited.
His roles and responsibilities are set out on page 36.
PayPoint Executive Board PayPoint Payment Romania The executive board is headed by the Chief Executive and Services Limited PPSL PayPoint Romania is headed comprises the Finance Director, Business Development Director, PPSL is the FCA regulated by the managing director Chief Information Officer, Commercial Director, HR Director and entity of the Group which is who together with the Company Secretary Head of Legal.
The executive board is authorised as a payment finance director form the responsible for the day-to-day management of the Groups institution to provide management team of the excluding PayPoint Romania and PayPoint Payment Services regulated payment services business.
They are Limited operations, including: risk management: preparation and including certain CashOut responsible for the presentation of the strategy plan and the annual budget to the services under the Payment day-to-day operation of board: and the implementation of these strategic plans and other Service Regulations 2009.
The decisions as approved by the board.
The board oversees the The managing director of managing director reports activities of the executive board PPSL reports to the Chief to the Chief Executive.
Neil Carson will be stepping down from the board on 26 May 2017 and Rakesh Sharma was appointed as an independent non-executive director on 12 May 2017.
34 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Meetings were to consider and approve the appointment of Rachel The board and its committees meet regularly throughout Kentleton to the board, and the sale of the Mobile business the year with meetings scheduled: around key dates in as well as the new arrangements with respect to Collect, the Companys corporate calendar, and to consider key respectively.
The table below shows directors attendance corporate transactions or events that may arise.
There of board and committee meetings.
Where a director is were ten scheduled meetings during the year under unable to attend a particular meeting, he or she receives review, six of which were full board meetings and four were and reads the papers for consideration at that meeting, held by telephone conference.
Of the meetings held by and provides input through discussion with the Chairman telephone conference, two were to consider and approve of the board or the chairman of the relevant committee, the interim management statements, while the other two in advance of the meeting.
Membership Directors meeting of committees Board Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee attendance 2016 17 Maximum Maximum Maximum Maximum Meetings possible to Meetings possible to Meetings possible to Meetings possible to attended attend attended attend attended attend attended attend Non-Executive Directors Gill Barr 10 10 6 6 4 4 7 7 Neil Carson 10 10 6 6 4 4 7 7 2 Giles Kerr 9 10 6 6 4 4 7 7 2 David Morrison 8 10 5 5 4 4 6 6 Nick Wiles 10 10 6 6 4 4 7 7 Executive Directors 3 George Earle 8 9 5 5 - - 2 2 4 Rachel Kentleton 3 3 2 2 - - - - Dominic Taylor 10 10 6 6 4 4 7 7 Tim Watkin-Rees 10 10 6 6 - - 2 2 By Invitation.
The executive directors are not members of any of the board committees and they attended only the committee meetings to which they were specifically invited.
David Morrison is not a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and he only attended meetings of these committees to which he was specifically invited.
Rakesh Sharma joined the board on 12 May 2017 therefore he was not eligible to attend any of the meetings for the financial year under review.
Giles Kerr was unable to attend one board meeting at which the third quarter interim management statement was considered while David Morrison was unable to attend one full board meeting and one board meeting at which Rachel Kentletons appointment to the board was considered.
George Earle stepped down from the board on 31 March 2017.
He was unable to attend the last full board meeting held for the financial year and he did not attend the board meeting at which the appointment of his successor was considered and approved.
Rachel Kentleton joined the board on 03 January 2017 and attended all board meetings held after her appointment.
The Chairman sets the agenda for board meetings and Group health and safety report which covered any health he ensures that informed decisions are reached in an and safety incidents that may have occurred and the effective manner by facilitating open discussion and debate actions taken in that respect, including any updates on of agenda items by board members.
management and external advisers are held as necessary to aid the boards decision making process.
The work Other matters which were covered as a matter of undertaken by the board during the year is set out in the routine during the year included: tables below: Strategy - during the year the board agreed that in The agenda for each full board meeting included order to ensure strategic issues are fully and properly the following as standing items: addressed, there would be bi-annual strategy sessions one in February which would be a one-day strategy Consideration for approval of the previously held board update session, and a two-day strategy session in meeting minutes.
September at which the board will consider the strategic Board committee reports on the committee meetings plan whether existing or proposed in depth.
Accordingly, which were usually held prior to the board meetings, and for the year under review, the board held a strategy included all matters which had been delegated to the update session in February where the executive board committees and which required board approval.
gave updates on the implementation of the strategy key among which included: A management report prepared and presented by the Chief Executive which covered group operations.
Over the - r enegotiation of the Collect arrangement with Yodel: course of the year, this included updates and reports on: - s ale of the Mobile payments business to VW Financial - t he proposed sale of the Mobile payments business: Services: - t he discussions around the new joint venture - d evelopment and deployment of PayPoint One arrangements for Collect : and EPoS: - v arious ongoing projects within the business: - b ill payments and MultiPay: - a d evelopment programme for the executive board: and - r etailer relations: and - o ther operational matters for the boards consideration.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 35 Audit Nomination Remuneration Corporate governance report continued Chairman Review of annual report and preliminary results.
Nick Wiles is the Chairman and he is responsible for the Review of executive directors presentation of the full effective running of the board and for ensuring that the year results to analysts and investors.
board as a whole plays a full and constructive part in the development and determination of the Groups strategy Bi-annual review and approval of the interim management and overall commercial objectives.
His other main statements for release to the market.
responsibilities include: Review of the directors conflicts of interest register.
Setting the boards agenda and ensuring the board Review and approval of interim dividend and receives accurate, timely and clear information on recommendation of final dividend.
all matters reserved to its decision and the Groups Review of management accounts and business performance and operations.
Ensuring, with the advice of the Company Secretary Board evaluation see page 38. where appropriate, compliance with the boards approved procedures.
Review of delegated authorities and recommended committees terms of reference.
Arranging informal meetings of the directors, including meetings of the non-executive directors at which the Consideration and approval of the recommended terms executive directors are not present, as required to ensure for renewal of Company insurance.
that sufficient time and consideration is given to complex, Consideration and approval of the budget for the contentious or sensitive issues.
Chairing the Nomination Committee, and, in that role, initiating change and succession planning in board Other important topics covered by the board during the appointments to retain and build an effective and year included: complementary board, and to facilitate the appointment Review of the capital allocation programme to return of effective and suitable members and chairmen of board 125 million of surplus cash to shareholders over five committees.
years to 2021, in addition to the ordinary dividends paid Ensuring that there is effective communication by the by the Company.
Group with its shareholders, including by the Chief Approval of the Companys statement on slavery and Executive and Finance Director, and ensuring that human trafficking.
members of the board develop an understanding of the views of the major investors in the Group.
Approval of a new securities dealing policy and code in accordance with the Market Abuse Regulations.
Promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance throughout the Group and Consideration of the legal issues surrounding Brexit and particularly at board level.
the effect of such issues on PayPoint.
Chief Executive Consideration of the proposals for use of market leading Dominic Taylor is the Chief Executive and he is responsible CRM and ERP solutions to improve customer service for running the Groups business by proposing and capabilities and operational efficiency within PayPoint.
developing the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives, which he does in close consultation with the In addition to the pre-scheduled board meetings, there Chairman and the board.
He heads the executive board the were two additional board meetings held during the responsibilities of which are set out on page 34.
His other year at which the following key events were tabled: main responsibilities include: Consideration and approval of the recommendation to appoint Rachel Kentleton to the board.
Providing input to the boards agenda and ensuring that the executive board gives appropriate priority to Consideration and approval of the agreements for providing reports to the board which contain accurate, the sale of the Mobile payments business and the retimely and clear information.
structure of the Collect joint venture arrangement.
Ensuring, in consultation with the Chairman and the Company Secretary as appropriate, that he and the Division of roles and responsibilities executive board comply with the boards approved procedures.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the board and for ensuring the effectiveness in all aspects of Ensuring that the Chairman is alerted to forthcoming the boards role.
The Chairman chairs board meetings and complex, contentious or sensitive issues affecting the regularly consults with the executive directors regarding Group of which he might not otherwise be aware.
His other significant commitments Providing information and advice on succession planning, are disclosed in his biography on page 29.
The board to the Chairman, the Nomination Committee, and other considers that these commitments do not hinder his ability members of the board, in respect of the executive board.
to discharge his responsibilities to the Company and its subsidiaries.
Leading the communication programme with shareholders.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Senior Independent Promoting, and conducting the affairs of the Group with the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate Director which has been agreed by the board as follows: governance.
36 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Senior Independent Director During the financial year, Rachel Kentleton joined the 1 Neil Carson is the senior independent director and he board on 3 January 2017 and George Earle retired from is responsible for supporting the Chairman in his role by the board on 31 March 2017.
Further information on working with the Chairman and other directors to resolve directors appointment and resignation can be found any issues that may arise.
His other main responsibilities are: in the Nomination Committee report on page 40.
The board determined that Gill Barr, Neil Carson, Giles Kerr and Chairing the Nomination Committee when it is Rakesh Sharma are independent for the purposes of the Code.
considering succession to the role of Chairman of the board.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the nonexecutive directors and the executive directors service Meeting with the non-executive directors at least once contracts are available for inspection at the Companys a year to appraise the Chairmans performance and on registered office during normal business hours and will be such other occasions as are deemed appropriate.
available at the annual general meeting.
Being available to Shareholders if they have concerns The directors have disclosed all their significant external which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, commitments which the board has considered and is satisfied Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve that all the directors are able to allocate sufficient time to the or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Having sufficient contact with major Shareholders and Training and support financial analysts to obtain a balanced understanding of All directors receive full, formal and tailored induction the issues and concerns of such shareholders.
Following Rachel Kentletons Non-executive directors appointment to the board during the year, she underwent All the non-executive directors bring considerable knowledge a comprehensive induction programme which spanned the and experience to board deliberations.
Non-executive four-week period after her appointment, and which included directors do not participate in any of the Companys the following: share schemes or bonus schemes and their service is nonWeek 1 pensionable.
The balance and independence of the board is kept under review by the Nomination Committee.
Receiving a corporate governance pack containing: the corporate and organisational structure of PayPoint, During the year, the Chairman held meetings with the delegation of authorities and terms of reference, relevant non-executive directors without the executives present.
policies and procedures, and access to previous board These meetings were held immediately following a full minutes, and attending the standard Company induction board meeting.
There were no unresolved concerns about which is given to all new employees.
the running of the Company.
Holding a series of meetings to gain a deep understanding and knowledge of PayPoint with her direct reports in the finance team, the executive directors, the HR Director and Effectiveness the Product Director.
Composition Deep-dive sessions with members of the finance The board is comprised of an appropriate balance of skills, team looking into various areas which included among experience, independence and knowledge, which enables others planning, forecasting, financial systems, risk and it to discharge its responsibilities effectively.
The directors compliance, and transaction processing.
have a range of backgrounds including retail, payments services, banking, investment management, sales and Introductory meetings with brokers, analysts, bankers and the audit partner.
marketing, and finance, and possess a wealth of experience which attunes them to the industry in which PayPoint Week 2 operates.
This balance of skill and independence creates an environment that encourages the effective challenge Meetings with the Company Secretary Head of Legal and development of the strategic aims of the Company.
and the Commercial Director and Marketing Director for At the end of the year under review, there were eight overviews of these functions and the areas they cover.
directors on the board: Nick Wiles, the non-executive Chairman, three executive directors: Dominic Taylor, Holding deep-dive sessions with the Chief Information Officer, and the Product Managers on products including Rachel Kentleton and Tim Watkin-Rees, and four nonexecutive directors: Gill Barr, Neil Carson, who is also the technical products and services such as EPoS, Cards, ATMs, MultiPay, PayPoint One, Parcels etc.
senior independent director, Giles Kerr and David Morrison.
Subsequent to the year end it is Neil Carsons intention Holding a manager induction session with the HR to step down from the board and in view of this, Rakesh Director.
Sharma has been appointed as an independent nonexecutive director.
The biographies of each of the directors can be found on page 29.
Giles Kerr will become the Senior Independent Director when Neil Carson steps down from the board.
PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 37 Corporate governance report continued Week 3 Evaluation Visiting the Collect office.
Actions from 2015 16 Steps taken evaluation Attending the product and commercial strategy day.
More regular nonThe non-executive Full day out in the field with a Territory Development executive director only directors and the Chairman Manager visiting retail stores.
meetings to consider have met regularly and give feedback to the during the year, typically Week 4 executive directors on such meetings are held Visit to PayPoint offices in Romania which comprised: management performance immediately following a board meeting without the Series of meetings with the staff.
presence of the executive directors.
These meetings A full day out with the Managing Director visiting retail stores.
have aided more in-depth consideration of executive Directors are provided with clear and accurate information director and management pertaining to matters to be considered at the board and performance and in turn its committee meetings.
This information is provided in a resulted in constructive timely manner to ensure an appropriate level of review by feedback.
each director ahead of the meetings.
In the months where Increased interaction There have been more there are no scheduled board meetings the directors between the executive avenues for interaction receive management accounts and reports on the status directors and the nonbetween the non-executive of the business.
In addition to board meetings, directors executive directors directors and the executive have dinners during the year at which relevant items are to ensure the latter directors including other identified beforehand and discussed in detail.
have a more in-depth members of the executive During the course of the year, the board is briefed on any understanding of the board.
For instance significant changes in the law, regulations, governance Groups business executive board members codes or developments within PayPoint which affect their are invited to attend board roles both on the board and on board committees.
Experts dinners and they prepare and advisers are brought in as necessary to present to and present at the board the board on technical subject matters.
For instance, the strategy sessions.
board received tailored and comprehensive training from During the year the board once again undertook an internal external legal advisers, on the Market Abuse Regulations and the obligations thereunder, including the requisite evaluation the purpose of which was to evaluate its and its committees performance and processes, as well as processes to ensure compliance with the regulations.
The Company Secretary also provides updates to the board on individual director performance, by identifying areas which the board and committees perform well, and any areas governance matters as and when it is pertinent to do so.
As was done in the previous year, there The directors have access to the Company Secretary were two parts to the evaluation process which was led as well as members of the executive board and senior by the Senior Independent Director.
The first part was management, and they can also seek independent the completion of a comprehensive questionnaire by each professional advice if this is deemed necessary for the of the directors, while the second part of the evaluation proper performance of their duties.
process, following the completion of the questionnaire, was one-to-one meetings between each director and the Senior Independent Director.
At these meetings the feedback given by the directors in the questionnaire was discussed and the directors had the opportunity to put forward any actions for improvement, both at individual and board levels as they thought fit.
The Senior Independent Director then presented the results of the evaluation at a board meeting.
The following is a summary of the key outcomes and suggested actions for improvement from the internal evaluation: Outcomes: General expression of satisfaction with the process by which the board reached agreement on the strategy.
This showed that the board worked effectively together.
The size of the board including the skill and experience therein were deemed satisfactory for the size of the business.
The relationship between the Chairman and the Chief Executive was working well and had the right level of challenge, support and encouragement.
38 PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Actions: Remuneration Proposed non-executive directors only dinner with the Details of how the principles of the Code have been applied Chairman as an opportunity for increased interaction in respect of directors remuneration are set out in the between these directors.
Remuneration Committee report on pages 46 to 63.
Increased oversight of the performance of members of Shareholder relations the executive board to ensure that they are equipped to deliver on the strategic plan.
The directors consider that the annual report and accounts Re-election play an important role in providing shareholders with an In accordance with the provisions of the Code all directors evaluation of the Companys position and prospects.
submit themselves for election or re-election at each annual The board aims to achieve clear reporting of financial general meeting.
The boards recommendations in respect performance to all shareholders.
The board acknowledges of the election or re-election of each director can be found the importance of an open dialogue with its institutional in the notice of meeting on pages 95 to 99. shareholders and welcomes correspondence from private investors.
The Senior Independent Director is available to Insurance address any unresolved shareholder concerns.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against the directors.
In addition to information in the annual report and on the PayPoint website, the annual general meeting is an ideal Conflicts of interest forum for interaction between the board and investors, Under the articles of association, the board has authority which is strongly encouraged.
to approve any conflicts or potential conflicts of interest that are declared by individual directors: conditions may be During the year under review the chairman wrote to major attached to such approvals and directors will generally not shareholders offering to meet with them following the be entitled to participate in discussions or vote on matters release of the preliminary results in May 2016.
This offer in which they have or may have a conflict of interest.
was very well received by the shareholders contacted and resulted in subsequent engagement with the Chairman.
A register of conflicts is maintained and is reviewed at least annually to ensure all details are kept up-to-date.
Major shareholders were also consulted on the proposed Authorisation is sought prior to the appointment of any new adjustments to the directors remuneration policy.
Their director or if any new conflicts arise.
No material conflicts were feedback was taken into account and considered responses reported by the directors in the financial year under review.
provided to the questions they raised.
The executive directors have an ongoing programme of Accountability meetings with institutional investors and analysts twice a Financial and business reporting year for two weeks at a time.
During the year the meetings Please refer to the following pages of this annual report for took place in May June and November and were held in the information on how the board has carried out the financial and UK in: London, Edinburgh and Oxford: and the USA in: New business reporting obligations as stipulated under the Code: York, Chicago and Boston, in addition to meetings at the Companys premises.
The discussions at these meetings Page 67 for the boards responsibility statement setting covered a wide range of issues which had previously been out the steps taken to present a fair, balanced and made public including strategy, performance, management understandable assessment of the Companys position and governance.
The Company held briefings with institutional fund Pages 3 to 27 for the strategy and business model which managers, analysts and other investors following the explains how the Company generates and preserves value announcement of half yearly results and feedback from over the longer term and the strategy these were reported on to the board.
for delivering the objectives of the Company.
Committees of the board Page 66 for the statement that the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Market Risk management and internal control Disclosure Committees are the formally constituted The board has overall responsibility for establishing and committees of the board which deal with specific aspects maintaining sound risk management and internal control of the Groups affairs in accordance with the duties and systems, and for monitoring of these systems to ensure responsibilities formally delegated to them by the board.
that they are effective and fit for purpose.
The Audit The terms of reference for each of the committees are Committee provides support to the board in this regard available on the Companys website at www.
and oversees the monitoring process.
Further information Details of the Market Disclosure Committee are on page 34 on the risk management and internal control system is set and the reports on the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration out in the Audit Committee report on page 44.
Committees are set out on pages 40 to 63.
The board has carried out a robust assessment of the nature and extent of principal risks facing the Group and how these risks could affect the business, financial condition or operations of the Group.
The explanation of these principal risks including how they are being mitigated can be found on pages 20 to 22, and a statement on how the directors have assessed the prospects of the Group taking into account the current position and principal risks and uncertainties is on page 22.
