120 Other disclosures Directors report The Directors present their report and Insurance and indemnities All our training, promotion and career the audited Group financial statements, development processes are in place for The Company maintains Directors and for the year ended 31 March 2017. all our employees to access, regardless Officers liability insurance in respect of The performance review of the Company of their gender, race, age or disability.
legal action that might be brought against can be found within the Strategic report The provision of occupational health its Directors and Officers.
As permitted on the inside cover through to page 69. programmes is of crucial importance to by the Companys Articles of Association This provides detailed information relating Severn Trent with the aim of keeping our the Articles, and to the extent permitted to the Group, its business models and employees fit, healthy and well, including by law, the Company indemnifies each strategy, the operation of its businesses, an employee assistance programme.
of its Directors and other Officers of the future developments and the results Group against certain liabilities that may Employee engagement and financial position for the year ended be incurred as a result of their positions 31 March 2017.
The governance section set We continuously engage with our with the Group.
The indemnity was in force out on pages 70 to 124 is incorporated by employees in a number of ways to throughout the tenure of each Director reference into this report and, accordingly, accommodate different working during the last financial year, and is should be read as part of this report.
This includes: currently in force.
Details of the Groups policy on addressing all people briefings, Team Talk: Severn Trent Plc does not have in place the principal risks and uncertainties any indemnities for the benefit of the corporate communications events and facing the Group are set out in the risk External Auditor.
roadshows held by functions across management section on pages 47 to 55. the Company: Employees a dedicated intranet, Streamline: Principal activity The average number of employees within online news portal and weekly roundup, The principal activity of the Group is to the Group is shown in note 10 to the Pipeline News: treat and provide water and remove waste financial statements on page 146. water in the UK and internationally.
an active employee social media Severn Trent Plc believes a diverse and presence, Yammer: Details of the principal joint ventures, inclusive workforce is a key factor in conference calls and email: associated and subsidiary undertakings being a successful business.
Through our of the Group as at 31 March 2017 leadership engagement channels Diversity and Equal Opportunities Policy, are shown in note 20 and 48 to the Chief Executives weekly blog, the Company seeks to ensure that every financial statements on pages 153 and senior management monthly visibility employee, without exception, is treated 182 respectively.
programme and quarterly events: equally and fairly and that all employees are aware of their responsibilities.
employee forum: and Areas of operation This means more than ensuring we dont regular meetings with Unions.
During the course of 2016 17, the Group discriminate in any way we want to had activities and operations in the Details of the financial and economic create and maintain a culture open to a United Kingdom, Ireland, Italy and the factors affecting the performance of the diverse population.
Company are shared with all employees We are an equal opportunities employer at the appropriate time using the methods and welcome applications from all Directors and their interests listed above.
individuals, including those with a Biographies of the Directors currently We provide opportunities for employees disability.
We are fully committed serving on the Board are set out on pages to give their feedback to the Company to supporting applications made by 72 and 73. in a number of ways, from team or disabled persons, and make reasonable shift meetings and annual employee All of the Directors will be offering adjustments to their environment where satisfaction surveys.
themselves for appointment or possible having regard to their particular reappointment at the Annual General aptitudes and abilities.
We are also The Company is keen to encourage Meeting AGM, as set out in the responsive to the needs of our employees.
greater employee involvement in the governance report on page 78.
As such, should any employee become Groups performance through share disabled during their time with us, we ownership.
To help align employees Details of Directors service contracts are will actively re-train that employee and interests with the success of the set out in the Directors Remuneration make reasonable adjustments to their Companys performance, we operate Report on page 118.
The interests of the environment where possible, in order to an HMRC approved all-employee plan, Directors in the shares of the Company keep them in employment with us.
the Severn Trent Sharesave Scheme are shown on page 112 of that report.
Sharesave, which is offered to UK The Board has a documented process in employees on an annual basis.
place in respect of conflicts.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 121 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other disclosures Other information Over 70% of Severn Trents UK employees Dividend Policy With regard to the appointment and participate in one or more of our schemes, replacement of Directors, the Company We have enhanced our Dividend Policy with the average participant contributing is governed by its Articles, the Code, for the period 2015-2020, with effect from 265 each month.
the Companies Act 2006 and related 2017 18, and will now increase the dividend legislation.
The Articles may be amended by growth of at least RPI 4% each year.
During the year, the Company has by Special Resolution of the shareholders.
This replaced the previous Dividend Policy remained within its headroom limits for The powers of Directors are described in of annual growth of the dividend at no less the issue of new shares for share plans as the Severn Trent Plc Board Governance than RPI until March 2020. set out in the rules of the above plan.
document which can be found on our The Dividend Policy reflects our strong website, the Articles and the Governance Research and development operational delivery and financial report on pages 70 and 124.
Innovative use of existing and emerging performance, while ensuring that our Under the Articles, the Directors have technologies will continue to be crucial bills are affordable for all our customers.
authority to allot Ordinary Shares, subject to the successful development of new When determining the policy the Board to the aggregate nominal amount limit set products and processes for the Group considered various scenarios and at the 2016 AGM.
and our products must continue to deliver sensitivities, and reviewed the impact of value for customers.
adverse changes in inflation and interest Change of control rates on key metrics.
The Board believes Expenditure on research and development There are a number of agreements that that the Dividend Policy is commensurate is set out in note 8 to the financial take effect after, or terminate upon, with a sustainable investment grade statements on page 145. a change of control of the Company, credit rating.
such as commercial contracts, bank Internal controls Capital structure loan agreements, property lease Further details of our internal control arrangements and employee share Details of the Companys issued share framework can be found in the Audit plans.
None of these are considered to be capital and of the movements during Committee report on page 88. significant in terms of their likely impact the year are shown in note 31 to the on the business of the Group as a whole.
Company financial statements on page Treasury management There are no agreements between the 163.
The Company has one class of The disclosures required under the Company and its Directors or employees Ordinary Shares which carries no right European Union EU Fair Value that provide for compensation for loss to fixed income.
Each share carries the Directive in relation to the use of financial of office or employment because of a right to one vote at General Meetings of instruments by the Company are set out takeover bid.
The issued nominal value in note 36 to the financial statements on of the Ordinary Shares is 100% of the total pages 166 to 171.
Further details on our issued nominal value of all share capital.
Treasury Policy and management are set out in the Chief Financial Officers review There are no specific restrictions on the on page 45. size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the Post balance sheet events general provisions of the Articles and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are Details of post balance sheet events are not aware of any agreements between set out in note 46 to the Group financial holders of the Companys shares that may statements on page 181. result in restrictions on the transfer of Dividends securities or on voting rights.
An interim dividend of 32.60 pence per Details of employee share schemes Ordinary Share was paid on 6 January are set out in note 38 to the financial 2017.
The Directors recommend a final statements on pages 173 to 175. dividend of 48.90 pence per Ordinary For shares held by the Severn Trent Share to be paid on 21 July 2017 to Employee Share Ownership Trust, the shareholders on the register on 16 June Trustee abstains from voting.
This would bring the total dividend No person has any special rights of control for 2016 17 to 81.50 pence per Ordinary over the Companys share capital and all Share 2015 16: 80.66 pence.
The payment issued shares are fully paid.
of the final dividend is subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 122 Other disclosures Directors report continued Substantial shareholdings Contributions for political and At the 2016 AGM, shareholders gave the Company authority to make political charitablepurposes As at 31 March 2017, the Company had donations or to incur political expenditure been notified in accordance with Chapter 5 Donations to charitable organisations in the EU which would not ordinarily be of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules during the year amounted to 312,588 regarded as political donations up to an of the following major shareholdings: 2016: 86,864.
Donations are given to aggregate annual limit of 150,000 for the charities whose projects align closely Percentage of Company and its subsidiaries.
of Ordinary voting rights and with our aim to promote the responsible Shares of issued share those authorities, during the year ended 17 use of water resources and waste water Name of holder 97 p each capital 19 31 March 2017 the Group incurred costs services which provide the opportunity for Blackrock Inc 14,983,517 6.36% of nil 2016: nil.
Those authorities will longer term partnerships.
In addition, we Legal & expire at the 2017 AGM and, in line with provide donations to employee nominated General market practice to renew the authorities charities through a matched funding Group Plc 8,357,689 3.55% on an annual basis, the Board has decided scheme and health and safety reward to put forward a resolution to this years schemes.
We are also committed to As at 22 May 2017, the Company had been AGM to renew the authorities to make supporting WaterAid, the UKs only major notified of the following holdings of voting donations to political organisations and charity dedicated to improving access to rights in the Ordinary Share capital of to incur political expenditure up to a safe water, hygiene and sanitation in the the Company: Blackrock Inc 16,102,542 maximum aggregate of 150,000 p. a. worlds poorest countries.
6.82% : Legal & General Group Plc As permitted under the Companies Act 8,453,879 3.58%.
Severn Trents policy is not to make 2006, this resolution also covers any any donations for political purposes The percentage of voting rights detailed political donations made or political in the UK, or to donate to EU political above was calculated at the time of the expenditure incurred by any subsidiaries parties or incur EU political expenditure.
relevant disclosures made in accordance of the Company.
Accordingly neither Severn Trent Plc with Rule 5 of the Disclosure and nor its subsidiaries made any political Supplier payment policy Transparency Rules.
donations or incurred political expenditure Individual operating companies within the in the financial year under review.
Authority to purchase shares Group are responsible for establishing The Company was given authority at its Under the provisions of the Political appropriate policies with regard to AGM in 2016 to make market purchases Parties Elections and Referendums Act the payment of their suppliers, in of Ordinary Shares up to a maximum 2000 the relevant provisions of which are accordance with the Prompt Payment number of 23,554,028 Ordinary Shares.
now contained in Part 14 of the Companies Code PPC.
The companies agree During the year, no Ordinary Shares have Act 2006, shareholder authority is terms and conditions under which been repurchased.
required for political donations to be made business transactions with suppliers or political expenditure to be incurred by are conducted.
It is Group policy that Authority will again be sought from the Company or any of its subsidiaries provided a supplier is complying with the shareholders at this years AGM to in the EU and disclosure of any such relevant terms and conditions, including purchase up to a maximum of 23,603,888 payment must be made in the Annual the prompt and complete submission of Ordinary Shares.
The legislation all specified documentation, payment The Directors believe that it is desirable gives a wide definition of what constitutes will be made in accordance with agreed to have the general authority to buy political donations and political terms.
It is also Group policy to ensure back the Companys Ordinary Shares in expenditure including sponsorship, that suppliers know the terms on which order to provide maximum flexibility in subscriptions, payment of expenses, payment will take place when business the management of the Groups capital paid leave for employees fulfilling is agreed.
However, the Directors public duties and support for bodies would only make such purchases if the representing the business community Board was satisfied at the time that in policy review or reform.
The Company to do so would be in the best interests has therefore obtained limited authority of shareholders generally taking into from shareholders as a precautionary account, for example, the financial measure to allow the Company to resources of the Company, the Companys continue supporting the community and share price, future funding opportunities such organisations without inadvertently and the impact on the Companys earnings breaching the legislation.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 123 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other disclosures Other information Relevant audit information Greenhouse gas emissions The Directors confirm that: The disclosures required by law relating to the Groups greenhouse gas so far as each of them is aware, there is emissions are included in the Corporate no relevant audit information of which Responsibility report on page 66. the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each of them has taken all the steps Accounts of Severn Trent Water Limited that he she ought to have taken as a and Dee Valley Water plc Director to make himself herself aware Separate Annual Performance Reports of any relevant audit information and to for each of Severn Trent Water Limited establish that the Companys Auditor is and Dee Valley Water plc are prepared and aware of that information.
Copies will be available This confirmation is given and should on our website or on request to the be interpreted in accordance with the Company Secretary.
There is no charge provisions of section 418 of the Companies for these publications.
Annual General Meeting External Auditor The AGM of the Company will be held at Having carried out a review of their the Ricoh Arena, Phoenix Way, Coventry, effectiveness during the year, details CV6 6GE at 11am on Wednesday 19 July of which can be found in the Audit 2017.
The notice convening the meeting, Committee report on page 88, the Audit together with details of the business to Committee has recommended to the be considered and explanatory notes for Board the reappointment of Deloitte LLP.
each resolution, is distributed separately The reappointment and a resolution to that to shareholders.
It is also available on effect will be on the agenda at the AGM.
Deloitte LLP indicated their willingness to By order of the Board continue as Auditor.
The Audit Committee will also be responsible for determining Bronagh Kennedy the audit fee on behalf of the Board.
Group General Counsel and Disclosures required under Listing Rule Company Secretary 9.8.
4R 22 May 2017 The information required to be disclosed by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R can be located in the following pages of this Annual Report and Accounts: Section Information to be included Location 1 A statement of the Page 147 amount of interest capitalised 4 Details of long term Page 109 incentive schemes 8 Section 7 in relation Pages 182 to subsidiary and 183 undertakings 2, 5, Not 6, 7, applicable 9 14 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
