Operational review Marine and Technology Market overview The Marine and Technology divisions How to read this report core UK naval market has remained From 1 April 2017 we formally report the Group in four new sectors to reflect positive over the past year following how we manage the business.
The 2017 Strategic reportaims to communicate the2015 SDSR.
the Group today, while the operation reviews report thefinancial and The UK MOD Equipment Plan 2016 operational progress in the previous divisional format during the last financial confirmed the Governments intention year.
A reconciliation of the divisions to sectors, and more information can be to spend 178 billion on equipment and found on pages 615, outlooks for thesectors can be found on pages 2425. support over the decade, 67.2 billion of which will be spent on the support 2017 Performance highlights of existing inservice equipment.
2017 2016 This represents a 2% increase on the m m previous years plan.
The MOD continues Revenue Total including jvs 1,805.6 1,695.9 to seek opportunities to outsource Joint ventures 27.8 21.6 support capabilities in order to meet Operating profit Total including jvs 218.1 198.9 efficiency targets, reduce support costs Joint ventures 6.9 3.0 and improve operational capability.
Operating margin Total including jvs 12.1% 11.7% 19 billion is programmed for surface Joint ventures 24.8% 13.9% ship procurement and support to 2026, which includes the completion of the QEC aircraft carriers, the design and Revenue % of Group Key highlights development of the Type 26 Frigate which will ultimately replace the Type Completed the first of13 T23 23class and the possible development of LIFEX packages.
Three further a general purpose Light Frigate Type 31.
T23s have now entered their LIFEX programmes The MOD continues to drive efficiency, performance and sustainability Secured an order for 22 assemblies for the USUKmissilelaunch improvements through the Submarine Enterprise Performance Programme tube programme 35% where we continue to play a leading Submarine Dismantling Project role alongside our Tier 1 partners BAE began dismantling the first nuclear Systems and RollsRoyce.
Over the next submarine in Rosyth decade 44 billion is programmed for HMS Vanguard completedall initial procurement and support of the UKs major milestones submarine capability, including the design Won eight further Maritime and build of the Dreadnought Class which Equipment Management contracts will begin to replace the Vanguard Class Secured a contract to provide submarines by the late 2020s.
3D production design of a US We continue to engage with the UK Operating margin Coastguard OPV Single Source Regulations Office as its Won a Siemens contract for thinking matures.
The vast majority of our KPI twowind farmmodules sole source activities are contracted until 12.1% Formed JV with Oman Drydock 2020 under the MSDF, and 2025 under Company to support international the Terms of Business Agreement, and naviesin Duqm, Oman we anticipate that the complexity and Revenue growth Completed the third OPVfor the value inherent in the majority of services Irish Naval Service, began work on we provide would continue to generate a fourth commensurate returns within the sole KPI source environment.
Entered agreementto provide 6.5% longterm throughlifesupport 2016 17 continued to be a challenging services forANZAC Class ships period for the offshore energy markets but the North Sea decommissioning market is expected to grow in future Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 38 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 years.
In Liquid Petroleum Gas LPG, our market returned to baseline levels iFrigates Using innovation to enhance throughlife support delivery in 2016 17 following rapid fleet build Babcock Analytical Services is developing the concept of iFrigatesthrough in the previous four years.
The project uses data from ship and shore systems to translate Liquid Natural Gas LNG carrier market into precise support decisions and provide a bespoke understanding of demand is strong and forecast to increase throughlife support.
The project utilises innovative support technology air and as the market for cleaner fuel grows.
underwater drones, data from ship systems.
The complex realtime data capture In Canada, the Government remains is then analysed and shared with crew and shore support.
Data is visualised supportive of defence, and we expect in a configurable suite of mobile apps which then supports risk prediction no material impact on our business from availability, live demand and supplychain management, engineering solution the Defence Review currently underway.
support, dynamic surveys and increased safety.
In 2016, the Australian Government Benefits include improved delivery and reliability of physical assets, financial issued a Defence White Paper which savings and fostering of innovation.
Furthermore, the systems and processes are outlined plans for A$195 billion of applicable to ships, submarines, vehicle fleets, aviation fleets, critical assets and capital investment over the next 20 infrastructure.
Babcock is proactively working to optimise support chains and years, a quarter of which is earmarked develop improved engineering decisions live feedback to advance preparations for maritime and antisubmarine warfare.
for base support, improving operational effectiveness of the owner, operator The Government also committed and support organisation.
to a continuous build programme in naval warships and selected an international partner for the platform design of its A$50 billion Future Submarine programme.
The New Zealand MOD also published a White Paper which identified a NZ$20 billion investment programme over the next 15 years and outlined the integration of military services, while increasing private sector participation.
The market trend towards the adoption of Industry 4.0 thinking for the Internet of Things and digital aspects of asset management is driving the demand for our more advanced analytic and position us well alongside our industry We remain the leading naval support data exploitation capabilities across the provider to the Royal Navy under our partners when progressing plans to energy, transport and defence sectors.
15year Terms of Business Agreement support existing and new UK naval Highprofile cyber security incidents ToBA which runs until 2025.
The platforms under longterm integrated over the past year, together with the Maritime Support Delivery Framework output contracts.
Internationally, a increasing threat of cyberattacks, has MSDF contract secures our position as number of submarine programmes are continued to drive the demand for the MODs strategic support partner at in their early concept phases and we services in our chosen niche areas of HMNBs Devonport and Clyde and we are actively engaged in developing our theglobal cyber security market.
continue to work with the MOD to deliver capabilities to support the design and savings and efficiencies.
We are working build elements of these programmes.
Strategy with the MOD to ensure that the required Maximising our engineering experience Increasingly we are looking to build on infrastructure is in place at Devonport and capability, we will focus on our international footprint to provide the and HMNB Clyde in support of the future developing innovative solutions to Royal Navy and international customers a submarine programme and the creation improve our engineering support truly global support offering.
In November of a submarine centre of specialisation capability.
We will use data analytics 2016 we finalised a joint venture with atClyde from 2021. and new technologies to enhance Oman Drydock Company ODC to the capabilities and availability of our Our integral role within the surface ship develop the naval support capabilities customers existing and future platforms.
and submarine alliances continues to at Duqm Port in Oman, providing local Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 39 Operational review continued and international navies with worldclass engineering services.
We also continue to Submarine Dismantling Programme build on our current marine operations in The Submarine Dismantling Programme SDP got under way on dismantling Canada, New Zealand and Australia.
thefirst of 27 vessels, a Swiftsure Class submarine, at our Rosyth site in In the energy sector, our market December 2016.
This strategic and critical programme for the MOD leading position in LPG LNG handling and Babcock follows three years of planning, regulatory approvals and systems continues to present significant implementation of infrastructure developments.
Our involvement includes international growth opportunities.
We developing the capability to safely remove the radioactive waste and dispose continue to develop our reputation ofit within the existing disposal routes in the UK.
Removal of the radioactive in the offshore wind sector and are waste is known as the Initial Dismantling ID project and will be undertaken well positioned to exploit the growing in two stages.
Seven defuelled submarines will be dismantled at Rosyth and offshore wind market in Northern Europe.
afurther 20 will be dismantled at Devonport during the project.
Throughout, Babcock is committed to ensuring that theSDP is undertaken in a safe, secure Financial review and environmentally responsible manner.
The Marine and Technology division had another successful year and experienced growth in most sectors, reporting an increase in total revenue of 6.5%, to 1,805.6 million 2016: 1,695.9 million.
Organic growth at constant exchange rates was 4.9% 2016: 9.4%.
The main drivers of growth this year have been the ramp up of the Type 23 life extension programme within our Warships Support business and increased submarine maintenance activities on the legacy Trafalgar and Vanguard Class boats and the new Astute Class boats at both Devonport and Clyde.
Our complex equipment business has grown due to significant contract wins in equipment support and delivery of new weapons handling systems for submarine in July 2016.
Disappointingly this growth We are now two years into our projects in Spain, Korea and the UK.
was partially offset by a slowdown in our fiveandahalf year MSDF contract to Our business in New Zealand grew Liquefied Gas Handling business.
deliver a range of engineering support services across HMNB Devonport following the first full year of the new Operating profit increased by 9.7% to Dockyard Management contract.
Work and HMNB Clyde and delivery of key 218.1 million 2016: 198.9 million.
We continue to onthe QEC aircraft carrier programme Organic operating profit growth has stabilised as we push to get the deliver submarine and warship refits in at constant exchange rates was support of our customers programme, first vessel ready for sea trials, and 8.8%.
The divisions total operating will accordingly step down by around while building additional capability margin increased by 0.4% to 12.1% and capacity to support increasing 100 million in 2017 18.
2015: 11.7%, driven by improved operational demands and progressing Our Energy and Marine business has contract performance including within opportunities with the MOD to upgrade our Australian joint venture, and grown due to three contract wins in the the critical nuclear infrastructure needed renewables sector for offshore substations increased Research and Development to support both current and future tax credits.
for Siemens, DONG Energy and E. ON.
Additionally, joint venture revenue growth Operational review As the lead submarine support partner, was 28.7%, driven by an uplift in our Naval Ship Management joint venture in we remain focused on underpinning Over the past year, we have maintained the UKs Continuous At Sea Deterrence Australia following the conclusion of the our position as lead support partner for ANZAC frigates maintenance contract, through support to the Vanguard the Royal Navy, successfully providing Class.
HMS Vanguards life extension is which has led to the followon contract deep maintenance and inservice support being enlarged under the Warship Asset now well under way at Devonport and for warship and submarine platforms.
initial project milestones have been Management Agreement which started Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 40 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 successfully completed.
We continue number of initiatives underway to exploit submarine replacement programme.
to invest in developing our engineering emerging innovative technologies and This is the first production batch of a capability and capacity in order to data analytics.
These will enable us to competed 300 missile launch tube maximise submarine availability as the UK develop a more efficient maintenance assembly programme.
We also delivered transitions from the Trafalgar Class to the methodology, and reduce time and cost WHLS for the South Korean Jangbogo III Astute Class.
We also continue to submarine programme and continue to develop a global support offering for our deliver equipment for the Spanish S80 At HMNB Clyde, we continue to focus customers, and last year supported Royal submarine programme.
on driving efficiency improvements and Navy vessels in Bahrain, Oman, Gibraltar developing our capacity and engineering In November 2016, we were awarded and South Africa.
capabilities to deliver the required a20 million contract to deliver detailed outputs.
In October 2016, we were The third OPV, L William Butler Yeats, was production engineering design support awarded a contract to deliver submarine successfully completed, handed over and for the US Coastguard Offshore Patrol escape, rescue and abandonment and commissioned into service with the Irish Cutter programme, which is a significant survival training, which will contribute to Naval Service in July 2016.
As a result of milestone in our strategy to export our the UK submarine centre of specialisation our performance, we were contracted naval design engineering knowledge being consolidated at HMNB Clyde from to design and build a fourth OPV in and expertise.
The Astute Class Training Service November 2016.
Work has already Our continued investment in the continues to deliver worldclass training started at our Appledore facility with the development of our Equipment with crews regularly achieving pass rates keel laying ceremony taking place on Management Operations Centre EMOC of over 99%.
28 February 2017. has enabled us to win several equipment The dismantling of the first nuclear Our marketleading weapons handling management contracts in support of submarine under the Submarine and launch systems WHLS products the MODs strategy to outsource the Dismantling Project has now begun continue to be developed for the management of maritime systems and with the removal of lowlevel waste UK Dreadnought Class submarine equipment.
In March, we were awarded from the demonstrator submarine in programme.
In October 2016, we were preferred bidder status for all four ourRosyth Dockyard.
awarded a contract for the manufacture elements of a 360 million technical of 22 missile launch tube assemblies authority and equipment support The QEC aircraft carrier programme for the joint USUK Trident nuclear package, Maritime Systems Support continues at pace within our Rosyth facility.
HMS Queen Elizabeth has completed the commissioning of major systems phase and will begin contractor Rampion sea trials in 2017.
HMS Prince of Wales Babcock successfully loaded out a 400MW substation topside and jacket for the is now structurally complete and work Rampion offshore wind farm, off the Sussex coast, as part of a twoyear contract is underway on the outfitting phase.
We with E. ON, the UK Green Investment Bank plc and Enbridge.
The programme, the continue to progress an inservice support first wind farm project delivered at Babcocks Rosyth facility on the River Forth, solution for QEC with our Surface Ship relied heavily on the expertise of a skilled workforceand the unique facilities Support Alliance partners and the MOD.
and capabilities available at our Rosyth site to deliver the customers complex Over the past year, we have made asset.
Following the announcement of the Rampion offshore wind farm contract, significant progress on the Type 23 life Babcocks Rosyth operation won a further two renewable energy projects.
HMS Argyll has now begun sea trials having been the first of its class to complete a life extension package, which also included the installation of the Sea Ceptor weapons system.
We currently have a further three Type 23 vessels docked in Devonport and planning continues for future upkeep programmes.
The contract to reactivate HMS Albion has achieved a major project milestone after 1.3 million manhours: work on the ship is on target to complete in September 2017.
We continue to develop and improve our warship support capability and have a Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 41 Operational review continued Partner MSSP, for both the QEC aircraft We are seeing strong growth potential technology consultancy businesses.
carriers and Type 45 Destroyers, a month in LNG and Volatile Organic Compounds Ourcyber security business ContextIS has after being awarded all six Maritime capture.
In February 2017, we agreed trebled in size since acquisition in 2013.
a joint venture with Bernhard Schulte We continue to develop and enhance our Our position on MSSP and MEC has been Ship Management to design and operate cyber capabilities through our Babcock made possible by a dedicated EMOC a groundbreaking Gas Supply Vessel.
Managed Security Services business which in Bristol.
We also won an availability The 7,500m vessel, which will be used provides our clients with a managed contract for the support of the Royal for the LNG fuelling of ships and other cyber defence capability through our Navys Phalanx weapons system.
shorebased gas consumers in the Baltic Advanced Security Operations Centre.
Sea, is the first vessel of its kind to use Our FrazerNash engineering consultancy In Australia, our Naval Ship Management our gas handling technology and we are continues to grow and demand for our joint venture between Babcock and UGL exploring other opportunities in this area.
engineering consultancy services looks Limited entered into the Warship Asset set to remain strong in the medium to Management Agreement WAMA with Our Energy and Marine Services business longterm, with significant opportunities the Commonwealth of Australia, BAE has successfully executed the first being tracked in the defence, power, Systems and SAAB Australia.
WAMA will offshore renewables substation for E. ONs energy and nuclear markets.
provide maintenance support services Rampion wind farm.
We are currently until the end of life of the ANZAC working to deliver an offshore reactive Sustainability Class Frigates.
compensation platform for DONG Energy Maintaining some of the UKs most critical and have also won a contract to deliver We continue to deliver throughlife assets and infrastructure, we work within two offshore transformer modules for the support for submarine equipment highly regulated market sectors and insist SSE Beatrice wind farm.
Given this recent and engineering services for the on the highest levels of safety and security experience and our worldclass facility Australian Collins Class submarines, with compliance across all our operations, at Rosyth, we remain well positioned to negotiations now underway to secure a along with a fair and respectful working take advantage of the next round of UK further fiveyear contract.
During the period we Government offshore wind funding and to pursue multiple opportunities relating reduced our total accident and approvals in 2017. to the A$50 billion Future Submarine overthreeday injury frequency rates programme and expect initial contracts Over the past year we have seen by 13% and 30% respectively from an for material systems and subsystems to sustained growth in our independent already low level.
In New Zealand, our dockyard maintenance contract continues to International opportunities with Duqm dry dock joint venture perform to plan and in Canada work on During the year, Babcock finalised a joint venture with the Oman Drydock HMCS Corner Brook under our longterm Company to enhance the naval capabilities at the Duqm port in Oman.
This new Victoria Class InService Support contract venture will initially support vessels from the Royal Navy of Oman, the UKs Royal is progressing well, with a planned return Navy and the Royal Fleet Auxiliary, with longerterm plans to support a range of to service in late 2018.
We continue to international navy vessels operating in the region, including the provision of a track several major future navalsupport servicing and maintenance location for the Queen Elizabeth Class QEC aircraft opportunities including refit and carriers.
The development offers a permanent presence in the Middle East that inservice support opportunities on will enable the UK to shape the development of naval facilities to support the theHalifax Class frigates.
QEC and wider British maritime needs in the area.
In line with our strategic aim to develop a global support offering, Babcock and Oman Drydock Company signed a joint venture agreement to develop a naval operation in Duqm, Oman.
The business is ideally located to support ships and submarines operating in the Middle East region.
A number of international navies have expressed interest in utilising the facility at Duqm in addition to both the Royal Navy of Oman and the UK Royal Navy.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 42 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Lifeextensions progressing Following an extensive upkeep period at Babcocks Frigate Support Centre in Devonport, Type 23 Frigate T23, HMS Argyll, sailed from the dockyard to start sea trials.
This engineering milestone represents the culmination of over 600,000 man hours of work and the completion of Babcocks first LifeExtension project for the Navys T23s.
Part of a widereaching programme that will see each of the Royal Navys T23 Frigates call into Devonport for upkeep, the work has been designed to extend the platforms operational life from 18 to 35 years: maintaining, updating and upgrading capability for the 21st century.
HMS Argyll returned to sea in a significantly improved material state and with enhanced capability.
The work package represents the most complex T23 upkeep ever undertaken in Devonport and the first UK warship class to have its missile system changed midlife since the 1970s.
Our awardwinning health, safety and supported by a mandatory awareness We have an active STEM outreach environmental initiatives remain critical training programme in partnership with programme, with over 400 active STEM to our success.
We continue to progress our waste services supplier.
Ambassadors reaching thousands of towards the introduction of a Common students from primary schools through In Devonport, our Environmental Operating Model which will see the to higher education establishments Charterhas been signed by the trade deployment of a new management to promote STEM careers.
As proud unions, MOD and the contractor system encompassing best practice, sponsors of the Women in Science and managing accommodation for the common standards and working Engineering WISE Awards and the Royal Navy on site.
This will enable us to Telegraph STEM Awards, we are well the Environmental Achievement Award continue to improve consistently across placed to track emerging talent and for improving our environmental all our businesses: for example, we are showcase best practice across the wider performance and enhancing sustainability currently working on divisional standards engineering community.
at Rosyth at the 2016 EEF Manufacturing for working at height and workforce Awards.
Last year, we also won an award In addition, we support community mental health and wellbeing.
for environmental efficiency at the 2016 groups and worthwhile causes in the At Devonport, our joint commitment with Future Manufacturing Awards.
areas in which we operate through the Royal Navy to improve health, safety sponsorship and donations covering a We continue to invest in skills and and environmental HSE performance wide range of civic events and charities.
capability as the business grows.
Given was marked by the introduction of In June Babcock was the title sponsor for the need to sustain future engineering a charter.
Rosyths Health and Safety Plymouth Armed Forces Weekend, which skills, we place great value in our team won the British Safety Councils won the Tourism Event and Festival of apprentice and graduate programmes.
prestigious Sword of Honour Award for the Year Gold Award at the South West Our HMNB Clyde Apprenticeship the 10th year running.
And our Visible Tourism Awards.
Programme won the prestigious Princess Leadership Programme to drive sustained Royal Training Award, which honours We have made good progress in support improvement in our HSE performance UK employers who have created a of the Groups Diversity and Inclusion hasincluded around 1,700 joint reviews lasting impact.
A record number of 161 strategy, with the launch of our divisional and conversations.
apprentices started their career within Babcock Womens Network BWN, which We have achieved a Zero Waste to the Marine and Technology division now has in excess of 200 members in Landfill target across all sites by diverting during the period, including 14 higher Bristol, Clyde, Devonport and Rosyth.
all suitable landfill waste to alternative apprentices, 12 business administration This year we also launched our Pride in legitimate routes as a result of our apprentices and five higher level business Babcock LGBT network at Devonport improved waste management and apprentices.
This, along with our graduate and Bristol, with a third network at Rosyth segregation strategies, which have been scheme, helps to secure our resource to be established in the coming months.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 43
