8 Market and industry overview We also need to make sure our assets The water and waste water industry Severn Trent wants to can withstand whatever the future may The water and waste water industry in lead in digital, so we can bring.
Climate change is likely to cause England and Wales is made up of 17 more periods of drought and flooding, so serve customers 24 hours regional suppliers, who between them the industry needs to ensure it can provide a day andmake best use serve around 50 million household and its services, no matter what the weather non-household customers.
Ten of these of channels such as social is like.
Severn Trents plans commit us companies, including our regulated to making our network more resilient, mediaand webchat.
business Severn Trent Water Limited, to cope with greater extremes in our provide both water and waste water climate.
For example, our 300 million services.
The remaining seven, including Birmingham Resilience Project will our regulated business Dee Valley Water protect the water supply for the UKs plc, provide water only.
Although the industry has invested more The challenges facing our industry than 108 billion since privatisation, it Since the industry was privatised in 1989, still needs to repair and replace sewers, it has delivered real improvements for pipes and other assets that in some cases customers.
The companies have invested are more than a century old.
During our hugely in their networks, found smart current five year plan, Severn Trent will new ways of working and become more invest over 3,000 million in our assets, so efficient.
For example, since the mid 1990s the next generation can benefit from even industry-wide leakage is down by 35% and better services.
in the last 10 years sewer flooding is down by 75%, while 99.97% of drinking water We also need to cope with a growing and 98.6% of bathing waters now meet population.
The Office for National European Union EU standards.
Statistics estimates that the population of England and Wales will increase by over However, the industry still needs to tackle 9 million people by 2040.
At the same time, some major challenges in the coming the government is looking to significantly years.
First, customers expectations are increase house building over the next few continuing to increase and we need to years.
All of this means that more homes continue to improve the experience we and businesses will need our services.
People expect to be able to interact We have to invest carefully, to ensure we with their water companies at a time thats can meet those needs.
convenient for them, using thechannels We are delighted to have received Utility they prefer.
Thats why Severn Trent of the Year from the Home Builders wants to lead in digital, so we can serve Federation in October 2016. customers 24 hours a day and make best use of channels such as social media As were working to overcome these and webchat.
challenges, we also need to keep bills affordable for customers, especially for those on the lowest incomes, and ensure we have the money we need to fund our investment over the long term.
This will allow us to deliver for customers and create value for investors.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 9 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information The industrys regulatory framework The Governments approach to our industry is set by the Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Defra in England and the Welsh Government in Wales.
Ofwat is the industrys economic regulator.
This means it sets limits on the prices we can charge our customers over five year AMP cycles.
This financial year was the second of AMP6, which runs from April 2015 to March 2020.
We also work closely with a variety of other regulators and public bodies: The Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI independently checks that water supplies in England and Wales are safe and that drinking water quality is acceptable to consumers.
Its work includes testing water quality, ensuring companies make the changes necessary to improve, developing new regulations to further improve water quality, and science and policy.
The Consumer Council for Water CCW speaks on behalf of water consumers in England and Wales.
It advises consumers and takes up complaints on their behalf.
The Environment Agency EA allows us to collect water from reservoirs, rivers and aquifers and return it to the environment after its been used by our customers and treated by us.
Natural Resources Wales is the environmental regulator in Wales.
It oversees how the countrys natural resources are maintained, improved and used now and in the future.
Natural England advises the Government on the natural environment in England and helps to protect nature and the landscape, especially for plant Dee Valley Waters T M y awr Reservoir, Wrexham and animal life in fresh water and the sea.
The Health and Safety Executive helps us to reduce the health and safety risks faced by our employees, customers and visitors.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 10 Market and industry overview continued Much of the industrys investment The continuing evolution The most significant change is funded by borrowing, so interest ofregulation to the regulatory framework rates can have an important effect on Ofwats last review of the industrys has been the introduction of companies costs.
In September 2016, pricing was in 2014.
That price review Ofwat published its proposals on the cost retail competition for nonresulted in the most important changes in of debt.
This would automatically adjust household customers in the industrys economic regulation since prices for customers if interest rates privatisation.
It gave customers a much are different from those Ofwat assumed England, from April 2017. stronger voice in determining companies for new debt.
In December 2016, Ofwat This allows businesses plans and introduced Outcome Delivery outlined how ODIs could be made better Incentives ODIs, which encourage and other non-household in PR19.
The proposal could include larger companies to deliver what customers rewards for companies that perform well, organisations to shop around want using performance-related rewards with larger penalties for companies who for the best deal in water and penalties.
Ofwat also encouraged fall short.
Ofwat is expected to publish a companies to look at the whole life costs supply.
Our preparations for consultation on its approach to the next of their assets, rather than separately price review in the summer of 2017. this have included creating looking at how much to invest in them The most significant change to regulation the Waterplus joint venture, and how much they cost to run.
This total in this AMP has been the introduction cost is known as Totex.
Companies also as discussed on page 40, of retail competition for non-household have stronger incentives to become even and making the necessary customers in England, from April 2017. more efficient.
This allows businesses and other nonchanges to our systems The next price review is in 2019 PR19 household organisations to shop around and processes to allow our and Ofwat has already begun to shape for the best deal in water supply.
In May 2016, it published responded by creating the Waterplus wholesale water business to its Water 2020 framework, which set out joint venture, as discussed on page 40, supply retail water providers how it proposes to regulate the sector and making the necessary changes to at PR19.
This included increasing the see page 32. our systems and processes to allow our number of price controls, to allow it to look wholesale water business to supply retail at companies cost bases in more detail water providers see page 32. and promote competition in areas such In the longer term, the household as water resources and bio-resources, as retail market could also be opened well as using the Consumer Price Index to to competition in England.
The UK index prices rather than the higher Retail Government has said it first wants to see Price Index.
how retail competition works for nonhousehold customers before making any decisions.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information It is essential that we have a resilient, Contributing to the regulatory debate How our customers and the external well-maintained network, which environment influence our strategy We believe its important that we put can meet the demands of a growing forward our views about how regulations Our strategy for AMP6 is designed to meet population and a changing climate, should develop and we have a long track the challenges posed by our changing which is why were investing responsibly record of helping to shape the future of environment and regulation: for sustainable growth.
Our strategy embeds customers at Changing the market for the better We remain very supportive of the the heart of all we do.
This ensures means ensuring we help shape changes general direction of Ofwats proposals.
we continue to meet their needs as to regulations and are well prepared Weve embraced ODIs, so were well they evolve.
for the opportunities and challenges placed as Ofwat looks to refine how they it brings.
Operational excellence and continued work.
In April, we released the latest innovation help us to deliver the service Delivering on all of the above requires in our series of Charting a Sustainable customers rely on, while ensuring we us to have inspired, talented and Course publications, which sets out keep bills affordable for all, both now engaged people, which is why were how we believe incentives can be and in the future.
creating an awesome place to work.
made to work better at the next price review for all stakeholders, including customers.
This builds on Ofwats own consultation document.
Were also in favour of moves towards trading in bio-resources a by-product of the sewage treatment process and water resources.
Were already exploring the potential for trading bio-resources with other water companies, and we see this area as an exciting opportunity for us and our customers.
Trading water resources is a longer term prospect, which could provide a relatively low cost and environmentally friendly way of sharing water across regions.
However, we also consider that any changes to how water is supplied need to form part of a wider package of measures including reducing demand for water.
Ambergate reservoir where we have recently replaced and increased capacity Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 12 Case study Delivering our vision and purpose through our strategy and values BUILDING A LASTING WATER LEGACY 50days every other year and give it the Ensuring a resilient water supply At a total investment of care it needs.
forBirmingham 300million, this is our Weve identified work we need to do For more than a century, the Elan Valley largest ever engineering sooner, so were building three pipes Aqueduct has been Birminghams project and a vital part of tobypass parts of the aqueduct.
It carries water all The firstcompleted in March, at Bleddfa.
the way from the Elan Valley in Wales to ensuring we build a lasting Were working closely with local people, Birmingham.
It needs work to keep it fit water legacy for our region.
with regular drop-in sessions so we can for the future but we can only turn it off for work with the community and minimise three days at a time.
Thats why in March Jane Simpson, disruption.
Weve also held focus 2017, we started building a new 25 km pipe groups and taste tests, to understand Head of Asset Creation, from Lickhill to our treatment works in how changing the water supply affects Non-Infra Birmingham.
When the new pipe is ready customers, which will inform our in 2019, we can turn off the aqueduct for future approach.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information A LASTING WATER LEGACY Strategic goals Litres of water carried each day 320 million Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
