Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Acquisitions The Group has grown and expects to continue to grow by making acquisitions as well as organically.
The diversion of management attention Risk description Mitigation to unexpected difficulties encountered The financial benefits of acquisitions Full financial and other due diligence is with acquisitions could adversely affect may not be realised as quickly and as conducted as far as may reasonably be the Groups business.
achievable in the context of each Post-acquisition performance of the acquisition and a detailed business case, Potential impact acquired business may not meet the with forward looking projections, is Failure to realise the anticipated benefits financial performance expected at the submitted to the Board in respect of each of an acquisition, or delay or higher than time the acquisition terms were agreed acquisition.
Integration risk is considered expected costs in so doing, could and could fail to justify the price paid, at an early stage as part of the review of adversely affect the strategic which could adversely affect the Groups acquisition opportunities and detailed development, business, financial future results and financial position.
integration planning takes place before condition, results of operations or completion of the acquisition.
We believe we have a good track record in, and experience of, integrating acquisitions, both large and small.
Viability statement The Directors have assessed the Companys viability over the three-year period to March 2020.
The Directors elected to make their assessment on a three-year basis as that is the period of the Groups budget and forecasting review process, which the Directors believe gives the appropriate level of visibility for them to make their assessment.
During the year to 31 March 2017, the Directors carried out a robust assessment of the principal strategic, financial and operational risks, including the principal risks listed on pages 71 to 79, to the Groups solvency and liquidity that were identified within the Groups risk management framework in the context of the controls and mitigating matters described on pages 68 to 70.
In their assessment the Directors considered strategic risks faced by the Group under a number of strategic themes together with the probability of occurrence and likely impact of the risks materialising, as well as the adequacy of the control and mitigation measures in place to counter them.
Separately, the detailed and bottom up risk management process continued throughout the year and this requires, at business unit and sector level, that business risks are identified and that the probability and impact of the risks materialising are considered together with risk mitigation measures and the extent to which monitoring of the effectiveness of the mitigation measures is in place.
Risk registers, located at business unit level, are subject to robust review and challenge with business unit and sector management, by the Group Risk and Insurance Manager and the Group Financial Controller.
The results of these reviews were presented to the Audit and Risk Committee during the course of the year to 31 March 2017.
The Directors considered whether in their view there were any scenarios that were plausible, and the potential impact of which, taking account of their assessment of the above controls and mitigating actions, was such as to threaten the ability of the Group to meet its liabilities over the three-year period.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet all their liabilities as they fall due up to March 2020.
79 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 79 Directors report Board Directors, Executive and Company Secretary 82 Governance statement 84 Report of the Nominations Committee 92 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee 94 Report of the Remuneration Committee 98 Other disclosures 134 Directors responsibility statement 140 Expanding our offering into new international markets Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 80 Having loved STEM subjects such as Mathematics and Physics from a young age, transitioning into Engineering was a natural step.
My Masters degree in Aerospace Engineering led me to Babcock International and my current placement at RAF Valley.
Being based at an operational site is particularly rewarding: it allows me to see the entire scale of the contract as well as working alongside the customer to deliver the best output possible training the next generation of military pilots.
My enthusiasm for STEM subjects is ever present, and my hope is to get the next generation involved in STEM wherever possible.
By organising talks, workshops and other events for young people, our goal is to increase participation in all areas of STEM as we continue to solve the challenges of today.
Joshua Bryce Aerospace Engineer Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 81
