Operational review continued International Market overview At MCS, we continue to see attractive How to read this report markets in the emergency services sector, From 1 April 2017 we formally report the Group in four new sectors to reflect with a number of new opportunities how we manage the business.
The 2017 Strategic report aims to communicate included in our pipeline, together with the Group today, while the operation reviews report the financial and search and rescue and firefighting operational progress in the previous divisional format during the last financial outsourcing opportunities in existing and year.
A reconciliation of the divisions to sectors, and more information can be new markets.
found on pages 615, outlooks for the sectors can be found on pages 2425.
The business has also entered new countries in support of existing 2017 Performance highlights customers, as well as new markets such 2017 2016 as wind farm support and Unmanned m m Aviation Services.
MCS growth is based Revenue Total including jvs 955.7 790.1 on winning organic opportunities and Joint ventures 8.6 7.2 growing its pipeline, creating partnerships Operating profit Total including jvs 105.3 107.6 with customers and delivering Joint ventures 3.3 2.2 differentiated solutions.
Operating margin Total including jvs 11.0% 13.6% Challenging conditions in the oil and gas Joint ventures 38.4% 30.6% sector have continued to impact our business in the North Sea and Australia.
Business conditions in the sector remain Revenue % of Group Key highlights tough and we are not envisaging any improvement in the medium term.
Our Babcock France awarded exposure to this market and particularly FOMEDEC contract for the to the exploration market is limited, and provision and maintenance of we continue to be a robust and reliable training platforms and services for longterm partner for the industry.
the French Air Force Secured two Australianlongterm Tough trading conditions in South Africa oil and gas contracts persisted for the first half of the 2016 17 18% trading year as commodity volumes and Won38 new contract prices remained depressed.
Equipment and extensions and commodity markets contracted by Awarded a fiveyear wind farm a further 20% which, combined with a support contract for DONG Energy fragile political economy, maintained Awarded new oil and gas contract pressure on pricing and volumes.
with ENI in Italy The second half saw some revival in Won highpressure piping commodity pricing and a significant contracts on Kusile new build units strengthening of the Rand versus 4 and 5 Sterling.
The recovery led to an uptick Operating margin Secured new contract for mill in the demand for mining construction assembly on Medupi new build equipment in the final quarter and KPI our strategy of growing market share First new boiler contract for Sasol 11.0% during the commodity down cycle has low emission burners supported significant order intake from Eskom supply contracts for the mining sector.
highpressure piping supply Revenue growth The power generation and distribution South African equipment market: sectors remained buoyant through buoyant second half the year, with significant opportunities KPI 21.0% in maintenance support through the Eskom contract and new work being issued on the new Kusile and Medupi power stations.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 54 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Our mining export markets in Zambia, During the protracted downturn in South contracts which began in the period, in Namibia and the copper belt in southern Africa, our strategy within the operational line with prudent accounting practice.
Democratic Republic of the Congo have division has been to control costs and Overall, the divisions margin declined to improved on the back of commodity increase market share and this has 11.0% 2016: 13.6%.
pricing and early indications are that this been achieved.
Operational review will continue in 2017 18.
Sustained low In terms of new business, efforts have gas prices and political problems leading MCS has maintained a high contract been focused on our objective of to instability in Mozambique have all but win rate across new bids and renewals, establishing and growing a significant shut down economic activity but our oil securing 38 new contracts and extensions training business in the region.
Progress and gas customers in the region remain to existing contracts with a total value of has been made with the establishment of optimistic for the future.
Babcock Training and early wins in power generation technical training.
A number We continue to see a number of Strategy of exciting opportunities are being opportunities outside the UK, following Babcock is a world leader in providing pursued in the mining and automotive the award to Babcock France of an aviation services for missioncritical sectors, where we are confident of 11year contract to provide and maintain operations.
Whether we are flying to progress using Babcocks international training platforms and related services critically injured people, supporting police training experience.
for the French Air Force Arme fide operations, fighting fires from the air or lAir, drawing on our expertise in the transporting men and women to and Financial review European aviation industry and our from offshore oil and gas fields, we know The International division saw revenue experience of delivering longterm that lives and livelihoods depend on the growth but experienced margin pressure military flight training programmes operations we fly every day and every in 2016 17.
In addition to FOMEDEC, MCS night.
We are a 24hour company, and grew by 21.0% compared to the is also growing its business supporting were trained and equipped to handle previous period, reflecting the impact the defence sector in Europe.
We emergency situations and to go wherever ofmovements in foreign exchange rates.
delivered complex projects, such as the our customers need us, always putting Organic revenue at constant exchange life extension programme developed our absolute commitment to safety at rates increased by 9.5% for the division for the Spanish Navy which includes theheart of everything we do.
as a whole, due to a strong second half the upgrade of seven Agusta Bell 212 We will secure our market leading performance from the South African helicopters.
This project was successful positions in the geographies we serve, Equipment business which grew by more in obtaining technical certification from becoming a recognised partner to than 10% and continued growth in MCS INTA, the Spanish National Institute for governments and blue chip corporations Emergency Services business, as well as Aerospace Technology.
the mobilisation of new contracts in Italy, The French Department of Defence Australia Qantas and France FOMEDEC.
We are looking to grow and strengthen awarded Babcock France a fiveyear MCS organic revenue increased by 6.3% our core MCS markets, raising the contract to deliver maintenance at constant exchange rates, driven by standards to differentiate our emergency operations and logistic needs for the continued growth in MCS Emergency services offering and build on our Departments fleet of 20 Airbus EC135 Services business and the start of new world leader status.
We are creating helicopters, 15 of which belong to the oil and gas contracts in Australasia in the new operating models to meet the Gendarmerie Nationale and five tothe second half of the year.
needs of a world with a lower oil price Scurit Civile.
and we arepioneering the use of new Total operating profit for the division In our Emergency Services business, we technologies to drive safety, boost declined by 2.1%, which equates to an have maintained leading positions in all efficiency, enhance performance and organic reduction of 12.9% at constant the countries where we operate, and grow our revenues.
This reflects continuing have continued to trade well throughout competitive pressures in the South Our customerfocused culture is marked the year, as demonstrated by a number of African Equipment business, and ongoing by a flexible and responsive approach recent contract wins, including important difficulties in the oil and gas business to dynamic situations.
We optimise rebids and extensions.
affecting MCS crew change services.
our operations and fleet capabilities During the year, we successfully renewed Additionally, operating profit has been to suit specific requirements and we contracts for the provision of nationwide impacted by ongoing unrecovered costs leverage the unparalleled capabilities and regional firefighting and search and from the industrywide grounding of the of the Babcock International Group to rescue services in Spain on behalf of the EC225 fleet of helicopters and by low provide solutions our competitors simply Spanish Government, and in October margin recognition in the new longterm cannot match.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 55 Operational review continued As previously flagged, challenging conditions in the oil and gas sector have Babcock upgrades technicalfleet capability in South Australia continued to impact our business in Babcock, in supportingthe Government of South Australia, has upgraded its the North Sea and Australia, especially fleet of three aircraft with increased technical capability utilising ElectroOptical following the grounding of the Super InfraRed System EOIRS technology to enhance outcomes for tactical Puma helicopters following an accident surveillance andsearch and rescuemissions.
involving one of our competitors aircraft, with some delays and cancellations of The project has been coordinated by the Babcock Mission Critical Services team bids.
Despite this, we secured a longterm in Australia with the final solution chosen to provide the latest technology for the extension to an existing contract in the customers requirements.
UK, renewed two oil and gas contracts The upgrade includes turrets that provide superior high definition imaging and won two new additional contracts resolution and were chosen for the lowweight installation and flexibility.
with an existing customer in Italy, This system is teamed with a mission management system and becoming the sole provider of these specificallydesigned mounts for screens to view imagery and supported services in the country.
We have once through a dedicated console.
again increased our market position in Australia with the award of two new longterm contracts by Chevron and Conoco Phillips.
Margins and volumes remain challenging and are expected to continue to be so over the medium term.
In October, Babcock was awarded a fiveyear contract by the consortium TOTALENI for Offshore Transportation and MEDEVAC operations in Congo, increasing our presence in Africa.
And, recently, Babcock Italy has secured a new contract with ENI to provide oil and gas services from two new bases on the Adriatic Sea.
MCS has also reinforced its position in the renewable energy market, winning we renewed the main medical services Alto Adige and Abruzzo regions.
Under a contract to support DONG Energys contract in Spains CastillaLa Mancha the contract, Babcock Italy will provide offshore Walney Extension wind farm.
region, one of the most significant a 24hour emergency service with services in Spain, where we have a new Airbus and Leonardo Helicopters Safety remains the highest priority for 15year customer relationship and have technologies.
Both contracts have been MCS.
However, whilst MCS air accident pioneered emergency night flights.
awarded for a period of nine years.
In rates are at their lowest recorded levels Australia, we are running operations for and well below the worldwide industry We also continued to build on our the Victorian Governments Ambulance average, tragically in January 2017 an presence in Ireland, with the award of Victoria service and have renewed our EMS helicopter crashed in Italy resulting a new threeyear contract to support emergency medical services contract at inthe loss of six people.
the helicopter operations of the Irish Horn Island.
A threeyear In other international business, we were contract with Air Ambulance Northern In October, we secured a new longterm delighted to be awarded a contract to Ireland also began in Spring 2017.
In emergency medical services contract in support Qantas GSE fleet at 60 locations Wales, we will create one of the UKs the South West region of France, where across Australia.
The fiveyear contract, most technologically advanced fleet of we will provide and operate five aircraft with an option for a further five years, charity air ambulances under a sevenyear for the French Ministry of Health.
streamlines the management of the agreement to provide the Wales Air airlines fleet of over 10,000 ground In Scandinavia, a new fiveyear contract Ambulance charity with new EMS aircraft.
Babcock will see Babcock operate two new HEMS will deliver a programme to improve In Italy, we signed two new contracts aircraft in Stockholm and a fixed wing the equipments reliability and provide to continue providing helicopter operation in Northern Sweden and we significant longterm capability and cost emergency services HEMS operations will be introducing new AW169 aircraft benefits.
The contract to support GSE at to the healthcare service of the Italian in Scandinavia.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 56 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Romes Fiumicino airport is performing For example, a programme of school loss of one of our colleagues as a result of well, however, Alitalias financial visits has seen pilots and search and a fall from a power transmission line.
difficulties create uncertainty as to the rescue crew members at MCS Offshore During the year, Babcock in Africa ongoing viability of this contract.
share their experiences with hundreds has continued with its programme of of local school children with the aim of MCS continues to work with other supporting 25 talented but financially inspiring them and generating interest Babcock divisions to help facilitate disadvantaged children with bursaries inSTEM subjects.
growth through existing strong customer to private highschools.
This programme relationships, operational credibility and Our employees continually demonstrate has proved successful and our first administration in the geographies in their capabilities, often in the most students are now entering universities, which the Group operates.
Three subsidised by Babcock, and we hope Babcock pilots made up the entire will providepotential candidatesfor our In South Africa, the Power business shortlist of the 2016 Association of Air graduate employment programme.
In continued to grow both in transmission Ambulance Pilot of the Year award.
addition, our diversity activities include and generation on the back of Eskom Richard Steele was the worthy recipient 15 disabled employees working full time power station maintenance and niche of the award for his continued efforts on for Babcock at year end.
engineering and construction contracts behalf of his customer, the Midlands Air on the new power stations at Medupi and Our support continues with an orphanage Ambulance Charity.
These contracts include design catering for AIDS orphans, as well as a engineering, mill construction and high Also, the International Maritime training programme, to upgrade skills pressure piping installations.
Further Organisation awarded an Honourable for science and mathematics school progress was made on our strategy of Mention to both the Pesca II Galician teachers.
Our apprentice training winning power work outside of Eskom Coastguard and the Helimer 401 programme has over 50 apprentices on with wins at Sasol and a number of Spanish Rescue and Maritime Safety afouryear automotive training course.
Agency for their part in the rescue of the 22 crew members of the Modern Our Equipment business continued to Express vessel.
grow market share in a depressed market which, after a very slow first half, showed We are aware of our responsibility to the signs of strength on the back of increasing environment and the need to deliver a commodity prices.
This resulted in a very sustainable business.
Our work in this area strong final quarter leading into year end.
includes numerous initiatives to reduce Aftermarket spares and service performed the environmental impact of operations well throughout the year as customers from capturing CO at our Spanish 2 focused on lifeextension programmes operations to recycling waste oil and through the downturn.
The new Terex installing new energyefficient lighting product line followed the same pattern in Aberdeen.
We also work with groups asVolvo, with significant orders won in to help reforest areas that have been the last quarter.
MCS has developed and is implementing Sustainability an industry leading Fatigue Risk MCS understands that mission critical Management System FRMS integrated success depends on people both within its Safety Management System our own team members and the to manage fatiguerelated risks.
FRMS will apply to all flying operations defined in each companys operations We work with local communities to manuals and all flight crew members improve our shared environment and we and associated personnel involved in take the time to help people understand these operations.
what we do, particularly through working with local schools and youth groups.
We Workplace health and safety, aligned with believe that giving people the opportunity the direction set by the corporate safety to see our aircraft up close and to speak steering group, has enjoyed an overall with the pilots, engineers, rescuers, reduction in workplace injuries and lost doctors and nurses who carry out our time compared to 2015.
However, in missions is a key part of who we are.
South Africa we were saddened by the Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 57
