Board Directors, Executive and Company Secretary Executive B B B B E E E E E Archie Bethel CBE Franco Martinelli Bill Tame John Davies Roger Hardy Chief Executive Group Finance Director Chief Executive, Global Chief Executive, Land Chief Executive, Aviation Growth and Operations Appointed Appointed Appointed Appointed Board Director May 2010.
Board Director August 2014 Appointed Board Director January 2013 Executive Committee Archie became Chief Executive Board Director January 2002 November 2015 Skills and experience Skills and experience in September 2016.
Franco is a Chartered Skills and experience John Davies joined Babcock Skills and experience Skills and experience Accountant and has a degree Bill was Group Finance Director in 2010, following the Roger joined Babcock in 2007 Archie was Chief Executive, in physics.
He served 12 years from January 2002 to August acquisition of VT Group and following Babcocks acquisition Marine and Technology with the Group as Group 2014 when he was appointed was appointed Divisional Chief of Devonport.
Prior to his move division, from June 2007 Financial Controller prior to his Divisional Chief Executive for Executive of the then Defence to lead the Defence and having joined the Group in appointment as Group Finance the Groups enlarged and Security division.
He joined Security division in place of January 2004.
Bill is a the Group Board on 1 January John Davies on 1 November Chief Operating Officer from Babcock, Franco was Group former Finance Director of 2013.
He served as Divisional 2015, he was Managing 1 April 2016 until his Financial Controller at Powell Scapa Group PLC.
He was a Chief Executive, Defence and Director of Cavendish Nuclear, appointment as Chief Duffryn plc and before that he Non-Executive Director of Security until 2 November our civil nuclear business within Executive on 1 September held divisional and group roles Carclo plc until 31 March 2015, when he moved to lead the then Support Services 2016.
Archie is a Chartered at Courtaulds, James Capel 2015 and was appointed a the Support Services division.
Prior to that, he was Engineer and a Fellow of the and BP.
Non-Executive Director of John is a lawyer by background Managing Director of our Royal Academy of Engineering.
Southern Water, a private and a graduate of the submarine business within He is also President of the utility company, in January University of Manchester and the Marine division.
Society of Maritime Industries 2015 and became Chairman Chester Law College.
He has and is a Lay Member of the in March 2017. worked extensively across the Court of the University of support services and defence Strathclyde.
sectors within Bombardier, BAE Systems and VT Group.
E E E E E John Howie Simon Bowen Jon Hall Kate Hill Kevin Goodman Chief Executive, Marine Chief Executive, Cavendish Managing Director, Group Director of IR and Group Director of Nuclear Technology Communications Organisation and Appointed Development Executive Committee Appointed Appointed Appointed April 2016 Executive Committee Executive Committee Executive Committee Appointed April 2017 April 2017 April 2017 Executive Committee Skills and experience July 2010 Prior to succeeding Archie Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Bethel as Chief Executive, Simon was appointed Chief Jon joined Babcock in 2008 Kate joined Babcock following Skills and experience Marine and Technology Executive of Cavendish as Managing Director, its acquisition of Avincis, and Kevin joined Babcock in 2001. division on 1 April 2016, John Nuclear in April 2017, having Technology.
Previously, Jon became the Groups Head of He was a Director of both our was Managing Director of been Managing Director since held senior roles within the Investor Relations in 2015.
Defence and Security and Naval Marine with December 2015.
Simon was Weir Group, covering defence, Prior to that, she was a Partner Marine and Technology responsibility for the previously the Managing nuclear and commercial in financial PR consultancy Divisions prior to his current management of Babcocks Director of Urenco UK, which sectors, and before that Kreab Gavin Anderson, which Group appointment.
In his submarine, warship and naval he joined in 2010.
Prior to worked in the power and she joined from Royal Dutch present role, he is responsible base operations, having joined this, Simon worked at BP, process sectors with Balfour Shell plc.
Originally trained as for remuneration, talent Babcock in April 2001. undertaking a variety of Beatty International and a journalist, Kate has also held management, executive senior roles, culminating in Monenco Inc. Jon is a a variety of roles managing development and diversity.
his appointment as Vice Chartered Engineer and Fellow communications in the rail He is a trustee of Babcocks President of Manufacturing of the Institution of Mechanical industry.
and Procurement for Engineers, and holds a PhD Petrochemicals.
from Bath University for research work in technology.
82 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 82 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Chairman Nonexecutive directors B Board member B B B B E Executive Committee N A A A R R R A Audit Committee N N N R Remuneration Committee N Nominations Committee Mike Turner CBE Sir David Omand GCB Ian Duncan Anna Stewart Chairman Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive Committee chairperson Director Director Director Appointed June 2008 as a Non-Executive Appointed Appointed Appointed Director and November 2008 April 2009 and Senior November 2010 November 2012 as Chairman Independent Director January Skills and experience Skills and experience 2012 Skills and experience He is a Chartered Accountant Until December 2015 Anna Since May 2012 Mike has also Skills and experience and is a former Group Finance was Chief Executive of Laing been Chairman of GKN plc, Sir David is a visiting professor Director of Royal Mail Holdings ORourke, where she was where he was previously Senior in the Department of War PLC.
Ian is currently a Nonpreviously Group Finance and Independent Director.
He was Studies, Kings College London.
Executive Director and Commercial Director.
She formerly Chief Executive of BAE He left UK Government service Chairman of the Audit continues to be employed by Systems plc, Chairman of the in 2005 having served in Committee of Bodycote plc, the Laing ORourke Group in a UK Defence Industries Council various senior roles, including and until October 2016, strategic role.
She is a Fellow DIC and until May 2017 a as UK Government Security WANdisco plc.
Effective 1 of the Royal Institution of Non-Executive Director of and Intelligence Coordinator, January 2017, Ian was Chartered Surveyors and a Lazard Limited.
He is a Permanent Secretary of the appointed a Non-Executive Fellow of the Institute of member of the UK Home Office, Director of Director and on 31 March Civil Engineers.
Governments Apprenticeship GCHQ the UK Signals Audit Committee Chair of SIG Ambassadors Network.
He has also formerly been Assurance Agency and Corporate Finance Director at Deputy Under-Secretary of British Nuclear Fuels, Chief State for Policy in the Ministry Financial Officer and Senior of Defence.
Vice President at Westinghouse Electric Company LLC in Pennsylvania, United States of America, and a Non-Executive Director and the Chairman of the Audit Committee of Fiberweb plc and Mouchel Group.
Company Secretary B B B E A A A R R R N N N Jack Borrett Jeff Randall Myles Lee Prof. Victoire Group Company Secretary and Independent Non-Executive Independent Non-Executive fide Margerie General Counsel Director Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed and to Appointed Appointed April 2014 April 2015 Executive Committee : Appointed April 2016 February 2016 Skills and experience Skills and experience Jeff stepped down as a Myles is a Non-Executive Skills and experience Skills and experience presenter for Sky News in Director of UDG Healthcare Jack joined Babcock in 2004 Victoire is a Non-Executive and from 2010 was Deputy March 2014 and as editor-atPLC and Ingersoll Rand plc, Director of Eurazeo S. A. large of the Daily Telegraph in listed on the New York Stock Group General Counsel until France, Arkema France, his appointment as Group 2013.
He was business editor Exchange.
Prior to this he was Banque Transatlantique and, of the BBC, the launch editor Chief Executive Officer of CRH General Counsel and Company until November 2016, of Sunday Business and, for six plc between 2009 and 2013, Secretary on 1 April 2016.
He Italcementi S. p. A Italy.
is Secretary to the Board and to years, City Editor of the Sunday and from 2003 its Finance She was also a Non-Executive Times.
He is a former director Director, having joined in the Remuneration, Audit and Director of Morgan Advanced of Times Newspapers.
He holds a degree in Risk and Nominations Materials Plc UK, Norsk Hydro Committees and a member also a Visiting Fellow of Oxford civil engineering and is a ASA Norway and Outokumpu Universitys Sad Business Fellow of the Institute of of the Executive Committee.
During her earlier School and is an honorary Chartered Accountants Prior to joining Babcock, Jack executive career she held was a solicitor at law firm professor at Nottingham in Ireland.
senior management positions Universitys Business School.
in France, Germany and the USA with Atochem, Carnaud MetalBox and Pechiney.
She holds a PhD in Strategic Management from Universit Panthon-Assas.
83 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 83
