Other disclosures Disclosure locations The Company Authority to purchase own shares Major shareholdings The principal activities of the Group and Babcock International Group PLC, At the Annual General Meeting in July As at 31 March 2017, the Company has been notified pursuant to the Disclosure and its subsidiaries and details of important registered and domiciled in England 2016, members authorised the Company Transparency Rules DTR of the following major interests in voting rights attached to its events affecting the Group which have and Wales, with the registered number to make market purchases of up to ordinary shares.
occurred since 31 March 2017 and an 2342138, is the holding company 50,559,659 of its own ordinary shares Number of 60 pence % of issued share indication of likely future developments for the Babcock International Group of 60 pence each.
ordinary shares on date of capital on date of Name notification notification in the business of the Group can be found of companies.
That authority expires at the forthcoming in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 79.
Standard Life Investments Holdings Annual General Meeting in July 2017 The Directors and their powers Limited 70,388,42413.92% The Corporate Governance Statement when a resolution will be put to renew Biographies of the current Directors of The Capital Group Companies Inc. 50,380,653 9.96% along with the Reports of the it so as to allow purchases of up to a the Company are to be found on pages Nominations Committee, the Audit and maximum of no more than 10% of the Invesco Ltd 50,160,084 9.92% 82 and 83.
The table on page 86 shows Risk Committee and the Remuneration Companys issued share capital.
No shares the Directors who served during the year Woodford Investment Management LLP 25,474,689 5.04% Committee, as well as this section, in the Company have been purchased by to 31 March 2017.
Legal & General Group Plc 14,352,920 3.97% comprise the Directors report.
the Company in the period from 21 July A summary of the rules relating to the 2016 the date the current authority was For the purposes of DTR 4.1.
5 R 2 and appointment and removal of Directors Since 31 March 2017 Standard Life incentive plans as detailed in the granted to the date of this Report.
The Research and development DTR 4.1.
8 R the required content of the can be found on page 90.
Company currently does not hold any Investments Holdings Limited has Remuneration report on pages 98 to The Group commits resources to Management report can be found in the notified the Company of further changes 133.
Shares intended to be used for treasury shares.
The powers of the Directors are set out research and development to the extent Strategic report and the Directors report satisfying existing share awards and to its interest culminating on 1 May 2017 in the Companys Articles of Association, management considers necessary for the including the sections of the Annual Details of issues to and purchases of the with a decrease to 55,427,431, options are held by the trustees of the which may be amended by way of a evolution and growth of its business.
Report and Accounts incorporated Companys shares made in the year to Babcock Employee Share Trust and the representing 10.96% of the share capital.
special resolution of the members of by reference.
31 March 2017 by the Babcock Political donations There have been no further notifications Peterhouse Employee Share Trust.
For further information Employee Share Trust and the Peterhouse For the purposes of DTR 7.2.
5, a between then and the date of this report.
trustees of these Schemes have no No donations were made during the year see page 86.
Employee Share Trust in connection with description of the main features of present intention of exercising the for political purposes.
The holdings set out above relate only to the Companys executive share plans are Results and dividends the Groups internal control and risk voting rights attached to the shares to be found in note 22 on pages 182 to notifications of interests in the issued Financial risk management management systems, including in The profit attributable to the owners of held by them.
share capital received by the Company 184 and details of purchases of the Details relating to financial risk relation to the financial reporting process, the Company for the financial year was Twice a year representatives from across Companys shares by Capita IRG Trustees pursuant to DTR 5 and consequently do management in connection with the use can be found on pages 68 to 70 and a 311.8 million 2016: 286.6 million.
not necessarily represent current levels the UK and the other European countries Limited in connection with matching of financial instruments by the Group can statement regarding the effectiveness An interim dividend of 6.50 pence per of interest.
in which we operate attend the Babcock share awards under the Babcock be found in note 2 on pages 160 to 163. of the internal controls can be found on 60 pence ordinary share was declared International Group Employee Forum.
Employee Share Plan can be found pages 139 to 140.
Details in connection in the year 2016: 6.05 pence.
The Employee involvement Greenhouse gas emissions in note 23 on page 185. with the Companys share capital as Further information regarding our Directors are recommending that Engagement with our employees is The disclosures concerning employees and their involvement within required by DTR 7.2.
6 can be found on shareholders approve at the forthcoming important to Babcock.
greenhouse gas emissions required by the business, including the Companys pages 182 to 184.
Annual General Meeting a final dividend law are included in the Strategic report The Company operates a UK-approved policy on discrimination and diversity, can for the year of 21.65 pence 2016: The information which is required to be on page 67. share plan, the Babcock Employee Share be found within the Sustainability Report 19.75 pence on each of the ordinary disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R and which forms Plan, which is open to all employees of on pages 64 to 65 and the Nominations shares of 60 pence to be paid on 11 Qualifying third-party indemnity part of the Directors report can be found participating UK Group companies.
The Committee Report on page 93.
August 2017 to those shareholders on provisions in the locations listed in the table below.
Plan allows the Company to award free the register at the close of business on The Company has entered into deeds of Employment of disabled and or matching shares to participants.
A statement regarding compliance with 30 June 2017. indemnity with each of its Directors who persons equal opportunities The shares bought on behalf of the the UK Corporate Governance Code served during the year and or who are employee are held in a tax-approved Babcock is committed to equal 2016 is included in the Governance currently Directors which are qualifying employee trust.
section of the Directors report on opportunities and will not discriminate third-party indemnity provisions for the on the basis of disability, age, race, page 85.
The trustees of the Plan exercise purpose of the Companies Act 2006 colour, ethnic origin, gender, marital Listing Rule Topic Location voting rights attached to those shares in respect of their Directorships of status, religious or political beliefs or in accordance with directions from the 9.8.
4 1 Interest capitalised by the Group Financial statements, notes 11 the Company and, if applicable, of sexual orientation.
employees on whose behalf they are held.
during the year and 12 on pages 171 and 172 its subsidiaries.
We believe that only by encouraging 9.8.
4 2 4-11 14 Not applicable N A The Company has also established for Under their respective Articles of applicants from the widest pool of talent certain non-UK employees an International 9.8.
4 12-13 Shareholder waivers of dividends Financial statements, note 22 on Association, Directors of Group UK possible and then selecting the best Plan which reflects the structure of the and future dividends page 184 subsidiary companies may be indemnified candidate based on their ability to do the UK Plan.
by the company concerned of which they job, can we ensure we continue to deliver are or were Directors against liabilities and Senior employees of the Group are given our best for our customers and safeguard costs incurred in connection with the awards under the Companys long-term the future of Babcock.
134 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 135 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 134 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Major shareholdings As at 31 March 2017, the Company has been notified pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR of the following major interests in voting rights attached to its ordinary shares.
Number of 60 pence % of issued share ordinary shares on date of capital on date of Name notification notification Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited 70,388,42413.92% The Capital Group Companies Inc. 50,380,653 9.96% Invesco Ltd 50,160,084 9.92% Woodford Investment Management LLP 25,474,689 5.04% Legal & General Group Plc 14,352,920 3.97% Since 31 March 2017 Standard Life incentive plans as detailed in the Research and development Investments Holdings Limited has Remuneration report on pages 98 to The Group commits resources to notified the Company of further changes 133.
Shares intended to be used for research and development to the extent satisfying existing share awards and to its interest culminating on 1 May 2017 management considers necessary for the with a decrease to 55,427,431, options are held by the trustees of the evolution and growth of its business.
Babcock Employee Share Trust and the representing 10.96% of the share capital.
Political donations There have been no further notifications Peterhouse Employee Share Trust.
The between then and the date of this report.
trustees of these Schemes have no No donations were made during the year present intention of exercising the for political purposes.
The holdings set out above relate only to voting rights attached to the shares notifications of interests in the issued Financial risk management held by them.
share capital received by the Company Details relating to financial risk Twice a year representatives from across pursuant to DTR 5 and consequently do management in connection with the use not necessarily represent current levels the UK and the other European countries of financial instruments by the Group can of interest.
in which we operate attend the Babcock be found in note 2 on pages 160 to 163. International Group Employee Forum.
Employee involvement Greenhouse gas emissions Further information regarding our Engagement with our employees is The disclosures concerning employees and their involvement within important to Babcock.
greenhouse gas emissions required by the business, including the Companys law are included in the Strategic report The Company operates a UK-approved policy on discrimination and diversity, can on page 67. share plan, the Babcock Employee Share be found within the Sustainability Report Plan, which is open to all employees of on pages 64 to 65 and the Nominations Qualifying third-party indemnity participating UK Group companies.
The Committee Report on page 93. provisions Plan allows the Company to award free The Company has entered into deeds of Employment of disabled and or matching shares to participants.
indemnity with each of its Directors who persons equal opportunities The shares bought on behalf of the served during the year and or who are employee are held in a tax-approved Babcock is committed to equal currently Directors which are qualifying employee trust.
opportunities and will not discriminate third-party indemnity provisions for the on the basis of disability, age, race, The trustees of the Plan exercise purpose of the Companies Act 2006 colour, ethnic origin, gender, marital voting rights attached to those shares in respect of their Directorships of status, religious or political beliefs or in accordance with directions from the the Company and, if applicable, of sexual orientation.
We believe that only by encouraging The Company has also established for Under their respective Articles of applicants from the widest pool of talent certain non-UK employees an International Association, Directors of Group UK possible and then selecting the best Plan which reflects the structure of the subsidiary companies may be indemnified candidate based on their ability to do the UK Plan.
Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 135 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 135 Other disclosures continued execution of their duties or the exercise certain period, call for the payment of Company does not obtain an investmentTerms of Business Agreement ToBA and US-based Fluor Corporation, with Share capital and rights attaching to of their powers, to the extent permitted by any outstanding loans and cancel the grade rating for the Notes, a Note holder dated 25 March 2010 between 1 The ownership split 65:35 to Cavendish and the Companys shares Secretary of State for Defence 2 the Companies Act 2006. credit facility.
may require that the Company redeem Fluor respectively, is the parent body General Babcock International Group PLC 3 or, at the Companys option, repurchase organisation PBO for the site licence There are also qualifying third-party Multi-Currency Loan Note facility Under the Companys Articles of Devonport Royal Dockyard Limited 4 the Notes.
Association, any share in the Company indemnity provisions entered into The Company has in issue 40 million Babcock Marine Clyde Limited and 5 between the Company and Archie Bethel Share plans Magnox Limited is responsible for ten may be issued with such rights or 5.405% Series B Shelf Notes due 21 Babcock Marine Rosyth Limited restrictions, whether in regard to and Kevin Thomas in their capacity as Magnox nuclear power plants, as well January 2020 the Notes, a facility which The Companys share plans contain The ToBA confirms Babcock as a key Directors of International Nuclear as the Harwell and Winfrith research dividend, voting, return of capital or is unsecured and unsubordinated and provisions as a result of which options support partner of MOD in the maritime otherwise, as the Company may from Solutions PLC a former subsidiary of the centres.
The sites are all owned by the ranks pari passu with all other unsecured and awards may vest and become sector and covers the 15-year period Company which were in force at the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority time to time by ordinary resolution and unsubordinated financial exercisable on a change of control of from 2010 to 2025.
The MOD may determine or, in the absence of any such date of approval of this report.
The NDA has appointed CFP as indebtedness obligations of the the Company in accordance with the terminate the ToBA in the event of a the PBO in respect of the management determination, as the Directors may rules of the plans.
Unless previously redeemed Qualifying pension scheme indemnity Change in Control of the Company in determine.
The Directors practice is to of the 12 UK nuclear sites and their or purchased and cancelled, the provisions are also in place for the benefit Contracts with employees or Directors circumstances where, acting on the respective decommissioning seek authority from shareholders at each Company will redeem the Notes on of Directors of the Group companies that grounds of national security, the MOD A description of those agreements with years Annual General Meeting to allot programmes.
Under the terms of 21 January 2020 at their principal act as trustees of Group pension schemes.
considers that it is inappropriate for the Directors that contain provisions relating appointment the NDA may terminate shares including authority to allot free amount.
In the event of a change of new owners of the Company to become to payments in the event of a termination Significant agreements that take of statutory pre-emption rights up to CFPs appointment if there is a change control of the Company before then, the involved, or interested, in the Marine of employment following a change of effect, alter or terminate upon a of control to which it has not consented.
specified amounts and also to buy back Company must offer to repay the Notes division.
Change in Control occurs control of the Company is set out on the Companys shares, again up to a change of control together with a make-whole premium.
Aviation where a person or group of persons that pages 108 and 109. specified amount.
Many agreements entered into by the MCS Operators Licences US Dollar Loan Notes controls the Company ceases to do so Marine Company or its subsidiaries contain At a general meeting of the Company, or if another person or group of persons Certain of the operating subsidiaries of The Company has in issue the following Articles of Association of Devonport provisions entitling the other parties to every member has one vote on a show acquires control of the Company.
Babcock Mission Critical Services Limited US Dollar Loan Notes: i US$150 million Royal Dockyard Limited and Rosyth terminate them in the event of a change of hands and, on a poll, one vote for each engaged in the provision of the air aggregate principal amount of 4.94% Maritime Support Delivery Framework Royal Dockyard Limited of control of the Group company share held.
The notice of general meeting services described on pages 54 to 57 of Series A Senior Notes due 17 March Agreement dated 1 October 2014 The Articles of Association of Devonport concerned, which can often be triggered specifies deadlines for exercising voting this report are required to hold operating 2018: and ii US$500 million aggregate between 1 The Secretary of State for by a takeover of the Company.
Royal Dockyard Limited DRDL and Rosyth rights, either by proxy or by being present licences in order to operate their principal amount of 5.64% Series B Senior Defence 2 Devonport Royal Dockyard Royal Dockyard Limited RRDL, both in person, in relation to resolutions to be Although the Group has some contracts Limited 3 Babcock Marine Clyde principal business.
Under Regulation EC Notes due 17 March 2021.
Each series is subsidiaries of the Company, grant the proposed at a general meeting.
that on their own are not significant to Limited and 4 Babcock Marine Rosyth No.
1008 2008 the Regulation, a unsecured and unsubordinated and ranks MOD as the holder of a special share in the Group, several may be with the same Limited holder of an operating licence is required pari passu with all other unsecured and No member is, unless the Board decides each of those companies certain rights in customer.
If, upon a change of control, to be majority-owned and  financial indebtedness In October 2014, Babcock signed the otherwise, entitled to attend or vote, certain circumstances.
Such rights include the customer decided to terminate all controlled by European Economic Area obligations of the Company.
In the event Maritime Support Delivery Framework either personally or by proxy, at a general the right to require the sale of shares in, such agreements, the aggregate impact EEA nationals, which includes for these of a change of control of the Company MSDF with MOD.
Working within the meeting or to exercise any other right and the right to remove Directors of, the could be significant.
purposes nationals of member states of before then, the Company must offer to ToBA, which runs through to 2025, MSDF conferred by being a shareholder if they company concerned.
The circumstances the European Union, Norway and purchase the Notes.
confirms the continuation of Babcocks or any person with an interest in their The following agreements are those in which such rights might arise include Switzerland.
If the relevant operators contract to deliver services at HMNB shares has been sent a notice under individual agreements which the 1,800,000,000 Euro Medium-Term where the MOD considers that cease to be owned and effectively Clyde and HMNB Devonport to March Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 Company considers to be significant Note Programme unacceptable ownership, influence or controlled by EEA nationals, this could 2020, replacing Babcocks Warship which confers upon public companies to the Group as a whole that contain control domestic or foreign has been The Company has in place a Euro lead to aviation regulators refusing, Support Modernisation Initiative WSMI the power to require the provision of provisions giving the other party a Medium-Term Note Programme under acquired over the company in question withholding, suspending or revoking the contracts.
The MSDF agreement also information with respect to interests in specific right to terminate them if and that this is contrary to the essential which the Company could issue notes up relevant operating licence which in turn covers a number of surface ship projects their voting shares and they or any the Company is subject to a change to 1,800,000,000.
Under the Note security interests of the UK.
This might could have a material adverse effect which will be delivered through the interested person have failed to supply of control.
apply, for example, in circumstances where Programme, the Company has in issue on the business, financial condition Surface Ship Support Alliance.
MOD can the Company with the information 550,000,000 1.75% Notes due in any non-UK person s directly or indirectly Group and or operations of the Group.
The terminate the MSDF in the event of a requested within 14 days after delivery acquire control over more than 30% of the 2022 as well as 250,000,000 1.875% Borrowing facilities Board believes that these companies change of control of the Company.
The Board may also decide Notes due in 2026. shares of the relevant subsidiary, although The Company extended the maturity date currently satisfy the relevant nationality The provisions follow those in ToBA that no dividend is payable in respect of such a situation is not of itself such a of its five year 750,000,000 Revolving If there is a change of control of the requirements of the Regulation.
those defaulting shares and that no circumstance unless the MOD in the given Credit Facility by a further year, from Company and the Notes then in issue as compliance with the Regulation is an transfer of any defaulting shares shall be situation considers it to be so.
Any level of Cavendish Nuclear December 2019 to December 2020. carry an investment-grade credit rating ongoing requirement, the risk of this registered.
These restrictions end seven ownership by particular foreign or domestic Parent Body Agreement between which is either downgraded to nonceasing to be so cannot be ruled out.
days after receipt by the Company of a The facility provides funds for general persons may, on the facts of the case, be Cavendish Fluor Partnership CFP and investment-grade, or carry a nonnotice of an approved transfer of the corporate and working capital purposes.
See also Nationality-related restrictions on the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority so treated.
investment-grade rating which is further shares or all the information required In the event of a change of control of the share ownership on page 138 below.
NDA dated 27 August 2014 Under its Articles of Association RRDL is downgraded or withdrawn, or do not by the relevant Section 793 notice, Company, the facility agreement CFP, a joint venture between Cavendish carry an investment-grade rating and the not entitled to redeem the special share.
provides that the lenders may, within a Nuclear, part of Babcock International, 136 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 137 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 136 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Terms of Business Agreement ToBA and US-based Fluor Corporation, with Share capital and rights attaching to dated 25 March 2010 between 1 The ownership split 65:35 to Cavendish and the Companys shares Secretary of State for Defence 2 Fluor respectively, is the parent body General Babcock International Group PLC 3 organisation PBO for the site licence Under the Companys Articles of Devonport Royal Dockyard Limited 4 company Magnox Limited.
Association, any share in the Company Babcock Marine Clyde Limited and 5 Magnox Limited is responsible for ten may be issued with such rights or Babcock Marine Rosyth Limited restrictions, whether in regard to Magnox nuclear power plants, as well The ToBA confirms Babcock as a key as the Harwell and Winfrith research dividend, voting, return of capital or support partner of MOD in the maritime otherwise, as the Company may from centres.
The sites are all owned by the sector and covers the 15-year period Nuclear Decommissioning Authority time to time by ordinary resolution from 2010 to 2025.
The MOD may determine or, in the absence of any such NDA.
The NDA has appointed CFP as terminate the ToBA in the event of a the PBO in respect of the management determination, as the Directors may Change in Control of the Company in determine.
The Directors practice is to of the 12 UK nuclear sites and their circumstances where, acting on the respective decommissioning seek authority from shareholders at each grounds of national security, the MOD years Annual General Meeting to allot programmes.
Under the terms of considers that it is inappropriate for the appointment the NDA may terminate shares including authority to allot free new owners of the Company to become of statutory pre-emption rights up to CFPs appointment if there is a change involved, or interested, in the Marine of control to which it has not consented.
specified amounts and also to buy back division.
Change in Control occurs the Companys shares, again up to a Aviation where a person or group of persons that specified amount.
MCS Operators Licences controls the Company ceases to do so At a general meeting of the Company, or if another person or group of persons Certain of the operating subsidiaries of every member has one vote on a show acquires control of the Company.
Babcock Mission Critical Services Limited of hands and, on a poll, one vote for each engaged in the provision of the air Maritime Support Delivery Framework share held.
The notice of general meeting services described on pages 54 to 57 of Agreement dated 1 October 2014 specifies deadlines for exercising voting this report are required to hold operating between 1 The Secretary of State for rights, either by proxy or by being present licences in order to operate their Defence 2 Devonport Royal Dockyard in person, in relation to resolutions to be Limited 3 Babcock Marine Clyde principal business.
Under Regulation EC proposed at a general meeting.
Limited and 4 Babcock Marine Rosyth No.
1008 2008 the Regulation, a Limited holder of an operating licence is required No member is, unless the Board decides to be majority-owned and majorityIn October 2014, Babcock signed the otherwise, entitled to attend or vote, controlled by European Economic Area Maritime Support Delivery Framework either personally or by proxy, at a general EEA nationals, which includes for these MSDF with MOD.
Working within the meeting or to exercise any other right purposes nationals of member states of ToBA, which runs through to 2025, MSDF conferred by being a shareholder if they the European Union, Norway and confirms the continuation of Babcocks or any person with an interest in their Switzerland.
If the relevant operators contract to deliver services at HMNB shares has been sent a notice under cease to be owned and effectively Clyde and HMNB Devonport to March Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 controlled by EEA nationals, this could 2020, replacing Babcocks Warship which confers upon public companies lead to aviation regulators refusing, Support Modernisation Initiative WSMI the power to require the provision of withholding, suspending or revoking the contracts.
The MSDF agreement also information with respect to interests in relevant operating licence which in turn covers a number of surface ship projects their voting shares and they or any could have a material adverse effect which will be delivered through the interested person have failed to supply on the business, financial condition Surface Ship Support Alliance.
MOD can the Company with the information and or operations of the Group.
The terminate the MSDF in the event of a requested within 14 days after delivery Board believes that these companies change of control of the Company.
The Board may also decide currently satisfy the relevant nationality The provisions follow those in ToBA that no dividend is payable in respect of requirements of the Regulation.
those defaulting shares and that no as compliance with the Regulation is an transfer of any defaulting shares shall be Cavendish Nuclear ongoing requirement, the risk of this registered.
These restrictions end seven Parent Body Agreement between ceasing to be so cannot be ruled out.
days after receipt by the Company of a Cavendish Fluor Partnership CFP and notice of an approved transfer of the See also Nationality-related restrictions on the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority shares or all the information required share ownership on page 138 below.
NDA dated 27 August 2014 by the relevant Section 793 notice, CFP, a joint venture between Cavendish whichever is the earlier.
Nuclear, part of Babcock International, Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 137 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 137 Other disclosures continued does not respond satisfactorily to the The Directors may refuse to register any operating licences.
A summary of these who may exercise, or refrain share transfer if, in their reasonable In making their judgement on this, the transfer of any share which is not a fullypowers is set out below.
Reference request within the prescribed period from exercising, such rights at his opinion, such transfer would result in other Directors must have regard to being 21 days from the receipt of the paid share, although such discretion may should, however, also be made to the sole discretion.
shares being treated or continuing to their general duties to the Company.
not be exercised in a way which the Companys Articles, a copy of which notice, the Company has the power to be treated as Affected Shares.
A register is maintained for the Board of The Affected Shares Notice may, if the suspend the right of such shareholder to Financial Conduct Authority regards as may be found on its website at all such disclosures and the terms of any Directors determine, also require that the The Articles also provide that the preventing dealings in the shares of the www.
In attend or speak whether by proxy or such authorisation.
Affected Shares must be disposed of Directors shall not register any person as person at any general or class meeting relevant class or classes from taking place the event of any conflict between the within 10 days of receiving such notice a holder of any share in the Company Authorisations may be revoked, or the on an open or proper basis.
The Directors Articles and this summary, the Articles of the Company or to vote or exercise or such longer period as the Directors unless the Directors receive a declaration terms on which they were given varied, any other right attaching to the shares in may likewise refuse to register any shall prevail.
may specify such that the Affected of nationality relating to such person and at any time.
Cleared conflicts will in any transfer of a share in favour of more than question.
Where the shares represent at Relevant Shares Shares become owned by an EEA such further information as they may event be reviewed annually by the Board.
least 0.25% of the aggregate nominal four persons jointly.
national, failing which the Directors may reasonably request with respect to that In the event of any actual conflict arising Relevant Shares are any shares which the value of the Companys share capital, the The Company is not aware of any other arrange for the sale of the relevant shares nationality declaration.
in respect of any matter, mitigating Directors have determined or the holders Company may also subject to certain restrictions on the transfer of shares in the at the best price reasonably obtainable at action would also be considered for have acknowledged are shares owned by The Directors believe that currently the exceptions refuse to register the transfer Company other than certain restrictions the time.
The net proceeds of any sale of example, non-attendance of the Director non-EEA nationals for the purposes of the nationality requirements, set out in the of such shares.
that may from time to time be imposed Affected Shares would be held on trust concerned at all or part of Board Regulation Relevant Shares.
It is open to Regulation, are met and, based on the by laws and regulations for example, The Articles also require that a and paid together with such rate of meetings and non-circulation to him shareholders to make representations Companys understanding of the declaration in a form prescribed by the insider trading laws or by the nationalityinterest as the Directors deem or her of relevant papers.
to the Directors with a view to application of the Regulation and of its related restrictions, more particularly Directors relating to the nationality of appropriate to the former registered demonstrating that shares should shareholder base, more than 70% of the Post-balance-sheet events the transferee is provided to the Directors described later on this page.
holder upon surrender of the relevant not be treated as Relevant Shares.
share capital of those companies which There have been no reportable events upon the transfer of any shares in the share certificate in respect of the shares.
The Company is not aware of any are required to be majority-EEA-owned Maintenance of a register of non-EEA from the balance sheet date to the date Company, failing which the Directors Circumstances in which the Directors agreements between shareholders shareholders and controlled is owned by EEA nationals of this report.
may refuse to register such transfer may determine that shares are that may result in restrictions on the or funds managed in the EEA.
There can The Company maintains a register which see further below.
Internal controls and risk Affected Shares transfer of securities or voting rights however be no guarantee that this will is separate from the statutory register of management in the Company.
Power to treat shares as Affected continue to be their assessment and that The Articles provide that where the members containing details of Relevant Shares Directors determine that it is necessary it will not be necessary to declare a There has been a process for identifying, Shares.
This assists the Directors in At the date of this report 505,596,597 Permitted Maximum or exercise any other The Articles empower the Directors, to take steps in order to protect an evaluating and managing principal risks assessing, on an ongoing basis, whether ordinary shares of 60 pence each have of their or the Companys powers in the in certain circumstances, to treat shares operating licence of the Group they may: throughout the year to 31 March 2017 the number of Relevant Shares is such been issued and are fully paid up and are Articles referred to above.
If the Directors i seek to identify those shares which and up to the date of the approval of the that action as outlined below may be quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
determine that any shares are to be have given rise to the determination financial statements for that year.
In required to prevent or remedy a breach Directors duty to avoid conflicts Nationality-related restrictions on share treated as Affected Shares, they may and to deal with such shares as Affected respect of our financial reporting process of the Regulation.
of interest ownership serve an Affected Share Notice on the Shares: and or ii specify a maximum and the process for preparing our The Directors will remove, from the The Company has adopted a formal As noted on page 137 under MCS registered shareholder and any other number of shares which will be less than consolidated accounts, management separate register, particulars of shares procedure for the disclosure, review, Operators Licences certain Group person that appears to have an interest 50% of the Companys issued share monitors the processes underpinning where they are satisfied that either the authorisation and management of companies must comply with the in those shares.
The recipients of an capital that may be owned by non-EEA the Groups financial reporting systems share is no longer a Relevant Share or Directors conflicts of interest and requirements of EC Regulation Affected Share Notice are entitled to nationals and then to treat any shares through regular reporting and review, that the nature of the interest in the potential conflicts of interest in 1008 2008 the Regulation which, make representations to the Directors owned by non-EEA nationals in excess and data for consolidation into the share is such that the share should not accordance with the provisions of amongst other things, requires those with a view to demonstrating that such of that limit as Affected Shares the Groups financial statements is reviewed be treated as a Relevant Share.
the Companies Act 2006. companies to be majority-owned and shares should not be treated as Affected Directors will publish a notice of any by management to ensure that it reflects majority-controlled by EEA nationals.
Disclosure obligations on share Shares.
The Directors may withdraw an specified maximum within two business The procedure requires Directors a true and fair view of the Groups results ownership Affected Share Notice if they resolve days of resolving to impose such limit.
In in compliance with applicable formally to notify the Board via the At the Companys Annual General that the circumstances giving rise to the deciding which shares are to be dealt The Articles empower the Company to, at Company Secretary as soon as they accounting policies.
Meeting in July 2014, shareholders any time, require a shareholder or other shares being treated as Affected Shares with as Affected Shares the Directors shall become aware of any actual or potential approved the amendment of the The Board, through the Audit and Risk person with a confirmed or apparent no longer exist.
be entitled to determine which Relevant conflict of interest with their duties to the Companys Articles of Association the Committee, reviews the effectiveness of interest in the shares to provide in Shares in their sole opinion have directly Company or of any material change in Articles to include provisions intended Consequences of holding or having an the Companys internal control processes writing such information as the Directors or indirectly caused the relevant existing actual or potential conflicts that to assist the Company in ensuring interest in Affected Shares formally at least once a year.
The Group determine is necessary or desirable to determination.
However, so far as may have been authorised by the Board.
continuing compliance with these Financial Controller is asked to report on A holder of Affected Shares is not ascertain such persons nationality and, practicable, the Directors shall have Notified actual or potential conflicts will obligations by giving the Company and entitled, in respect of those shares, to the effectiveness of the Groups internal accordingly, whether details of the shares regard to the chronological order in be reviewed by the Board as soon as the Directors powers to monitor and, in controls and the Audit and Risk attend or speak whether by proxy or should be entered in the separate register which the Relevant Shares have been possible.
The Board will consider whether certain circumstances, actively manage person at any general or class meeting Committee reviews this report in light as Relevant Shares or are capable of entered in the separate register.
a conflict or potential conflict does, in nationality requirements as regards of all the other information supplied to of the Company or to vote or to exercise being Affected Shares see below.
fact, exist and, if so, whether it is in the ownership of its shares with a view to Right to refuse registration any other right at such meetings and the it during the course of the year including interest of the Company that it be protecting the value of the Group If the recipient of a nationality internal audit reports, risk reports and rights attaching to such shares will vest in The Articles provide the Directors with authorised and, if so, on what terms.
undertakings that hold the relevant information request from the Company the Chairman of the relevant meeting monthly financial and operational reports.
the power to refuse registration of a 138 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 139 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 138 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 who may exercise, or refrain share transfer if, in their reasonable In making their judgement on this, the from exercising, such rights at his opinion, such transfer would result in other Directors must have regard to sole discretion.
be treated as Affected Shares.
A register is maintained for the Board of The Affected Shares Notice may, if the all such disclosures and the terms of any Directors determine, also require that the The Articles also provide that the such authorisation.
Affected Shares must be disposed of Directors shall not register any person as within 10 days of receiving such notice a holder of any share in the Company Authorisations may be revoked, or the or such longer period as the Directors unless the Directors receive a declaration terms on which they were given varied, may specify such that the Affected of nationality relating to such person and at any time.
Cleared conflicts will in any Shares become owned by an EEA such further information as they may event be reviewed annually by the Board.
national, failing which the Directors may reasonably request with respect to that In the event of any actual conflict arising arrange for the sale of the relevant shares nationality declaration.
in respect of any matter, mitigating at the best price reasonably obtainable at action would also be considered for The Directors believe that currently the the time.
The net proceeds of any sale of example, non-attendance of the Director nationality requirements, set out in the Affected Shares would be held on trust concerned at all or part of Board Regulation, are met and, based on the and paid together with such rate of meetings and non-circulation to him Companys understanding of the interest as the Directors deem or her of relevant papers.
application of the Regulation and of its appropriate to the former registered shareholder base, more than 70% of the Post-balance-sheet events holder upon surrender of the relevant share capital of those companies which There have been no reportable events share certificate in respect of the shares.
are required to be majority-EEA-owned from the balance sheet date to the date Circumstances in which the Directors and controlled is owned by EEA nationals of this report.
may determine that shares are or funds managed in the EEA.
There can Internal controls and risk Affected Shares however be no guarantee that this will management continue to be their assessment and that The Articles provide that where the Directors determine that it is necessary it will not be necessary to declare a There has been a process for identifying, Permitted Maximum or exercise any other to take steps in order to protect an evaluating and managing principal risks of their or the Companys powers in the operating licence of the Group they may: throughout the year to 31 March 2017 Articles referred to above.
i seek to identify those shares which and up to the date of the approval of the have given rise to the determination financial statements for that year.
In Directors duty to avoid conflicts and to deal with such shares as Affected respect of our financial reporting process of interest Shares: and or ii specify a maximum and the process for preparing our The Company has adopted a formal number of shares which will be less than consolidated accounts, management procedure for the disclosure, review, 50% of the Companys issued share monitors the processes underpinning authorisation and management of capital that may be owned by non-EEA the Groups financial reporting systems Directors conflicts of interest and nationals and then to treat any shares through regular reporting and review, potential conflicts of interest in owned by non-EEA nationals in excess and data for consolidation into the accordance with the provisions of of that limit as Affected Shares the Groups financial statements is reviewed the Companies Act 2006.
Directors will publish a notice of any by management to ensure that it reflects specified maximum within two business The procedure requires Directors a true and fair view of the Groups results days of resolving to impose such limit.
In in compliance with applicable formally to notify the Board via the deciding which shares are to be dealt Company Secretary as soon as they accounting policies.
with as Affected Shares the Directors shall become aware of any actual or potential The Board, through the Audit and Risk be entitled to determine which Relevant conflict of interest with their duties to the Committee, reviews the effectiveness of Shares in their sole opinion have directly Company or of any material change in the Companys internal control processes or indirectly caused the relevant existing actual or potential conflicts that formally at least once a year.
Financial Controller is asked to report on practicable, the Directors shall have Notified actual or potential conflicts will the effectiveness of the Groups internal regard to the chronological order in be reviewed by the Board as soon as controls and the Audit and Risk which the Relevant Shares have been possible.
The Board will consider whether Committee reviews this report in light entered in the separate register.
a conflict or potential conflict does, in of all the other information supplied to fact, exist and, if so, whether it is in the Right to refuse registration it during the course of the year including interest of the Company that it be internal audit reports, risk reports and The Articles provide the Directors with authorised and, if so, on what terms.
monthly financial and operational reports.
the power to refuse registration of a Babcock International Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2017 139 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 139
