10 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES & MODEL & STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS HOW WE ALLOCATE OUR We are committed to financial discipline, Once new strategies are established, the To increase the transparency of our both in terms of the quality of investment and Groups investment is reduced and the progressive dividend policy and to closer strategic allocation of resources, as well as capital redeployed.
The ability to support reflect the growth of the Fund Management ensuring that an appropriate Group-wide the establishment of new strategies Company FMC, we intend to recommend capital structure is maintained.
Capital is is a competitive advantage.
a dividend which represents a pay-out of allocated to strategies that are expected 80-100% of the post-tax profits of the FMC.
to create long term shareholder value.
Shareholder distributions We anticipate the FMC profits will grow as a proportion of the total profits but in the We seek to maximise shareholder value by Investing in growth next few years, until FMC profits can cover utilising our available capital to prioritise our pay-out policy, we will continue to draw We allocate capital to grow the business investment in opportunities which over a on IC profits to comply with our progressive in a number of ways.
The Group: number of years will add sustainable income dividend policy.
We currently anticipate streams to the business.
invests with the funds it manages, recommending growing the dividend generating attractive long term investment We understand that, alongside investing per share by 6-8% per annum.
See the income streams for the IC in growth, shareholders place value Chairmans statement on page 3. on regular and sustainable dividends.
acts as an anchor investor, providing capital Prior to declaring dividend payments We have established a new progressive for new investment strategies, developing the Board ensures there are sufficient dividend policy.
a track record to support fundraising distributable reserves and funds available to make the payments and considers supports new strategies through Following our review, we reaffirm the the impact on regulatory capital, debt underwriting additional operating costs progressive nature of our dividend policy, covenants and debt ratings.
These are not until the strategy generates third party meaning that unless there are significant currently constraints on making ordinary fee income adverse circumstances the ordinary dividend payments.
dividend per share will increase, or will invest for growth through acquisition at least be maintained, year on year.
The distributable reserves of the Parent of teams or more established fund Company at 31 March 2017 were 407m.
management businesses ICG Operating Model INVESTING FUNDRAISING Fund deployment Gross fundraising to average 4bn per annum Fund performance and track record Maintain fee level Impairment target of less than 2.5% of opening book Selective product expansion IC PROFITABILITY FMC PROFITABILITY IC gross return on assets FMC operating margin Manage risk across all portfolios Manage risk across all portfolios CAPITAL ALLOCATION Return on equity above 13% Gearing 0.8 1.2x BUSINESS GROWTH SHAREHOLDER RETURNS Reinvest to drive ROE Dividend Return surplus cash Optimise co-investment ratio for each strategy INVESTMENT IN NEW FUNDS ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 11 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WHAT MAKES US 1 2 3 INVESTOR INSIGHT SKILLS AND DISCIPLINED EXPERTISE AND ANALY TICAL APPROACH Our dedicated global marketing and Our local teams and sector specialists Our consistent, efficient and robust distribution team gives us insight which speak the languages, have long investment culture, based on core enables us to be nimble and efficient in standing relationships and understand credit principles and a strong designing new strategies to respond to the markets in which they operate, focus on capital preservation market developments, investor demand providing deal flow and early access underpinned by rigorous risk analysis, and investment opportunities.
is applied consistently across investment strategies.
4 AN OUTSTANDING TR ACK RECORD Our business model is built on providing fund investors with direct access to specific asset classes, a disciplined investment approach and a focus on post investment monitoring.
We are a specialist amongst asset managers.
Our successful approach has enabled us to generate returns for our fund investors You can read more about the resources and relationships which support our consistently at, or above, target across investment strategies.
This track record makes business model on pages 35 to 38 us different.
