Royal Mail plc | Directors report Share capital As at 27March 2017, the Companys issued Directors report share capital comprised 1,000,000,000 ordinary shares of one penny each as set out in Note 23 to the accounts on page 129.
The Directors present their report together with audited financial A block listing of 5,000,000 shares was statements for the year ended 26March 2017. undertaken in November 2014.
To date, no new shares have been issued.
Strategic report Corporate governance statement Rights and obligations attaching to shares To enable the assessment of how the The Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Voting Directors have performed their duty to Rules require certain information to Subject to the provisions of the Articles, and promote the success of the Company, the be included in a Corporate Governance to any special rights or restrictions as to Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors Statement in the Directors Report.
This voting attached to any class of shares in the to set out in this report a fair review of information can be found in the Statement of Company of which there is none, members the business of the Group during the year, Corporate Governance on pages 54-58 and will be entitled to vote at a general meeting the position of the Group at the end of the is incorporated into this Directors Report as follows: year and a description of the principal risks by reference.
This information can be On a show of hands, every member found in the following sections of the Annual Shares present in person has one vote.
Every Report and Financial Statements and are Final dividend proxy present who has been duly incorporated by reference.
The Board recommends a final dividend appointed by appointing one or more of 15.6 pence per ordinary share, giving a members will have one vote, except The information required to be disclosed in total dividend for the year of 23.0 pence that a proxy has one vote for and one the Annual Report under Listing Rule 9.8.
The final dividend will vote against if the proxy has been duly is marked with an asterisk below.
be payable on 28July 2017, subject to appointed by more than one member and shareholder approval, to shareholders whose the proxy has been instructed by one or names appear on the register of members on more members to vote for and by one or Index Page 30June 2017. more other members to vote against.
Business model 14 Dividends and distribution For this purpose, the Articles provide that, Strategy for delivering objectives 16 The Company may by ordinary resolution where a proxy is given discretion as to Results 4 from time-to-time declare dividends not how to vote on a show of hands, this will exceeding the amount recommended by be treated as an instruction by the relevant Financial assets and liabilities 96 the Board.
Subject to the Companies Act member to vote in the way that the proxy Principal risks 37 2006, the Board may pay interim dividends, decides to exercise that discretion.
and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever Corporate responsibility 43 the financial position of the Company, in On a poll, every member has one vote per Greenhouse gas emissions 46 the opinion of the Directors, justifies its share held by them and they may vote payment.
If the Board acts in good faith, it is in person or by appointing one or more Disabled employees 44 not liable to holders of shares with preferred proxies.
Where they appoint more than or pari passu rights for losses arising from one proxy, the proxies appointed, taken Our people 43 the payment of interim or fixed dividends together, shall not have more extensive Going concern 99 on other shares.
All dividends shall be voting rights than the member could apportioned and paid pro rata according to exercise in person.
Viability statement 41 the amounts paid up on the shares.
Long-Term Incentive Plans 120 In the case of joint holders of a share, the Dividend waivers vote of the senior holder who tenders a Statement of the amount of interest 116 and capitalised 118 The trustee of the Royal Mail Share Incentive vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall Plan will not receive any dividends other be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of Dividend waiver 84 than any special dividend declared by the the other joint holders and, for this purpose, Board on Free Shares which it has not been seniority shall be determined by the order possible to award to, or which have been in which the names stand in the register in Disclosure and forfeited by, participants in the plan.
respect of the joint holding.
TransparencyRules Political donations The Strategic Report and the Directors No member shall be entitled to vote at any No political donations were made during the Report together include the management general meeting or class meeting in respect year and the Company intends to continue its report required by DTR 4.1 of the Disclosure of any share held by him, or her, if any call policy of not making such donations for the Guidance and Transparency Rules of the or other sum then payable by him or her in foreseeable future.
UK Financial Conduct Authority Disclosure respect of that share remains unpaid or if a Guidance and Transparency Rules, the member has been served with a restriction Future developments Directors having consulted with the notice as defined in the Articles after failure Possible future developments are described Management on such matters.
to provide the Company with information in Our Strategy on pages 16-17 and Principal concerning interests in those shares required Risks on pages 37-41 of the Strategic Report.
84 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information to be provided under the Companies Act 2006.
Authority of the Directors to allot shares Substantial shareholdings Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
By a resolution passed by shareholders on As at 26March 2017, the Company had been 21July 2016, at the AGM, the Directors were notified, in accordance with the Disclosure Voting instructions may be submitted authorised, subject to certain limitations, Guidance and Transparency Rules, of the electronically at www.
co. uk by to allot shares in the Company and to grant following interests amounting to three per following the online instructions.
rights to subscribe for or to convert any cent or more of the voting rights in the issued security into shares in the Company: ordinary share capital of the Company: Employees allocated Free Shares under the a. up to a nominal amount of % of Employee Free Shares Offer, which are held Number of 3,333,333: and Shareholder voting shares in trust by the Trustee of the Royal Mail Share rights Incentive Plan, are entitled to exercise any b. comprising equity securities up to a BlackRock, Inc 55,076,360 5.50% voting rights in respect of such Free Shares nominal amount of 6,666,666 such by instructing the Trustee how to vote on amount to be reduced by any allotments their behalf.
made under paragraph a above in As at 18May 2017, the Company had been connection with an offer by way of a notified, in accordance with the Disclosure Deadline for voting rights rights issue: and Transparency Rules, of the following Full details of the deadlines for exercising interests amounting to three per cent or The authorities conferred on the Directors voting rights in respect of the resolutions more of the voting rights in the issued to allot securities under paragraph a to be considered at the AGM, to be held on ordinary share capital of the Company: and b will expire on the date of the 2017 20July 2017, will be set out in the Notice AGM or close of business on 31July 2016, % of of AGM.
Number of whichever is sooner, the Expiry Date.
Shareholder voting shares rights TheDirectors will be seeking a new authority Special rights for the Directors to allot shares and to BlackRock, Inc 55,076,360 5.50% There are no persons holding securities that grant subscription and conversion rights to carry special rights with regard to the control ensure that the Directors continue to have of the Group.
Amendment to the Companys Articles the flexibility to act in the best interests of ofAssociation Transfer of shares shareholders when opportunities arise by Any amendments to the Companys Articles Subject to the Articles, any member may issuing new shares or granting such rights.
may be made in accordance with the transfer all or any of his or her certificated provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way shares by an instrument of transfer in any The Board was also given authority to allot of special resolution.
usual form or in any other form which the equity securities for cash or to sell Ordinary Board may approve.
The instrument of Shares as treasury shares for cash subject Directors transfer must be signed by or on behalf of the to certain limitations, such authority to apply Indemnity of Directors transferor and in the case of a partly-paid until the Expiry Date.
To the extent permitted by the Companies share the transferee.
Acts, the Company may indemnify any Purchase of own shares by the Company Director or former Director of the Company The transferor of a share is deemed to remain By a resolution passed by shareholders on or any associated company against any the holder until the transferees name is 21July 2016, at the AGM, the Company was liability and may purchase and maintain entered in the register.
authorised to purchase up to a maximum for any Director or former Director of the number of 100,000,000 of its Ordinary Shares Company or any associated company The Board can decline to register any transfer pursuant to certain limitations, such power insurance against any liability.
of any share which is not a fully paid share.
to apply until the Expiry Date.
The Company The Board may also decline to register a did not repurchase any of its Ordinary Shares These types of indemnity are qualifying transfer of a certificated share unless the during the year ended 26March 2017. third-party indemnities as defined by section instrument of transfer: 243 of the Companies Act 2006.
No amount The Directors require express authorisation was paid under this provision during the year.
i. is duly stamped or certified or otherwise from shareholders to purchase our own shown to the satisfaction of the Board shares.
Accordingly, at the 2017 AGM, Appointment and replacement to be exempt from stamp duty and is theDirectors will seek authority to make ofDirectors accompanied by the relevant share market purchases of up to a maximum of Unless otherwise determined by ordinary certificate and such other evidence of ten per cent of issued share capital.
At the resolution of the Company, the Directors the right to transfer as the Board may present time, the Company has no plans to shall be no fewer than two and no more than reasonably require: exercise this authority.
is in respect of only one class of share: and Employee Benefit Trust EBT Directors may be appointed by the Company iii.
if to joint transferees, is in favour of not As at 26March 2017, a total of 9,582,175 by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
more than four such transferees.
2015-16 27,042 shares were held by the EBT on behalf of the Company.
Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated In accordance with the Code, all Directors share may be refused in the circumstances of the Company are subject to annual set out in the uncertificated securities rules re-election.
as defined in the Articles and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 85 A Director appointed by the Board holds Financial risk management The Board identifies and assesses significant office only until the next AGM and is then The Groups financial risk management risks, including those relating to ESG matters, eligible for election by the shareholders.
objectives and policies and the main risks through the maintenance and review of the TheCompanys Articles provide that, at each arising from the Groups financial assets and Group Risk Profile.
This contains significant AGM, all those Directors who have been in liabilities are summarised in Note 21 to the current risks, including ESG risks, which are office at the time of the two preceding AGMs accounts on page 123.
See the financial risks identified at an early stage of becoming known and who did not retire at either of them, or and related hedging contained on page 31 of as part of the long-term business perspective.
who have held office with the Company, other the Financial Review in the Strategic Report.
Emerging risk identification is conducted by than employment or executive office, for a experts in the business and risk management continuous period of nine years or more at Change of control is owned and managed at the operational the date of the AGM, shall retire from office The following agreements contain provisions level, supported centrally.
An independent and may offer themselves for re-appointment permitting exercise of termination or other effectiveness review by an independent by shareholders.
The Board has, however, rights in the event of a change of control: external auditor confirmed good links between decided to follow the Code as referred to the strategy of the Company and currently above so that all Directors are subject to The Mails Distribution Agreement with identified risks and that appropriate annual re-election.
Post Office Limited provides for the supply importance is placed on risk management by of certain services to the Group and allows executives within the Group.
The Company In addition to any power of removal conferred for a request for renegotiation of terms in maintains a range of policies and procedures by the Companies Act 2006, the Company the event of a change of control of either for managing business risks, which include may by special resolution remove any party where such change of control is ESG-related matters.
Director before the expiration of his or her likely to have a material adverse effect period of office.
on the party not undergoing the change The Board annually reviews the Companys of control.
Corporate Responsibility Report, which Directors and their interests covers in detail the Groups non-financial The Directors of the Company during the The Syndicated Loan Facility with various ESGperformance.
The report is prepared year are given on pages 4951.
Details of the financial institutions provides the Group inalignment with the reporting framework interest of the Directors and, where applicable, with a revolving credit facility for general ofthe Global Reporting Initiative Index and their Connected Persons in the Ordinary corporate and working capital purposes.
the Companys performance is assessed Shares of the Company and of Long-Term The agreement contains provision on against international sustainability indices.
Incentive Plan Awards over Ordinary Shares a change of control of the Group for TheCompany reports progress against of the Company are set out in the Directors negotiation of the continuation of the corporate responsibility objectives under Remuneration Report on pages66-83.
agreement or cancellation by a lender.
fiveareas: Customer, People, Community, Suppliers and Environment.
See also page43 There are procedures in place to deal with The 500 million bond issued by the for a summary of key corporate any conflicts of interest and these have Company in July 2014 contains provisions responsibility aspects.
such that, on a change of control that is combined with a credit rating downgrade Going concern Powers of the Directors in certain circumstances, the noteholders These consolidated financial statements have The business of the Company will be may require the Company to redeem or, been prepared on a going concern basis.
managed by the Board who may exercise all atthe Companys option, purchase the The financial performance and position of the powers of the Company, subject to the notes for their principal amount, together the Group, its cash flows and its approach provisions of the Articles, the Companies with interest accrued to but excluding to capital management are set out in the Act 2006 and any ordinary resolution of the date of redemption or repurchase.
has reviewed the Groups projections for the Branches next 12 months and the Directors have a Directors annual bonus and LongTerm As a global Group, our interests and reasonable expectation that the Group has Incentive Plan awards upon a change activitiesare held or operated through adequate resources to continue in operational inthe control ofthe Company subsidiaries, branches, joint arrangements existence for at least 12 months.
Upon a change of control of the Company, or associates which are established in, share awards under the annual bonus and andsubject to the laws and regulations of, Viability Statement vesting under the 2014 LTIP or 2016 LTIP many different jurisdictions.
The Viability Statement can be viewed on arrangements could pay out on a pro-rated page41 of the Strategic Report.
basis if the performance conditions have New products and services been met.
The performance-testing period In the ordinary course of business, the Group Audit information would automatically end on the date of the develops new products and services in each The Directors confirm that, so far as change in control.
Awards granted less of its business units.
they are aware, there is no relevant audit than 12 months prior to a change in control information as defined in section 418 of the would typically be pro-rated, unless the Environmental social and Companies Act 2006 of which the Auditor Remuneration Committee decides otherwise.
governancerisks is unaware and that each Director has taken The Strategic Report, together with all reasonable steps to make themselves Events after the reporting period greenhouse gas GHG emissions which are aware of any relevant audit information and The events after the reporting period located on page46, set out key to establish that the Auditor is aware of are disclosed in Note27 of the environmental, social and governance ESG that information.
risks faced by the business.
86 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information The Directors confirm full compliance with Statement of Directors The Directors are responsible for keeping the Competition and Markets Authoritys adequate accounting records that are responsibilities in respect of the Statutory Audit Services Order.
Further sufficient to show and explain the parent Annual Report and Financial information about the audit transition can Companys transactions and disclose Statements be found on page 61 of the Audit and Risk with reasonable accuracy at any time the Committee Report.
The Directors are responsible for preparing financial position of the parent Company the Annual Report and the Group and parent and enable them to ensure that its financial This confirmation is given and should be Company financial statements in accordance statements comply with the Companies interpreted in accordance with the provisions with applicable law and regulations.
They have general responsibility of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. for taking such steps as are reasonably Company law requires the Directors to open to them to safeguard the assets of the Disclaimer prepare Group and parent Company financial Group and to prevent and detect fraud and The Disclaimer can be found on page 152 of statements for each financial year.
law, they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRS Under applicable law and regulations, the By Order of the Board.
as adopted by the EU and applicable law, and Directors are also responsible for preparing a have elected to prepare the parent Company Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors financial statements in accordance with UK Remuneration Report and Corporate Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 Governance Statement that complies with Kulbinder Dosanjh Reduced Disclosure Framework.
that law and those regulations.
Company Secretary 17May 2017 Under company law, the Directors must not The Directors are responsible for the approve the financial statements unless they maintenance and integrity of the corporate Royal Mail plc are satisfied that they give a true and fair and financial information included on the 100 Victoria Embankment view of the state of affairs of the Group and Companys website.
Legislation in the UK London parent Company and of their profit or loss for governing the preparation and dissemination EC4Y OHQ that period.
In preparing each of the Group of financial statements may differ from and parent Company financial statements, legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company number 08680755 the Directors are required to: The Directors consider that the Annual select suitable accounting policies and then Report and Financial Statements 2016-17, apply them consistently: when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information make judgements and estimates that are necessary for shareholders to assess the reasonable and prudent: Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in Each of the Directors, whose names and accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: function are set out on pages 49-51 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: for the parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting the financial statements, which have been Standards have been followed, subject prepared in accordance with the applicable to any material departures disclosed and set of accounting standards, give a true explained in the parent Company financial and fair view of the assets, liabilities, statements: and financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in prepare the financial statements on the the consolidation taken as a whole: and going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent the Strategic Report includes a fair review Company will continue in business.
of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
