Market overview and outlook In a strong position Marine Outlook The Marine sector consists of the We continue to monitor the market and Market overview previous Babcock Marine and Technology develop our capacity and capabilities in Market segment Size division, but also includes marine these areas of growth.
Additionally the training previously in the Defence and markets for engineering consultancy and UK naval marine 4.4bn Security division.
cyber security continue to grow, and we Canadian naval marine 1.0bn see further opportunities to win business We continue to have excellent visibility in these areas.
Australia New Zealand 1.9bn of our future naval support programme though our ToBA and our relationship We expect the sector to continue to naval marine with the MOD and Royal Navy.
We make good progress during the next Energy and marine 2.0bn continue to see further outsourcing financial year, despite the maturing opportunities to increase the scope of of QEC aircraft carrier work which will UK cyber, intelligence 2.6bn ourcomplex and critical engineering reduce revenues by around 260 million and security support to the MOD as we focus on over the next three years, with a maximising platform availability and 100 million step down expected in Engineering 2.0bn consulting providing increased value for money.
As we look further ahead, we believe the outlook for the Marine sector As well as our core defence business, remains positive, with a strong pipeline our innovative expertise in complex of growth opportunities across our and critical engineering services businesses both in the UK and established positions us well to continue to exploit international markets.
opportunities in adjacent commercial marine and energy markets, both in the UKand internationally.
Aviation Outlook The Aviation sector comprises MCS, The UK military Air business is undertaking Market overview previously in the International division, a number of bidding opportunities which Market segment Size and the military Air business previously have come to market following the within the Defence and Security division.
SDSR15, deepening our relationship with Defence aviation 1.6bn the customer and providing innovative support Aviation has brought together all of solutions.
Our French Air Force contract equipment and Babcocks aviationrelated businesses, FOMEDEC is at the earliest stages of infrastructure both civilian and military, and rotary transition and delivery and hence will and fixed wing.
Whilst in the oil and gas Defence flying training 1.6bn initially declare lower margins, but business the market remains challenging, provides an operational reference for our with continued pressure on margins and Emergency services 3.2bn military Air business in continental Europe.
ongoing cost recovery issues relating to Oil and gas helicopter 2.4bn flight restrictions on EC225 helicopters, services the Emergency Services business is pursuing a number of opportunities in the UK and internationally, particularly in HEMS.
Annual addressable revenue Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 24 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Land Outlook The Land sector is a combination of In UK defence, we anticipate further Market overview Critical Services, Network Engineering, equipment support outsourcing Market segment Size Skills & Learning, previously within the opportunities as customers acquire Support Services division, the military and upgrade equipment to improve UK defence fleet, 1.3bn Land business, previously within the force readiness as a result of this Whole equipment and Defence and Security division, and Force Approach.
training support South Africa, previously within the solutions In the civil technical training market, International division.
demand for the outsourced management Blue light vehicle 1.0bn We see significant opportunities to and delivery of technical training is conversion, fleet expand our equipment support and increasing as the technology and skills management and technical training capabilities across our required for delivery become more maintenance military and civil customer base.
Our current military training Global airport GSE and 1.0bn understanding of customers operational footprint also means we are well placed and financial objectives, underpinned by to respond to our defence customers baggage handling equipment support our marketleading capabilities, enables increasing focus on training efficiency and us to drive greater efficiency across improved collective training solutions.
UK defence and civil Defence theiroperations.
The programmes identified within the training 1.2bn SDSR15 are progressing, with significant We are experiencing greater demand activity expected to commence in Civil 1.3bn for equipment support, in the UK 2018 19. and internationally, as customers South Africa equipment 0.7bn seek a flexible partner to deliver sales greater availability and efficiency UK rail network 2.0bn atareduced cost.
Cavendish Nuclear Outlook Cavendish Nuclear comprises the nuclear In the UK, the civil nuclear market remains Market overview business previously within the Support resilient, with opportunities for both Market segment Size Services division.
As a newly created decommissioning and new build services sector in the Babcock Group, Cavendish providing scope for growth.
In particular, UK nuclear 2.4bn Nuclears growth will be focused on three the recent Government decision to decommissioning main markets: proceed with the Hinkley Point C project International nuclear 1.0bn has given renewed momentum to new nuclear decommissioning in the UK decommissioning build activity in the UK.
and internationally: Decommissioning oil 1.5bn the design and safety justification, and gas construction, commissioning, operational support and maintenance Nuclear services 1.4bn of nuclear facilities in the UK and internationally: and New build 1.5bn new sectors where current capabilities can be applied and developed, such as offshore oil and gas decommissioning.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 25 Strategic report: Performance Key performance indicators 28 Financial review 30 Marine and Technology 38 Defence and Security 44 Support Services 48 International 54 Sustainability 58 Principal risks and management controls 68 Viability statement 79 Achieving further profitable growth in the UK Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 26 I joined the International Maritime College Oman in 2011, progressing in Marine Engineering.
This included 10 months of sea time on several large vessels completing my cadet ship training before going back to college for my Bachelor degree in Marine Engineering.
My society is not used to the idea of women working in this field, but I havent let that stop me.
Being the only woman in my classes made itmore challenging, but these challenges motivate me to keep going and I hope other women continue to break these barriers too.
Working with Babcock gives me a great opportunity to learn more about the marine industry and the technologies being developed.
Babcocks joint venture with Oman Dry Dock is a great chance to gain further involvement and insight into how technical projects are carried out with ships in the dock.
Al Najood Al Busaidi Marine Engineer, Oman Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 27
