Operational review continued Defence and Security Market overview In addition to its commitment to How to read this report increase the defence budget by 0.5% From 1 April 2017 we formally report the Group in four new sectors to reflect above inflation for the remainder of this how we manage the business.
The 2017 Strategic report aims to communicate Parliament, the UK Government has also the Group today, while the operation reviews report the financial and committed to increase its equipment operational progress in the previous divisional format during the last financial budget at 1% above inflation.
A reconciliation of the divisions to sectors, and more information can be enable our principal customer to plan found on pages 615, outlooks for the sectors can be found on pages 2425. for the future with some confidence, including its intention to spend 2017 Performance highlights 178 billion on equipment and support 2017 2016 over the decade to 2025 26.
These m m investments include 7.4 billion for land Revenue Total including jvs 976.5 843.1 equipment and a total of 27.2 billion for Joint ventures 90.8 88.5 military air equipment.
Operating profit Total including jvs 146.6 131.3 This is an increase of more than Joint ventures 58.7 45.2 11 billion against last years Equipment Operating margin Total including jvs 15.0% 15.6% Plan.
Importantly for Babcock, there Joint ventures 64.6% 51.1% is a change in financial arrangements where savings made by the front line commands can be used to fund new investments.
This gives the armed forces Key highlights Revenue % of Group a better incentive to seek efficiencies in UK Military Flying Training System the support arena and this should give UKMFTS rotary wing contract rise to new opportunities for Babcock.
awarded to Ascent, our 50:50 jv The MOD will need to realise a total of with Lockheed Martin 9.8 billion of savings over the next 10 UKMFTS fixed wing contract years, primarily through transformation started strongly and is efficiencies.
For the Defence and Security performing well division, the net result of the additional 19% Hawk T1 integrated operational equipment commitments in the 2015 support rebid awarded SDSR is a 28% increase in planned spend on support for new equipment over the Successfully moved to the next next 10 years, up from 18.3 billion phase of DSG pricing Schedule to 23.4 billion for 20162025, and of Rates, currently working a 2% increase on last years expected on 12 demonstration vehicles spend for inservice equipment over the for the Warrior Capability next decade.
Sustainment Programme Final AirTanker aircraft delivered Western European defence markets Operating margin on schedule show many of the same financial and engineering skills based challenges Leconfield Defence School of KPI associated with the UK Armed Forces.
Transport contract win 15.0% Our deep skills, gained from decades of Renewed Army training and experience serving the mature defence maintenance contracts sector in the UK, have contributed to our 100% success on contract rebids ability to develop a presence in France, Revenue growth and extensions, including airbase which has a similar size defence budget multiactivity support and UKMFTS but a less mature outsourcing defence rear crew training contracts KPI support services sector.
15.8% Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 44 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Strategy The stated UK policy to protect and grow Employing technicalinnovation at Babcock DSG the defence budget and its determination Across the Group Babcock is driving technology to deliver results.
At DSG, we that new equipment capabilities maintain, repair, overhaul and upgrade military vehicles and equipment, and will only be secured by delivering assemble and test new vehicles for the British Army, and technologyplays a key significant efficiencies provide significant role.
Previously, weidentified defects in vehicleshulls through the use of dye opportunities for Babcock.
penetration testing, which could only detect surfacebreaking flaws.
Recently, Our core strategy is to drive revenue we partnered with selected companies to jointly develop techniques for specific growth by moving up the supply chain vehicles and gained the technical capability to perform phased array ultrasound across all our activities, offering better testing of these vehicle hulls.
The method involves ultrasonically scanning the differentiated services and seeking platforms and allows the detection of subsurface defects.
This is combined added value and therefore higher margin with technical weld repair on these complex vehiclesto provideagreater level work.
We will continue to monitor and of structural integrity assurance on completed vehicles when handing back manage our international target markets tothe MOD.
with complimentary approaches to drive growth.
Our position as a leading support partner to the British Army is beginning to present wider opportunities to embed Babcock as the Armys strategic supplier for equipment support and individual training.
We aim to accelerate our engineering services and data analysis delivered to date through new technologies including commercial off theshelf products to determine potential improvements and increase our offering to our customers.
Our aviation business is an important provider of military aircraft and base support services within both the UK military training environment and, through our FOMEDEC contract award, margins and new market positions.
These Total operating profit increased the French military training environment.
activities are underpinned by productivity by 11.7% to 146.6 million Our recent success to secure the improvement initiatives and a greater 2016: 131.3 million.
Operating Royal Navy aviation and engineering engineering and technical focus in profit growth was driven by the revenue support and aircraft services contract our operations.
increase but also by profit recognition brings our aviation capabilities to within the Holdfast Training Services joint frontline operational customers and Financial review venture Holdfast, which is now in the we aim to expand our services in the ninth year of a 30year contract.
Organic Revenue for the Defence and Security operational environment through a operating profit at constant exchange division, including the Groups range of strategies that will enable us to rates grew by 11.3%.
The divisions share of joint venture revenue, partner with air forces as well as specific operating margins reduced slightly to increased by 15.8% to 976.5 million OEMs through smart collaborative 15.0% 2016: 15.6% reflectinga mix of 2016: 843.1 million.
Organic partnerships to deliver maintenance, lower margins on procurement revenue revenue at constant exchange rates support and training.
offset by additional profit recognition grew by 15.1%.
This strong growth was We are making investments across our on Holdfast.
primarily due to the start of the UKMFTS business to develop our capabilities fixed wing, rotary wing and rear crew in highend engineering, programme Operational review contracts and the first year of the AESAS and project management and systems contract.
In addition, there was increased Within our Land business, the DSG integration, and we are applying procurement work in the DSG business.
contract with the MOD for the British technology to drive differentiation, profit Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 45 Operational review continued Army is trading in line with expectations across all main contracts, delivering provided to assist the implementation following a busy year.
The first generation over 20,000 training days to the British phase of the contract with both 10year contract is delivered from seven Army.
Under the ElectroMechanical businesses operating in the new main sites across the UK.
The contract Training contract we continue to deliver Aviation sector.
includes maintenance, repair, overhaul transformation in training delivery and The Sea Training business has continued and provision of stores and spares support.
Recent successes include the to deliver strong operational and safety procurement services for land equipment, development of a new Protected Mobility performance.
Our transformation ranging from small arms to main battle Vehicle fleet course, reducing the course of Royal Navy engineering training tanks.
We successfully completed the duration from eight to five weeks, utilising is progressing, providing innovative overhaul and reset of 670 vehicles modern learning methods and media.
learning with stimulating interactive returning from military operations ahead Performance at the RSME continues online content and media supported by of schedule and met the demanding to remain at the highest level and the simplified instruction.
Feedback from the timelines to issue vehicles for operations contract was showcased in the autumn operational user community indicates in central Europe from the stored fleet.
during the visit of Her Majesty The Queen that trainees who have benefited from The transformation is on track with all as part of the 300th anniversary of the this approach are more effective, being contractual milestones achieved.
We expect services to be able to work independently and with expanded to include training support to During the year, we secured a contract higher confidence in completing practical the Defence Explosive Ordnance Disposal, amendment for eight years to provide tasks.
Although the successful Fleet Munitions and Search Training Regiment equipment on a turnkey availability basis Outsourced Activities Project has entered in Bicester and Kineton.
In addition, our to the Defence School of Transport at its final year in providing wideranging contract with Defence Infrastructure Leconfield and a years extension to training delivery and training support Organisation to provide support services provide maintenance on the fleet of services to the Royal Navy, we expect to the British Forces in Germany, which Protected Mobility Vehicles, totalling in to continue as the supplier of these commenced in 2011, was extended for excess of 30 million.
We are engaged services beyond December 2017.
We atwoyear period in 2016. with Lockheed Martin to offer the also continue to support the Royal Navy production of the Warrior Capability Our Air business began the year with a through the provision of sophisticated Sustainment Programme of 380 500 million contract award to deliver and realistic highend warfare training armoured vehicles and we anticipate rotary wing flying training services.
This and the design of imaginative immersive these discussions will progress through is the Babcock share of the contract, training in support of the new QEC the coming year.
We also anticipate delivered through Ascent, our joint aircraft carrier.
further opportunities as the Army 2020 venture with Lockheed Martin to deliver Sustainability Refine programme crystallises to defined UKMFTS.
As this contract, and the projects, with revenues expected in previously awarded fixed wing contract, In support of the business growth 2018 19. ramp up over the next three years, we agenda, the focus for 2016 has been on shall continue to focus on current military strengthening our talent pipeline.
This has The sixyear contract to manage the flying training through our Hawk, Tucano been achieved by extending the scope of MODs white fleet, entitled Phoenix II, and Tutor contracts.
We are well placed our high potential identification, pushing started in the UK in September 2016. to ensure that the customer transitions deeper into talent pools, stretching and This service manages the MODs fleet of from the current services to the new challenging people earlier in their careers.
16,000 administrative vehicles and the services in a seamless fashion.
We continue First line leaders are key enablers of to perform well in delivery of the MODs The fiveyear contract to deliver AESAS to business performance.
During 2016 we worldwide construction fleet of 2,000 the Royal Navy at Yeovilton and Culdrose, completed the rollout of the first line vehicles through our ALC joint venture.
which we announced last year, is now leadership development programme Aswell as supporting a continued number fully operational and, as expected, there across Babcock DSG, with 522 staff now of operational requirements, we have are clear benefits from the rotary wing having completed the programme over also developed more advanced fleet aspects that we are able to leverage the lastfour years.
The programme has a management systems to support the from the MCS helicopter business.
On a major behavioural dimension with a focus reduction of costs through the term of similar basis, expertise, support and deep on practical application leadership style, the contract.
engineering knowledge from our Air managing self, managing performance, business was provided for the FOMEDEC communication, motivation and Within our training operations, we bid team in France and was a significant delegation.
We have implemented a continue to successfully deliver to factor in our being awarded the contract stress resilience programme, targeted at our customer with no service failures in January.
Furthersupport is being staff delivering high challenge projects.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 46 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Babcock is a committed member ofthe 5% Club andapprentices Advanced pilot training across the UK continue to be a key element of our Babcock is the most experienced provider of highquality training, engineering staffing strategy.
Targeting critical and equipment support to the UKs military flying training.
We have been technical skills, we currently have118 delivering flying training, aircraft engineering and airfield services for more than apprentices on programme and2016 70 years and we support over 25% of all MOD rotary and fixed wing aircraft.
saw the first cohort complete our twoyear advanced air engineering Our key activities include the delivery of pilot training, flight simulator apprentice scheme.
The quality of our maintenance, asset management, multiactivity support services and equipment apprenticeship development continues support to ensure aircraft, and their pilots, are always mission ready.
to be recognised: for example, this year We employ around 1,700 highly trained and uniquely skilled people to deliver one of our graduated female apprentices those specialist services from more than 30 sites across the UK.
We are extremely was elected to the Young Women In proud of our long association with the UKs military flying elite.
Our commitment Science and Engineering WISE Board.
to excellence in all we do is guaranteed.
We continue to develop our graduate population.
This year, we increased our graduate STEM intake and 52% of our current programme population is female 2015 16: 37%.
Maintaining a focus on diversity and inclusion, we have delivered a programme of No Innocent Bystander workshops to over 1,000 employees.
Wehave introduced an eLearning module to ensure employeewide awareness of diversity, inclusion and respect and have actively participated in the Groups Pride in Babcock and Womens Network events.
Our refresh of the Home Safe Everyday safety programmes continues to reduce both our accident numbers and accidentseverity rate.
Overall, there has been a 40% reduction in both minor injuries and significant accidents 3 days across Defence and Security this year.
Having identified and invested The Sea, Land, International and Security in energy saving opportunities, we have business units have respectively recorded delivered a range of improvements, over 2.7 million, 2.6 million, 1.8 million resulting in reduced total carbon dioxide and 400,000 hours worked without a emissions of 2,773 tonnes and savings in significant accident.
The Land business, excess of 980,000. including Babcock DSG, has reduced For the Engineering Education Scheme accident numbers in both frequency Wales, we worked in partnership with and severity by over 50% within the the RAF and BAE Systems to host female year.
For the sixth year running, our joint students from Ysgol David Hughes venture company ALC has received an secondary school in Anglesey at RAF Occupational Health and Safety Gold Valley.
The students gained an insight Medal Award from the Royal Society for into the range of technical vocations the Prevention of Accidents.
available in the aerospace sector and Working in partnership with the Defence wider careers in STEM.
We also invest in Infrastructure Organisation, Babcock is the communities in which we are based delivering an innovative energy reduction through a range of projects and by scheme throughout the MOD estate in providing support for local charities.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 47
