Royal Mail plc | Our business model Our business model We have a clear vision to be recognised as the best delivery company in the UK and across Europe.
Our business model leverages our resources and relationships for example, our networks, ourpeople and brand to deliver high-quality, value for money services for sending and receiving customers.
Webenefit when we deliver letters and parcels together.
But the network is expensive torun, particularly against the backdrop of a continuing decline in letter revenues.
Parcelforce Worldwide, our express delivery business, provides more parcel fulfilment options particularly for UK business customers.
Our core UK network is unparalleled in size and scope.
Our European business, GLS, provides geographical diversification of our earnings and is well positioned to grow in new markets.
Through this, we generate cash to reinvest appropriately in our core business, invest innew growth areas and pay dividends to our shareholders.
Operating through our resources and relationships Our networks Our role as the Universal Service Provider means Royal Mail has the capability to deliver to every address across the UK.
Through our longterm relationship with the Post Office, we have the largest retail network for parcels and letters.
With Local Collect, the UKs largest click and collect network, customers can now collect their parcels from 11,600 sites by far the largest network.
Parcelforce Worldwide provides additional fulfilment options, providing premium parcel services within the courier express market.
GLS, one of the largest European groundbased delivery networks, offers reliable, highquality parcel services, complemented by logistics and express services.
The GLS network covers 41 European countries and nation states through a combination of whollyowned companies and partner companies.
The GLS footprint was expanded this year.
In Europe, GLS acquired ASM in Spain.
As part of its careful and focused expansion outside Europe, GLS acquired the regional next day parcel delivery companies 1 GSO in California and Postal Express in the states of Washington, Oregon, and Idaho.
GLS is well positioned to support Royal Mail Groups overall strategy.
Our people As one of the largest employers in the UK, we are proud to provide the best pay and terms and conditions in our industry.
One in every 185 jobs in the UK is provided by Royal Mail.
We were pleased to have been named in the Times Top 50 Employers for Women for the fourth consecutive year for our commitment to gender equality in the workplace.
Our customers and our brand We deliver to around 30 million business and consumer addresses.
Around 80per cent of addresses are within one kilometre of a Royal Mail parcel access point.
GLS has more than 270,000customers across Europe.
Research we commissioned found that 79per cent of online shoppers say they trust Royal Mail, compared to 64per cent for the 2 nearest competitor.
Royal Mail ranked second globally in our industry in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices.
We are also a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index, ranking in the top 15per cent of companies.
Investment in our business We will continue to invest in our core network, although we are now past the peak of investment.
Over the last five years, we have made significant investments to support growth and to replace and replenish our assets.
Now that some of the larger projects rebuilding our legacy IT systems and resizing the core network are largely complete, we have reduced our investment spend.
In 201617, we invested a net 492 million, predominantly in the UK, and focused on growth.
1 Postal Express was acquired after the financial year end.
2 Royal Mail Delivery Matters 2015, page 21.
14 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information How we create value Continually improving our efficiency and productivity allows us to be more competitive.
This helps us to meet changing customer expectations.
This means we are better positioned to grow our existing customer relationships and win new business.
This, in turn, allows us to maintain financial flexibility Outputs to fund investment in our growth and maintain fair terms and conditions to ensure we continue to employ engaged and motivated people.
This is the best way of delivering sustainable shareholder value.
Continuing to deliver a highquality, financially sustainable Universal Service, and therefore maintaining our Continually improving efficiency Meeting changing customer expectations trustedbrand.
Adopting a strategic approach to costs Increasing the number of parcels we barcode andefficiency and scan Delivering a consistently high quality, flexible Delivering efficiency improvements and Opened over 250 of our busiest Customer service to grow existing meeting productivity targets Service Points on Sundays, covering over relationships, win new onethird of UK addresses Improving the efficiency of our logistics business and make sure network: promoting more efficient driving Drop off prepaid items for delivery at around we are fairly paid for using telemetry technology 1,200 Customer Service Points ourservices.
Streamlining processes in areas, including Demonstrating the value of letters Driving the generation central functions through initiatives such as the Strategic of cash to support MailingPartnership progressivedividends for our shareholders.
Continuing to invest in our business and our people, through effective management of our Engaged, motivated people Maintaining financial flexibility financial resources, Continuing to offer the best pay and terms and Harvesting the benefits of the technology including a strategic focus conditions in the industry rebuild on costs.
Our employees have a meaningful stake in the Investing in new areas to support growth.
This Company through the Free Shareoffers includes the careful and focused expansion of GLS outside Europe.
It is strategically In total, each eligible fulltime employee, important to the Group with the full allocation of 913 free shares, has received over 500 before tax in dividends More efficient investment spend since privatisation Investing in GLS which delivers higher returns than our core business Investing in our business and our people Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 15
