Our sectors in action Cavendish Nuclear Delivering major nuclear decommissioning programmes We deliver complex nuclear engineeringon major nuclear decommissioning programmes and projects across the UK, as well asnuclear engineering services in training and operation support, newbuild programme management, design and installation and critical safety training to both public and private customers in the UK and, increasingly, internationally.
Order book Pipeline 12% 15% Customer type: Civil vs defence Public vs private 97% 98% 3% 2% Civil Defence Public Private Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 14 Technology The sector has proven nuclear expertise across the nuclear life cycle including decommissioning.
It has extensive experience in managing complex multiasset decommissioning programmes in highly regulated environments providing an opportunity to leverage inoil and gasdecommissioning market and design knowhow in nuclear systems and thermal structural analysis.
Training As the UKs number one nuclear engineer, an integral part of our nuclear expertise is delivered through technical training.
We provide advanced technical training for Babcock employees and all EDF apprentices.
We also specialise in safety training across the nuclear estate including the Hinkley Point C site.
Infrastructure In delivering largescale major nuclear decommissioning programmes and generation support expertise, we operate from 20 sites across the UK, with additional critical manufacturing, test and assembly facilities at Irlam, Chester and Whetstone and technical environmental analysis laboratories and radiometric instrument workshops at Sellafield.
Global Growth We currently operate in the UK and Japan, where we undertake technical consultancy and physical decommissioning work.
We recognise that the worldwide decommissioning market is expanding as more reactors come offline.
As Dounreay aims to be the preeminent reference site for major nuclear decommissioning programmes in Europe, we believe we are well positioned for future opportunities.
1% International Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 15
