Operational review continued Support Services Market overview Our markets remain attractive, with How to read this report existing and potential customers opting From 1 April 2017 we formally report the Group in four new sectors to reflect to procure outsourced solutions to further how we manage the business.
The 2017 Strategic report aims to communicate reduce their cost base, deliver greater the Group today, while the operation reviews report the financial and efficiency and improve service delivery.
operational progress in the previous divisional format during the last financial Customers continue to market test year.
A reconciliation of the divisions to sectors, and more information can be services and our breadth and depth of found on pages 615, outlooks for the sectors can be found on pages 2425. expertise, coupled with our investment in innovative solutions and people 2017 Performance highlights development, mean that we are well 2017 2016 placed to respond to this challenge.
m m In the UKs civil nuclear market, there are Revenue Total including jvs 1,478.8 1,513.0 opportunities for both decommissioning Joint ventures 542.3 566.4 and new build services which provide Operating profit Total including jvs 110.5 107.6 scope for growth.
In particular, the recent Joint ventures 32.4 19.9 Government decision to proceed with Operating margin Total including jvs 7.5% 7.1% the Hinkley Point C project has given Joint ventures 6.0% 3.5% new momentum to new build activity inthe UK.
We expect that the demand for fleet Revenue % of Group Key highlights management and equipment support services in the UK and overseas will Nuclear decommissioning milestones remain strong, particularly for customers achieved on programmes across all with critical and complex fleets, such decommissioning sites as Ground Support Equipment GSE, Additional work at Dounreay Heavy Mobile Equipment and bluelight successfully completed emergency services.
Investment Cavendish Nuclear delivered a major in strategic fleet management hazard reduction project at Sellafield 28% capabilities, such as fleet optimisation, Increased revenues at our ABC rail asset replacement programmes and joint venture conversions, and decision support and Next generation of fire engines data analytics, to span multiple industry delivered for London Fire Brigade sectors, will position Babcock well for further outsourcing opportunities and Award winning app launched expansion of existing operations.
to connect key stakeholders at Heathrow Demand for our technical training Network Rails new trailblazer services remains positive.
We see an apprenticeship programme designed increasing requirement for technology Operating margin and mobilised and systems in the delivery of such training, which increases the barriers to Digital learning business secures KPI entry for competitors and incentivises new contracts 7.5% large organisations to outsource Severn Tunnel rail track lowering these services.
project successfully delivered The introduction of the Apprenticeship Revenue growth Levy represents a potential opportunity to grow our existing apprentice business in the engineering and workplace skills KPI 2.3% sectors.
However, while we expect large organisations to look to maximise the value of their levy account, our customer base also includes small employers who Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 48 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 may be disincentivised from training apprentices under the new regime.
Dungeness dives in Our strong domestic market position has In a significant step forward for nuclear decommissioning in the UK, divers are enabled us to expand our international being used to clean up the former cooling ponds at Dungeness A Site.
footprint by leveraging the capabilities Bringing with it a host of safety and environmental benefits, the work will see the successfully developed and delivered pond skips that were once used to store used nuclear fuel cut up and packaged for our UK customers.
This breadth of for disposal, with the water that remains in the ponds acting as additional expertise has provided a firm foundation radiation protection for the divers.
upon which we will build an expanding pipeline of international opportunities.
The technique also has additional environmental benefits, as the alternative We expect that our recent contract of cutting skips after they have been removed from the ponds would require wins in Europe and Australia will provide additional measures to prevent potential airborne contamination.
impetus for additional growth in During the work, an additional 20 tonnes of pond furniture, including framework these markets.
and machinery, classed as lowlevel waste will be removed and cut up before being disposed of at the Low Level Waste Repository.
Strategy The learning from the work at Dungeness A Site will be shared with other Our strategy continues to focus on our Magnox sites where similar work will be carried out, with Sizewell A Site being core markets where we have established the next destination.
a successful track record of delivery and developed strong longterm relationships John Clarke, NDAs Chief Executive, said: We always encourage our contractors with customers.
to adopt the highest standards of safety, security and environmental responsibility.
This work by Magnox Ltd shows that they are making real progress Growth in these markets will be driven in clearing the ponds at Dungeness, in a way that is not only safe for the though enhancing our capabilities environment, but is also saving time and money.
to provide innovative and financially attractive solutions to customers in the civil nuclear, vehicle fleet management and support and technical training services sectors.
Our order book and pipeline of new business opportunities support the potential for continued success across these core markets.
They also provide an opportunity to align our business more closely to our core strengths and to critically review which sectors offer the greatest potential for shareholder value.
Development of our capabilities, through internal and external collaboration and greater application of technology in our services, will underpin our growth.
and to respond to changes in the Across our business we continue to apprenticeship sector during 2017. develop our routes to expansion in In the Groups vehicle support businesses international markets and these efforts we will broaden our offering in the The strategy in our civil nuclear business have been rewarded with contract wins airports and bluelight sectors with is focused on continuing to successfully in Australia and Europe.
We expect strategic fleet management solutions deliver on the major UK decommissioning to grow our operational capabilities based on decision support and data programmes and expanding our presence overseas through an increasing pipeline of analytics tools that improve fleet in the new build sector.
In our Rail opportunities and potential acquisitions.
availability and reduce throughlife asset business, we expect Network Rails more costs for our customers.
regional structure to create opportunities Financial review to deliver capacity and operational Our training business will also leverage Revenue in the Support Services efficiency improvement.
technology to provide more integrated division reduced slightly: 2.3% training solutions for larger customers down to 1,478.8 million Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 49 Operational review continued Operational review In the year, Cavendish Nuclear, a Sellafields magnificent six whollyowned Babcock subsidiary, The last of six mighty doors which will unlock the contents of one of Sellafields continued to strengthen its position most hazardous buildings, has been installed on to the oldest plant at the as the UKs leading supplier to the civil nuclear site.
nuclear industry, remaining focused One of the big four legacy facilities at the Sellafield site the Pile Fuel Cladding on site operations, maintenance, Silo is a step closer to being cleaned up thanks to the installation of the decommissioning and nuclear new build.
12.4tonne stainless steel doors which will be key to opening the buildings The CFP in which the Group has a 65% locked vaults.
stake has come to a mutual agreement The doors equivalent to the weight of around 150 grown men and over 7m with the UKs NDA to bring to an end the tall and 4m wide will be the access point for waste retrieval machinery to safely Magnox decommissioning contract at the begin lifting out the silos contents for the first time.
end of August 2019, when we will have operated the contract for a full five years.
Following years of design, planning, manufacture and testing up at the Rosyth site of supply chain partners Bechtel Cavendish Nuclear Solutions and BMT, the Following the detailed contract first door safely arrived at the site in early August.
Consolidation phase, it has become apparent that the work that needs to One by one, the doors have been successfully lifted into a massive 40 tonne, be done at the 12 Magnox sites is now 9m wide steel door frame on the side of the building.
materially different in volume from The doors will play a key role in reducing hazard at the site, enabling waste that specified in the NDAs tender, and retrieval to start in 2020. this puts the contract at risk of a legal challenge.
Last year, a High Court judge ruled against the NDA in respect of its award of the Magnox contract.
The NDA has been explicit that its decision was in no way a reflection on the operational performance of CFP, which has remained strong.
CFP is now over two years into the Magnox decommissioning contract, and making good progress in the delivery of the throughlife programme across the12 licensed sites.
Through innovative approaches to dealing with the legacy waste, the contract team is 2016: 1,513.0 million following Despite the reduction in revenue, growth now targeting an earlier than expected the significant growth in the prior year in operating profit increased by 2.7% to completion of the Bradwell site.
This will from the Cavendish Fluor Partnerships 110.5 million 2016: 107.6 million, represent a significant milestone for the CFP full implementation of the Magnox an increase of 9.6% on an organic basis nuclear industry in the UK.
Using new decommissioning joint venture.
This was plant systems, the team has started the revenue at constant exchange rates been largely driven by the expected retrieval of waste from three highly active decreased by 3.3%.
Activity on the increase in margin recognition in the legacy waste facilities.
In addition, the Magnox project has now reduced in line Magnox contract, reflecting strong programme is benefiting from utilising with the NDA annual site funding limits operational performance and the specialist divers to decontaminate the in the original programme.
However, this retirement of very early stage risk in the former fuel cooling ponds at Dungeness.
decrease was partially offset by growth in contract.
Across other businesses within At Dounreay, the Cavendish Dounreay our rail electrification joint venture with the division, the negative impact of lower Partnership continues to deliver the Alstom and Costain.
activity levels in our North American nationally important nuclear materials fleet support contracts was mitigated In addition, Cavendish Nuclears consolidation programme.
The team by profit growth in our rail and UK fleet Dounreay joint venture had higher than has also achieved a significant reduction support operations.
expected activity levels following some in two of the sites highest hazards acceleration to the programme of works.
associated with the Dounreay Fast Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 50 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Reactor the safe immobilisation and storage of intermediate level liquid Dounreay gets the NaK raffinate and the safe removal and The destruction of one of the highest hazards remaining in the Nuclear processing of liquid metal coolant.
As part Decommissioning Authority NDA estate has been completed at Dounreay.
of its existing Lifetime Support Agreement with EDF, Cavendish Nuclear successfully Around 68 tonnes of highly radioactive liquid metal coolant was removed from supported EDF in generating 65TWh the Dounreay Fast Reactor DFR and safely destroyed over a 10year period.
The in 2016, the highest annual outturn liquid metal, a blend of sodium and potassium called NaK, was used to remove since 2003.
Cavendish Nuclears safety, heat from the reactors nuclear fuel.
quality and operational performance Dounreay used a specially built plant and removal system to safely convert underpinned this achievement and the NaK to hydrogen gas and salt water.
Handling the material is a particularly has been formally recognised by the complex technical challenge as it reacts vigorously when exposed to air or water, EDF Executive.
This meant that it had to be kept under a nitrogen gas Major design and construction projects blanket to prevent reactions.
to aid decommissioning at both Reactors Director, Ken Heider, said: The Dounreay team, in partnership with Sellafield and Magnox sites continue our supply chain, worked extremely hard over a long time to remove and to be delivered to agreed programmes convert the highly radioactive NaK into safe products.
Of particular note was the our highly skilled team delivered the work safely and in compliance with delivery of six 12 tonne stainless steel our environmental authorisations.
doors to the Sellafield site to support decommissioning of the Pile Fuel Cladding Silo, one of the highest hazard legacy nuclear facilities in Europe.
At the Atomic Weapons Establishment, Cavendish Nuclear has continued to build on its existing relationship with the customer, supporting both new build anddecommissioning projects.
Following the Governments decision to go ahead with Hinkley Point C, the Cavendish Boccard Nuclear joint venture is about to transition from Early Contractor Involvement studies to an Early Works Contract for the Balance of Nuclear Island mechanical installation package.
Work to date has focused on constructability studies and schedule integration with other installation contractors.
Over the next 12 months, the focus will move to supply chain engagement for longlead item in Japan, the NDA and Cavendish Nuclear performance in baggage operations.
Cavendish Nuclear is also have recently entered into a Cooperation Performance enhancements and pursuing additional opportunities in the Memorandum of Understanding that sustained performance improvements UK new build programme, including will provide unlimited access to NDA are increasingly being underpinned by SmallModular Reactors.
intellectual property, access to Magnox investment in innovative technology, operating experience and site staff such as a Babcockdeveloped app that Internationally, Cavendish Nuclear and access to Magnox sites for visits of provides a single source of realtime continues to seek to develop longterm potential customers and partners of information for over 100 key customer relationships in Japan with HGNE and Cavendish Nuclear.
This app won the Best Shimizu, with both of whom we have Innovator category at the Airport Memoranda of Understanding in place In Critical Services, our Airports business Operators Associations annual awards.
performed well, helping Heathrow Contract wins for baggage upgrade In support of Cavendish Nuclears work to achieve its best ever recorded Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 51 Operational review continued MPS, also continued to perform well and we are working with the MPS to extend Delivering on our longterm partnership withthe London Fire Brigade our support activities beyond the current Babcock, as part ofa 21year contract, has been leading the refresh and contract life and scope.
Our specialist redesignof the London Fire Brigade LFB fleet and in January the LFB took vehicle conversion business, MacNeillie, delivery of the latest generation of stateoftheart fire engines for the first isnow being more widely leveraged time in over a decade.
The new engine includes a high pressure hose that can across our Fleet Management businesses deliver significantly increased volumes of water, a more ergonomic crew cab and in the DSG business in the Defence and a EURO VI engine which further reduces emission levels compared to the and Security division.
Babcock worked in partnership with the LFB and had direct Following a challenging period of trading design and development input from front line firefighters resulting in a model driven by reducing customer demand that is both technically advanced and better equipped to meet the needs of and escalating supply chain costs, with todays firefighters.
returns falling below expectations, We also manage its complex fleet of 430 vehicles and over 46,000 pieces of we are reviewing our Heavy Mobile specialist equipment, including two fireboats, and train firefighters from two Equipment fleet management contracts purposebuilt technical training centres across London.
This groundbreaking in the Aggregates and Cement market partnership, combining fleet management and a 25year technical training in North America.
The Skills & Learning contract, means were guaranteeing availability and providing wholelife value business has developed programmes for the LFB.
and technologies to respond to the UK Governments changes to apprenticeship qualifications and funding.
The Apprenticeship Levy represents an opportunity to grow our existing apprentice business in the engineering and workplace skills sectors although, whilst there may be more demand from larger employers, smaller employers may train less under the new regime.
We have successfully mobilised our new Network Rail apprenticeship contract and the programme is now being delivered from a new site under the new Rail Apprenticeship standard.
Delivering this trailblazer standard from a modern facility using a range of innovative teaching technologies underpins the continuing success of this major contract.
Our emergency services training contracts continue to perform strongly.
We played a key part in supporting projects across Heathrow and other further international opportunities for the the LFBs celebrations of 150 years in airports, including Glasgow and Gatwick, Fleet Management business.
operation, and see good opportunities provide further opportunities for Babcock through the introduction of the Police Our Fleet Management business also to enhance its customers operations.
and Crime Act 2017 for Babcock to started an extensive rollout of new fire support the bluelight sector in its drive A strong performance was also delivered engines for the London Fire Brigade LFB for increased interservice collaborations.
by our Fleet Management business in 2016.
Babcock worked closely with supporting GSE operations at Heathrow, the LFB and end users in the design of We are participating in the MPS market where flight delays were significantly the new fleet, the first since 2007.
In testing to secure a partner to support reduced despite an increased flying April, the first appliance was unveiled at its training provision, and are pursuing schedule by our customer.
Improving the a special event attended by HRH Prince opportunities in Babcocks other key operational performance of airports and Charles and the LFB Commissioner.
Our markets, including the nuclear training airlines through enhanced management fleet management contract, which industry.
Skills2Learn, our digital learning of GSE fleets is expected to generate supports the Metropolitan Police Service Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 52 Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 business, secured new orders to develop combined service offering created by A further 36 apprentices joined the eLearning for the Royal Navy and the the acquisition of WRN Broadcast in division this year, across disciplines United Arab Emirates Navy, in support 2015.
Our relationship with Perform including engineering, business of wider programmes managed by the Group, supporting the rollout of its administration, automotive and Marine and Technology division.
live and ondemand sports service radiometric technology, and mechanical DAZN, continues to expand into new and electrical design.
In Network Engineering, our Rail business geographies and has positioned us as has delivered Network Rails plain line In line with the Group, we continue to an expert in the emerging nonlinear track renewals throughout the third year focus on promoting STEM activities, broadcast space.
We also secured a of the customers fiveyear control period.
working closely with schools to enable key role in supporting local TV satellite Working with this key customer, our track young people to better understand the distribution in the UK, delivering renewals team successfully completed opportunities across science, technology, broadcast solutions to six local TV a track lowering project as part of the engineering and maths.
GoMedia is utilising Babcocks Severn Tunnel closure programme to to STEM Ambassador activity wasrecently multiplatform distribution offering to introduce faster, greener electric trains recognised by the National STEM distribute video on demand direct to forpassengers in South Wales.
passengers mobile devices on Eurostar Working as part of the Edinburgh Glasgow Through our Babcock Prime Education trains and National Express coaches.
Improvement Programme alliance, a Fund scheme, we have also provided project to electrify the main line between funding to a group of Worcestershire Sustainability two of Scotlands largest cities, our track schools to establish innovative projects This year, we have continued to progress team successfully completed major aimed at improving the lives of children our divisions people agenda through engineering work at Queen Street Tunnel and young learners in the region.
initiatives focused on developing talent, following a 20week closure.
This is the recognising achievements and increasing We remain firmly committed to achieving largest piece of engineering undertaken diversity across our business.
health and safety excellence across all our on this line sinceit was built.
operations and this year we have made Our annual Excellence Awards Following the successful completion of further progress in our quest to ensure programme received hundreds of Translinks multimillion pound signalling everyone goes home safe every day.
nominations across a broad range of contract to upgrade the 33 mile route categories, including health and safety, Through a focused review of risk between Coleraine and Londonderry, innovation and project delivery, enabling assessments, safe systems of work and wehave been awarded a further us to embed our values and formally protective equipment, supported by signalling and telecommunications recognise employees who live our being an increased number of safety tours led framework contract to deliver services babcock principles.
by our management team and regular across Northern Irelands rail network.
allemployee driving safety bulletins, we During the Groupwide Dialogue The Power business within Network have reduced our all accident frequency Week, which focuses on diversity and Engineering, has seen the successful rate by 20% and the over three day inclusion, we arranged workshops and completion of National Grids overhead frequency rate by 50% compared to activities to engage our employees in a line refurbishment projects on the last year.
discussion about how to further advance Padiham and Capenhurst projects, as well performance in this area.
We reaffirmed In addition, we remain committed to as the Indian Queens to Landulph route our commitment to flexible working and reducing our environmental impact in Cornwall, and this is being followed by launched a Womens Network to support, by introducing a range of measures to the refurbishment of 100km of overhead attract, retain and develop women.
reduce energy usage in our buildings, line between Plymouth and Exeter.
Works and by increasing our usage of video We remain focused on attracting, for Western Power Distribution continue teleconferencing to avoid unnecessary employing and developing future talent.
to progress steadily with projects business car mileage.
In September, we welcomed 26 new such as a reconductoring of a 1km graduates, taking the total number stretch of 33kV overhead lines in North participating in our two to fouryear Lincolnshire spanning a tidal river, and divisional programmes to 83.
The quality the reinforcement of the 132kV power of this programme was also recognised network near Telford, being successfully externally through being named as completed by our Power team.
a finalist in the Strategic Alignment Our Media Services business continues category of the Association of Graduate to exploit the advantages of the Recruiters awards.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 53
