108 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Report of the Directors Principal activities and businessreview The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information to the members of the Company which is a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
A detailed review of the Groups business and performance during the year, its principal risks Martin McGann and uncertainties, its business model Finance Director and strategy and its approach to responsible business is contained in the The Directors present their report together with the audited financial statements Strategic report on pages 1 to 56 and for the year ended 31 March 2017. should be read as part of this report.
The principal activity of the Group continues to be property investment and The Annual Report contains certain development, both directly and through joint venture arrangements.
forward looking statements with respect to the operations, performance Annual General Meeting and financial condition of the Group.
The Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will be held at the By their nature, these statements Connaught, Carlos Place, Mayfair, London W1K 2AL at 10 am on 11 July 2017. involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results The Notice of Meeting on pages 149 to 153 sets out the proposed resolutions and developments to differ from those and voting details.
The forward looking The Board considers that the resolutions promote the success of the Company, statements reect knowledge and and are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The Directors information available at the date of unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they preparation of this Annual Report.
intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings, which amount in Nothing in this Annual Report should aggregate to 23,864,430 shares representing approximately 3.4% of the existing beconstrued as a profit forecast.
issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 30 May 2017.
Results and dividends The Group reported a profit for the Substantial shareholders year of 63.0 million 2016: 82.7 million.
The Directors have been notied that the following shareholders have a A second interim dividend for 2016 disclosable interest of 3% or more in the ordinary shares of the Company at the of 3.75p per share and the first two date of this report: quarterly dividends for 2017 totalling 3.6p per share were paid in the year, Shareholder Number of shares % of which 6.2p was paid as a Property Income Distribution PID.
Rathbones 49,841,706 7.19 The third quarterly dividend of 1.8p was BlackRock Inc 46,412,504 6.70 paid following the year end on 18 April Troy Asset Management 34,981,138 5.05 2017 as a PID.
The Directors have approved a fourth quarterly dividend Cohen & Steers Inc 34,565,410 4.99 of 2.1p per share payable on 10 July Ameriprise Financial Inc 25,448,848 3.67 2017 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 9 June 2017, of Aberdeen Asset Managers 22,058,071 3.18 which 1.3p will be paid as a PID.
LaSalle Investment 21,703,121 3.13 The total dividend charge for the year Management to 31 March 2017 was 7.5p per share, The Vanguard Group Inc 20,796,019 3.00 an increase of 0.25p or 3.4% over the previous year.
Of the total dividend for 2017 of 7.5p, 6.7p was paid as a PID as required by REIT legislation, after deduction of withholding tax at the basic rate of income tax.
The balance of 0.8p was paid as an ordinary dividend which is not subject to withholding tax.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 109 The placing raised gross proceeds of Investment properties Directors and Officers 95.5 million and the net cash received liabilityinsurance A valuation of the Groups investment after deducting costs was 92.8 million properties at 31 March 2017 was The Company has arranged Directors which will be used to fund committed undertaken by CBRE Limited and and Officers liability insurance cover acquisitions and the development Savills Advisory Services Limited on the in respect of legal action against pipeline.
The price reected a 1.9% basis of fair value which amounted its Directors, which is reviewed and discount to the previous days share to 1,533.8 million including the renewed annually and remains in force price and a 6.3% premium to last Groups share of joint venture property at the date of this report.
reported EPRA net asset value.
as reected in notes 9 and 10 to Employees these accounts.
The fundraising structure of a placing At 31 March 2017 the Group had 38 allowed the Company to raise funds Share capital employees including all Directors.
within less than one week, reducing As at 31 March 2017, there were The Company encourages employee equity market risk and giving a high 692,382,431 ordinary shares of 10p in involvement and consultation and certainty of success.
issue, each carrying one vote and invests time in ensuring staff are In addition the Company issued all fully paid.
There is only one class informed of the Groups transactions, 1,534,136 ordinary shares under the of share in issue and there are no activities and performance through terms of its Scrip Dividend Scheme restrictions on the size of a holding internal email communication of in the year.
Since the year end the or on the transfer of shares.
None of corporate announcements and regular Company issued a further 589,633 the shares carry any special rights of briengs and presentations.
Its interim ordinary shares in relation to the third control over the Company.
There were and annual results presentations are quarterly dividend scrip alternative.
no persons with significant direct or delivered to all staff along with other indirect holdings in the Company relevant employee matters including The rules governing appointments, other than those listed as substantial Health and Safety.
replacement and powers of Directors shareholders on page 108. are contained in the Companys Certain employees are eligible to Articles of Association, the Companies On 27 March 2017 the Company participate in the annual bonus and Act 2006 and the UK Corporate issued 62,804,390 new ordinary shares LTIP arrangements, helping to develop Governance Code.
These include at a price of 152p per share, as a an interest in the Groups performance powers to authorise the issue and result of a successful equity placing.
and align rewards with Directors buy back of shares by the Company.
The Company pre-marketed the incentive arrangements.
The Companys Articles can be placing largely to its top shareholders The Company operates a nonamended by Special Resolution in ahead of announcing.
discriminatory employment policy and accordance with Companies Act 2006.
The placing was oversubscribed full and fair consideration is given to Purchase of own shares with strong support from existing applications for employment made by shareholders and several new investors.
people with disabilities, having regard The Company was granted authority to their skills and abilities, and to the at the Annual General Meeting in A placing is an issue of shares directly continued employment of staff who 2016 to purchase its own shares up to certain shareholders.
to an aggregate nominal value of regulatory restrictions on placings 10% of the issued nominal capital.
designed to protect the rights of The Company encourages the That authority expires at this years AGM existing shareholders which the continuous development and and a resolution will be proposed for Company adhered to.
training of its staff and the provision its renewal.
No ordinary shares were of equal opportunities for the At the 2016 AGM, shareholders gave purchased under this authority during training and career development the Company authority to allot the year.
shares up to a maximum amount of Directors 20,934,797, representing one third of The Company provides retirement the Companys issued share capital benets for its employees excluding The present membership of the Board as at 31 May 2016 and to allot shares Non Executive Directors.
and biographical details of Directors up to a maximum nominal value of are set out on pages 60 and 61.
Further information relating to 6,280,439, representing approximately employees can be found on page 56 The interests of the Directors and their 10% of the Companys issued share of the Strategic report.
families in the shares of the Company capital at 31 May 2016 without having are set out in the Remuneration to first offer those shares to existing Committee report on page 82. shareholders.
The Company used the authority given to it at the 2016 AGM In accordance with the UK Corporate to issue the shares in connection with Governance Code, all of the Directors the placing, which represented a 9.99% will offer themselves for re-election at increase to the issued share capital as the forthcoming AGM on 11 July 2017. at 31 May 2016.
110 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Report of the Directors continued The environment Provisions on change of control The Directors have reviewed the current and projected financial position Details of our approach to responsible Under the Groups credit facilities, the of the Group, making reasonable business and its aims and activities can lending banks may require repayment assumptions about future trading be found on the Companys website of the outstanding amounts on any performance, property valuations and www.
com, where a change of control.
As part of full version of the annual Responsible The Groups Long Term Incentive Plan this review, the Group has considered Business report can be downloaded.
and Deferred Share Bonus Plan contain its cash balances and undrawn An overview of our responsible business provisions relating to the vesting of facilities, future capital commitments, its activity can be found on pages 48 to awards in the event of a change of debt maturity prole and the long term 56 of this report.
The Group recognises the importance Greenhouse gas reporting On the basis of this review, and after of minimising the adverse impact of its making due enquiries, the Directors operations on the environment and the In accordance with Schedule 7 of the have a reasonable expectation that management of energy consumption Large and Medium-Sized Companies the Company and the Group have and waste recycling.
and Groups Accounts and Reports adequate resources to continue Regulations 2008, information The Group strives to improve its in operational existence for the regarding the Companys greenhouse environmental performance and foreseeable future.
Accordingly, gas emissions can be found on regularly reviews its management they continue to adopt the going page51.
system and policy to ensure it concern basis in preparing the maintains its commitment to Post balance sheet events financial statements for the year environmental matters.
Details of the Groups post balance sheet events are reected in note 19 to Shares held in the Employee Viability statement these financial statements on page137.
BenetTrust The Companys statement on viability is The Trustees of the LondonMetric Long Listing rule disclosures presented on page 41.
Term Incentive Plan hold 4,501,794 The information required to be Disclosure of information to auditor shares in the Company in trust to satisfy disclosed in accordance with LR 9.8.
4R awards under the Companys Long So far as the Directors who held office can be found in this report on the Term Incentive and Deferred Bonus at the date of approval of this Directors following pages: plans.
The Trustees have waived their report are aware, there is no relevant right to receive dividends on shares Interest capitalised page126 audit information of which the auditor is held in the Company.
unaware and each Director has taken Details of long term pages91 and all steps that he or she ought to have incentiveschemes 103 to 105 Suppliers taken as a Director to make himself Non pre-emptive issue page109 The Group aims to settle supplier or herself aware of any relevant audit ofequity accounts in accordance with their information and to establish that the individual terms of business.
Shareholder waivers page110 auditor is aware of that information.
ofdividends The number of creditor days Auditor outstanding for the Group at 31 March All other subsections of LR 9.8.
4R are Deloitte LLP is willing to be reappointed 2017 was 15 days 2016: 16 days.
as the external auditor to the Company Financial instruments and Group.
Their reappointment Going concern has been considered by the Audit Details of the financial instruments The principal risks and uncertainties Committee and recommended to the used by the Group and financial risk facing the Groups activities, future Board.
A resolution will be proposed at management policies can be found in development and performance are the AGM on 11 July 2017. note 14 and in the Risk management onpages 40 to 47. report on page 40.
On behalf of the Board The Groups financial position, cash Charitable and political ows and liquidity, borrowings, contributions undrawn facilities and hedging are described in note 14 to the accounts During the year, the Group made Martin McGann and in the Financial review on page39.
charitable donations of 35,695 Finance Director 31 May 2017 2016: 20,000.
No political donations were made during the year 2016: nil.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 111 Directors responsibility statement In preparing the Group financial The Directors are responsible for Responsibility statement statements, International Accounting preparing the Annual Report and the We confirm that to the best of Standard 1 requires that Directors: financial statements in accordance our knowledge: with applicable law and regulations.
Properly select and apply The financial statements, prepared accounting policies Company law requires the Directors in accordance with the relevant to prepare financial statements for financial reporting framework, give Present information, including each financial year.
Under that law a true and fair view of the assets, accounting policies, in a the Directors are required to prepare liabilities, financial position and manner that provides relevant, the Group financial statements profit or loss of the Company and reliable, comparable and in accordance with International the undertakings included in the understandable information Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs consolidation taken as a whole Provide additional disclosures as adopted by the European Union The Strategic report includes a fair when compliance with the specic and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation review of the development and requirements in IFRSs are insufficient and have elected to prepare the performance of the business and to enable users to understand the Parent Company financial statements the position of the Company and impact of particular transactions, in accordance with Financial the undertakings included in the other events and conditions on Reporting Standard 101 FRS101 consolidation taken as a whole, the entitys financial position and Reduced Disclosure Framework.
together with a description of the financial performance Under Company law the Directors must principal risks and uncertainties that not approve the accounts unless they Make an assessment of the they face are satisfied that they give a true and Companys ability to continue fair view of the state of affairs of the The Annual Report and financial asagoing concern Company and of the profit or loss of the statements, taken as a whole, are fair, The Directors are responsible for Company for that period.
balanced and understandable and keeping adequate accounting provide the information necessary In preparing the Parent Company records that are sufficient to show and for shareholders to assess the financial statements, the Directors are explain the Companys transactions Companys performance, business required to: and disclose with reasonable model and strategy accuracy at any time the financial Select suitable accounting policies By order of the Board position of the Company and to and then apply them consistently enable them to ensure that the Make judgements and accounting financial statements comply with estimates that are reasonable the Companies Act 2006.
They are and prudent Martin McGann also responsible for safeguarding the Finance Director assets of the Company and hence State whether applicable Financial 31 May 2017 for taking reasonable steps for the Reporting Standard 101 FRS101 prevention and detection of fraud Reduced Disclosure Framework andother irregularities.
has been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and The Directors are responsible for the explained in the financial statements Andrew Jones maintenance and integrity of the Chief Executive Prepare the financial statements on corporate and financial information 31 May 2017 the going concern basis unless it is included on the Companys website.
inappropriate to presume that the Legislation in the UK governing the Company will continue in business preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
112 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Financial statements Inside this section Independent Auditors report 113 Group financial statements 117 Notes forming part of the Group financial statements 121 Company financial statements 138 Notes forming part of the Company financial statements 140 Supplementary information 143 Glossary 148 Notice of Annual General Meeting 149 Financial calendar 154 Shareholder information 154 Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 113 Independent Auditors report to the members ofLondonMetric Property Plc Opinion on financial statements Going concern and the Directors assessment of LondonMetric Property Plc oftheprincipal risks that would threaten the solvency or liquidity of the Group In our opinion: As required by the Listing Rules we have reviewed the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Directors statement regarding the appropriateness of the state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs going concern basis of accounting contained within note 1 as at 31 March 2017 and of the Groups profit for the year to the financial statements and the Directors statement on then ended the longer term viability of the Group contained within the the Group financial statements have been properly Strategic report.
prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the We are required to state whether we have anything material European Union to add or draw attention to in relation to: the Parent Company financial statements have been the Directors conrmation on page 40 that they have properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS facing the Group, including those that would threaten its 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity the financial statements have been prepared in the disclosures on pages 41 to 47 that describe those risks accordance with the requirements of the Companies and explain how they are being managed or mitigated Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, the Directors statement in note 1 to the financial Article 4 of the IAS Regulation statements about whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in The financial statements that we have audited comprise the preparing them and their identication of any material Group Income Statement, the Group and Parent Company uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of Statements of Changes in Equity, the Group Cash Flow approval of the financial statements Statement, the Statement of Accounting Policies and the related notes 1 to 19 for the Group and notes i to vii for the the Directors explanation on page 41 as to how they have Company.
The financial reporting framework that has been assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period applied inthe preparation of the Group financial statements they have done so and why they consider that period is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will applied in the preparation of the Parent Company financial be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities statements is applicable law and United Kingdom as they fall due over the period of their assessment, Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally including any related disclosures drawing attention to Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 anynecessary qualications or assumptions ReducedDisclosure Framework.
We confirm that we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in respect of these matters.
Summary of our audit approach We agreed with the Directors adoption of the going Key risk The key risk that we identied in the current year concern basis of accounting and we did not identify any was the assessment of the carrying value of the such material uncertainties.
However, because not all future investment property portfolio.
events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not Materiality The materiality that we used in the current aguarantee as to the Groups ability to continue as a year was 20.1 million based on 2% of equity.
For testing of balances that impacted EPRA earnings, we used a lower materiality of Independence 2.6million based on 5% of that measure.
We are required to comply with the Financial Reporting Scoping The Group is subject to a full scope audit on 100% Councils Ethical Standards for Auditors and confirm that of net assets, revenue and profit before tax.
weare independent of the Group and we have fullled significant There has been no change to the basis upon ourother ethical responsibilities in accordance with changes in which materiality is calculated, our identied risks those standards.
ourapproach or our approach in scoping the audit from the prior year.
We confirm that we are independent of the Group and we have fullled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with those standards.
We also confirm we have not provided any of the prohibited non audit services referred to in those standards.
114 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors report to the members ofLondonMetric Property Plc continued Our assessment of risks of material misstatement The assessed risks of material misstatement described below are those that had the greatest effect on our audit strategy, theallocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
Valuation of investment property Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations The Group owns a portfolio of largely retail and We assessed managements process for reviewing We concluded that distribution property assets, which is valued at and assessing the work of the external valuer and the assumptions 1,534 million 2016: 1,521 million, including development appraisals applied in arriving share of joint venture properties, as at 31 March at the fair value We assessed the competence, objectivity and 2017.
The valuation of the portfolio is a significant of the Groups integrity of the external valuer and read their terms judgement area and is underpinned by a number property portfolio of engagement with the Group to determine of assumptions including i capitalisation yields by the external whether there were any matters that might have ii future lease income and iii with reference to valuers were affected their objectivity or may have imposed development properties, costs tocomplete.
scope limitations on their work The Group uses professionally qualied external We obtained the external valuation reports and valuers to fair value the Groups portfolio at met with the external valuers of the portfolio to six-monthly intervals.
The valuers are engaged assess the results of their work.
We assessed and by theDirectors and performed their work challenged the valuation process, performance in accordance with the Royal Institution of of the portfolio and significant assumptions CharteredSurveyors RICS Valuation Professional and critical judgement areas, including lease Standards.
The valuers used by the Group have incentives, future lease income and yields.
considerable experience in the markets in Webenchmarked these assumptions to relevant whichthe Group operates.
market evidence including specic property sales The valuation exercise also relies on the accuracy and other external data of the underlying lease and financial information We tested a sample of properties through provided to the valuers by management.
benchmarking of yields, understanding the Refer to page 77 Audit Committee report, valuation methodology and wider marketanalysis page121 accounting policy and note 9 on We performed audit procedures to assess the pages129 and 130 financial disclosures.
integrity of a sample of the information provided to the external valuer by agreeing that information to underlying lease agreements We tested a sample of the costs to complete in relation to the development properties via agreement to supporting documentation Property transaction accounting Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations The group has undertaken a large number of We assessed the fair value of consideration and We concluded property acquisitions for a total consideration of confirmed key transaction terms by reference that all property 151.0 million and disposals for total proceeds of to acquisition or disposal agreements and other transactions had 201.9 million including share of joint ventures.
external evidence for all significant acquisitions been appropriately and disposals in the year accounted for.
These transactions can include complexities such as rental top-up payments, conditionality and We considered the date at which the transactions deferred completion arrangements or joint venture completed based on the timing of the transfer of contractual obligations, requiring judgement as to risks and rewards of ownership per the acquisition the appropriate accounting to be applied.
or disposal agreements, and considered the impact of these transactions on revenue Refer to page 78 Audit Committee report, recognition page121 accounting policy and note 9 on pages129 and 130 financial disclosures.
We considered the adequacy of the disclosure ofthe transactions in the financial statements We recalculated the profit or loss on disposals based on the terms of the transaction.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 115 Revenue recognition Risk description How the scope of our audit responded to the risk Key observations Revenue for the Group primarily consists of As part of our audit of revenue, we focused on We concluded rental income earned on its investment property any unusual and complex adjustments to revenue, that revenue was portfolio.
Totalrevenue for the year to 31 March agreeing the lease incentives for a sample of items appropriately 2017 was 83million 2016: 79 million, including to the underlying leases, with our sample covering accounted for.
Within revenue, there are both existing and new leases.
We recalculated the certain transactions which warrant additional required adjustment to the annual rent in relation audit focus and have an increased inherent risk of to these items to determine whether the correct error due to their non standard nature.
Our risk of amount of revenue had been recognised in material misstatement focused on the accounting theyear.
for unusual or more complex items including rent free periods and capital incentives, requiring an understanding of specic terms and conditions which vary between leasecontracts.
Refer to page 77 Audit Committee report, page121 accounting policy and note 3 onpage125 financial disclosures.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Our application of materiality An overview of the scope of our audit We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an the financial statements that makes it probable that the understanding of the Group and its environment, including economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person Group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in misstatement atthe Group level.
planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the Based on that assessment, and consistent with our results of our work.
conclusion on scoping in the prior year, our full scope audit Based on our professional judgement, we determined isperformed on 100% 2016: 100% of the Groups net assets, materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: and 100% 2016: 100% of revenue and profit before tax.
The Group is audited by one audit team, led by the Senior Group We determined materiality for the Group to be materiality 20.1 million 2016: 17.9 million.
We consider Statutory Auditor, responsible for the audit of the Company EPRA Earnings as a critical performance and each of its subsidiaries and joint ventures.
Our audit work measure for the Group and we applied a on subsidiaries and joint ventures is carried out to amateriality lower threshold of 2.6 million 2016: 2.4 which is lower than, and in most cases substantially lower than, million for testing of all balances and classes Group materiality as set out above.
Our audit also included of transaction which impact that measure, testing of the consolidation process and Group-wide controls.
primarily transactions recorded in the income statement other than fair value movements on Opinion on other matters prescribed by the investment property, development property Companies Act 2006 and derivatives.
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course Basis for Materiality for the Group is based on 2% 2016: of the audit: determining 2% of shareholders equity.
For EPRA Earnings the part of the Directors Report on Remuneration to be materiality the basis used is 5% 2016: 5% of that measure.
audited has been properly prepared in accordance Rationale for As an investment property company, the main withthe Companies Act 2006 the benchmark focus of management is to generate long term the information given in the Strategic report and the applied capital value from the investment property Report of the Directors for the financial year for which portfolio and, therefore, we consider equity to thenancial statements are prepared is consistent with be the most appropriate basis for materiality.
the financial statements We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would the Strategic report and the Report of the Directors reportto the Committee all audit differences in excess of have been prepared in accordance with applicable 1.0 million 2016: 0.4 million, as well as differences below legal requirements that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee Company and its environment obtained in the course of on disclosure matters that we identied when assessing theaudit, we have not identied any material misstatements theoverall presentation of the financial statements.
in the Strategic report and the Report of the Directors.
116 LondonMetric Property Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Independent Auditors report to the members ofLondonMetric Property Plc continued Matters on which we are required to report Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor byexception As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation Adequacy of explanations received and of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they accountingrecords give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report express an opinion on the financial statements in toyou if, in our opinion: accordance with applicable law and International we have not received all the information and Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We also comply with explanations we require for our audit International Standard on Quality Control 1 UK and Ireland.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Our audit methodology and tools aim to ensure that our Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have quality control procedures are effective, understood and not been received from branches not visited by us applied.
Our quality controls and systems include our the Parent Company financial statements are not in dedicated professional standards review team and agreement with the accounting records and returns independent partner reviews.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as abody, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Directors remuneration Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to so that we might state to the Companys members those report if in our opinion certain disclosures of Directors matters we are required to state to them in an auditors remuneration have not been made or the part of the report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Directors Report on Remuneration to be audited is not in permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility agreement with the accounting records and returns.
to anyone other than the Company and the Companys We have nothing to report arising from these matters.
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Corporate Governance Statement Under the Listing Rules we are also required to review Scope of the audit of the financial statements partofthe Corporate Governance Statement relating to An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts theCompanys compliance with certain provisions of the and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give UKCorporate Governance Code.
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free We have nothing to report arising from our review.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the Our duty to read other information in the Annual Report accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Under International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland, Parent Companys circumstances and have been we are required to report to you if, in our opinion, information consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the in the Annual Report is: reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made materially inconsistent with the information in the audited by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial financial statements statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonnancial information in the Annual Report to identify apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially material inconsistencies with the audited financial inconsistent with, our knowledge of the Group acquired statements and to identify any information that is apparently inthe course of performing our audit materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, otherwise misleading the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing In particular, we are required to consider whether we have the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material identied any inconsistencies between our knowledge misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the acquired during the audit and the Directors statement implications for our report.
thatthey consider the Annual Report is fair, balanced andunderstandable and whether the Annual Report Claire Faulkner appropriately discloses those matters that we Senior Statutory Auditor communicated to the Audit Committee which we For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP considershould have been disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom We confirm that we have not identied any such inconsistencies or misleading statements.
