24 REGULATED WATER AND WASTE WATER Regulated Water and Waste Water business model On 15 February 2017 Severn Trent Water Generating returns Litres of drinking water completed the acquisition of As described on page 10, our Regulated supplied each day Dee Valley Water, which is the licensed Water and Waste Water business works water undertaker for Wrexham, Chester within five year planning cycles known as and the surrounding areas.
Ofwat determines the prices we 1.85bn supplying water to its community for can charge our customers during each more than 150 years.
Dee Valley Water AMP, allowing us to earn a return on our Kilometres of sewerage supplies drinking water to approximately asset base known as the Regulatory pipesin our network 125,000 domestic and business Capital Value or RCV, to fund our customers in northeast Wales and in investment programme and cover our northwest Cheshire.
Our prices and asset 93,727 The performance commentary for base are adjusted by inflation each year.
the Regulated Water and Waste Water In certain circumstances, for example Households and business in 2016 17 which follows on if there is a material change in costs businessesserved pages 24 to 35 relates solely to Severn for reasons beyond our control, we can Trent Water.
request a price review during the AMP.
4.5m The acquisition of Dee Valley Water was completed approximately six weeks before the end of the reporting year and did not have a material impact on the Groups financial performance for the period being reported.
Our new customer bill design and customer website Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 25 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Our business model Read more on page 26 The resources and relationships critical to our success Water is collected Water is cleaned Clean water is distributed We pay the Environment Our 123 groundwater and A 49,048 km network of pipes Agencyand Natural Resources 21 surface water treatment and enclosed storage Wales for the water we collect works clean raw water to reservoirs bring a continuous fromreservoirs, rivers and the highest standards making supply of clean water right underground aquifers across it safe to drink.
See page 30 See page 30 See page 9 Waste water is treated and Waste water is collected Customers enjoy our services returned to the environment Our 93,727 km of sewers and We serve 4.5 million businesses Waste water is carefully pumping stations collect and households with a safe, screened, filtered and treated waste water from homes reliable supply of water and in our 1,013 sewage treatment and businesses from outside collect waste water 24 hours works to meet stringent properties and drains.
See page 29 See page 28 Wepay the Environment Agency and Natural Resources Wales annual consent fees to return the treated water to the water system.
See page 31 Investment and maintenance Read more on page 26 Associated risks Read more on page 27 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 26 Regulated Water and Waste Water business model continued We aim to perform each stage of our work Suppliers Investment and maintenance as efficiently and effectively as possible, We work closely with our supply chain Included within our Totex is a wholesale so we meet the needs of customers partners so we can achieve excellent capital programme totalling 539.6 million and other stakeholders such as our operational performance for our in 2016 17, which is an average of 1,400 regulators.
The work we do enables us customers and meet our efficiency per connected property.
We spent this to meet 45 performance commitments targets.
We created our One Supply Chain money in a range of areas, including our weve agreed with Ofwat, several of which to make our capital programme more two major resilience schemes, as well are unique to us.
By choosing framework partners as continuing to upgrade and renew our ODIs reward us for if we do the right thing to work with over the five years of an AMP, network and assets.
for customers, by improving services and we can give them greater certainty of work We fund this capital programme through being more efficient, or penalise us if we and achieve more competitive pricing.
These customer ODIs incentivise We can also be more innovative as we through being efficient and borrowing us to do better in the areas that are most work together over time, to deliver even from capital markets.
look to use innovative processes and Our critical resources technology, so we continually improve the Communities way we work.
During 2016 17, we earned andrelationships Serving our communities is central to our a total reward of 47.6 million out of a purpose.
We look to keep our communities Customers potential reward of 70 million, and were informed and to minimise disruption We have 4.5 million household and the best performing company based on when we carry out planned work on business customers, in an area stretching Ofwats published results for 2015 16. our network.
Through our education from the Bristol Channel to the Humber, The amounts we invest in improving and programme, we help our communities and from North and mid-Wales to the maintaining our networks, together with to save water and prevent blockages in East Midlands.
Our customers are at the the costs of running our operations, form our sewers and drains.
We protect the heart of all we do and they were heavily our total expenditure or Totex.
This years environment around our communities and involved in developing our plans for AMP6, customer bills take account of some of work with local people such as farmers to ensure we focus on the areas they value our Totex and the remainder is added to to maintain the quality of the water we the most.
We provide our customers with our RCV, allowing us to earn a return on it collect.
We also aim to make a positive around 1.85 billion litres of high quality in future years.
We look to make savings difference for our communities through drinking water every day and treat around against the Totex assumed in our final volunteering and fundraising for charities.
2.6 billion litres of waste water, which we AMP6 plan, which was approved by Ofwat.
clean and return to the system.
Regulators Over the course of AMP6, weve identified 770 million of Totex efficiencies, which How our industry is regulated is described Employees will see us save 360 million against our in detail on page 9 of this report.
We look To be the most trusted water company, final determination.
Weve committed to maintain positive and constructive we need great people.
We therefore look to reinvesting 120 million of this to relationships with our regulators, and to to attract, develop and retain talented benefit customers in three important share our knowledge to help them shape people, and to bring the next generation areas: water quality, security and the future regulation of our industry.
into the industry through our graduate vulnerable customers.
We aim to comply with our regulatory and apprentice schemes.
We recognise obligations at all times, so we continue to the benefits of diversity and look to have meet our commitments to our customers a workforce that matches the diversity and other stakeholders.
Keeping our people safe, healthy and well is a top priority.
We aim to provide competitive and flexible rewards, which recognise our colleagues performance.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 27 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Performance commitments Associated risks 45 Each phase of the business model on page 25 presents Net Reward opportunities for us but also comes with risks.
Ourjob is to maximise the opportunities while identifying, 47.6m managing and mitigating the risks.
In 2012 13 prices pre tax Water is collected Total Totex efficiencies If one of our key assets fails, it could cause injuries, Principal risks 6 and 7 identified to date in AMP6 Read more on page 53 damage property or disrupt the water supply.
770m Water is cleaned During this phase, failure of key assets or Principal risks 5, 6 and 7 Read more on pages 52 and 53 processescould reduce water quality or disruptoursupply to customers.
We use potentially hazardous chemicals and processes, which can also result in injuries.
Clean water is distributed Principal risks 1 and 5 If our distribution performance falls below the Read more on pages 50 and 52 required standards, it could lead to poor customer service and increase the risk of leakage from our network.
Customers enjoy our services If we dont improve or maintain our performance, Principal risk 1 Read more on page 50 wecould disappoint our customers.
Waste water is collected Principal risk 6 If we dont deal effectively with customer waste, Read more on page 53 itcould lead to sewer flooding.
Waste water is treated and returned to the environment If we suffer an operational failure during this phase, Principal risk 7 Read more on page 53 we could damage the local environment.
Potentially hazardous processes and substances could cause injuries to people.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 28 Regulated Water and Waste Water performance review In this section, we explain how our regulated business performed during the year, and the actions were taking todeliver our strategy during this AMP.
The WaterSure scheme supports people Our emergency contact centre is open Embedding customers at the on benefits who have water meters, and 24 hours a day, and were now testing heartofall we do people who use more water because longer opening hours for non-urgent This was the second consecutive year of a large family or a medical condition.
contacts, based on our analysis of when in which weve outperformed against We also continue to work with the our customers want to talk to us.
We have the commitments that our customers SevernTrent Trust Fund, which celebrates extended opening hours, which proved care most about.
In particular, weve its 20th year in 2017.
It helps people in particularly helpful for customers during done better on external sewer flooding, arrears with their water bills and can also our main billing period.
interruptions to supply and pollutions.
provide support with essential household Weve also further improved the ways we More information on how weve achieved bills or costs.
Since 1997, weve donated communicate with our customers so they this can be found in the section below more than 60 million to the Fund, for dont have to contact us.
If a water main on driving operational excellence and the benefit of 550,000 people across our bursts, for example, we look to reach continued innovation.
affected customers by text or voicemail so Educating our customers helps us to In addition, weve invested in a care and they know whats going on and what were perform better.
Around 75% of our assistance team, to support customers doing to fix it.
We also use our website and sewer blockages each year are caused who are struggling with a broader range social media to spread these messages, by customers disposing of the wrong of problems.
This can include help to so people have as much information things down their toilets and drains.
resolve financial issues or assistance with as possible.
For example, fats, oils and greases solidify other issues, such as their physical or The new customer management portal in our sewers and block them.
In October 2016, we won for our contact agents went live in January year, we engaged with 167,024 customers the Utilities & Telecoms Best Vulnerable 2017.
This gives advisers a full picture about avoiding sewer misuse and how Customer Support Team award.
of the customer, as soon as they call in.
Educating future To keep bills affordable for all, we work For example, it has indicators showing customers in schools and youth groups is hard to ensure that everyone who can pay key information about water, waste, bills, a major part of this programme.
By 2020, does, so they dont increase the burden on whether the customer is up to date with weve committed to engaging with 700,000 others.
During the year, we maintained our payments, the experience theyve reported customers in total.
level of household consumer bad debts at through surveys and feedback, as well Our customers pay the lowest average 1.8% of turnover, which remains one of the as a full contact history.
The new system combined water and waste water bills best performances in the sector.
is reducing call times, which is better for in Britain and will continue to do so customers and for us, and automating Weve continued to improve how we throughout AMP6.
Our average combined work that used to be done manually communicate with our customers and bill in 2016 17 was 329.
We want water to means theres less for our advisers to keep them informed.
This year, we fully be affordable for all and weve made real doonce the call has ended.
rolled out the new design for our bills, progress with helping customers who find which is clearer, simpler and easier to Our customer ODI performance shows it difficult to pay.
As a result, we met our understand.
Weve also relaunched our us that the overall level of service we commitment to support 50,000 customers website to improve customer interaction are providing to customers continues to this year.
Our Big Difference scheme is and allow them to carry out more tasks improve.
For example, within the Severn one of the largest social tariff schemes in themselves.
The new design followed Trent area we have seen improvements the country, offering discounts of between extensive testing with users, to make it since the end of AMP5 with the number 10% and 90%, depending on how much easy to find the most popular areas.
of customers impacted by a sewer individual customers can afford to pay.
flooding event having reduced by 40%, During the year, it helped 35,343 people, Our customers increasingly want to and this past year we were around 18% which was more than three times the use digital channels to interact with us.
less likely to impact the environment by number in the previous year.
In particular, were seeing substantial a category 3 pollution incident.
However, growth in the use of webchat.
We also were taking longer than we would like offer 24 7 coverage on Twitter and get to resolve issues in some areas, such as many customers interacting with us fixing complex leaks.
We had a strong via Facebook.
performance reducing household written complaints in 2015 16.
This year, we have seen an overall increase, although complaints specific to billing have continued to reduce.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 29 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information We improved our score in the Institute of At the same time were taking a new Working faster and Customer Services Customer Service approach to flood prevention by working smarteron-site Index, moving us up to fifth out of 25 with local authorities who are responsible utility companies and third among the for surface drainage and the Environment Weve issued tough new devices to 11 water companies that obtained a Agency EA, which is responsible for our people working in the field, to help result.
Our overall performance against preventing river flooding.
Together, them improve life for our customers.
Ofwats Service Incentive Mechanism were identifying where we should invest New Site Mate software tells our SIM has remained stable compared to protect more people from flooding.
field workers whats already been to last year.
However, we recognise For example, we secured funding from the done at the property and how the that other companies are improving.
Flood Defence Grant for a joint scheme customer feels.
This allows them We know from our customers that our with Birmingham City Council.
to diagnose problems more quickly service standards are inconsistent and and be more responsive to individual Interruptions to supply fell to an average there is a lack of communication and customer needs.
of 10 minutes 8 seconds per property ownership of customer relationships in 2016 17, which is 17% ahead of our Details entered in Site Mate across the Company when a customer regulatory target.
We have also seen automatically update our records, so has a problem.
Resolving these issues is a the lowest ever levels of customers customers can track our progress key priority for us in the coming year, and without supply for more than 12 hours, through an app.
The devices have better we will be introducing a new customer 8.5% better than we had previously connectivity, which means no more service measure into the short-term achieved.
Were seeing the benefit of our searching for a signal, and are easier incentive plan.
consistent investment in the network.
to use than previous versions, cutting Weve also improved our ability to respond training time in half.
The outcome is Driving operational excellence and when bursts do happen, for example more satisfied customers and lower continued innovation using reactive logging technology to costs for us.
provide real-time information to our We aim to be a winner in a world of control rooms.
This helps us to quickly incentivisation.
Customer ODIs make us understand the scale of the problem and think differently about how we work, to which customers are affected, so we can continually improve the service we provide restore their supplies as soon as possible.
to customers and increase our efficiency.
This technology also tells us how healthy Were in the top quarter of the industry for our network is, identifying increases in efficiency in water and leading the way for water pressure which can lead to pipe efficiency in waste.
bursts and enabling us to fix assets before When we developed our plans for AMP6, they deteriorate.
Reducing the volume our customers told us that preventing of water that leaks from our pipes is internal and external sewer flooding was important to us and we are testing the their number one priority.
This year, weve use of satellite technology to help identify outperformed our regulatory targets for leakage locations.
Our performance internal sewer flooding by 9% and external this year improved by 0.5% to 432 Ml d sewer flooding by 23%.
Over the first two compared to 2015 16, and 2.7% since the years of AMP6, weve invested significantly start of AMP6.
Our performance takes in identifying the parts of our network account of actual water lost, changes to that are prone to blockage and proactively data and minor method improvements, cleaning those sewers to prevent flooding.
and remains ahead of our regulatory Weve also spent 14 million this year target of 439 Ml d. We continue to make on inspecting our flooding hotspots, and iterative improvements to our leakage were investigating and resolving issues at performance by driving down the time around 350 properties whose neighbours to fix leaks, resolving bursts on private have experienced internal flooding in the properties quicker and giving really last 10 years.
clear prioritisation and focus to the biggest leaks.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 30 Regulated Water and Waste Water performance review continued Weve sustained our improved In 2016 17, we had a total of 14,461 and give advice to customers when performance on less serious category 3 water quality complaints, which was working in their area, and preventing leaks pollution incidents, with a total of 301 more than our regulatory target of and other problems such as illegal use against our regulatory target of 402.
Were investing more to achieve of hydrants also helps to protect water We suffered seven serious and major a sharp improvement and increasing quality, as they can disturb the network pollution incidents categories 1 and 2 in our understanding of where there and stir up sediment.
While this is an increase from the are problem areas in our network.
The number of our waste treatment works exceptionally low number in the previous This will allow us to invest in those areas failing to comply with their EA permits year, we remain committed to our long if necessary or to flush the network to fell from seven last year to one in 2016 17. term aim of having zero incidents by 2020. remove sediment, which can discolour We used a similar approach to our We continue our efforts to reduce pollution the water.
We will also be learning from Operational Effectiveness Programme, incidents, for example by preventing sewer our colleagues at Dee Valley Water who to make sure that our processes at our flooding, and work closely with local have done well to reduce water quality waste treatment works allow us to meet authorities and the EA to limit the impact complaints.
We communicate proactively our compliance targets.
of the incidents that do occur.
with customers on water quality issues, Our Operational Effectiveness Programme is making sure that our large water treatment works run predictably and efficiently, so we provide a resilient supply of better quality water to our customers.
The programme has shown us how all of our processes at these sites are working.
Tracking of critical-to-quality performance measures helps us to more tightly control our processes and more proactively intervene where necessary to maintain control.
This also allows us to proactively identify where we might have problems in the future, so we can strengthen our processes and invest where required.
As part of this programme, we met our commitment to the DWI to carry out diagnostics at our 16 largest sites.
Overall, we broadly maintained our mean zonal compliance at 99.94% 2015 16: 99.96%, although this was below our target of 99.97%.
Weve given our teams a new appbased technology solution, Workmate, to give them all the information required to complete and record critical water quality tasks.
This helps to maintain our assets in the best possible health.
Protecting our assets with safe drone inspections We also maintained our outstanding We need to keep our waste water for our people.
Now were now using performance on coliform detections at assets in top condition, so the water we drones to get a clear view, protecting water treatment works.
Coliforms are discharge meets the right standards our people and saving time and money.
harmless bacteria but if we find them and we have the best raw material for Drones can also help us in other ways in our water it can be a sign that the generating energy.
This means we have and were exploring new uses, such as water is below the quality we want.
to regularly inspect our assets.
In the checking that our treatment processes We had detections at five sites this year.
past, we often used scaffolding to do are working as they should.
This compares with 13 two years ago.
so but working at height can be risky The reduction is the result of activities such as the Operational Effectiveness Programme, described above.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 31 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Reducing our environmental impact is Through our Fit for Purpose programme, Investing responsibly for fundamental to how we work.
This year, we work with our One Supply Chain sustainablegrowth we improved our Asset Stewardship partners to do things more effectively.
Our capital programme saw us invest Environmental Compliance from 97.51% It helps us to deliver our capital around 680 million this year to ensure to 97.99%.
Were also delivering on all commitments as efficiently as possible, our network is fit for the future.
As part schemes that are part of the National by ensuring we and our partners are of this, we reached major milestones in Environment Programme, to improve incentivised to work towards the same improving the resilience of our network.
the quality of the water we return to the objectives.
Weve also worked with The 300 million Birmingham Resilience environment.
Overall, we did better on six suppliers to understand and influence Project is the largest capital project in the of the seven measures that go towards our their approach to responsible business.
Due for completion Environmental Performance Assessment, This includes introducing a supply chain by 2020, it will create a second major which resulted in a provisional 3 rating charter, which covers the behaviours source of water for Birmingham, which from the EA.
This was down from a 4 we want to see, what we expect in is the UKs second largest city.
This year rating last year, as the EA significantly areas such as modern slavery, and we began work on the three tunnels increased the required performance for a a rigorous approach to measuring required and saw the breakthrough of the 4 rating this year.
We are determined to environmental performance.
1.8 km Bleddfa tunnel, a key milestone for regain a 4 rating next year.
Severn Trent continues to promote the project.
In addition, were making clever use responsible catchment management, Ambergate reservoir is critical for serving of new technology.
At some network which helps to protect our water sources customers in the East Midlands.
Were sewage pumping stations, were testing from contamination.
More than 26,000 replacing the reservoir and increasing technology that learns as it goes along, so hectares of farmland are already covered capacity at the site.
In November, we it can automatically and remotely pump by our Farmers as Producers of Clean put the first of two new reservoirs into sewage to parts of the network with spare Water scheme, which helps farmers to service, a month ahead of schedule.
capacity, helping to prevent flooding and understand the impact of the way they Throughout the project, well be working serious pollutions.
run their businesses on the regions water closely with the local community to courses.
In particular, the scheme aims We continually seek ways to improve our minimise disruption, and weve received to prevent pollution from metaldehyde, operational performance.
This year, we positive feedback from the Chair of which is used to kill pests.
The DWI created three state-of-the-art regional the Community Liaison Group for our recognised us as industry leaders for distribution centres through our stores approach, as well as a Bronze award at catchment management in its last transformation project.
These make the Considerate Constructors Schemes annual report.
sure that our teams have access to National Site Awards in April 2017. the materials they need, when they We continue to work to reduce our carbon New technology has an important part need them.
emissions, which fell by 3% during the to play and we continue to invest where it year from 466 kilotonnes of CO e to 456 2 Operational excellence includes providing will improve customer service or reduce kilotonnes.
However, we did not meet high quality data about our business costs.
For example, were investing to our stretching ODI target for the year.
In Ofwats annual enable us to monitor coliforms in real More information about our greenhouse review, we were one of only three time, compared with the current process gas emissions can be found on page 66. companies to receive self-assured which takes 24 hours to process a sample.
status, recognising that we provide FTSE4Good measures the performance Weve also invested in new technologies information to customers and other of companies demonstrating strong to remove phosphorus, a major pollutant stakeholders that they can trust.
environmental, social and governance in rivers, from sewage.
We were pleased to achieve costs and could allow us to make accreditation this year.
money by turning the sludge into high quality agricultural fertiliser.
Energy is a significant cost for us and were reducing our energy use across the business, for example by introducing more efficient ways of using our pumps and blowers.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 32 Regulated Water and Waste Water performance review continued We also contribute to developing new ways Changing the market for the better Mental Health First Aid Training of working that will benefit the broader Severn Trent has a long track record of We have trained over 230 of our industry.
Following our improvements to contributing to the development of our employees to be Mental Health First processes at our large water treatment industry.
Information about our input to Aiders, to equip them with the skills works, the DWI invited us to lead work the future of regulation, and the potential required to assist an employee in crisis to strengthen the resilience of sites that for new markets such as bio-resource and to be able to offer support to all are too critical to fail, due to the large trading and water resources, can be found members of their teams.
They are numbers of people they serve.
on page 11. easily recognisable throughout the In April, we released the latest in our business by their yellow lanyards.
Creating an awesome place to work series of Charting a Sustainable Course We have also made the Lite course We want our people to be part of an publications, which sets out how we mandatory for all of our line managers.
organisation that celebrates diversity believe incentives can be made to work This 3.5 hour course covers the stigma and individual thinking, that provides better at the next price review.
This builds of mental health illness, looks at recognition and reward whenever its due, on Ofwats Water 2020 framework and the signs and symptoms and how a and offers opportunities to do satisfying proposes how regulation could encourage manager can help educate their teams work and to develop careers.
We also look innovation and efficiency whilst protecting and make discussions around mental to achieve the highest possible standards customers interests.
Towards the of health, safety and wellbeing.
end of last year we ran a campaign We continue to embrace new competitive Safety is always a priority for us.
In 2016 17 asking our employees to talk more markets.
As discussed in more detail we reduced our lost time injury LTI about mental health.
The Elephant in in the Business Services performance rate within Severn Trent Water Limited the Room campaign proved to be a real review on page 40, the non-household from 0.25 to 0.22 LTIs per 100,000 hours talking point around the business with a retail market opened to competition in worked.
This reduction was less than number of our employees sharing their April 2017.
Our wholesale operations have we aimed for and we are continuing to personal journeys through our internal been preparing to serve the retailers seek more engaging ways to deliver communication channels.
A survey in this market, including our new joint further sustainable improvements.
In our undertaken at the beginning of the year venture Waterplus with United Utilities.
supply chain, continued collaboration showed that we had started to make This has included agreeing service levels has seen further reduction to the lowest some in-roads into changing some of for the critical activities well provide ever LTI rates, and we also reduced total the perceptions around mental health.
to retailers and setting up processes accidents by another 7%, following a for monitoring those service levels.
25% reduction last year, sustaining and Weve also created a business retailer embedding improvements.
We are also proud of our progress in protecting our peoples wellbeing this year, in particular in the area of mental health.
Our campaign included #elephanttalks, aimed at breaking down the stigma associated with mental health, providing personal tools to help individuals identify their own mental health issues and training managers to spot the symptoms.
This has been well received and has already begun to reduce levels of absenteeism.
Pantone 368 U Break-through of the Bleddfa tunnel as part of the Birmingham Resilience Project Pantone 356 U Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 33 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Diversity and inclusion are important for In 2016 17, we introduced a simplified With many skilled people in our workforce success and we have always made them bonus structure for all employees.
set to retire in the next 10 years, bringing a priority.
Our Severn Trent Water Limited Bonus levels depend on PBIT, achieving the next generation of talent through is workforce remains broadly in line with the customer ODIs and our health and critical.
This year we therefore trebled the sector averages, with female employees safety performance.
This means that number of apprentices we took on and accounting for 31.3% of the total compared our employees and managers reward doubled our graduate intake.
We were with 33% across the industry.
8.9% of our are based on the same measures right recognised for our work as regional employees are Black, Asian or Minority through the whole company, as explained winners in the National Apprenticeship Ethnic BAME, against an industry in more detail on page 107.
In addition, Awards and Asian Apprenticeship average of 5%.
our all employee share scheme has a Employer of the Year.
We also run a remarkable 70% take-up and our market wide range of careers events in schools, To help improve diversity, weve introduced leading pension scheme has 98% of colleges and universities, to inspire young an innovative approach to attracting and employees enrolled.
The Our Brilliant people to study science, technology, assessing candidates for our new talent People recognition scheme is also engineering and maths subjects, and schemes.
Instead of looking at what proving successful, with our people being consider a career with us.
experience candidates have, we now focus nominated 17,087 times for recognition on their strengths.
This helps people who The response rate to our annual employee for excellent work.
In 2017 18, the bonus have fewer opportunities to gain work survey increased from 80% to 84% and structure for all employees will introduce experience, which can be an issue for our people gave us higher scores in every a further performance measure on BAME candidates and those from lower category.
Our overall engagement score customer satisfaction.
It gives us a more improved by three percentage points and balanced picture of candidates and more We invest significant sums in training and is above the global benchmark, reflecting people from BAME backgrounds are development and in total we delivered our considerable efforts to respond coming through the process.
20% more training days in 2016 17. to the findings of last years survey.
Inspiring Great Performance is our One third of our teams have a top quartile We also ran a pilot with a social mobility approach to having great conversations engagement score and we continue to charity to give students who might not about development, so we can create receive high scores in health, safety and consider a career with Severn Trent the programmes that meet business and the environment: diversity and inclusion: opportunity to learn more about the personal needs.
We continued to run our and customer focus.
The programme offered the Awesome Leaders Programme, which looking to improve include collaboration students an introduction into the world of is our flagship programme for team across teams, career progression and work and gave them practical experience managers.
More than 400 people have employee recognition.
of the application and interview process.
We also developed Several of the programme members 65 middle managers, to help them embed Outlook secured graduate and apprentice this programme with their team leaders.
While were pleased with many aspects of positions with us.
this years performance, were aware that This year, we rigorously reviewed the Severn Trent has strong gender diversity we have much more to do to achieve the personal development plans for our senior among our most senior management.
high standards we, our customers and our and middle managers.
As a result, were We were recognised by the Hamptonother stakeholders expect.
developing a programme for our middle Alexander Review for our leading managers, which will cover areas such as In 2017 18, well continue to focus on performance in this area among the FTSE building networks, improving stakeholder our customer ODIs so we improve 100.
More information on diversity can be engagement and commercial knowledge.
Well look to do better found within the Nominations Committee for customers when things go wrong report and our Corporate Responsibility In addition, weve designed a programme and reduce the level of water quality report on pages 82 and 69 respectively.
of technical development for operational complaints.
Well also continue to strive to managers, which provides 15 days of be the environmental leader in everything training across 25 subject areas.
Weve we do and to be a key player in helping the also introduced a comprehensive training industry to strengthen its long term asset programme called Skilled by Choice, for management approach.
team managers and staff at our water treatment works.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 34 Case study Delivering our vision and purpose through our strategy and values ACTING WITH INTEGRITY Strategic goals Reduction in unwantedcalls 15,000 The outcome is a new bill which highlights Being transparent and putting The new bill design makes the most important information.
customers in charge with our sure customers have all the It makes clear what our customers get newbill design information they need to for their money, with easily understood In previous years, too many customers descriptions, and puts them in control make informed decisions, had to call us because they couldnt by setting out their payment options and giving them more control over understand their bills.
To improve their the help thats available.
The bill also experience, we analysed their calls and shows metered customers how much the service they receive.
engaged with our frontline agents, to water theyve used and relates it to the identify the common complaints.
We then equivalent in pints, showers or cups of tea, Catherine McGuinness, ran focus groups and surveyed more than encouraging them to cut their usage.
Business Change Specialist 1,000 people, to find out exactly what our The new bills have been a real success.
This year, weve had 15,000 fewer unwanted calls in just the first five weeks of our main billing season.
Se Sev vern T ern Tr rent Pl ent Plc c Annual Report and Ac Annual Report and Acc counts 2017 ounts 2017 35 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Se Sev vern T ern Tr rent Pl ent Plc c Annual Report and Ac Annual Report and Acc counts 2017 ounts 2017
