y g e t a r t S r u O Business model and strategy Delivering through a consistent strategy Babcock is the UKs leading engineering services company.
Our objective is to grow from our position both in the UK and overseas, delivering sustainable value for our stakeholders.
We seek to achieve this by creating and growing our businesses based on our strategy.
Key differentiators A growing portfolio delivered Underpinning everything we do is our breadth and depth of knowledge, the through a consistent strategy experience of our people, our successful longterm partnerships and the unique infrastructure we own and operate.
Technical skills Decades of sectorspecific expertise provide us with a sound understanding of risk and resilience and enable us to forecast demand to effectively deliveravailability.
We areequipmentagnostic and have technology agreements with all the main equipment manufacturers.
We seek to drive innovation for our customers, using ourexpertise toidentify and integrate technology.
Leading market Unique infrastructure positions We have a deep understanding of how to manage both ours and ourcustomershighly regulated critical infrastructure assets, including naval, aviation and vehicle fleets, unique dockyards, nuclearlicensed sites, naval, aviation and army bases,  fleets and technical training centres.
Excellent health and safety Longterm relationships record Babcock is used to working in longterm partnerships with governments and blue chip companies, often embedded with our customers.
We align our interests with theirs sothat we share risks and rewards through pain gain share agreements.
Our strong track record includesunique reference cases which prove our ability Balancing to deliver.
risk Longterm contracts and reward Our 19.0 billion order book and 10.5 billionpipeline of longterm contracts and framework agreements gives excellent visibility of future revenues.
We are aligned with our customers and incentivised to perform, with strong management of balancing risk and reward.
We have an excellent track record of delivery with arebidwin rate of over 90%.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 16 y g e t a r t S r u O y g e t a r t S r u O Strategic report 1 Directors report 80 Financials 142 Trusted to deliver We believe our business model and strategy, built around our reputation for beingtrusted to deliver, set us apart.
They have provided a strong foundation for our success and are vital to ensuring we continue to deliver value.
Babcock thrives in complex environments which Creating value for all stakeholders require specialist engineering expertise.
We We aim to serve the interests and meet the needs of all our stakeholders continue to deliver value on targeted contracts, employees, customers and shareholders by conducting business responsibly.
selected to fit our strategy and match our Astrong Babcock culture integrates our values and beliefs into every aspect of our capabilities.
We look to combine technical business, ensuringvalue creation.
The foundation on which we build value for our andengineering capabilities to provide a stakeholdersis the six pillars of our consistent strategy, detailed on page 23. singleintegrated solution.
Employees We seek to create value for our employees by creating: a safe working Public bodies environment: providing continuous professional development: providing equal opportunities for all: andcreating a rewarding place to work.
Our skilled and blue chip workforce of over 35,000 enables us to meet the operational requirements of customers our customers.
Customers We seek to create value for our customers by:working through longterm collaborative Customer relationships: reducing the cost of deliveringkey focused services: increasing asset availability or providing lifeextensions: andproviding technical knowledge longterm and skills to manage complex transformation relationships programmes.
Longterm successful relationships with our customers help create strong cash flows that can beused to generate growth and shareholder value.
Integrated Shareholders engineering We seek to create value for our shareholders by returning money in the and technical form of: dividends: investing in, and growing, our business: andgrowing expertise the value of their investment over time.
Read more on page 23 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 17 y g e t a r t S r u O
