Royal Mail plc | Who we are transports it to Royal Mail for delivery.
GLS also provides a whole range of business-toWho we are business B2B and business-to-consumer B2C services across continentalEurope.
Only Royal Mail delivers to all parts of the country to the same high service standards with a geographically uniform tariff.
In May Royal Mail is the UKs preeminent delivery company.
We deliver 2016, our regulator, Ofcom, found that the more letters and parcels, to more addresses in the UK, than all of postal services sector saw an increase in customers' perception of value for money our competitors combined.
We are proud to deliver a from 2005 to 2015.
This was at a time when onepricegoesanywhere service on a range of letters and 5 ratings declined in many other sectors.
Ofcom did further research on value for parcels to around 30million addresses, across the UK, money in post that concluded 75percent of sixdaysaweek, in our role as the UKs sole designated Universal residential consumers said that they were 1 Service Provider.
Royal Mail has helped to shape the history of either fairly or very satisfied with the value 6 for money of postal services.
the UK and the way the world communicates for 500 years.
Royal Mail adheres to a stringent set of regulatory standards for the delivery of We make a very significant contribution Our people parcels and letters.
Consumer protections to the wider UK economy.
Through UK We employ around 159,000 people across are key.
Royal Mail has the greatest number Parcels, International & Letters UKPIL, our our Group.
One in every 185 jobs in the UK is of protections for parcels customers.
Other 3 impact, including through employment and provided by Royal Mail.
We are committed to major parcel operators have limited or no procurement, totalled 10.8 billion last year preserving the trust members of the public regulatory consumer protection standards in terms of value added.
We made the fifth place in Royal Mail and our hard-working applied to them.
largest contribution to the UK economy of all employees.
78percent of our customers say 2 UK corporations.
General Logistics Systems they are favourable to us, while 88percent Our shareholders GLS, our pan-European parcels business, are satisfied with the service we provide, Royal Mail is part of the fabric of UK life.
4 operates one of the largest, ground-based putting us ahead of the companies surveyed.
As such, we are pleased to have a large deferred parcel delivery networks in Europe.
Royal Mail also ranks as the most trusted and and diverse shareholder base.
We have a most preferred delivery company in Business proactive programme of engagement with all Our position CSIs Brand Tracker 2016-17 survey.
of our shareholders, including institutional E-substitution continues to drive a investors in the UK and overseas.
Following structural decline in UK addressed letter Our strong brand position means we are our flotation on the London Stock Exchange volumes.
We forecast a four to sixpercent proud to offer the best pay and terms in 2013, we have a relatively large retail annual decline excluding the impact of and conditions in our industry.
It includes many of our political parties election mailings in the majority of our employees are employed own people.
Despite this, letters are an on permanent contracts, except where important part of our business.
We believe there is a short-term need.
Our permanent Allof our eligible full-time employees they will be for years to come.
They account employees are paid above the Living Wage have received a maximum of 913 Free for around 45per cent of our revenue as a which, in turn, is above the legal minimum Shares, regardless of grade.
This means Group: and almost 60percent of our revenue set by the UK Government.
They also that, in total, 12percent of the Company in the UK.
Royal Mail is the largest parcel receive the additional benefits associated has been awarded to eligible colleagues.
delivery company in the UK.
But, we operate with permanent employment, such as paid This is one of the largest free stakes made in a very challenging environment.
We face holidays and a good pension.
In return, available to employees as part of any major significant competition from companies however, we continually work with our UK privatisation.
with established delivery capabilities and unions to agree changes to our working from new entrants.
E-retail continues to fuel practices and labour model.
This process Our transformation overall growth in parcel volumes.
Growth of change is about sustaining our business Our UK operation is organised to deliver to available in the UK parcels market continues now and in the future, particularly given the every household and business in the UK, to be impacted by Amazons activities.
Thismeans we benefit when we deliver letters and parcels together.
International markets are also intensely Our customers More than 90per cent of the parcels we competitive, as growth continues to be Royal Mail Group has a wide range of handle in the UK pass through the Royal fuelled by increasing cross-border trade, customers using our letters, parcels and Mail core network, which delivers the driven by e-retail.
This includes consumers, Universal Service.
small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs, some of the UKs largest businesses and We will continue to invest a significant retailers, and other postal operators who use amount of cash in our core network, although our downstream network.
This is where a 1 Under the Postal Services Act 2011 the Act, Ofcom we are now past the peak of investment.
postal operator other than Royal Mail collects is the regulator for postal services in the UK.
Ofcoms 5 primary regulatory duty for postal services is to mail from the customer, sorts it and then Ofcom, Consultation on Review of the Regulation of secure the provision of the Universal Postal Service.
6 Ofcom has designated Royal Mail as the Universal Ofcom, Review of the Regulation of Royal Mail, 3 Cebr research, conducted for Royal Mail in May 2017.
4 2 Ipsos MORI Corporate Image Survey Winter 2016.
2016-17: comprising direct and indirect contributions.
02 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information At present, around 80percent of our revenue GLS The GLS footprint was expanded this year.
comes from our UK business.
We also want GLS is our European parcels business.
In Europe, GLS acquired Agencia Servicios to develop a broader revenue base and It operates one of the largest groundMensajera S. A. U. ASM in Spain.
As part grow in the UK and overseas.
GLS remains based, parcel delivery networks in Europe.
of its careful and focused expansion outside a focus for investment to help drive growth TheGLS network covers 41 European Europe, GLS acquired Golden State Overnight as it continues to expand, including into countries and nation states through a Delivery Service Inc. GSO and Postal 7 new geographies.
It provides exposure to combination of wholly-owned companies and Express.
GSO is a leading provider of markets where revenues are growing above partner companies.
regional next day delivery services principally 8 gross domestic product GDP.
Postal Express is a regional positioned to support our overall strategy overnight carrier operating in the states of by increasing its footprint and focusing on Washington, Oregon and Idaho.
growth opportunities in the deferred parcels space, and selective growth in the B2C parcels market.
In addition, in the UK, we are actively looking at areas where there UKPIL GLS is market opportunity and the potential to make the most of our assets.
They include our large network infrastructure, our trusted c. 142,000 c. 17,000 brand and our data.
Employees Employees We need to stay ahead of the competition in both letters and parcels if we are to 6 62 remain our customers number one choice.
Regional Distribution Centres Network hubs In the medium-term, the faster areas of growth in the parcels market are expected 9 38 c. 1,100 to be clothing and footwear, returns and same-day delivery.
We are becoming Mail Centres Depots more flexible to accommodate the needs of e-retailers and online shoppers.
This c. 1,400 c. 17,000 includes increasing the number of pick-up Delivery Offices Parcel shops and drop-off points in our network, better systems integration with retailers and extending acceptance times at Mail Centres c. 11,600 and Regional Distribution Centres.
Local Collect locations We are also seeking to become a digital organisation and build our overall 54 Key e-commerce capability.
Becoming a digital Parcelforce Worldwide depots business is about fundamentally changing UKPIL the way we use technology and data.
It is 10 GLS c. 48,000 about changing our internal and external processes.
In so doing, we aim to digitise as Vehicles GL S Network many of these as possible.
With better use Partners of technology and data, we can create better products, services and customer experience.
We want to be able to help our customers with every step: from purchase, to delivery, to returns.
Our operations andnetworks UKPIL UKPIL comprises Royal Mails core UK and international parcels and letters delivery businesses under the Royal Mail and Parcelforce Worldwide brands.
Royal Mails network is unparalleled in the UK in its scale and scope.
It supports the provision of services for the collection, sorting and delivery of parcels and letters by Royal Mail.
This includes those services Royal Mail provides as the UKs designated Universal 7 Postal Express was acquired after the financial year end.
Parcelforce Worldwide is a 8 GSO also operates in Arizona, Nevada and NewMexico.
leading provider of express parcel services.
9 Ipswich Mail Centre has ceased outward processing but continues inward processing until the second quarter of2017-18.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 03
