Our sectors in action Land Providing critical fleet management, engineering servicesand technical training worldwide We provide largescale critical fleet management and training for customerowned defence, emergency services, global airport and commercial vehicle fleets comprising around 80,000 vehicles while also providing engineering services and technical training for customers worldwide.
Order book Pipeline 35% 40% Customer type: Civil vs defence Public vs private 63% 67% 37% 33% Civil Defence Public Private Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 10 Technology We provide sectorwide advanced fleet management systems and telematics to deliver efficient throughlife engineering services for a vast array of customers assets.
We integrate technology into support delivery, ranging from technical vehicle survey capabilities such as electromagnetic and ultrasound testing todata capture and analytics, andspecialist vehicle conversion.
Training We use innovation to deliver enhanced technical training delivery platforms.
With simulations and advanced learner management systems we are able to provide an efficient offeringin civil training: engineering apprenticeships, firefighting, automotive, education and defence training, where we are a core training partner to theBritish Army.
Infrastructure We own unique defence and civil infrastructure sites across theUK providing largescale fleet management and support, forexampleat the Defence Support Groupwe deliver support for vehicles ranging from protected mobility vehicles up to main battle tanks across various sites.
We also support emergency services infrastructure sites, delivering critical fleet management and technical training to the Metropolitan Police and the London Fire Brigade.
Global Growth Land has established operations across the globe.
Our airport services are truly worldwide with a range of vehicle and ground support equipmentfleet management and handling systems in the UK, Italy, Netherlands, Brazil and Australia.
InSouth Africa, we have power support and critical infrastructure engineering contracts and are the largest distributor of Volvo and DAF vehicles.
24% International Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2017 11
