36 SEVERN TRENT BUSINESS SERVICES Business Services business model Severn Trents Business Services portfolio 1.
Operations and Maintenance Offers Turnover from continuing allows us to apply our water and waste whereby we use our technical expertise operations water services knowledge to create and to efficiently operate water and waste deliver services to customers in the UK, assets on behalf of others.
In the UK, Ireland and the USA.
such customers include the Ministry of 309.6m Defence and the Coal Authority whilst Generating returns through in the USA we look after the assets of Underlying PBIT over 290 customers and municipalities thevalue chain across 18 states.
We have expertise, skills and a good 2.
Service Offers whereby we link our 37.2m track record in water and waste water customers to other expertise they might related operations and maintenance.
need such as water hygiene monitoring, Business customers are looking for Reported PBIT plumbing and drainage insurance partners that they can trust to deliver through our strategic partnership with a compliant, reliable and cost-effective 39.8m HomeServe, and property searches service, which is exactly what our brand through Severn Trent Utility Services.
We will continue to build on our established business which can be split broadly into two categories: Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 37 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Our business model Read more on page 39 The resources and relationships critical to our success Identify and develop opportunities Create products and services Identify and develop opportunities in Create products and services that help our Business Services markets.
clients manage their water and energy needs.
Maximise our return Build strong and respected brands Maximise our return on investment through Build strong and respected brands that are long term contracts and service agreements customer focused and recognised across and cross dissemination of our products.
Operating Services Read more on page 40 Renewable Energy Read more on page 38 Associated risks Read more on page 39 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 38 Business Services business model continued The majority of our business is generated and retained through long term agreements.
These agreements are collaborative partnerships, which include performance commitments setting out what we will deliver and how.
Revenue and profitability is driven by base contract fees, supplemented by additional growth work that comes from the provision of enhanced services.
Renewable energy At the beginning of AMP6, we set out our plan to invest in a range of renewable technologies, with all projects achieving double digit returns.
Our target is to generate the equivalent of 50% of SevernTrent Waters energy needs by 2020 and were on track to achieve that, having generated 34% of SevernTrent Waters energy needs in 2016 17.
Our renewable energy business contributed PBIT of 19.4 million this year.
The majority of the remaining gas we produce is supplied to the national grid, in support of the Governments aim to decarbonise the UK economy.
To date, weve spent or committed around 130 million of the 190 million investment we have planned for AMP6, with new regulated sludge anaerobic digestion assets accounting for roughly 37% of that.
The remaining spend, on non-regulated assets, includes our investment in solar in 2015 16 and food waste anaerobic digestion this year.
Our second food waste plant, at Roundhill, Operations at our food waste plant.
It can inject enough gas into the national grid to heat over 3,000 homes.
Weve obtained planning permission for our next food waste site in Derby, with the aim of completing it in2018.
The investment weve made in recent years puts us at the forefront of our industry for renewable energy generation.
This was recognised by Utility Week, which gave us its Environment Award for the second year running.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 39 Strategic report Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Our critical resources Associated risks andrelationships Customers Business Services customers are public Business Services continues to address the risks to its sector bodies, including municipalities, strategy and business model, which are outlined below.
and industrial and commercial organisations.
They retain us on multiyear contracts to provide water and Processes waste water services, often operating Principal risk 7 Hazardous processes may injure our people.
and maintaining assets owned by the Read more on page 53 customers themselves.
They look to us to deliver these services more costeffectively and efficiently than they could Failures manage themselves.
Principal risks 3 and 7 Failure of treatment processes may cause Read more on pages 51 and 53 environmental damage and a short-fall in Employees regulatory compliance.
Our approach to attracting, retaining, developing and engaging our people is common across the Group.
Changes More information can be found in the Principal risk 2 Regulatory or political changes could reduce discussion of our regulated business on Read more on page 51 demandfor our services.
Partners Energy We provide non-household retail services We may be exposed to increased volatility through Waterplus, our joint venture inenergy prices.
More information on this joint venture can be found in the performance review on page 40.
Planning We have another joint venture in Ireland Local opposition to our plans may affect our with Response Engineering called Severn infrastructure efforts or our ability to generate Trent Response which operates two waste sufficient renewable energy to achieve our targets.
treatment operation and maintenance contracts in Letterkenny andLimerick.
We have just renewed our contract agreement with HomeServe for another six years through which we refer customers toHomeServe for insurance policies.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 40 Business Services performance review Business Services had a strong year.
In Developer Services, weve continued One of the key developments in the year Turnover from continuing operations to deliver improvements in our service to was the creation of our Waterplus joint increased by 32.9 million, including customers who need new water and waste venture with United Utilities, ahead of 22.8 million from exchange rate impacts, water connections.
We were pleased to be the opening of the non-household retail to 309.6 million, while underlying PBIT placed in the top three companies for water market in April 2017.
Waterplus is an was 31% higher at 37.2million.
In waste, whilst independent company, with its own we had fewer service level agreement management team and a new office Operating Services in the UK is now in failures than last year, we only placed in the in Stoke-on-Trent.
All non-household the 13th year of our 25 year, 1 billion middle of the pack, so we are determined customers have transferred to operating and maintenance contract to improve.
We are undergoing a the company.
with the Ministry of Defence MoD, reorganisation to align better with different which continues to perform well.
This is an exciting development.
As the customers needs and to streamline our Despite reductions in the volume of water largest player in the market, WaterPlus processes.
The team were delighted the customer uses, weve grown revenue aims to provide industry-leading retail to receive an acknowledgement of our through sales of additional services, such services, which respond to customer performance from the Homebuilders as a contract to upgrade the facilities at needs as the market develops.
Federation who awarded us their Utility of RAF Marham.
Weve also delivered an As described on page 32, our regulated the Year award.
improvement in key operational metrics.
wholesale business has also gone For example, clean water sample failures Our business in Italy also did well this year.
through the necessary preparations to are down 20% this year, while incidents However, our desire to focus on our core serve retailers in this market, meaning of sewer blockages, floodings and supply activities led us to sell it to our former joint that were in great shape for competition in interruptions are 11% lower.
Weve focused venture partner, Acea S. p. A. which we the non-household sector.
on developing our relationship with our believe is the right strategic owner for it.
Business Services achieved a notable customers in the MoD and are delighted We continued to improve performance increase in its employee engagement to maintain a positive net promoter score in our USA Operating Services business.
score this year, which rose six percentage with the MoD.
We have rationalised our contract points.
The improvement resulted from The Coal Authority contract is also portfolio to ensure were operating with our focus on communications and the performing well.
The water we pump from customers and on contracts where our training and development programmes the mines contains iron oxide and weve focus on excellence and compliance truly weve put in place.
worked in partnership with our customer adds value, and where we can earn the Outlook to find uses for it.
As a result, the first right financial returns.
The $14 million contract has recently been signed to sell Oklahoma City contract has started well Our aim in the coming year is to focus on this by-product from our operation.
and weve continued to win work with delivering great customer service in our other customers, as well as retaining UK, Ireland and USA Operating Services 90% of our existing contracts at rebid.
At the same time, well Our environmental performance in the continue to invest in renewable energy, as USA also improved during the year, with a we make further progress towards our 99.8% compliance rate across water and 2020 target.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
