Royal Mail plc | Market overview becoming established as an alternative Market overview delivery option, particularly during peak periods, whether in the retailers own stores or through third-party parcel shops andlockers.
Consumers are increasingly shopping at a time and place which suits them.
Mobile As the Universal Service Provider, Royal Mail plays a vital role commerce M-commerce is making it easier than ever for people to shop on the inthe UK economy.
We enable the continued growth of internet.
In December 2016, just over half e-commerce through the Universal Service network and play of all visits to e-commerce websites were 9 from mobile devices.
This is the first time akey part in the digital economy.
TheUniversal Service provides that mobile including tablet has overtaken depth of coverage, value for money and convenience for desktop as the primary channel through 1 which consumers engaged with retailers.
It is businesses wherever they are based in the UK.
But, we operate a trend that is likely to continue as retailers within an increasingly dynamic market.
Intense competition in invest more in their mobile websites and parcels and ongoing structural decline in letters makes the postal connectivity improves.
To compete effectively, we need to UK letters market continue to invest to meet fast changing customer expectations.
The UKs letters market is significantly more competitive than people think.
E-substitution is a potent form of competition.
82percent of adults use the internet on a daily basis, up UK parcels market There is also an emerging threat from 10 from around 35percent in 2006.
Addressed E-commerce continues to drive parcel on-demand delivery platforms that speed letter volumes have declined by 22 percent volume growth.
It is estimated that online up the way goods are transported in urban over the last five years.
Total letter revenue retail made up 14.8percent of all retail sales areas.
Innovative logistics companies are has fallen twopercent over the sameperiod.
This is the highest it has ever been.
starting to roll out parcel delivery services UK customers spend more online per head beyond trial stage in the US and Europe.
We are seeing the impact of overall business than consumers in any other major market, They typically connect retail stores with uncertainty in the UK on letter volumes, including the US and China.
local individual couriers, enabling fast and in particular, advertising and business flexible deliveries.
Television, print and mail advertising The UK is one of Europes most competitive declined in 2016, with advertisers delaying parcels markets, with 15 major players.
Growth areas or substituting investment decisions and We estimate that the blended UK parcels The rapid pace of change in the UK parcels shifting from traditional to digital forms of 3,4 market is growing by around fourpercent market is expected to continue, due to low advertising.
Advertising mail has fallen from 5 a year.
The structure and behaviour of the barriers to entry, greater disintermediation 16per cent to eightper cent a c. 50per cent parcels market continues to be influenced and disruptive business models.
Next reduction of total advertising spend since by the rapid expansion of Amazon and its day parcels now account for 56percent 2001.
Digital advertising represented almost 6 logistics innovations.
At the same time, of domestic volumes.
Next day delivery half 47percent of all advertising spend parcel carriers continue to invest in new is increasingly becoming a standard, in 2016. capacity.
Traditional retailers are improving rather than a premium delivery service for In letters, the Access market is, by some their in-house collection and delivery onlineretailers.
distance, the biggest in Europe.
For example, Sainsburys recently Online retail growth continues to be driven by competition is where a postal operator completed its 1.4billion acquisition of advances in fulfilment, easier returns, new other than Royal Mail collects mail from Argos.
We expect that competition will technology and ease of shopping.
Clothing the customer, sorts it and then transports continue to intensify, driven by retailers and footwear is the fastest growing sector it to our Mail Centres for us to deliver.
This investment in delivery options, logistics and online.
It is also driving returns of online enables other operators to offer postal technology to support the growth of their purchases, which are forecast to reach services to larger business customers for online sales.
7 5.7billion in 2021. letters and large letters without setting up a delivery network.
Access operators now In 2016, the extension of Black Friday account for nearly 60per cent of addressed promotions for a week or longer was a big inland letters in the nations postbag.
In other draw for the UKs increasingly value-driven 1 Triangle Management Insights, 2015.
EU markets, no more than 11per cent of 2 consumers.
A new online peak trading GlobalData, 2017. upstream letters volumes are handled by 3 Internal estimate based on Triangle Management pattern is emerging, characterised by the Access operators.
Services RMG Fulfilment Market Measure 2015 : Black Friday week in November and the run defined as individually addressed parcels and up to Christmas.
packets, generated and delivered in the UK, weighing International parcels up to 30kg, that do not require special handling.
Home delivery remains the preferred delivery E-retail is also fuelling growth in cross-border Includes access fulfilment large letters & parcels and 8 option for 81percent of consumers.
In 2016, European B2C e-commerce excludes click-and-collect, same-day, small local Nevertheless, click and collect is now grew 12percent to 510 billion, with 42billion operators and all international traffic.
4 Includes Amazon Logistics and other retailers 6 9 own-delivery networks.
IMRG Capgemini Sales Index Report, January 2017.
5 7 10 Based on Verdict UK E-retail survey and RMG GlobalData eretail, April 2017.
ONS: Internet Access-Households and Individuals, 8 marketinsight.
IMRG UK Consumer Home Delivery Review 2016.
12 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 S St tr ra at tegic egic rrepor eport t || GGoovverna ernancncee || Fina Financial ncial ssttaattement ementss || Other Other inf informa ormation tion 11 parcels sentannually.
This growth is uneven UK leading in e-commerce across Europe, due to varying economic E-commerce accounted for performance and e-commerce adoption.
Thelargest B2C parcels markets outside the UK are Germany, France and Italy.
14.8% of all retail We are seeing an increasingly competitive 13 trade in 2016, the highest ever.
environment, with operators providing 13 GlobalData, 2017. innovative, high quality services at lower prices.
Consumers expect a seamless cross-border delivery and returns 12 Black Friday Cyber Week experience.
For example, in the UK, there are a range of major national operators that deliver cross-border services, alongside hundreds of smaller operators looking to 25billion increase market share.
is estimated to have been spent in A recent Royal Mail study into the international ambitions of small UK e-retailers found that internet sales between 13th November 14 35per cent of small businesses think Europe and 24th December 2016. holds the most potential to generate new 14 IMRG 2016. sales for their business.
28per cent think the USA and North America are the most promising markets.
M-commerce Outside the EU, Chinese e-commerce Mobile devices continue to account for a marketplaces Tmall and AliExpress are 15 strengthening international cross-border growing share of e-commerce activity.
Alibaba has reported that the value IMRG Capgemini Sales Index Report, January 2017. of goods sold on its marketplace on Singles Day 11November rose 32percent to almost $18billion, compared with $14billion last year.
Launched in 2009, Singles Day now runs every 11November, and has become the biggest global shopping event.
Delivery matters 11 E-commerce European B2C Report 2016.
12 IPC cross-border e-commerce shopper survey 2016.
81% of online shoppers prefer tohave items delivered to 16 theirhome.
16 IMRG UK Consumer Home Delivery Review 2016.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 13
