ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 97 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TOTAL REMUNERATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER The table below details the total remuneration including the value of awards vesting in the current year, but awarded in prior years of the Director holding the position of CEO of Intermediate Capital Group plc for the past eight years.
This years short term award to the CEO exceeds the maximum due to a portion of his final award being made in PLC Equity, reflecting his planned retirement, rather than in BSC.
The long term award exceeding the maximum is significantly due to the one off gain arising from the unanticipated ICG Recovery Fund 2008 transaction.
Percentage of maximum Percentage of maximum Total remuneration opportunity of short term opportunity of long term Financial year 000 incentives awarded incentives awarded 2017 6,888 102% 160% 2016 4,295 76% 98% 2015 5,103 80% 98% Christophe Evain 2014 4,797 97% 20% 2013 1,492 24% 1% 2012 2,973 43% 97% 2011 5,941 44% 100% Tom Attwood 2010 4,631 44% 100% PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF DIRECTOR UNDERTAKING THE ROLE OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE The table below details how changes to the CEOs pay compare with the change in the average pay across all employees of the Group.
Each figure is a percentage change of the values between the previous financial year and the financial year under review.
The total permanent workforce has been selected as the comparator for salaries and fees and short term incentives.
The comparison of the increase in taxable benefits has been made for UK permanent employees only as their remuneration packages are most similar to that of the Chief Executive.
The short term incentive award to the CEO represents an award of PLC Equity, reflecting his planned retirement.
Salaries and fees Taxable benefits Short term incentives Chief Executive Officer 3.00% 9.94% 34.85% All employees 3.88% 14.42% 14.41% RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The table below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay compared with other disbursements from profit namely distributions to shareholders for the financial year under review and the previous financial year.
A special dividend of 200m was paid in July 2016 and consequently shareholder distributions in the current financial year have fallen.
The movement in staff costs reflects the increased headcount supporting the growth of the Group and the higher cost of awards due to a strong performance year.
FY16 FY17 Percentage m m change Ordinary dividend 72.5 75.7 4% Special dividend 200.0 0.0 100% Total shareholder distributions 272.5 75.7 72% Permanent headcount 268 281 5% Employee costs 103.4 139.3 35% 98 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT ANNUAL REPORT ON CONTINUED STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN FOLLOWING FINANCIAL YEAR The growth in ICG, its increased complexity, the time commitment required from NEDs and market levels of remuneration have not been fully reflected in recent NED fee levels.
In the coming years the NED burden will further increase due to the introduction of the senior managers and certification regime to asset managers.
ICGs fees have been benchmarked against median fees in the financial sector for FTSE 250 companies.
Accordingly, with effect from 1 April 2017, fees have been increased but do not exceed a median benchmark.
The proposed salaries for the Executive Directors and fees for the NEDs for FY18 are set out below.
Annual salaries and fees 000 Role Y E 31 March 2018 Y E 31 March 2017 Executive Director 386.0 375.0 Chairman 236.5 215.0 Non Executive Director other than Chairman 75.0 60.0 Senior Independent Director 15.0 10.0 Remuneration Committee Chairman 20.0 20.0 Audit Committee Chairman 20.0 15.0 Risk Committee Chairman 20.0 15.0 Member of the Audit Committee, Risk Committee or Remuneration Committee 12.0 9.0 Committee composition is set out on pages 42 and 43 and in the relevant Committee reports on pages 51 to 98.
For FY18, the AAP will be calculated as described in the Directors remuneration policy.
All incentives excluding Third Party Carry and similar arrangements in respect of business acquisitions or ICG direct investment funds that do not give rise to a cost or liability to the Group payable to employees of the Group will be funded out of the AAP.
The Executive Directors annual bonus and other incentives will be dependent on them achieving specific objectives as set out on page 88.
STATEMENT OF VOTING AT GENERAL MEETING At the last AGM, votes on the remuneration report were cast as follows: Votes for Votes against Abstentions Reasons for votes against, if known and actions taken by the Committee Directors Remuneration Report 91.06% 8.94% 568,840 While there were no particular concerns raised last year, the Committee has continued to engage with shareholders and their feedback has been incorporated into the proposed Policy.
At the AGM in July 2014, votes on the remuneration policy were cast as follows: Votes for Votes against Abstentions Reasons for votes against, if known and actions taken by the Committee Remuneration Policy 79.85% 20.15% 18,112,805 Directors of the Company met with a number of shareholders in the period subsequent to this vote: however, no material concerns in respect of the Policy were raised.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 99 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited The profiles of the Directors are shown financial statements for the 12 months ended 31 March 2017. on pages 42 and 43: those details are The risks to which the Group is subject and the policies in respect incorporated into this report by reference.
of such risks are set out on pages 27 to 34 and are incorporated In addition, Justin Dowley served as a Non Executive Director during the year, stepping into this report by reference.
The Corporate Governance section down on 21 July 2016. set out on pages 39 to 98, is incorporated into this report The composition of each of the Committees by reference.
of the Board and the Chairman of each Throughout the year to 31 March 2017 the Group was in compliance with the provisions Committee are detailed in the report of of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
A copy each Committee, found on pages 51 to 98. of the Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website: www.
Directors interests Significant shareholdings The interests of Directors who held office at 31 March 2017 and their connected persons, As at 24 May 2017 the Company had been notified or otherwise become aware of the as defined by the Companies Act, are following interests pursuant to the Disclosure Rules and the Transparency Rules representing disclosed in the report of the Remuneration 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company.
Number of Percentage of Details of Directors share options are Institution shares voting rights provided in the report of the Remuneration Aviva Investors 22,349,308 7.70 Committee on page 92.
During the financial Schroders Plc 13,444,270 4.64 year ending 31 March 2017, the Directors BlackRock Inc 12,118,384 4.18 had no options over or other interests in the shares of any subsidiary company.
Henderson Global Investors 10,217,560 3.52 No options over Company shares were Employee Share Scheme Trustees 10,153,592 3.50 issued to Directors under the Executive Allianz Global Investors 9,589,800 3.31 Share Option Schemes during the year.
Ameriprise Financial Inc 9,332,855 3.21 The roles of the Chairman and Legal & General Investment Mgmt Ltd 8,720,387 3.01 Chief Executive In accordance with the Code, the Board has adopted a formal division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO, with the intention to establish a clear division of responsibilities between the running of the Board and the executive responsibility for the running of the Companys business.
The current Chairman, Kevin Parry, was considered independent at the date of his appointment as Chairman.
100 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT CONTINUED is CEO and in addition to his strategic and Senior Independent Director The Board has delegated the operational remit he oversees the Groups Peter Gibbs currently holds the position following responsibilities to the Investment Committees in his role as the of Senior Independent Director SID of Executive Directors: Chief Investment Officer.
In accordance with the Code, is CFOO and is responsible for finance, The development and recommendation any shareholder concerns not resolved operations, IT, human resources, risk, of strategic plans for consideration by through the usual mechanisms for investor compliance and legal.
Benot Durteste the Board communication can be conveyed to the is Head of European Investments.
Delivery of objectives and priorities SID.
The SID has met with a number of determined by the Board shareholders during the year.
No one Executive Director is able to significantly affect the running of the Implementation of the strategies and The SID acts as a sounding board for the Company without consulting his colleagues.
policies of the Group as determined Chairman and a focus for any concerns or by the Board issues that other Directors or shareholders Following the change of Chief Executive, Monitoring of operating and financial may have that are not being resolved.
He also certain refinements to our management results against plans and budgets leads the annual appraisal of the Chairman.
structures may be needed as we widen our management team.
Monitoring the quality of the Directors indemnity investment process Board process The Company has entered into standard Developing and maintaining risk contractual indemnities with each of the management systems Each Board member receives a Directors.
The Company also provides comprehensive Board pack at least five days Directors and Officers insurance for prior to each meeting which incorporates the Directors.
Disclosure documents a formal agenda together with supporting papers for items to be discussed at the The terms of reference of each of the Conflicts of interest meeting.
Further information is obtained Board Committees, together with the by the Board from the Executive Directors Directors have a statutory duty to avoid Directors service agreements, the terms and other relevant members of senior conflicts of interest with the Company.
and conditions of appointment of Non management, as the Board, particularly The Companys Articles of Association Executive Directors and Directors deeds of its Non Executive Directors, consider allow the Directors to authorise conflicts of indemnity, are available for inspection at the appropriate.
A similar process is followed interest and the Board has adopted a policy Companys registered office during normal for each Committee.
and effective procedures for managing and, business hours.
where appropriate, approving potential Advice for Directors conflicts of interest.
No material conflicts Committee proceedings of interest exist.
All Directors have access to the advice and Each Committee has access to such external services of the Company Secretary and the advice as it may consider appropriate.
Internal control Secretaries to each of the Committees on The terms of reference of each Committee which they serve, and may take independent The Board has overall responsibility for are considered regularly by the respective professional advice at the Companys the Companys internal control system Committee and referred to the Board expense in the furtherance of their duties.
and monitoring risk management and for approval.
The appointment or removal of the Company internal controls for which we review their Secretary would be a matter for the Board.
Such a system Executive Committee of control is in place to give reasonable, The Executive Committee consists of Meetings with the Chairman but not absolute, assurance that assets are the three Executive Directors, each of safeguarded, transactions are authorised The Non Executive Directors regularly hold whom has a specific area of responsibility.
and recorded properly and that material meetings in the absence of the Executive The Executive Committee has general errors and irregularities are prevented Directors at least five times per year responsibility for the Groups resources, or detected within a timely period.
and usually before or after each Board determining strategy, financial and meeting and, separately, in the absence operational control and managing the of the Chairman.
Christophe Evain ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 101 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Through the regular meetings of the Board These forward-looking statements Going concern statement and the schedule of matters reserved to the include all matters that are not historical The Directors have, at the time of approving Board or its duly authorised Committees, facts.
They appear in a number of places the financial statements, a reasonable the Board aims to maintain full and effective throughout this Annual Report and include, expectation that the Company and the control over appropriate strategic, financial, but are not limited to, the following: Group have adequate resources to continue operational and compliance issues.
statements regarding the intentions, beliefs in operational existence for the foreseeable The Board has put in place an organisational or current expectations of the Directors, future.
Therefore they have adopted the structure with clearly defined lines of the Company and the Group concerning, going concern basis of preparing the responsibility and delegation of authority.
amongst other things, the Groups results financial statements.
of operations, financial condition, liquidity, The Board annually considers and approves The Directors have made this assessment prospects, growth, strategies and the a strategic plan and budget.
In addition there after reviewing the Groups latest forecasts industries in which the Group operates.
are established procedures and processes for a period of three years, noting the in place for the making and monitoring By their nature, forward-looking statements 970.8m cash and unutilised committed of investments and the planning and involve risk and uncertainty because they debt facilities as at the end of FY17, no drawn controlling of expenditure.
The Board also relate to future events and circumstances.
debt facilities due to mature within the receives regular reports from the Executive Forward-looking statements are not next 12 months and that 44% of committed Committee on the Companys operational guarantees of future performance and the drawn and undrawn facilities are due and financial performance, measured against actual results of the Groups operations, to mature within two years.
the annual budget as well as regulatory and financial condition and liquidity, and the The Groups business activities, together compliance matters.
development of the countries and the with the factors likely to affect its future industries in which the Group operates The Company has in place arrangements development, performance and position may differ materially from those described whereby individuals may raise matters are set out in the Strategic Report on in, or suggested by, the forward-looking of concern in confidence about possible pages 2 to 38.
The financial position of the statements contained in this Annual Report.
improprieties in matters of financial Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and In addition, even if the results of operations, reporting or other matters.
borrowing facilities are described in the financial condition and liquidity, and the Finance and Operating Review on pages The rationale for the system of internal development of the countries and the 20 to 26.
In addition, note 5 to the financial control is to maximise effectiveness for the industries in which the Group operates, statements includes the Groups objectives, commercial management of the business are consistent with the forward-looking policies and processes for managing its and to provide the Board with regular statements contained in this Annual Report, capital: its financial risk management: details and effective reporting on the identified those results or developments may not be of its financial instruments and hedging significant risk factors.
The Board is indicative of results or developments in activities: and its exposures to credit risk responsible for determining strategies and subsequent periods.
Many of these factors and liquidity risk.
policies for risk control, and management are beyond the control of the Directors, is responsible for implementing such the Company and the Group.
Should one The Directors believe that the Group and strategies and policies.
or more of these risks or uncertainties Company are well placed to manage the materialise, or should underlying business risks successfully in the current The Board confirms that an ongoing process assumptions on which the forward-looking economic environment.
for identifying, evaluating and managing statements are based prove incorrect, the Groups significant risks has operated actual results may vary materially from those Forward-looking statements throughout the year and up to the date of described in this Annual Report.
Except to the approval of the Directors report and This Annual Report includes statements the extent required by laws and regulations, financial statements.
For further details of that are, or may be deemed to be, forwardthe Directors, the Company and the Group the risks relating to the Group, please see looking statements.
These forward-looking do not intend, and do not assume any pages 27 to 34 and the report of the Risk statements can be identified by the use of obligation, to update any forward-looking Committee on pages 60 to 64. forward-looking expressions, including the statements set out in this Annual Report.
terms believes, estimates, anticipates, expects, intends, may, will or should or, in each case, their negative or other variations or similar expressions, or by discussions of strategy, plans, objectives, goals, future events or intentions.
102 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 CHAIRMANS BOARD OF CORPORATE COMMITTEE REMUNERATION DIRECTORS LETTER DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REPORTS REPORT REPORT CONTINUED Dividend CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENTS The Directors recommend a final net There are no significant agreements to which the Group is a party that take effect, alter ordinary dividend payment in respect of or terminate upon a change of control of the Group, other than: the ordinary shares of the Company at a rate of 19.5p per share 2016: 15.8p, which 1.
The Private Placement arrangements to sell their notes to ICG if the change when added to the interim net dividend of totalling 20m equivalent dated 26 June of control results in either a credit 7.5p per share 2016: 7.2p, gives a total 2008, $150m dated 8 May 2013, ratings downgrade from investment net dividend for the year of 27.0p per share 258m equivalent dated 11 May 2015, grade to sub-investment grade, or a 2016: 23.0p.
The recommendation is $292m dated 29 September 2016 and downgrade of one or more notches subject to the approval of shareholders 74m dated 26 January 2017 where a if already sub-investment grade at the Companys AGM on 25 July 2017. change of control in the Company gives 4.
The employee share schemes, details rise to an event of default under the The amount of ordinary dividend paid of which can be found in the Report of agreements.
The loans are thereafter in the year was 70.9m 2016: 78.2m.
the Remuneration Committee on pages repayable on demand In addition, a 200m special dividend 69 to 98, awards and options under payable at a rate of 63.4p per share was 2.
Nine bilateral committed loan facility the 2001 Approved and Unapproved paid during the year and an associated agreements totalling 440m and 98m Executive Share Option Schemes and share consolidation occurred.
entered into where a change of control SAYE Plan 2004 become exercisable gives lenders the right, but not the for a limited period following a change Disclosures required under obligation, to cancel their commitments of control.
Awards and options under UK Listing Rule 9.8.
4 to the respective facility and declare the the Omnibus Plan and the BSC Plan vest Dividend waivers have been issued in loans repayable on demand immediately on a change of control respect of shares which are held by the 3.
The terms and conditions of the 35m 5.
Carried interest arrangements in respect Groups EBT, or held as treasury shares: retail bond issue which took place in of a number of funds vest fully in favour other than this, there are no disclosures December 2011, the 80m retail bond of ICG and certain of its employees required to be made under UK Listing issue which took place in September following a change of control event Rule 9.8.
2012, the 50m wholesale bond issue There are no agreements between the which took place in March 2014, the Auditor Group and its Directors or employees 25m wholesale bond issue which took providing for compensation for loss A resolution for the reappointment of place in June 2014 and the 160m bond of office or employment that occurs the current auditor, Deloitte LLP, will issue which took place in March 2015, because of a takeover bid apart from be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
each of which set out that following those described above and the usual Details of auditors remuneration for audit a change of control event, investors payment in lieu of notice.
and non audit work are disclosed in note 11 have the right but not the obligation to the accounts.
Further details are set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 51 to 59.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 103 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS They or any interested person has DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION Share capital and rights attaching failed to supply the Company with the TO THE AUDITOR to the Companys shares information requested within 14 days Each of the persons who is a Director at the As at 31 March 2017 the issued share capital where the shares subject to the notice date of approval of this report confirms that: of the Company was 293,903,724 ordinary the default shares represent at shares of 26p each including 3,733,333 a So far as the Director is aware, there is least 0.25% of their class or in any shares held in treasury.
Certain key matters no relevant audit information of which other case 28 days after delivery of regarding the Companys share capital are the Companys auditor is unaware the notice.
Where the default shares noted below: represent 0.25% of their class, unless b The Director has taken all reasonable Under the Companys Articles of the Board decides otherwise, no steps that they ought to have taken as Association, any share in the Company may dividend is payable in respect of those a Director in order to make themselves be issued with such rights or restrictions, default shares and no transfer of any aware of any relevant audit information whether in regard to dividend, voting, default shares shall be registered.
and to ensure that the Companys transfer, return of capital or otherwise These restrictions end seven days after auditor is aware of that information as the Company may from time to time by receipt by the Company of a notice This confirmation is given and should ordinary resolution determine or, in the of an approved transfer of the shares be interpreted in accordance with the absence of any such determination, as the or all the information required by the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Board may determine.
All shares currently relevant section 793 notice, whichever Act 2006. in issue are ordinary shares of 26p each is the earlier carrying equal rights The Directors may refuse to register any Post balance sheet events At a general meeting of the Company transfer of any share which is not a fully Material events since the balance sheet date every member present in person or by paid share, although such discretion are described in note 35 and form part of the a duly appointed proxy has one vote on may not be exercised in a way which the Directors report disclosures.
a show of hands and on a poll one vote Financial Conduct Authority regards for each share held as preventing dealings in the shares of Political contributions The Intermediate Capital Group EBT the relevant class or classes from taking 2015 holds shares which may be used to place on an open and proper basis.
No contributions were made during the satisfy options and awards granted under The Directors may likewise refuse to current and prior year for political purposes.
the Companys employee share schemes register any transfer of a share in favour including its long term incentive plans.
of more than four persons jointly Greenhouse gas emissions The voting rights of these shares are All disclosures concerning the Groups The Company is not aware of any other exercisable by the trustees in accordance greenhouse gas emissions are detailed on restrictions on the transfer of ordinary with their fiduciary duties page 38 which forms part of the Directors shares in the Company other than: report disclosures.
The notice of any general meeting Certain restrictions that may from time to specifies deadlines for exercising voting time be imposed by laws and regulations Acquisition of shares by Employee rights either by proxy or present in person for example, insider trading laws or the Benefit Trust in relation to resolutions to be passed UK Takeover Code at a general meeting Acquisitions of shares by the Intermediate Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the No shareholder is, unless the Board Capital Group EBT 2015 purchased during Financial Conduct Authority whereby decides otherwise, entitled to attend or the year are as described in note 22 to the certain employees of the Company require vote either personally or by proxy at a financial statements.
approval of the Company to deal in the general meeting or to exercise any other Companys shares right conferred by being a shareholder if: They or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power to require information with respect to interests in their voting shares
