STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key performance indicators KPIs In order to realise its strategic aims, PayPoint has identified areas of strategic focus and records a number of KPIs to measure progress against them.
The KPIs presented this year have changed in that they exclude the disposed activities of Mobile and Online.
Whilst these KPIs are helpful in measuring the Groups performance, they are not exhaustive and the Group uses many other measures to monitor progress.
Strategic focus KPI Description and purpose 2017 2016 Maximise Earnings per share Retail earnings see note 11 divided by the weighted 64.3p 62.5p 1 shareholder Retail networks average number of ordinary shares in issue during return the year including potential dilutive ordinary shares.
see page 23 Earnings per share is a measure of the profit of the ongoing business attributable to each share.
Dividends Proposed final dividend and interim dividend divided by 45.0p 42.4p per share the number of fully paid shares at the end of the year.
Dividend per share provides a measure of the return to our shareholders.
1 Economic profit Operating profit before impairments and profit on 39.2 32.8 business disposals after tax and a charge for capital million million employed, excluding cash, based upon the Groups cost of capital.
Economic profit provides a consistent measure of the profit aligned to the remuneration of management.
Drive profitable Retail networks Number of transactions processed in the year on our 654.8 668.2 growth in UK transactions terminals and ATMs.
Transaction volume provides a million million retail services measure of the source of revenue which is earned on and continued a per transaction basis.
organic growth Retail networks The value of transactions processed via our terminals 10.4 10.4 in Romania see pages transaction value and ATMs.
Transaction value provides a measure of the billion billion source of revenue which is earned on a percentage of 11 and 14 the transaction value.
Retail networks Revenue less: commissions paid to retail agents and 117.5 110.7 1 net revenue the cost of mobile top-ups and SIM cards where million million PayPoint is principal.
Net revenue reflects the benefit attributable to PayPoints performance eliminating pass-through costs and is a reliable indication of contribution from business operations.
PayPoint One sites The number of sites with our PayPoint One platform.
3,601 38 This provides a measure of the source of service fee revenue from PayPoint One terminals and EPoS.
Business Retail networks Operating profit before impairments and profit on 45.3% 47.7% 1 optimisation operating margin business disposals as a percentage of net revenue.
see page 14 Operating margin provides a broad overview of the efficient and effective management of the cost base.
Return on capital Operating profit before impairments and business 184.3% 70.4% 1 employed disposals for the year divided by average month end capital employed net assets excluding cash.
Return on capital employed provides a broad overview of the efficient and effective use of capital in our business.
Growth decline Growth decline in net revenue from Retail networks 2.2% 2.9% in Retail networks divided by the average number of sites in the year.
1 yield per site Network yield provides a broad overview of the efficient and effective use of our network.
People Labour turnover Number of permanent employees who left during the 29.0% 33.0% see pages year divided by average total permanent employees.
25 to 27 Labour turnover provides an indication of employee job satisfaction.
These KPIs are alternative performance measures and are not directly comparable to statutory measures PayPoint plc Annual Report 2017 15
