12 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES & MODEL & STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS OUR Our ability to deliver our strategic objectives is framed by the markets in which we operate, whether to raise new funds, invest the capital raised or to maximise value from existing investments.
As a specialist alternative asset manager operating across four strategic asset classes we operate in local, specialist markets, although all exhibit some common characteristics.
GROW ASSETS UNDER INVEST MANAGEMENT SELECTIVELY Our success in growing assets under management is We believe the investment environment for alternative sources dependent on our ability to attract institutional investors such of capital is most attractive in the midmarket corporate sector as pension funds, insurance companies or sovereign wealth where higher risk-adjusted returns can be achieved.
It is this funds into the higher return alternative investment strategies investment market in which we specialise.
The global demand for alternative investment strategies CORPORATE INVESTMENTS is projected to increase as: Our corporate investment strategies selectively invest in midmarket private companies.
Institutional investors find it difficult to achieve their long term investment objectives through traditional investment strategies, As these companies are unable or unwilling to access public debt such as sovereign bonds and equities markets or bank financing they rely on non-bank providers of capital to finance corporate transactions.
The absolute size of global assets under management is set be acquisitions, refinancing or growth capital.
The volume of these to increase as the wealth of populations in developing nations transactions define the size of our investment opportunity.
grows and the trend of ageing populations in developed nations continues We compete with other providers of finance in this market.
However, in private markets local knowledge, long standing relationships, The attractiveness of our market is resulting in increasing certainty of funding and flexibility of approach are real advantages competition as new entrants seek to capitalise on the growing to accessing deals and a significant hurdle for new entrants.
However, from a fundraising perspective, investors selection processes are rigorous and We are well positioned to take advantage of these market trends.
preference is given to established managers with a strong track As an established manager with a local network of investment record, credibility and infrastructure.
professionals, we are able to offer a range of financing options as our experience enables us to adapt our investment structures We are well positioned to take advantage of these market trends as to meet the requirements of corporates.
an established manager focused on the specialist end of alternative asset management.
Our strategies offer institutional investors access REAL ASSET INVESTMENTS to a range of risk reward and geographical profiles investing in private, and therefore the less liquid, asset classes and high yielding Our real asset investment strategies are currently focused on liquid specialist markets.
selectively providing finance to private midmarket assets in the UK commercial real estate market.
As banks reduce their overall exposure to real estate, midmarket assets are reliant on non-bank providers of capital to finance transactions, be they acquisitions, refurbishment or expansion.
It is transaction volumes in the UK property and property finance markets that frame the size of our investment opportunity.
We compete with other providers of finance in this market.
However, our smaller asset focus, deep knowledge of the UK commercial real estate market, strong industry relationships and flexible approach mean we are able to originate attractive deals.
ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 13 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MANAGE PORTFOLIOS TO MAXIMISE VALUE Our ability to maximise value from our investments is in the context of the wider macroeconomic environment.
CAPITAL MARKET INVESTMENTS Our investment preference is for non-cyclical, low capex, high cash generative businesses.
We seek to position portfolios so they are Our capital market investment strategies are focused on resilient to typical economic cycles and that realisations are not selectively investing in traded, largely liquid loans, bonds dependent on market conditions.
Public company valuations impact the value of our equity investments Companies raise debt to deliver better terms, facilitate growth as our portfolio is marked to market.
However, our fund performance and to enhance the returns.
The secondary market of this debt is is measured on realised returns.
driven by portfolio managers seeking to maximise their income or returns.
The investment market is therefore driven by the number of The current attractiveness of alternative asset classes to companies raising debt or secondary flows of previously raised debt.
investors has increased demand for our assets and prices are increasing.
These market conditions support the realisation We compete with other providers of finance in this market.
However, our access to financial intermediaries across local markets, our information database, our sector specialists and long term relationships mean we are able to source quality investments.
SECONDARY INVESTMENTS Our secondary investment strategies are focused on selectively investing in private equity funds operated by established managers.
We expect the current Our Strategic Secondaries strategy provides a direct approach market trend towards to secondaries by leading the restructuring of and investment investing in alternative into older, underperforming private equity funds.
Investments into assets to continue.
This will these funds provide attractively priced access to mature underlying portfolios of assets with good visibility on performance and exit support our fundraising and potential.
Our structuring skills, private equity investment experience investment activities.
and strong industry relationships have allowed us to develop a leading position in the highly complex and structured part of the market.
BENOT DURTESTE Executive Director The ICG Enterprise Trust invests in primary and secondary private and incoming equity funds, and selective direct co-investments.
Competition Chief Executive for the best performing funds can be high, but the strong industry Officer relationships of the team, with access to ICGs market knowledge and industry exposure, are significant advantages in this activity.
14 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 BUSINESS MARKETPLACE GROUP GROUP RESOURCES & MODEL & STRATEGY PERFORMANCE RISKS RELATIONSHIPS HOW WE HAVE Alternative performance measures As is common within the asset management industry, we use Our KPIs are disclosed on this page and pages 15 to 17. alternative performance measures.
Our Key Performance Indicators The following KPIs are alternative performance measures: KPIs include alternative performance measures where they Return on equity provide additional insight into performance from the perspective Weighted average fee rate of shareholders and other stakeholders.
FMC operating margin When we use alternative performance measures we determine the Impairments outcome of the measure in a manner which is not compliant with IFRS GAAP, instead using the Boards approach.
For each of these Details of our Executive Director KPIs are on pages 88 to 89. measures we disclose the IFRS GAAP outcome for the current year.
The Glossary on pages 163 to 167 includes the definitions of these alternative performance measures and reconciliation to the relevant IFRS GAAP measures.
Group performance measures RETURN ON EQUITY ROE % The Group has targeted an ROE in excess of 13% which will be achieved by the 18.2% growth of the business and maintaining an efficient balance sheet measured by 18.2 a target gearing of between 0.8x and 1.2x.
12.9 ROE has increased in the year due to an increase in profitability and the enhanced 11.0 10.2 efficiency of our capital base following the return of 200m to shareholders 8.9 as a special dividend in August 2016.
Adjusted for 20.3m one-off benefit from the Employee Benefit Trust EBT Settlement and excludes the impact of the consolidation of credit funds required under IFRS 10.
13 14 15 16 17 Adjusted for 2.3m one-off benefit from the EBT Settlement and excludes the impact of the movement in deferred consideration payable on the Longbow acquisition and the consolidation IFRS GAAP 2017 19.5% of credit funds under IFRS 10.
ORDINARY DIVIDEND PER SHARE P The Groups ability to pay dividends and return value to shareholders is a measure 27.0P of the Groups ability to generate returns from our IC portfolio and managing third 27.0 party funds.
23.0 22.0 21.0 20.0 The Group has generated sufficient returns from the business to grow the ordinary dividend year on year.
13 14 15 16 17 ICG ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 15 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE WHAT WE MEASURE WHY WE MEASURE IT AND HOW WE PERFORMED TOTAL AUM M Raising and managing third party funds is 23.8BN the lead indicator of the Groups profitability.
Total AUM We target raising an average of 4bn of new New AUM 23,825 third party funds gross inflows per annum 21,582 over the fundraising cycle.
GROW ASSETS 12,930 12,980 UNDER MANAGEMENT AUM has increased during the year with another successful fundraising year 6,398 3,847 5,179 4,012 outstripping the pace of realisations from 2,260 older funds.
Going forward, the Group We aim to increase our third expects that fundraising will continue to 13 14 15 16 17 party AUM to maximise the exceed realisations and lead to further profitability of the business and increases in AUM.
increase shareholder value by: Consolidating and broadening WEIGHTED AVERAGE FEE RATE % our existing strategies The Group monitors the weighted average Expanding our client 0.91% fee rate on fee earning AUM to ensure that base and existing 1.02 AUM is profitable.
Fees reflect the risk 0.91 0.91 products geographically 0.88 0.86 return profile of the underlying asset and Expanding our product range are typically higher for corporate investment through selective acquisitions and secondary investment funds.
and team hires The weighted average fee rate on fee earning We will capitalise on our AUM of 0.91%, up from 0.88% due to the strong track record, in house improved mix of investment strategies.
13 14 15 16 17 distribution team and ability to develop new investment IFRS GAAP 2017 0.98% strategies through utilising our balance sheet.
FMC OPERATING MARGIN % The operating margin of the FMC is a 41.2% measure of the efficiency and scalability of the 41.9 41.2 40.8 business.
The Group has invested substantially 40.1 35.1 in its growth and the return on this investment is measured through the operating margin.
The Group is targeting a margin above 40%.
FMC operating margin is marginally below the prior year as the Group continues to invest.
In the current year this investment has included 13 14 15 16 17 our capital market strategies, ICG Enterprise IFRS GAAP 2017 41.2% Trust and our operations infrastructure.
2018 PRIORITIES Fundraising is expected to be higher than for the last financial year.
Our focus in FY18 is to raise our successor Senior Debt Partners Fund and raise further monies for our capital market strategies.
We also expect to launch successor funds for North America Private Debt and UK Real Estate.
All of these strategies generate fees on invested capital and therefore will contribute to profit as they are invested.
You can read more about the associated principal risks on pages 30 to 33
