Royal Mail plc | Our strategy Our strategy We have a clear vision to be recognised as the best delivery company in the UK and across Europe.
Ourstrategy to achieve this leverages our strengths while aiming to deliver sustainable shareholder value and our Universal Service commitment.
Our strategic priorities Key initiatives: Winning in parcels Delivery confirmation on all barcoded standard parcels We have maintained our preeminent position by Automated parcels sortation enables us to process small parcels more pursuing faster growing quickly parts of the UK parcels Growing tracked and return volumes through initiatives and service market while making it improvements easier for consumers, SMEs and marketplace Working with China Post to provide Chinese and UK customers with faster sellers to use Royal Mail delivery and tracking services services.
Our investments Expanding GLSONE in Germany, enabling customers to create their in tracking and automation own labels and choose delivery to a specific address, parcel box or GLS have been key to maintaining ParcelShop.
GLS Sameday offered in 11 cities our position.
Through our significantly enhanced IT, Acquisition of the Spanish express parcels delivery company, ASM wehave the ability to offer any retail account customer atrackedservice.
Defending letters Key initiatives: Letters are very important to The Strategic Mailing Partnership, a joint initiative with the mailing house our business.
They account industry, to improve overall efficiency and operational processes for almost 60per cent of our Establishment of new collaborative projects with the advertising industry to UK revenue.
We continually raisethe profile of marketing mail seek to add value to mail Working with advertising agencies to sell direct mail alongside other media and increase the efficiency aspart of integrated advertising plans and effectiveness of our Strategic operation.
Giving customers incentives to use direct and advertising mail at a priorities, discountrate enabled by...
Completing the rollout of software upgrades to letters and large letters sortation equipment Growing in new areas Key initiatives: 1 We are making the most Acquisitions of GSO and Postal Express, leading regional nextday parcel of our existing assets and delivery companies, operating principally on the US west coast increasing our capability Expanding our relationships with retailers and network partners to stimulate through carefully selected crossborder volumes between the UK and Asia investments.
We want to develop a broader revenue Developing consumerfacing products and services that leverage our data, base and grow in the UK brand andrelationships and overseas.
GLS is well Continuing to rollout our UK fleet maintenance services to other businesses, positioned to grow in new employees, friends and family markets and to support the Groups careful and focused geographic expansion.
We are also increasing our digital capabilities across the Group, particularly in ecommerce.
1 Postal Express was acquired after the financial year end.
16 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Enabling our strategic priorities Strategic focus on costs Key initiatives: Improving the efficiency of our logistics network, through the The highly competitive UK parcels use of telemetry market, coupled with the ongoing structural decline in letters, has Continuing to progress efficiency opportunities to use shared resulted in increased revenue delivery resources for the collection of mail from low volume pressures for the Group.
Being postboxes more efficient and controlling our costs means we can become more Delayering management structures competitive, win and retain more Reducing road and air routes business and continue to provide the best employment terms and Reducing the number of facilities while ensuring we have the conditions in the industry.
most accessible Delivery Office network in the UK Bringing down costs in central functions Technology and innovation Key initiatives: We are harvesting the benefits Completed national rollout of our new PDA technology in our of investments in our technology core network backbone to support our strategic Introduced new functionality to our online postage service Click priorities to win in parcels, defend & Drop, making it quicker and easier to buy online postage and letters and grow in new areas.
print address labels We are working with partners to Developing international shipping solutions using the provide delivery management Strategic crossborder capabilities of our acquisition, Intersoft software for international priorities, parcel shipments, better data Customers can print delivery and return labels from their mobile enabled management and improved phones at Customer Service Points by... labelling capabilities.
We continue More than eight billion items have now been sent with Mailmark to deploy technology to drive efficiency and increase the pace of change through our operation.
An engaged and motivated workforce Key initiatives: Introduced My Bundle, home of the total reward statement, Our employees drive the continued which includes our employees flexible benefits range success of Royal Mail Group.
We believe good employment Initiatives to support women who want to progress their conditions drive quality of service.
careers, including our Springboard programme Our permanent employees are More than 70,000 of our people took part in the paid above the Living Wage, BigConversation to identify areas that will make Royal Mail a which, inturn, is above the legal better place to work minimum set by the Government.
They also receive the additional Making it easier for our employees to find out what is going on in benefits associated with permanent the business through our Royal Mail app, available on all Royal employment, such as National Mail and personal devices Insurance contributions, paid holidays and a good pension.
Thisis underpinned by a proactive relationship with the unions and a strategic focus on efficiency in ouroperations.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016-17 | 17
