STRATEGIC REPORT TR Property pp01-17 08 06 2017 15:52 Page 7 Managers Report Marcus Phayre-Mudge MRICS Fund Manager level.
The large number of national elections across Performance Continental Europe in 2017 led to increased volatility The Net Asset Value total return for the year of 8.0% was given the collective difficulty in predicting results with any ahead of the benchmark total return of 6.5%.
Dutch and French property companies were price total return assuming dividend reinvestment was amongst the worst performers in the second half of the 9.1% and reects a slight reduction in the discount relative financial year as investors fretted about their respective to the net asset value.
elections and the risk of political gains by nationalistic parties.
At the same time the traditional safe haven of The year under review was one in which geopolitical risk domestic Swiss stocks performed well, particularly the and unexpected outcomes abounded.
In local currencies, residential businesses of Allreal and Mobimo both the collective performance of pan European property returning over 20% in the year.
stocks over the period was virtually at.
The first half, which included the UK Referendum, saw European stocks German property companies have again proved robust: in Euros rise 3.8% whilst the UK companies in Sterling collectively delivering over 5% total return over the period fell 4.1% and all of this weakness was in the aftermath but the valuation movements were not smooth.
The Trust of the Referendum.
The second half saw this reverse with has considerable exposure to both residential and Europe falling -3.8% and the UK rising 2.3% as investors commercial property in Germany and performance began to sense that the UK economy was not about to suffered last Autumn as investors moved aggressively enter a marked slowdown.
Part of this optimism was away from defensives and into cyclicals as the reation caused by the positive economic effect of weakened tidal wave of the Trump election washed through Sterling which was a boost to exports.
Sterling fell by European as well as US markets.
German residential 7.1% against the Euro over the twelve months with all of businesses with partially regulated rents and little exposure to the development cycle were viewed as bond proxies that movement was post 24 June 2016.
This currency and sold off heavily between June and December as the movement was a key driver behind the growth of the 10 year Bund redemption yield moved from 0.1% to Trusts Sterling denominated asset value.
Even after this rise in yields which was painful for We remind shareholders of the Trusts longstanding existing holders, the yield on offer still guarantees a currency positioning strategy which is to maintain negative real return to maturity if there is ination over the exposure in line with that of the benchmark.
Such small returns remind us of the ongoing Managers underlying geographical exposure may of distortions created by the central banks determination to course be and invariably is very different and therefore assist in keeping borrowing costs at a minimum.
We we use currency forward contracts to maintain exposure remain rmly committed to the view that these large, broadly in line with that of the benchmark see page 16. liquid listed German residential businesses offering both The relative performance of the Manager versus the earnings growth and income stability with dividend yields benchmark is, therefore, neither aided nor diluted by such over 3.5% are attractive.
Income remains a crucial consideration and as investors As always, blanket annual statistics hide a wide range of appetite for risk has waned so has the appetite for stocks performance both intra period and at the individual stock or sectors which are seen as being ex growth or where the TR Property Investment Trust 7 TR Property pp01-17 08 06 2017 15:52 Page 8 Managers Report continued cycle has peaked.
Having reduced our exposure to Central immediate aftermath.
Collectively these funds have London ofces and prime UK retail during 2015 and early continued to be net sellers, building substantial cash positions to cope with their structural liquidity concerns.
2016 we maintained that underweight position throughout Such high cash positions are a drag on performance but it the year generating positive performance.
Likewise our is encouraging that the FCA have recently published a overweight to industrial logistics across Europe has paper with recommendations on potential investor continued to expand and exposure to this asset class was safeguards within these structures.
the largest driver of performance.
As both continental Europe and the UK experienced improving economic Regional markets were encouragingly busy with volumes conditions we continued to add to our most cyclical ahead of the five year average.
We also saw international sectors, hotels and self storage.
Hispania which owns a investment in regional markets at an all time high with 1.3bn portfolio of hotels situated on mainland Spain, the 5.3bn of single asset deals.
Another significant cohort of Balearics and Canaries returned 17% over the year whilst buyers has been the UK local authorities.
Fuelled by Safestore, the UK and French self storage operator, access to cheap finance from HM Treasury through the returned 16.3%.
Public Works Loan Board they have been attracted by the high margins providing them with a valuable income Alongside the reduced exposure to London ofces there stream.
Investment by English public sector bodies has been an increased exposure to a small number of reached 1.2bn in 2016 alone.
Continental cities, Paris, Stockholm, Madrid and Berlin.
The positioning in Paris is a useful illustration of the divergence The capital movement of the IPD All Property Monthly of returns across stocks even when they are focused on Index saw a fall of 3.7% in the six months to the end of broadly similar markets.
Terreis, our favoured Paris small September.
However this correction reversed with a gain cap focuses entirely on prime Central Paris locations, the of 2% in the six months to March 2017.
The initial yield stock returned 28.1% whilst the much larger competitors, has moved modestly from 4.9% in March 2016 to 5.3% Gecina and Icade who both own more diverse ofce in March 2017 and this reects the ongoing demand for portfolios rose 9.3% and 7.5% respectively.
Although transaction volumes are lower overall than last year, the pick up post the Referendum is Property Investment Markets crucial evidence as to the health of the market.
UK commercial property transaction volumes were, Although we dont have the same depth of transaction unsurprisingly, considerably lower in 2016 at 46.5bn data for much of Europe, we do see clear evidence of than the record year of 2015 66.3bn.
What was yields tightening in core city centre ofce markets, prime encouraging was the pace of recovery post the summer.
Funding remains liquid and In fact Q4 2016 volumes were 31% ahead of Q3 and the at attractive rates ensuring that acquisitions are highly cash highest quarterly gure of 2016.
Investors had clearly been ow generative.
With rents recovering in so many of these reluctant to engage prior to June but even with the markets the ability to buy rental growth coupled with a uncertainty created by the outcome they have cushion of initial income is an attractive proposition.
The weakness of Sterling has yields are rising but from extremely low levels and remain played its part, particularly in Central London where historically subdued.
The ECB has reduced its bond buying transaction volumes doubled between Q3 and Q4 and programme and will undoubtedly reduce it further in the international investors accounted for more than 80% of coming months but stable bank margins and bond volume.
However the slowdown ahead of June did drag spreads illustrate the appetite to lend to high quality real overall London transaction volumes down to 16% below estate even in these politically charged times.
Ofces UK institutions have been net sellers, particularly the open-ended funds whose combined portfolios are Take up of space in Central London was, as expected, lower significant at c. 35bn this compares to the entire UK than in 2015.
The City saw total take up of 5.8m sq ft listed sectors value of c65bn.
The post Referendum which was 21% below the previous year but still 6% redemption debacle resulted in forced sales in the ahead of the ten year average.
The West End was more TR Property Investment Trust 8 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT TR Property pp01-17 08 06 2017 15:52 Page 9 Managers Report continued positive at 4.0m sq ft, just 9% below 2015 but 7% ahead of the art ofce space has driven pre-lets to an all time of the ten year average.
Tech and Media rms continue to high across the regions, 44% of the 3.6m sq ft is pre-let dominate and this is set to continue as the financial and rents are responding with Cardiff now over 25 per services sector grapples with its post Brexit location sq ft and Birmingham exceeding 32 per sq ft. requirements.
Our concerns remain focused on the City as Investors have also taken note and 28% of the UKs total opposed to the West End or Midtown.
It should be noted ofce investment turnover was regional, well ahead of the that the largest single acquirer of space in the City in both 10 year average of 23%.
International investors are not 2015 and 2016 was WeWork, a new entrant to the UK confining their interest to London and high prole serviced ofce market with a successful track record in the purchases such as Green Park in Reading acquired by US.
In 2016, they acquired 345,000 sq ft 6% of all take Mapletree Singaporean based for 560m and HSBC up on top of 550,000 sq ft in 2015.
Serviced ofce buying parts of Brindley Place, Birminghams premier city occupiers have always been a key part of any core ofce centre ofce location for 260m are testament to this.
market providing exibility but when they are the single largest driver of demand we see that as a risk.
The better It is fair to point out that access to regional ofce markets news remains the lack of supply and the pre-let status of through the listed sector is difficult as so few companies the development pipeline.
This theme of benign supply have exposure.
Where we do get exposure is the western runs through most markets and the City is no exception.
quadrants of the M25 and the London suburban markets The good news is that over 30% of the 2017-2020 through Mckay Securities and CLS Holdings.
Take up has pipeline is already pre-let with new build completions of remained in line with the ten year average and c2.5m sq ft for the next three years.
We maintain our encouragingly Q1 2017 has seen an upturn when position of reduced exposure to the City market because compared with a year earlier.
Vacancy has risen slightly to of risk to demand rather than over expansion of supply.
6.1% M25 and supply is up 8% on the previous year but crucially still well below long run averages.
Both these The dynamics in the West End remain stronger, both in companies have reported new lettings and renewals the context of a broader tenant base which is less exposed comfortably ahead of ERV which reinforces our to the regulatory difficulties of doing business outside of commitment to these markets.
the European Union but also from a net supply perspective.
Although supply rose in Q4 2016 with some Paris continues to see robust activity with the 2016 high prole completions and vacancy reaching 3.9%, its Ile-fide-France lettings reaching 25m sq ft, 7% ahead of highest since 2013 over 50% of all completions set for 2015.
Within such a large geographical area as Paris there 2017 18 are pre-let.
The recent commitments by global are always huge variations in performance and 2016 was tech giants, such as Facebook and Apple as well as newly no exception.
The core central market Paris Centre West listed Snapchat, continues to reinforce Londons where we are invested through Terreis total return 28.1% dominance for Tech and Media who accounted for 35% year to March 2017 performed very well with vacancy now of all take up.
The most encouraging statistics were from Southern Paris and La Dfense where a number Most commentary on UK ofce markets is directed of large transactions dened as over 50,000 sq ft were towards Central London but the health of both Londons crucial.
Although vacancy remains over 9% in La Dfense hinterland and the big 6 key regional cities are crucial the amount of new build space is much smaller and we are national indicators.
For the fourth year in a row ofce take confident that this will support rents near term.
Madrid is a up, ex Central London, has surpassed the long term good example of a recovering market.
Take up was slightly average.
An impressive statistic given the political lower in 2016 than 2015 but the political environment uncertainties.
Importantly, supply levels have continued to fall with speculative development unable to match take up must shoulder at least partial responsibility and therefore particularly when combined with the impact of Permitted we are positive that 2017 will see an improvement given Development Rights PDR.
PDR allows owners of greater political stability.
Whilst we are confident about the commercial property principally ofces to convert their improving Spanish economic outlook which will directly buildings into residential regardless of the local planning impact the Madrid ofce market, our concern is supply.
The continuing demand for new, state The city has an overall vacancy rate of 12.5%, there is TR Property Investment Trust 9 TR Property pp01-17 08 06 2017 15:52 Page 10 Managers Report continued over 10m sq ft of space available for immediate weakened Sterling will mean that real as opposed to occupation.
A significant amount is in tertiary locations but nominal wage growth will be negative over the near term.
even in the core we need to see strong take up to reduce In addition, house prices ex Central London have risen availability.
The worry is growth in supply with five high consistently since 2011 and the UK house price to income quality refurbished buildings amounting to another ratio is almost back to the 2007 peak of 4.5x.
None of this 330,000 sq ft. coming onto the market in Q4 2016 alone.
is good news for retailing.
Stockholm continues to astonish with MSCI data showing Across Continental Europe the average level of personal capital growth of over 13% for the central markets driven indebtness is much lower and whilst real wages are not by both rental growth and yield compression.
Vacancy rising fast, we have seen dramatic reductions albeit from remains below 7% with new build a tiny proportion of a poor starting point in levels of unemployment that, hence our ongoing overweight to this market through particularly in Southern Europe which is clearly helping Fabege and Kungsladen.
Germany and Sweden have both experienced consistent real wage ination as their Retail economies continue to improve.
The retail sector continues to be buffeted by the structural The focus has not changed from that reported at the headwinds of multi channel retailing, a subject which has interim, our UK exposure remains concentrated on higher been aired many times in previous reports and will, no yielding local shopping where, crucially, rents are doubt, continue to feature for many years to come.
Quite affordable for tenants and where incremental asset simply the way we all shop is now constantly evolving as management improvements add value.
We continue to technology and fullment offers increasing ways of hold Capital & Regional 12 month total return 9.3% satisfying our retail demand without venturing to a shop and NewRiver Retail 12 month total return 8.2%.
Increasing those visits is the sole aim remain concerned that whilst the larger UK companies of shopping centre landlords as they seek to persuade own the best and dominant centres, the affordability for retailers that a physical presence in multiple locations is an retailers is an ongoing issue and the lack of overall deal economically sound strategy.
transparency is also an issue.
We therefore view Hammerson 12 month return 2.8% expanding their The UK continues to have the highest penetration of online sales as a percentage of total sales ex food and outlet centres and Intus 12 month return 6.7% buying Spanish centres as positive initiatives.
However we think fuel at 15%, it is also growing at 15% per annum when total sales are growing at 2%.
Online is therefore that this diversication is recognition that further large continuing to take overall market share from physical scale investment in their existing core portfolios has stores.
As identied in the interim report the rest of become increasingly unattractive.
Europes online market share is much lower than the UK.
The exception in the UK has been Central London where That is not to say they wont catch up, we think that is the mix of leisure, retailing and dining has proved highly inevitable but that landlords appear to have more time to resilient.
The weakness of Sterling has turbocharged develop strategies with tenants.
The other safety net for tourism.
London hotels, retailers and restaurants have all European landlords is that overall costs for tenants the been beneciaries.
occupancy cost ratio is lower across much of Europe than the UK.
One strong positive for retail landlords has been the dramatic reduction in supply of additional shopping centre Another rapidly pressing issue which is impacting UK space.
The market is always eventually self correcting and retailers and therefore shopping centre landlords is the speculative development dries up in response to weak burden of consumer credit which has been growing at demand.
This year the only two new centres to open are over 10% over the last year BoE and stands at a record Oxford and Bracknell.
Both have large wealthy catchments 196bn.
With interest rates at historically low levels and the resumption of real wage growth such amounts, whilst in need of good quality in town retail offerings.
However, ination caused by rising Securities is developing Oxford and we are confident it will food prices and the rising costs of imports due to let up quickly, even so their estimated yield on cost of TR Property Investment Trust 10 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT TR Property pp01-17 08 06 2017 15:52 Page 11 Managers Report continued 5.9% reects the low returns even when there is demand Osbornes efforts to remove the tax shield for higher rate from retailers to open new stores.
payers owning buy to lets has impacted growth particularly in higher value markets.
The Referendum result compounded concerns about demand from EU nationals Distribution and Industrial employed in financial services just as the new build MSCIs UK Monthly index recorded capital growth of 3.3% Central London market experiences a spike in supply.
in the Industrial Logistics sector for 2016 compared Whilst we continue to have no exposure to luxury to 3.2% for ofces.
We fully expect this performance apartments 1,000 per sq ft and above we do remain gap to continue as rental growth accelerates for confident about the ability of house builders to sell in distribution assets.
Investors are chasing the asset class more affordable locations.
Our investment in Telford and yields are falling particularly where there is a Homes, a South East London focused developer whos perceived shortage of sites as well as snapping up large average lot size is less than 600,000 has been profitable sheds on the principal distribution networks hubs.
Drilling with a 12 month total return of 12.5%.
Through our into the data in more detail reveals that capital growth for holdings in St Modwen and CLS we did retain exposure to London industrial distribution rose 8% and for the South the regeneration of Nine Elms.
However, CLS announced East was 6.2%.
just post our year end the sale of their entire Nine Elms site for 148m, 40% premium to the December 2016 As I wrote last year, the growth in online retailing valuation.
The purchaser was a Hong Kong listed continues to drive a reorganisation of the distribution developer and the deal provides a useful reminder that, landscape.
Amazon alone has been responsible for 23% particularly when viewed from afar, the break from Europe of the entire take up in UK distribution space in 2016 may not be viewed quite so negatively.
helping to drive a surge which reached 34.6m sq ft. Online retailers directly accounted for 29% of this as we Outside of London residential markets continue to be witness the transformation of retailing from shops to robust but with real wages stagnating and the elevated sheds.
Supply continues to struggle with the pace of level of consumer indebtness we remain cautious and demand and it reached its lowest ever level of 22.7m sq ft have very little exposure.
The private rented sector PRS in Q4 2016.
Although new speculative supply has pushed remains a market which will grow but we prefer to own this gure back up to 27.6m sq ft in Q1 2017 we still see those rms creating the product such as Telford Homes a market where rents continue to rise particularly for units who recently sold two blocks to an institutional PRS offering proximity to larger conurbations.
Segro was the operator rather than the underlying asset which by its outstanding performer amongst the Big Five UK property nature is very low yielding.
companies, returning 20.5% in the year to March 2017.
In German residential has been a rm favourite for many hindsight no real surprise given its portfolio of 22.3m sq ft years and at the underlying asset level performance in the UK and 27.3m sq ft in Europe of high quality remains robust with occupational demand remaining rm, logistics and industrial space.
continuing to be buoyed by both domestic household The picture across Continental Europe is much the same.
growth and net migration 1.2 million people in 2015.
Our preferred French logistics developer Argan, returned Investor demand has also remained strong and prime 32.7% on the back of their portfolio of 25m sq ft of Class Berlin has set a new record price level of 30x the gross A logistics property.
Elsewhere, our exposure to Southern rent a year ago the level was closer to 26x.
The average German logistics and industrial space is through VIB capital value per sq ft has risen 35% in the last year but it Vermogen which returned 26.9% again on the back of still remains relatively affordable when compared with strong rental and capital growth.
Elsewhere in Europe we see continuing growth in Residential residential values.
Sweden has shown impressive capital The performance of the residential sector in the UK needs growth, particularly in the metropolitan areas in spite of to be separated into Central London and remainder.
The the introduction of macro-prudential tools by the central change in stamp duty thresholds combined with bank aiming to restrict borrowing availability.
TR Property Investment Trust 11 TR Property pp01-17 08 06 2017 15:52 Page 12 Managers Report continued before it becomes more expensive.
In total pan European Hotels and Self Storage property companies raised 19.3bn in the twelve months With the ongoing recovery in many European economies to March 2017 compared to 13.7bn in the previous we have focused our attention on the more cyclical period.
The average LTV, as calculated by EPRA, the sectors particularly hotels and self-storage.
In the hotel industry trade body, has continued to fall over the period sector we are not seeking exposure to pure operators but which is reassuring.
businesses which blend ownership and management.
In previous reports we have sought to provide one clear Focusing on where they have the ability to manage and example of how the cost of debt was still falling in the improve a hotel but also where the bulk of the income is period.
In November last year, Unibail Rodamco, the from leased assets.
Our largest exposure is Hispania, largest property company in Europe announced a 500m which has 65% of its assets in hotels and we expect that 8 year bond with a xed coupon of 0.85%, the lowest to increase further following non core disposals and ever achieved by a listed property company.
This business is focused on tourist have also proved popular particularly amongst the destinations in both mainland coastal markets and the residential businesses.
Buwog issued a300m five year islands.
A consequence of the rise in terrorist atrocities has convertible bond with a zero coupon whilst Deutsche been the collapse of tourism in North Africa and Turkey.
Wohnen placed convertible bonds totalling 800m with Foreign visitors to Turkey are down 30% in the twelve an aggregate coupon of 0.325%.
months to February and the statistics for Egypt are even worse.
Northern Europeans are not abandoning their Unsurprisingly given the geopolitical risks of multiple summer sun but instead safecationing with bookings elections across Europe and the Referendum in the UK, massively ahead of last year in Greece, France, and Spain.
equity capital markets were more subdued with 5.7bn Hispanias 12 month total return was 18.4%.
raised through rights issues and placings but without a single new IPO into the benchmark index.
Germany Our self storage focus remains very UK centric due to a dominated with raisings from ADO and Deutsche Wohnen lack of opportunity in Continental Europe.
Our preferred in the residential space.
We also saw issuance from stock, Safestore have comfortably beaten the broader Deutsche Euroshop, Hamborner and TLG.
In the UK the benchmark this year with total return of 16.6% and its mix raisings were dominated by companies focused on either of UK and Paris assets remains attractive.
Our positive industrial logistics, student housing or healthcare.
Tritax view is driven by an expectation of a steady increase in Bigbox were once again on the roster raising 250m in business usage of short term storage space for last mile October bringing their total raised since IPO to 1.3bn.
The irreplaceable network of urban Post the year end they have announced a further raising and suburban locations for both Safestore and Big Yellow of up to 350m.
bodes well for demand as online fullment delivery times shorten further.
Property Shares Debt and Equity Capital Markets As highlighted in the Interim, the first half of the year saw a very sharp divergence in the performance of the UK and The era of unorthodox stimulus by all European central Continental Europe.
The 6.5% return from UK property banks continued throughout the period.
Whilst markets companies between the beginning of the financial year have anticipated a continuing reduction in the amount of and 23 June 2016 sums up the optimism and expectation asset purchases by the ECB through 2017 the current of a Remain vote.
Over that period, Continental Europe level of support has allowed many companies to continue returned just 2.2% in EUR terms.
From 23 June to the to issue debt at record low cost.
Not surprisingly the end of the first half, 30 September, UK stocks fell 8.2% period saw record debt issuance in our sector.
However whilst the Continental names rose 3.9% in EUR terms.
much of this was debt restructuring as companies, These summary gures mask a period of extraordinary particularly European ones, took the opportunity to retire volatility in the aftermath of the Referendum result.
existing bonds and x for longer periods at these historic low levels.
A strategy we applaud wholeheartedly and one The second half of the year saw property shares which some of the larger UK companies should heed experiencing an autumnal sell off as investors rotated from TR Property Investment Trust 12 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT TR Property pp01-17 08 06 2017 15:52 Page 13 Managers Report continued defensives and companies seen as bond proxies into have been running for a while.
Our approach to retail cyclicals offering greater exposure to an improving global exposure is a case in point.
We no longer hold either of recovery.
This rotation gathered pace post the US the UKs largest pure retail landlords, Intu and presidential election as markets priced in a tailwind of scal Hammerson.
Our exposure is through Capital & Regional support.
Bond yields across all developed markets rose and and New RiverRetail, where we increased the former but sub sectors such as German residential which are decreased the latter.
We continue to focus on stocks perceived as stable income streams with restricted growth where rents have rebased to affordable levels and where due to regulated rents fared very poorly in the last quarter investors are being rewarded through higher income of the year.
The German element of the benchmark fell returns in an area of the market which is suffering huge over 15% between September and November.
Asset management gains are a key part of the overall returns from these businesses and a The last quarter of the financial year saw a stabilising of small number of initiatives can make a large difference in share prices after a strong recovery in December.
In the case of the larger stocks, began to realise that the US had not only embarked on an they both have large development and repositioning interest rate normalisation phase but may well now pipelines but we dont believe the returns offered justify receive an injection of scal largesse with the potential the risk on such large schemes.
However, Europe is not travelling at the same speed and there is no expectation that the ECB We remain more confident about retail in Europe and our is going to lift the base rate soon.
Longer dated bond exposure has consolidated into four names, Unibail and yields have continued to rise modestly, the 10 year Bund Klpierre focused on prime and Mercialys and rose from 10 bps to 34 bps in the second half of the Eurocommercial in the sub-regional space.
We have financial year, but they remain at historic low levels.
therefore exited or are close to completing our exit from Investors continue to seek alternative sources of higher Citycon Finland, Wereldhave Netherlands, Finland and income than the miserable returns from xed income.
France, Vastned Retail Netherlands, France and Spain The last quarter of the financial year coincides with the and Deutsche Euroshop Germany and Central Eastern reporting season for companies with a December year Europe.
end and share prices responded to a steady stream of As discussed earlier in the report, the winners in the game results which matched or exceeded earnings expectations.
of omni channel retailing are the warehouse landlords and The message from companies was one of continued developers.
We have been increasing our exposure to this focus on revenue and a broad expectation that the sector for several years as the other side of the reduction improvements in the underlying economic environment in retail and this accelerated both in the UK and would translate into tenant demand and rental growth.
Segro is now the second largest UK One important distinction between the UK and position and the capital raises in September 2016 and Continental Europe was the direction of capitalisation March 2017 enabled significant expansion in our position.
The UK listed sector, dominated by exposure to The stock was the top performing UK large cap in the London and large shopping centres is now experiencing period, returning 20.5%.
Hansteen has been a stock we rising capitalisation rates as rental growth prospects have traded in over many years and undue share price recede, whilst much of the Continent is still reporting yield weakness early last year enabled us to rebuild the compression particularly in prime ofce markets reecting position.
We were pleased with the announcement of the the prospect of rental growth.
sale of the entire European portfolio allowing management to concentrate on the UK.
Londonmetric Investment Activity announced their intention to exit over time from retail Investment turnover purchases and sales divided by two warehousing and focus on distribution and the company is equated to 31.6% of the average assets over the period.
Tritax Bigbox gives us exposure to this sector but their addiction to raising equity will result in Whilst investment activity reected a heightened level of tactical repositioning due to a range of macro factors, the a cash drag and sub par earnings growth hence our strategic positioning particularly at the asset and sub-sector modest position.
This is not the issue at Argan, our level saw a continuation of a number of themes which preferred logistics play in France, where the CEO and his TR TR Prope Properrtty Inve y Invest stme ment nt T Trust rust 1 13 3 TR Property pp01-17 08 06 2017 15:52 Page 14 Managers Report continued family own half the business and are focused on organic This step change in the level of earnings can be expected to be maintained whilst Sterling remains at current levels.
The stock returned 32.7% in the period.
Results announced year to date have been positive in the In last years report I commented on the reduced London main with dividend growth in many of the stocks in which exposure and that strategic move continued up to the we invest.
As expressed earlier, strength of income is an Referendum.
However we were still exposed into June important part of our investment decision process and we and that resulted in some weak relative performance in remain upbeat about the income account.
The big caveat the aftermath.
The London ofce specialists, Derwent is currencies, if Sterling begins to strengthen from current London, Great Portland Estates and Workspace are well levels this could have a significant negative impact run businesses with solid balance sheets and low depending on timing and quantum.
As a group we did not reduce exposure further post the result.
The surprising weakness was in both Gearing and Debt St Modwen and CLS Holdings, two large holdings.
We Gearing increased from 11.9% to 13.3% over the year.
reduced exposure in the former but the subsequent With our private placement long-term debt in place and resilience of the UK regional markets and the appointment funding levels through CFDs still providing very of a well regarded new CEO led to a strong recovery in the competitively priced gearing, we reduced the amount share price.
On a happier note, we held the CLS position available under one of our revolving credit facilities which and then added to it.
Alongside the Vauxhall site now renewed in January, from 50m to 40m.
This is a sold, the business had one of the highest cashows per modest reduction but undrawn debt under these facilities share in the sector with a portfolio of edge of city centre does carry a non-utilisation fee, as we have sufficient and suburban ofces in the UK, France and Germany.
The capacity to gear with this reduced facility level we opted to total return for the year was 18.4%.
With bond yields across Europe set to rise further as the Under new legislation effective from the beginning of April Eurozone economies improve we have rotated our 2017, the amount of interest deductible when calculating residential focus to the higher yielding businesses, tax payable has been restricted.
Even at low levels of Vonovia and LEG and those with development pipelines gearing, we will be caught by this to a small extent and the Buwog.
result will be a modest increase in the tax charge.
This will be evaluated as a cost of debt when considering gearing Our renewed interest in Spain evolved further with levels but is not likely to influence gearing decisions when additional investment in Hispania.
The business will be interest rates remain at current low levels.
There are wound up by 2020 and importantly managements exemptions to these restrictions for some categories of carried interest is paid only on the exit.
business and Real Estate Investment Trusts are one example, so most of our investee companies will not Revenue and Revenue Outlook suffer the restriction, however some non-REIT businesses may and they are engaging with their advisers.
The As highlighted in the Chairmans Statement revenue for Investment Trust industry lobbied HMRC through the AIC the year is up by over 36% with currency being a to extend the exemptions to regular Investment Trusts, but significant factor as our European earnings became worth this was rejected.
Other factors did play a part, with some ex-dividend date Direct Physical Portfolio changes around the year end being brought forward and The physical property portfolio produced a total return of some companies moving from annual to more regular 2.6% for the twelve months to March 2017 with an income dividends in the period.
We expect most of these dates to return of 3.4% and a capital return of 0.7%.
be maintained for the current year but companies will not commit to ex-dividend dates until they make their individual At our industrial estate in Wandsworth, London we have announcements, so these can always change again.
completed our programme of lease renewals, extending the TR Property Investment Trust 14 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT TR Property pp01-17 08 06 2017 15:52 Page 15 Managers Report continued expiry prole for the estate so all leases now expire in 2019. elongate the glide path of reducing their bond buying This facilitates a redevelopment of the estate at that time.
Few are predicting an increase in the base Overall 11 leases were extended and one new letting was rate before late 2018 or even into 2019.
Meanwhile the concluded with the rents received on those units increasing gap between property yields and real interest rates by 25%.
Only two units are vacant and one of those is remains at an all time high.
The combination of the under offer.
Our other industrial assets in Gloucester, Bristol improving economic outlook within Continental Europe, and Plymouth have performed well over the year with the the reduction in short term political risk and the modest new lettings in Gloucester delivering further rental growth performance of property equities they are not with a void period of only two months.
overvalued reinforces our positive outlook.
At the Colonnades in Bayswater, we have experienced The UK has performed much better than many observers a delay in the letting of the ground oor retail units.
Our expected since the Referendum.
Values of commercial planning application merging two units to facilitate the property as measured by the MSCI IPD data remain letting to Babaji, the restaurant operator, was turned down robust.
The very high proportion of international buyers in by the City of Westminster planning committee.
We believe the Central London ofce investment market is both a that Babaji would be an excellent restaurant operator and positive they see an opportunity and a negative how far we have therefore made an appeal to the Planning is currency weakness the driver.
We are concerned that Inspectorate with a decision expected in late September.
demand, particularly from financial services, will weaken At the time of writing we have strong interest in the further as negotiations with Brussels drag on.
The good two remaining units from a range of occupiers.
We are keen news is that equity prices have quickly adjusted and now to ensure that the tenant mix is complementary as this will represent fair value.
The outperformance of the UK be essential to the success of the overall development and economy versus most European economies over the last therefore we are not rushing to secure the first possible nine months has been strong but that gap will narrow.
The number of residential lease extensions was UK has experienced a credit boom and the UK consumers modest with only five ats extending their tenure.
This is not remain far more indebted than their Continental a surprise and reects the uncertainty generated by the counterpart.
We think stagnating real wage growth will be Referendum result.
We are in no rush to complete lease an additional headwind for retail sales growth.
extensions as the efuxion of time towards each lease Property will continue to be a valuable source of income expiry merely increases the landlords residual value and for so many investors and whilst we see risks to some the ultimate extension premium which must be paid.
sub-sectors capital growth prospects, there are many parts of the market both in the UK and Continental Europe Outlook which we view as attractive opportunities for growth.
Property is a pro-cyclical asset class, without economic Underpinning the vast majority of markets is the benign growth market rents cant rise.
Whilst that is an obvious backdrop of low levels of speculative construction in point it is worth reiterating as investors have become commercial property markets and coupled with the strong overly in our view concerned about the threat of rising financial position of most listed property companies leads bond yields.
Given the improving economic backdrop us to feel confident that the asset class will remain a across Europe, bond yields need to begin the slow path to relative outperformer.
normalisation following the almost decade long effort by Marcus Phayre-Mudge central banks to reduce the cost of debt through ultra Fund Manager loose monetary policy.
The economic survey data amongst 8 June 2017 the major euro-zone economies has converged, they are all benefiting from low borrowing costs, good debt availability, a competitive Euro Dollar rate, a pick up in global demand and improving labour markets.
Headline ination has ticked up but core consumer prices and broad money growth remain muted.
If core ination remains below 2% then the ECB have the latitude to TR Property Investment Trust 15
