Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED STRATEGIC NET RISK AFTER PILLAR MITIGATION Quality Products Low risk Operational Efficiency Medium risk THE PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES FACING Sales Growth High risk THE GROUP ARE SHOWN BELOW: Sustainability Strategic Risk Risk Strategic Risk Risk Risk Area Pillar Mitigation Rating Trend Risk Area Pillar Mitigation Rating Trend STRATEGIC OPERATIONAL Deterioration in the UK economy would adversely The Group offers a range of products across The Group faces the risk of significant incidents Robust business continuity plans are deployed CONSUMER BUSINESS affect the activity levels of consumers and the premium, standard and value tiers which it such as fire, flood or loss of key utilities, which across the Group and appropriate insurance DEMAND CONTINUITY Groups immediate customers, leading to a fall is able to flex in response to customer and could result in prolonged disruption to site arrangements are in place to mitigate financial in demand for the Groups products.
Pork and chicken remain manufacturing processes.
Potential business disruption is minimised extremely competitively priced and sought through multi-site operations across many of the after products.
The Group trades in highly competitive markets.
The Group maintains and develops strong The success of the Group is dependent Across the Group robust recruitment processes, COMPETITOR RECRUITMENT & Product innovation and changing consumer working relationships with its customers.
on attracting and retaining quality, skilled competitive remuneration packages and ACTIVITY RETENTION OF trends provide a constant challenge to the This is supported by delivering high levels and experienced labour, staff and senior ongoing training and development plans are WORKFORCE future success of the Group and its ability of service and quality products and by the management.
Specifically for senior management, to compete effectively.
continued focus on product development formalised succession planning is also in place.
The increase in the year reflects the uncertainty surrounding labour availability when the UK leaves the EU.
A breach of Health & Safety legislation may The Group conforms to all relevant standards HEALTH & SAFETY COMMERCIAL lead to reputational damage and regulatory and regulations, and pursues industry best penalties, including restrictions on operations, practice across its sites.
All sites are subject A significant proportion of the Groups results The Group continually pursues opportunities RELIANCE ON damages or fines.
to frequent audits by internal teams, customers is generated from a small number of major to expand its customer base across all product KEY CUSTOMERS and regulatory authorities to ensure standards customers and export sales.
Loss of all or part categories and works closely with UK and export & EXPORTS are being adhered to.
of the Groups business with one or more of customers to ensure service, quality, food safety these customers or loss of export licence would and new product developments are of the adversely impact on the Groups operations.
A significant infection or disease outbreak The Groups pig farming activities, and DISEASE & may result in the loss of supply of pig or poultry other farms from which third party pig meat INFECTION meat or the inability to move animals freely, is ultimately sourced, have a broad geographical WITHIN The Group is exposed to specific issues The Group has a trusted long standing farming PIG MEAT impacting on the supply of key raw materials spread to avoid reliance on a single production associated with the pricing and availability supply base which is complemented by supply LIVESTOCK AVAILABILITY into the Groups sites.
Our poultry flock is all housed indoors.
An increase in pig prices or a lack from the Groups own farms.
These arrangements & PRICE In addition, robust vaccination and bio-security of availability of pig meat would adversely help to mitigate the risks associated with pig procedures mitigate the risk of disease impact on the Groups operations.
The Group is subject to the risks of product and The Group ensures that all raw materials FOOD SCARES or raw material contamination and potential are traceable to original source and that site & PRODUCT health related industry-wide food scares.
Such manufacturing, storage and distribution systems CONTAMINATION incidents could lead to product recall costs, and those of our suppliers are continually FINANCIAL reputational damage and regulatory penalties.
monitored by experienced and appropriately The Group is exposed to interest rate The Group deploys effective currency hedging trained technical teams.
INTEREST RATE, risk on borrowings and, in specific areas, arrangements to mitigate risks associated with CURRENCY, foreign currency fluctuations.
In addition the foreign currency movements.
Sites have access LIQUIDITY & The Group relies on information technology The Group has a robust IT control framework IT SYSTEMS & Group needs continued access to funding for to the Groups overdraft facility and bank CREDIT RISK and key systems to support the business.
in place, which is reviewed and tested on a both current business and future growth.
balances are monitored on a daily basis.
CYBER SECURITY In common with other organisations the Group frequent basis by internal teams and specialist All bank debt is arranged centrally and is susceptible to cyber-attacks with the risk third parties.
Detailed internal control procedures appropriate headroom is maintained.
of a financial loss and threat to the overall are also in place to reduce the potential risk of confidentiality and availability of data in systems.
fraudulent payment requests being processed.
BUSINESS As the Group grows, businesses may be acquired Prior to all business acquisitions rigorous due based on inaccurate information, unachievable diligence reviews are carried out, using both ACQUISITIONS forecasts or without appropriate consideration internal and specialised external resources.
In being given to the terms of the purchase.
addition, the existing senior management teams are generally retained to provide continuity and It should be noted that following the vote on 23 June 2016, the Board have also considered the potential implications to facilitate integration of the acquired business into the Group.
of the vote to leave the European Union on the short and medium term prospects of the Group.
Whilst there are specific potential areas where Brexit could impact upon the Group, for example availability of labour, a sustained reduction in the value of Sterling and an overall downturn in consumer demand, the impact of these issues cannot be quantified until Considered in detail within Viability Statement the exact terms and conditions for the United Kingdom to leave the European Union have been agreed.
42 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Cranswick plc 43 s s e n e v i t c R e e f f m E u n e r a t p i i o h Strategic Report Corporate Gover Corporate Governance finance Financial Statements Shareholder Information C COR ORP POR ORA ATE TE G GO OV five ER RN NA ANC NCE E CHAIRMANS GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW IT IS IMPORTANT TO THE BOARD AND TO THE SHAREHOLDERS AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS THAT THE GROUP MAINTAINS A HIGH STANDARD OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TO SAFEGUARD ITS REPUTATION AND TO SUPPORT ITS LONG-TERM SUCCESS.
Dear fellow Shareholder, Every year the Board assesses the Groups the robustness of the internal controls that We remain committed to maintaining Corporate Governance procedures and mitigate them.
The Committee is giving a high standard of governance and continue I am pleased to report that the Group has ongoing consideration to the impact on the to have contact with our Shareholders continued to comply with the requirements business of the UK ceasing to be a member through regular dialogue and effective GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTS of the UK Corporate Governance Code of the EU, with key areas of focus being communication.
This report sets out how the Code throughout the year.
In order access to labour and foreign currency volatility.
we have maintained this process and how to maintain compliance the Board supports we align governance to the strategic plans the executive team, providing guidance During the year an external audit of the organisation.
and advice to complement and enhance tender process was carried out with the work the team performs.
The Board  LLP being selected, consistently challenges processes, plans subject to Shareholder approval at the AGM and actions, exercises a degree of rigorous in July 2017, to engage as auditors for the Martin Davey enquiry and stimulates intellectual year ended 31 March 2018.
This serves to promote continual LLP, our auditors for the last 45 years were, and sustained improvement in governance given their long association with the 23 May 2017 across the business.
Company, asked not to re-tender for the audit.
Further details of the audit tender During the year the Nomination Committee process are provided on page 57. has increased the frequency of its meetings to ensure that there is adequate assessment The Board has undergone an independent of the skills and expertise on the Board and external evaluation in the year carried out consideration given to succession planning by EquityCommunications Limited, being for both the Board and the senior executives.
three years since the previous evaluation.
Kate Allums first three year term ended Overall the performance of the Board and during the year and I am pleased to report each of its committees was considered to Leadership that the Nomination Committee and the be effective and they continue to provide The Board directs, develops and oversees implementation of the Groups Board have reappointed her for a further effective leadership and exert the required strategy and monitors its operating performance.
It is collectively responsible three years.
levels of governance and control.
Details of to Shareholders for the long-term success of the Company.
this Board evaluation process are set out The Remuneration Committee continues on page 51.
Effectiveness to assess the incentives for the Executive The Board maintains a twelve-month rolling programme of agenda Directors and senior executives to ensure The Board has given consideration to a items to ensure that all matters reserved for the Board and other key they are aligned to the Groups strategy Group policy to comply with EU Market issues are considered at the appropriate time.
and are in the long-term interests of Abuse Regulations.
It is expected that these Shareholders and other stakeholders.
regulations will continue to apply following Accountability the UKs exit from the EU, and the Board The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system The Audit Committee continues to monitor continues to keep this matter under review.
of internal control which safeguards the Shareholders investment and the integrity of the financial statements the Groups assets, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
and related Stock Exchange announcements together with assessing business risks and Remuneration Executive remuneration policy is monitored to ensure it is correctly aligned with the Groups strategy, targets and performance.
Shareholders The Board attaches great importance to maintaining relationships with all Shareholders who are kept informed of significant Company developments.
For more information see pages 48 to 52.
44 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Cranswick plc 45 n s r e d A a c e c L o u n t a s b r i l e i t d y l o h e r a h S Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS A DRIVEN AND EXPERIENCED BOARD EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Committee Membership N Nomination Committee A Audit Committee R Remuneration Committee GROUP DIRECTORS Fresh Pork Darren Andrew Charles Bowes Stuart Kelman Barry Lock Nick Mitchell James Pontone Neil Willis Convenience Ian Fisher Paul Gartside Andy Jenkins MARTIN DAVEY ADAM COUCH MARK BOTTOMLEY JIM BRISBY STEVEN ESOM MARK RECKITT KATE ALLUM Gary Landsborough Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Commercial Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Sam Pearl N N A R N A R N A R Simon Ravenscroft Martin, a chartered accountant, Adam joined Cranswick in Mark, who is a chartered Jim has over 22 years experience Steven joined Cranswick as a Mark, who joined Cranswick as Kate joined Cranswick as a Norman Smith joined the Company as Finance 1991 and was originally on the accountant, has extensive food in sales and marketing.
He joined Non-Executive Director in 2009 a Non-Executive Director in 2014, Non-Executive Director in 2013.
Clive Stephens Director in 1985 and led operational side of the Fresh Pork sector experience, previously Cranswick in 1995, and he has and is the Senior Independent has a wide range of experience She has first-hand knowledge of Rollo Thompson Cranswicks entry onto the Stock business before being appointed holding a variety of senior finance been a key member of the team Non-Executive Director and across a number of sectors.
He the food industry both within the Exchange in that year.
He has a to the Board in 2003 as Managing roles in the food production that has grown the business Chair of the Remuneration is a chartered accountant and is UK and in Europe.
Kate was Chief Gourmet Products deep knowledge of the Company Director of Fresh Pork.
His industry before joining Cranswick over the years.
He has a wealth of Chair of the Audit Committee.
Executive of First Milk Limited John Fletcher and its business developed over knowledge of the food industry in 2008 as Group Financial knowledge of the food and retail knowledge of the food industry He was Group Strategy Director from 2010 to 2015 and was also Marcus Hoggarth the 32 years he has been with over the 26 years he has been Controller.
He was appointed sector cumulated in him being holding a number of senior of Smiths Group plc between a former head of the European Kate Maxwell Cranswick.
He was appointed with Cranswick, led to him being to the Board as Finance Director appointed Sales and Marketing positions within the food sector 2011 and 2014.
Prior to joining supply chain for McDonalds.
She Andy Mayer Chief Executive Officer in 1988 appointed as Chief Operating in 2009 and is responsible for Director in 2010 and Commercial including Executive Director of Smiths Mark was interim is currently the Chief Executive Gill Ridgard and through his guidance the Officer in 2011 and then overseeing the financial Director in 2014.
He has been Food at Marks & Spencer plc Managing Director of Green of CeDo Limited and a NonDrew Weir Group expanded, eventually advancing to the role of Chief operation of the Group and integral in developing the strategic which followed twelve years at & Blacks Chocolate and before Executive Director of Origin Steve Westhead entering the FTSE 250 in 2008.
Waitrose, the last five years of that he held a number of finance Enterprises plc.
He became Chairman in 2004 his leadership Cranswick has which he was Managing Director.
and strategy roles at Cadbury Poultry and since September 2013 has continued to expand and He is currently a Non-Executive plc.
Mark is also a Non-Executive Nigel Armes fulfilled this role on a part-time become a major player in the director of The Rank Group Plc Director of Mitie Group plc Jason Key basis.
Martin is also Chair of the food processing industry.
Adam where he is Chair of the and Hill & Smith Holdings plc, David Park Nomination Committee.
was also a committee member of Remuneration Committee and where he is chair of the Audit Matthew Ward the British Pig Executive between a member of the Audit and Committee and a member of 2005 and 2013.
He is the Remuneration and Food Central also the Non-Executive Chairman Nomination Committees.
Chris Aldersley for the British Retail Consortium Mark was a Non-Executive Andrew Caines trading and Advantage Director of JD Wetherspoon plc Rebecca Dearsly Travel Centres.
Miranda Walker Graeme Watson Malcolm Windeatt 46 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Cranswick plc 47 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REPORT PRINCIPLES OF GOOD GOVERNANCE ROLE OF THE BOARD The Board is responsible for the long-term success and stewardship of the Company, overseeing its conduct and affairs to create sustainable The Board is ultimately responsible for the business strategy and the financial robustness of the Group, for monitoring performance and for value for the benefit of its shareholders and other stakeholders including customers, suppliers, employees and the communities in which the establishing a governance structure and practice which facilitates effective decision making and good governance.
To enable the members business operates.
of the Board to discharge these responsibilities, they have full and timely access to all relevant information and Board meetings are held at the Groups production facilities allowing the Directors to review the operations and meet the management teams of those particular sites.
The Board delegates certain roles and responsibilities to its various committees and to senior management.
The committees assist the Board All Directors have allocated sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
by fulfilling their obligations and reporting back to the Board on the outcomes from their respective activities.
KEY ROLES This report, together with the Audit Committee Report, on pages 53 to 59, the Nomination Committee Report on pages 60 and 61, Chairman Martin Davey and the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 62 to 76, describes how the Board applies the principles of good governance and Primarily responsible for the leadership of the Board, ensuring that it is effective and promoting critical discussion.
best practice as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code which can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils Chairs the Nomination Committee and the AGM.
Sets the Board meeting agendas in consultation with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, ensuring they are aligned to the business strategy.
Our approach to governance, reported below, is in accordance with best practice as outlined by the key principles of the five sections of the Leads the performance evaluation of the Board and ensures its effectiveness in all aspects of its role.
Code: leadership: effectiveness: accountability: remuneration: and relations with Shareholders.
Sponsors and promotes the highest corporate governance and ethical standards.
Facilitates contribution from all Directors to the discussions of the Board.
Provides a sounding board for the Chief Executive on key business decisions and challenges proposals where appropriate.
LEADERSHIP Ensures effective communication with our shareholders and other stakeholders.
GROUP GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The Board consists of senior Executive management alongside a strong team of sector experienced Non-Executive Directors.
All Non-Executive Chief Executive CEO Adam Couch Directors are deemed to be independent in accordance with the definition prescribed in the Code.
The composition of the Board is reviewed Develops and implements the Groups strategy with input from the rest of the Board and its advisers.
annually by the Nomination Committee to ensure there is an effective balance of skills, experience and knowledge.
Further biographical details Responsible for the overall operational activity of the Group.
on each Director can be found on pages 46 and 47.
Manages the day-to-day business of the Group, leads its direction and promotes our culture and values.
Brings matters of particular significance or risk to the Chairman for discussion and consideration by the Board where appropriate.
To assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to ensure that there is independent oversight of internal controls and risk management, Responsible for overseeing the delivery of the sustainability agenda within the Group.
the Board delegates certain responsibilities to its principal committees: Remuneration, Nomination and Audit.
Membership of these committees consists primarily of the independent Non-Executive Directors.
Executive Directors Mark Bottomley and Jim Brisby Provide specialist knowledge and experience to the Board.
Support the CEO in the implementation of the Groups strategic policies.
BOARD Responsible for the budgeting process and reporting of the financial performance of the Group.
Responsible for the commercial affairs of the Group.
Responsible for the successful leadership and management of commercial, risk and finance functions across the Group.
Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Audit Committee and Risk Committee Senior Independent Director SID Steven Esom On behalf of the Board, the The Nomination Committee The Audit Committee assists the Board Provides a sounding board for the Chairman and supports him in his leadership of the Board.
Remuneration Committee establishes reviews the structure, size and in discharging its responsibilities for Is available if Shareholders want to raise concerns which normal channels have failed to resolve.
the policy for Executive Directors composition of the Board and is the integrity of the financial statements, Chairs the Remuneration Committee.
remuneration and determines the responsible for considering and the effectiveness of internal reporting Heads up the Non-Executive Directors on the Board.
appropriate performance conditions making recommendations to the Board processes and systems of internal Reviews the Chairmans annual performance appraisal along with the other Non-Executive Directors.
for the annual cash bonus and on new appointments of Executive controls, identification and management long-term incentive awards.
It also of risks and the external and internal Non-Executive Directors Kate Allum and Mark Reckitt Committee also monitors the total considers succession planning in the audit processes.
The Audit Committee Bring complementary skills and experience to the Board.
individual remuneration package course of its work, taking into account meets at least three times a year: Constructively challenge the Executive Directors on matters affecting the Group.
the challenges and opportunities two of these meetings involve a review Chairs the Audit Committee Mark Reckitt.
facing the Group relating to the skills of the Groups interim and full year Satisfy themselves as to the accuracy of the financial performance of the Group and the robustness and effectiveness of financial controls and expertise needed on the Board financial statements.
A Risk Committee Details of the Committees current and risk management processes.
remuneration policies are given in the and within senior management in chaired by the Finance Director and Help develop strategy with an independent outlook.
Remuneration Committee Report on the future.
including representatives from all areas pages 62 to 76.
Together with the SID review managements performance.
of the business meets quarterly, reporting its outputs directly to the Details of the Committees activities are Company Secretary Malcolm Windeatt given in the Nomination Committee Audit Committee and updating the Responsible to the Board.
Acts as secretary to the Board and each of its Committees ensuring compliance with procedures.
Responsible, under the direction of the Chairman, for ensuring the Board receives timely and accurate information.
The work, responsibilities and Provides support to the Non-Executive Directors.
governance of the Audit Committee Responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters.
are set out in the Audit Committee Report on pages 53 to 59.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE An Executive Committee, consisting of the Executive Directors and senior executives from the business, meets occasionally to discuss strategy, operational and commercial matters affecting the business.
The feedback from this committee is shared with the Board.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OPERATING BOARDS 48 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Cranswick plc 49 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED People and succession EFFECTIVENESS Considering proposals on succession planning, when required, for the Board.
BOARD OPERATION AND ATTENDANCE Approving promotion of new senior executives to the subsidiary boards.
There were eight scheduled Board meetings held during the year and a number of other meetings and conference calls were convened for Reviewing proposals on senior executive succession planning.
Board agendas are set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and with the assistance of the Considering the talent management programme and the need to develop the managers and executives of the future.
Reviewing the structure, size, composition and diversity of both the Board and its Committees supported by the Nomination Committee.
Approving a further three year term as a Non-Executive Director for Kate Allum.
All Directors are expected to attend the scheduled Board meetings and relevant Committee meetings in addition to the Annual General Meeting unless they are prevented from doing so by prior work or extenuating personal commitments.
Where a Director is unable to attend DIRECTOR INDUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT a meeting they have the opportunity to review relevant papers and discuss any issues with the Chairman in advance of the meeting.
Following There has been no change to the Directors on the Board during the year.
In the past, the appointment of an Executive Director has usually the meeting the Chairman, or Committee Chair as appropriate, also briefs any Director not present to update them on key matters discussed been an internal promotion and their knowledge of the business has been well established.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed from time and decisions taken.
to time and, on appointment, they receive a comprehensive introduction to the Groups activities and a tailored induction programme including a number of site visits.
All Directors are provided with the opportunity for ongoing training to keep up to date with relevant legislative changes, Details of Board membership and attendance at scheduled Board meetings are set out below: including covering their duties and responsibilities as Directors and the general business environment.
Directors can obtain independent advice Board at the expense of the Company.
Number of possible Actual meetings Percentage Board members During 2016-17 meetings attended attended attended CONFLICT OF INTEREST The Board has completed its annual review of the register relating to potential conflicts of interest with its Directors and confirms that no such Executive Directors conflicts exist.
Martin Davey 8 8 100% Adam Couch 8 8 100% BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION Mark Bottomley 8 8 100% In compliance with the Code, a performance evaluation was again conducted by external facilitator David Mensley of EquityCommunications Jim Brisby 8 8 100% Limited.
Neither Mr Mensley nor EquityCommunications Limited has any connection to the Company and they are completely independent.
Non-Executive Directors Steven Esom 8 8 100% The performance evaluation process was undertaken in the late autumn of 2016.
Having agreed an itinerary of matters for appraisal, Kate Allum 8 8 100% EquityCommunications Limited prepared a questionnaire which included questions about Board administration, the role of the Chairman, Mark Reckitt 8 8 100% strategy, risk oversight, succession planning and the Board committee structure.
The questionnaire was completed by all Board members and the Company Secretary.
A report on the outcome of the evaluation exercise was prepared by EquityCommunications Limited and was presented 1 The Company Secretary attended all Board and Committee meetings.
2 All Directors attended the Annual General Meeting in July 2016. to the Board at its January 2017 meeting.
KEY ACTIVITIES The independent report concluded from the feedback to their questionnaire that we operated an extremely unified, highly functional Board.
The Company Secretary maintains a twelve month rolling programme of agenda items to ensure that all matters reserved for the Board and The evaluation recognised the drive to continue the progress made to date in certain key areas such as people development and strategy.
other key issues are considered at the appropriate time.
The Chairman has evaluated the performance of individual Directors through informal discussions and observations.
The Senior Independent The principal activities of the Board during the financial year were: Non-Executive Director and the other Non-Executive Directors have met, without the Chairman present, to appraise his performance.
Strategic Leadership Overall the Board considered the performance of each Director to be effective and concluded that both the Board and its committees Regularly discussing strategy at Board meetings throughout the year.
continue to provide effective leadership and exert the required levels of governance and control.
The Board will continue to review its Receiving presentations from operational management on future strategic opportunities.
procedures, effectiveness and development in the year ahead.
Considering potential acquisition opportunities and other strategic initiatives.
Considering and subsequently approving the acquisition of Dunbia Ballymena, renamed Cranswick Country Foods Ballymena, BOARD TENURE in October 2016.
The Board consists of a strong mix of experienced individuals with financial and sector knowledge and there are no plans at this stage to Considering and approving of the sale of The Sandwich Factory Holdings Limited in July 2016. change the make-up of the Board.
Their biographies and membership of the various Committees are shown on pages 46 and 47.
The length Discussing the ramifications of the UK vote in June 2016 to exit the EU.
of tenure of Board members is as follows: Governance and risk Board diversity is considered within the Nomination Committee Report on page 61.
Tendering the external audit and selecting  as the new external auditors supported by the Audit Committee.
Reviewing the three year forecasts and other factors in support of the Viability Statement.
Viability is considered in detail on page 40.
Board Tenure Reviewing Board and Committees effectiveness and Directors conflicts of interest.
Reviewing terms of reference for all Committees.
1 1-3 years Reviewing quarterly Health & Safety and Risk updates.
2 4-6 years Reviewing the principal financial and non-financial risks, including cyber, to which the Group is exposed supported by the Audit Committee.
7-9 years Considering a bid defence plan in the circumstances of a hostile approach.
10 years or more Approving the Company policy to comply with EU Market Abuse Regulations.
1 Performance monitoring Approving the Groups tax strategy.
Approving the Companys dividend strategy.
Recommending the 2015 16 final dividend and the 2016 17 interim dividend.
Reviewing and approving the Groups annual budget, interim results and Annual Report.
Considering whether the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and understandable.
Considering monthly operational reports from the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Commercial Director.
3 Reviewing reports from the Chairs of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Approving capital expenditure proposals in excess of 1 million.
Approving the Group refinancing documents.
50 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Cranswick plc 51 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT STATEMENT BY THE CHAIR OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE I am pleased to report on the activities of the Audit Committee during the year ACCOUNTABILITY ended 31 March 2017.
It has been a busy year for the Committee with the anticipated RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL audit tender process, which was completed across the summer, adding to the usual It is the Boards role to protect the business from operational and financial risks and it has established a system of internal control which full Committee agenda.
safeguards the Shareholders investment and the Groups assets.
Such a system provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The Board The report sets out full details of the external audit tender and selection process is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls.
The Audit Committee supports the Board in this process by reviewing the which resulted in  LLP PwC being chosen to take over principal risks and the report on pages 53 to 59 outlines further this process.
the audit engagement from Ernst & Young LLP EY following this years AGM.
Within the spirit of new corporate governance rules, given their long association The Group operates within a clearly defined organisational structure with established responsibilities, authorities and reporting lines to the with the Group, EY were not asked to re-tender for the audit.
The organisational structure has been designed in order to develop, plan, execute, monitor and control the Groups objectives Board, I would like to thank EY for their input over the last 45 years.
I would also effectively and to ensure that internal control is embedded within the operations.
like to welcome PwC to the role from next year and look forward to a strong working relationship with them in the coming years.
The Board confirms that the key ongoing processes and features of the Groups internal, risk-based, control system have been fully operative throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
As in previous years, the Committee has focused on its core responsibilities of supporting the Board and protecting the interests of Shareholders.
This has been FINANCIAL REPORTING achieved by ensuring that the Group has in place a robust risk management process The culture of the business extends to the provision of financial information.
Operational management provide weekly forecasts, monthly and an effective internal control framework to manage its risks, in support of going trading reports, and annual budgets and these are forwarded to Group management and are discussed at monthly site board meetings.
In addition, the Committee has continued to Group Executive Directors attend most of these meetings and the information is consolidated and reported at Group Board meetings.
The focus on ensuring the integrity, quality and compliance of the Groups external Group prepares an annual budget and half year re-forecast that are agreed by the Board, with the budget including a three year forecast for financial reporting.
consideration to support the Viability Statement.
The use of standard reporting software by all Group entities ensures that information is presented in a consistent manner which facilitates the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
Site directors and finance heads This report sets out: are required to sign a monthly confirmation that their business has complied with the Groups accounting policies and procedures, with a more the role, composition, activities and responsibilities of the Audit Committee: detailed confirmation provided for half year and year end reporting.
a summary of the meetings of the Audit Committee during the year: the significant financial reporting issues debated by the Committee: REMUNERATION the Committees oversight of the Groups Risk Management and internal control systems in support of the Board: The Remuneration Committee monitors the executive remuneration package and incentive scheme and believes the incentives provide a the respective roles and effectiveness of the internal and external auditors: strong alignment between Shareholders, the Executive Directors and the wider senior executive management team.
The remuneration policy details of the external audit tender and selection process: and was agreed at the AGM in 2015 and this is included in the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 62 to 76 which provides details of how details of the Groups response to the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs request for clarification of certain matters within the 2016 the policy has been implemented, together with the activities of the Remuneration Committee during the year.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Committee met four times during the year and invited the Companys Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Group Financial Regular engagement with investors provides the Group with the opportunity to discuss certain areas of interest and to ascertain any areas of Controller and Head of Internal Audit to attend the meetings along with the external Audit Partner and Director.
The Committee also held concern they may have.
The Group engages with shareholders through regular meetings and at the AGM.
Presentations are made by the Chief separate private meetings with internal and external audit.
Executive, the Finance Director and the Commercial Director to analysts and institutional Shareholders on the half year and full year results and on Company strategy.
A similar presentation is made to Shareholders attending the Annual General Meeting.
Significant matters relating to The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the financial results for the full year and half year and the quarterly trading statements, the trading or development of the business are disseminated to the market by way of Stock Exchange announcements.
The Companys Annual including applicable accounting policies, key judgement areas, going concern and viability assumptions.
The Committee also reviewed the and Interim Reports, related presentations and Stock Exchange announcements can be found on the Groups website: www.
Annual Report & Accounts taken as a whole to ensure they are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the necessary information for Shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The views of Shareholders, expressed during meetings, are communicated by the Chairman or the Chief Executive, as appropriate, to the Board as a whole.
The Chairman, Chief Executive or the Finance Director discuss governance and strategy with major Shareholders from time Specific areas of financial reporting focus during the year included: to time.
The Board also welcomes the attendance and questions of Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting which is also attended by the the accounting treatment and disclosure of the transactions to acquire CCL Holdings Limited and Dunbia Ballymena : Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
the quantum and appropriateness of commercial accruals: and revenue recognition.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT The Board is pleased to report that it has complied with the requirements of the Code during the year ended 31 March 2017.
The Board The Committee reviewed internal audits terms of reference and work plans and oversaw the Groups relationship with the external auditors believes that it has the appropriate blend of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to support the business and will continue including scope, fees and work performed.
The Committee was satisfied with the performance of the Groups internal audit function and the to ensure an optimal level of relevant skills, experience and diversity amongst its members, appropriate to support the future needs of external auditor.
In the coming year, the Committee will continue to focus on the Groups risk management processes, internal control frameworks and external The Board has reviewed the financial statements and, taken as a whole, consider them to be fair, balanced and understandable, providing financial reporting to ensure that they remain effective and robust to support the future successful growth and development of the business.
sufficient and appropriate information for Shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee provided guidance to the Board to assist them in reaching this conclusion.
On behalf of the Board By order of the Board Mark Reckitt Malcolm Windeatt Chair of the Audit Committee Company Secretary 23 May 2017 23 May 2017 52 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Cranswick plc 53 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE VIABILITY STATEMENT The Committees primary role is to assist the Board in providing effective governance over the appropriateness of the Groups financial Also at the request of the Board, and reflecting the requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Audit Committee has reviewed reporting, Risk Management and internal control systems.
It is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and and reported to the Board that it is satisfied with the risk disclosures and Viability Statement which have been presented.
other communications and announcements to the market, and for considering whether accounting policies are appropriate.
It reviews the In order to give this report, the Audit Committee carried out a number of additional procedures including: Companys internal controls and risk management frameworks, and reviews and approves the activities, plans and effectiveness of both the reviewing risk reporting disclosures in detail: Groups internal and external auditors.
considering the appropriateness of the three-year time horizon selected for testing the Groups viability, including consideration of the The Audit Committee terms of reference, which are reviewed and approved by the Board annually, are available on the Companys website uncertainty resulting from the UKs exit from the European Union: and at the Annual General Meeting.
reviewing the Group annual budget and extended three-year forecast and the assumptions therein for reasonableness: agreeing appropriate downside sensitivities to be applied to the forecasts for stress testing, based on the Groups principal risks and the COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE work of the Risk Committee: and The Audit Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors.
Membership of the Committee and attendance during the year are set reviewing the availability of debt funding for the Group across the three-year forecast period.
out below: The Board and the Committee concluded that, based on the results of the analysis provided, they have a reasonable expectation that the Committee members Meetings attended Percentage attended Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a three year time horizon see page 40.
Mark Reckitt Chair 4 100% Steven Esom 3 75% PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Kate Allum 4 100% An independent evaluation of the effectiveness of the Committee was carried out externally by EquityCommunications Limited.
The evaluation was very positive with comments indicating that the Committee was working well.
Recommended actions to further improve the performance of the Committee will be incorporated into the Committees processes and activities for the year ending 31 March 2018.
The timing of meetings is designed to fit in with the Groups financial calendar, with meetings in advance of half year and year-end financial reporting in November and May respectively, and an additional meeting in January in preparation for the year end process.
A further meeting FINANCIAL REPORTING was also added in September, when the Committee met to consider the audit tender proposals.
Steven Esom was unable to attend the During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed accounting papers prepared by management and considered, with input from the external January 2017 meeting due to a pre-existing commitment.
auditors, the appropriateness of the main accounting policies, estimates and judgements made in preparing the financial statements.
The key matters that the Committee considered in reviewing the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2017 are set out below.
All members of the Committee have extensive managerial experience in large, complex, food sector organisations and have a wide range of financial, commercial and operational expertise.
It is a requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Code that at least one Committee Financial reporting area Judgement and assurance considered member has recent and relevant financial experience.
Mark Reckitt, the Committee Chairman, meets this requirement.
Full biographical details of the Audit Committee members can be found on pages 46 and 47.
Acquisitions Crown In April 2016, the Group acquired CCL Holdings Limited and its 100 per cent subsidiary Crown Chicken Limited, and Dunbia Ballymena a company engaged in the breeding, rearing and processing of British chickens, for net cash consideration of ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE 39.4 million.
In November 2016, the Group acquired 100 percent of the issued share capital of Dunbia Ballymena, The Committee is required to meet at least three times a year and its agenda is linked to the Group financial calendar.
The Company Chairman, a company engaged in primary pork processing, for an initial net cash consideration of 16.7 million.
In each case, the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Group Financial Controller, Head of Internal Audit and representatives of the external auditors are invited to Committee reviewed managements proposed accounting treatment and the valuation methodology applied to the attend each meeting.
The Company Secretary also attends the meetings as secretary to the Committee.
Both the external auditors and the acquired assets and liabilities which was based on internal due diligence work and reports by external advisers and Head of Internal Audit have the opportunity to access the Committee, without the Executive Directors being present, at any time, and the consultants.
The allocation of the purchase price provisional in the case of Dunbia Ballymena between tangible Committee formally meets with both the external auditors and internal audit independently, at least once a year.
assets, intangible assets and goodwill was subject to particular scrutiny.
The external auditors also challenged the key assumptions used in the allocation methodology.
The Committee specifically challenged management on the PRINCIPAL RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE valuation of customer relationship intangible assets acquired as part of the Crown acquisition, and after a thorough The Committees principal responsibilities include reviewing and monitoring: review of all the information, agreed with managements approach to the allocation of the purchase price and, in the the integrity of the Groups financial statements: case of Dunbia Ballymena, will continue to consider this during the measurement period prior to the allocations the Groups accounting policies: ceasing to be provisional.
See Note 15. the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, internal control and risk management systems in support of the Board: Commercial accruals The Committee reviewed the level of commercial accruals for rebates, discounts and promotional activity at the the effectiveness of the internal audit function in the context of the Companys overall risk management framework: balance sheet date.
The level of commercial accruals is viewed by the Committee, management and the external the effectiveness, scope, cost and independence of the Groups external auditor: auditor as an area sensitive to a moderate degree of commercial judgement, albeit 70 per cent of the year end accrual the Companys whistleblowing and anti-bribery policies: and related to volume rebates and similar allowances which require a lower level of judgement and estimation due to their the Groups viability, and its disclosure within the Annual Report.
The Committee also noted the FRCs guidance on complex supplier arrangements and the content of a letter received from the FRC requesting additional information in this area see page 56 and asked The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the removal, appointment or reappointment of the Groups external auditors.
management to consider fuller disclosure in the notes to the Report and Accounts.
After reviewing the level of accruals The Committee also reviews its terms of reference annually and makes recommendations to the Board for any appropriate changes.
and the intra-year movement, including the profit effect and considering the work of internal and external audit in verifying the underlying contractual arrangements including the confirmation of the terms of agreements directly with FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE some of the Groups key customers by the external auditor, the Committee supported managements assumptions and In addition, at the request of the Board, the Audit Committee has reviewed and reported to the Board that it is satisfied that the financial accounting treatment including the enhanced disclosures provided in this years report and accounts.
See Note 20. statements taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information for Shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
Revenue recognition The Committee reviewed the Group policy on revenue recognition, to which there were no changes during the year, and concluded that it was appropriate for the business activities carried out by the Group.
As a food production In order to give this report the Audit Committee carried out a number of additional procedures including: business, the Committee does not consider revenue recognition for the Group to be complex, but acknowledges that obtaining confirmation from the relevant preparers of the various parts of the Annual Report that they had reviewed the fairness and it is a key area of audit focus due to the risk of misstatement of revenues between periods as a result of management completeness of their sections: override.
The Committee thoroughly reviewed the work of both internal and external audit in this area and concluded ensuring a thorough verification process had been completed: that revenues had been appropriately recognised in the correct period and that there was no evidence of management consideration of the Annual Report and Accounts in the context of the Audit Committees knowledge and experience of the business: bias.
See Notes 2 and 3. holding discussions with both internal and external audit: and reviewing and discussing a paper from the Finance Director outlining issues to consider and why he believed the Annual Report During the year, in light of the IASBs proposed improvements to IFRS 8 Operating segments, and the increasing scale of the Groups poultry was fair, balanced and understandable.
business following the acquisition of Crown, the Committee asked management to carry out a review of the Groups reportable segments.
Following a detailed review and discussion, it was unanimously concluded by the Committee, Management and the Auditors that the Group The Board and the Committee understand that fair should mean reasonable and impartial, balanced should mean even-handed with both continued to have one reportable segment, being Food.
positive and negative messages being portrayed and understandable should mean simple, clear and free from jargon or unnecessary clutter.
54 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Cranswick plc 55 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED CORRESPONDENCE WITH THE FRC EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS During February 2017, the Group received correspondence from the FRC requesting additional information on the 31 March 2016 Annual Ernst & Young LLP has been the Groups auditor since 1972.
The Audit Committee assesses annually the qualifications, expertise, resources Report and Accounts.
The principal areas where the FRC requested further information were: and independence of the auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process.
commercial accruals: composition of other payables: In addition to the year end audit, Ernst & Young LLP carried out a review on the Groups interim reporting during the year.
The Committee use of alternative performance measures and interaction with segment disclosures: and considers that such a review gives the Board additional assurance over the half year process and reporting.
methodology in calculating discount rate.
During the year, the Committee assessed the external auditors performance and effectiveness through a questionnaire completed by Audit The Group responded to the FRC within the required 28 days giving the necessary information to provide additional clarity on all the areas Committee members and the Groups senior finance team.
The output from the process was reviewed and discussed by the Audit Committee raised, along with undertakings to enhance certain disclosures within the 2017 Report and Accounts.
The responses were accepted by the and with the external auditors.
The Committee also considered the external auditors experience and expertise, the extent to which the audit FRC and no further action was required.
In preparing the 31 March 2017 Annual Report and Accounts management has provided the enhanced plan had been met, the robustness and perceptiveness of work performed on key accounting and audit judgements and the content of its disclosures which were committed to in the response to the FRC.
reports on audit findings, whilst noting some of the observations made.
The Committee was satisfied with the effectiveness of the external audit process.
Scope and limitations of FRC review The FRC review was conducted by FRC staff who have an understanding of the relevant legal and accounting framework.
The review was based The Audit Committee also approves the terms of engagement and remuneration of the external auditors and monitors their independence.
solely on the Groups 2016 Annual Report and Accounts and did not benefit from detailed knowledge of the business or an understanding of The Committee confirms that it has complied with the requirements of the CMA Order 2014 as regards audit tendering, auditor appointment, the underlying transactions entered into.
The review provides no assurance that the Report and Accounts are correct in all material respects: negotiation and agreement of audit fees and approval of non-audit services.
the FRCs role is not to verify the information provided but to consider compliance with reporting requirements.
The letter was written on the basis that the FRC which includes the FRCs officers, employees and agents accepts no liability for reliance on it by the company or any third EXTERNAL AUDIT TENDER AND APPOINTMENT party, including but not limited to investors and shareholders.
Background The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditors.
The Committee RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL periodically reviews the tendering of the external audit, with the previous tender process being in 2008.
As indicated in the 2016 Report and The Committee conducted its annual review of the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk management systems through the Accounts, the Committee initiated and supervised a tender process for the external audit during the year to ensure that a new audit work of Internal Audit, the external auditors Control Themes and Observations Report on the Groups financial control environment following appointment would take effect at the end of the current audit partners five year term.
their audit and thorough review and challenge of monthly Board reports.
The Committee also reviewed the Groups whistleblowing and bribery prevention policies.
Decision on which firms would tender As previously indicated, Ernst & Young LLP were not invited to participate in the tender process due to their length of tenure as the Groups The Committee reviewed the key conclusions from work performed by the Group Risk Committee during the year to gain assurance over auditors and observing the spirit of Corporate Governance guidance and EU regulation.
Following a detailed short-listing process, which the risk management framework in place across the Group which is designed to identify, evaluate and mitigate risk.
In addition, the Audit included consideration of independence and ability to effectively manage the audit of a Group of Cranswicks scale, complexity and geography, Committee Chair attended the March 2017 Risk Committee meeting to support his understanding of the workings of the Risk Committee.
four audit firms were selected to tender for the engagement including one mid-tier firm which the Committee felt had a realistic chance of being The Committee was satisfied that all principal risks had been identified and that the risk management framework is operating effectively.
selected due to their recent, extensive food sector experience.
The process was overseen by the Audit Committee Chair, who met with all the proposed lead audit partners from the firms involved prior to the formal tender process being initiated in July.
INTERNAL AUDIT The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the performance and effectiveness of the Companys Internal Audit activities.
The Audit Process Committee reviewed and approved the annual Internal Audit plan, ensuring that it was aligned to the principal risks of the business and received regular progress updates on delivery of the plan objectives at each of its meetings during the year.
January 2016 Feb Mar 2016 July 2016 Jul Aug 2016 Aug Sept 2016 Sept 2016 Tender process Assessment criteria, Invites to tender Initial meetings Tender documents New auditors The Internal Audit approach takes into account the overall Group risk framework as well as risks specific to individual operations and is regularly discussed at submission format sent out.
Initial and on site visits.
received and selected and agreed updated to take into account changes to the risk profile of the Group.
The plan set out at the beginning of the current year was achieved.
Internal Audit Committee and scorecard basic information reviewed.
by Audit Committee Further information Audit findings together with responses from management were considered by the Audit Committee and where necessary challenged.
The Audit and selection developed provisions in and Board requests taken Presentations Committee also reviewed progress by management in addressing the issues identified on a timely basis.
The Audit Committee was satisfied that panel agreed dataroom from firms completed the Internal Audit function is operating effectively.
During the year, Internal Audit performed a core financial controls review at all sites and also reviewed specific Group non-financial risk areas.
Selection Overall no control failings or weaknesses were identified that would have a significant impact on the Group: however, recommendations were Throughout the tender process a rigorous scoring procedure was carried out based on selection criteria established before the process started.
raised where necessary at specific sites to strengthen existing processes and controls and follow-up audit visits were carried out at the majority of sites to ensure that agreed corrective actions were being taken.
In making their formal recommendation, the Committee considered each firms approach to: Ensuring a robust and challenging audit process that is both effective and efficient: The Committee keeps the performance and effectiveness of the Internal Audit function under review and in doing so it also assesses the Providing an independent, high quality audit: quality, experience and expertise within the department and is satisfied that this is appropriate to meet the Groups needs at the present time.
Sharing governance and regulatory best practice, plus other ideas and insight: To provide additional assurance that the Internal Audit department is operating effectively and is appropriately resourced, it is the Committees Building an experienced audit team which understands Cranswicks culture and can build a strong working relationship with management: intention to engage an independent third party to review the activities and effectiveness of the function, with the review expected to take Working effectively with other advisors and assurance providers e. g. Tax advisors and Internal Audit : and place during July 2017.
Providing a smooth transition process between audit firms.
The Group operates a decentralised structure where significant accountability is devolved to site operational and financial management.
In addition, the Committee also assessed the firms: Control weaknesses identified at site level are taken seriously and management and the Committee seek to ensure that their cause is Technical and specialist expertise: understood and mitigating actions taken to limit the potential for recurrence.
In view of the work of internal audit, external audit and Group Listed company experience: management, it is considered unlikely that a weakness at an individual site would have a significant impact on the Group.
Sector knowledge: and Fee proposal.
The respective merits of the tendering firms were subsequently debated by the Committee and other members of the selection panel.
Ultimately, the Committee recommended  PwC, with Ian Morrison as lead partner, to the Board as the Groups new external auditors as it was considered that PwC demonstrated that they were best placed to fulfil the selection criteria.
56 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Cranswick plc 57 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED EXTERNAL AUDIT TENDER AND APPOINTMENT CONTINUED The Audit Committee is aware of, and sensitive to, Investor body guidelines on non-audit fees and the policy of awarding non-audit services Transition process is kept under review to ensure that the correct balance is maintained between the Group realising cost-effective benefits from the accumulated PwC will be formally appointed as the Groups external auditor at the AGM, on 24 July 2017.
To ensure the firms independence for the year knowledge and experience of Ernst & Young LLP, whilst also making sure that their audit independence and objectivity is maintained.
ending 31 March 2018, PwC stepped down as tax advisers to the Group prior to the start of the new financial year.
Following completion of the audit tender process in September 2016, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board that the appointment To ensure that PwC are well prepared for their engagement as external auditors, transition meetings have already been held with Group of  LLP as the Companys external auditors should be proposed to Shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
management and the firm has shadowed aspects of Ernst & Youngs audit process including attendance at the Group audit clearance meeting and the year end Audit Committee meeting to fully understand the audit approach taken and conclusions reached on significant audit issues and judgements.
AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE Mark Reckitt The Group meets its obligations for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the external auditors through the Audit Committee, Chair of the Audit Committee whose terms of reference include a requirement to oversee the commissioning and monitor the level of non-audit work performed by the external auditor, to ensure such objectivity and independence is safeguarded.
There is an established policy concerning the types of non-audit 23 May 2017 services the external auditors should not carry out to avoid compromising their independence and these include internal accounting or other financial reporting services, internal audit, tax advice, legal, actuarial or valuation services, executive or management roles or functions and remuneration consultancy.
The Audit Committee Chair is consulted prior to awarding to the external auditors any reporting accountant, or corporate transaction work or any other non-audit services in excess of 30,000.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed and considered the following factors to assess the objectivity and independence of Ernst & Young LLP: The auditors procedures for maintaining and monitoring independence, including those to ensure that the partners and staff have no personal or business relationships with the Group, other than those in the normal course of business permitted by UK ethical guidance.
The auditors policies for rotation of the audit partner every five years, and regular rotation of key audit personnel.
The current Audit Partner Alistair Denton was selected by Ernst & Young LLP for the year ended 31 March 2013 with the current Audit Director and Senior Manager joining the audit team for the year ended 31 March 2016.
The nature of non-audit work undertaken during the year and its approval in accordance with the Audit Committees guidelines for ensuring independence.
Adherence to the Groups internal policy that, other than in exceptional circumstances, the fees paid to the external auditors for non-audit work in any one year should not exceed 70 per cent of the external audit fee on average over the last three years.
A report from Ernst & Young LLP confirming that they have adequate policies and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence is maintained.
Details of the non-audit work and fees paid during the year are set out below: Non-audit fees 000 Interim review 15 Other services 52 Total Non-Audit Fees 67 Total Audit Fees 242 Ratio of Non-Audit Fees to Audit Fees 0.31:1 Based on a three year average audit fee of 216,000.
The ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees for the year was well below the 70 per cent limit set out in the Groups policy.
The work undertaken by the external auditors during the year and the safeguards considered by the Audit Committee to address any threats to independence included the following: i The auditors provided limited tax advice.
Their audit objectivity and independence was safeguarded through the use of a separate tax partner.
ii Ernst & Young LLP advised the Company on a number of corporate transactions during the year.
Following a tender for this type of work in the year ended 31 March 2012 and given the nature of the work during the following years the Committee concluded that Ernst & Young LLP were best placed to carry out this work.
Their audit objectivity and independence was safeguarded through the use of a separate corporate transactions partner and through prior approval by the Chair of the Audit Committee on a case-by-case basis.
58 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Cranswick plc 59 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT As Chair of the Nomination Committee I am pleased to introduce its report for Non-Executive Directors Length of tenure of Non-Executive Directors the year ended 31 March 2017 which details the role of the Committee and the Consideration was also given by the Committee to the continued work it has undertaken during the year.
independence of the Non-Executive Directors, including their term in office, the time commitment required from each of them taking into 33% 0-3 years ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE account the number of meetings and preparation and attendance at 4-6 years The Nomination Committee is responsible for assisting the Board by keeping those meetings.
It was concluded that all Non-Executive Directors 7-9 years 33% the structure, size and composition of the Board under review.
It also considers remained independent and devoted an appropriate amount of time the optimal level of independence and diversity of skills, knowledge, experience to fulfil their responsibilities.
and gender required for the Board in order for it to operate effectively and makes appropriate recommendations to the Board with respect to any The Committee has considered the current discussions on director necessary changes.
overboarding and it is pleased to note that there are no issues at the current time.
It believes that the Non-Executive Directors have The Committee gives due consideration to succession planning in the course of sufficient time and energy to be effective representatives of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group Shareholders interests.
and the skills and expertise needed within the Board and senior management.
During the year Kate Allum had completed the three years of her first 33% COMMITTEE MEETINGS DURING THE YEAR period of engagement and the Committee agreed to issue her a During the year, there were two scheduled meetings and the attendance of the further three year period as she continues to have the necessary skills, members at these meetings was as follows: experience and knowledge to contribute to the Board.
Diversity policy Diversity of workforce Whilst the Board and Nomination Committee respects the benefits of diversity and supports it in its approach to external recruitment Committee members Meetings attended Percentage attended Male 6 and internal appointments, it is not considered appropriate or 41 Female 86% Martin Davey Chair 2 100% 82% necessary to set any specific or measurable targets.
All appointments Steven Esom 2 100% 294 are made on individual merit regardless of race, colour, nationality, 73% Kate Allum 2 100% 4,191 religion, gender, marital status, family status, sexual orientation, Mark Reckitt 2 100% 67% disability or age.
The Groups principal concern is to ensure that all candidates have the appropriate skills, knowledge and experience Only members of the Committee have the right to attend meetings: however, the Chief Executive and Finance Director attend for all or part to fulfil the role and a review of the Groups diversity policy of the meetings by invitation as and when required.
highlighted that it provides for equality and fairness, recognising and respecting individual strengths and differences enabling all 2,082 ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE employees and prospective employees to be treated in the same way.
Mix of experience 33% 106 The Committee focused on the following key activities during the year: 27% 9 The gender breakdown of the workforce is as presented opposite.
1 18% Board Composition Industry 14% The Committee reviewed the composition of the Board and concluded Governance and Evaluation 30% Finance that the members have an appropriate background experience in During the year, an effectiveness review of the Board and its either finance, industry or both, and have the right balance of skills, committees was conducted through an external evaluation process.
Total Board Senior Managers Graduates and Employees and Executives Apprentices experience and knowledge to provide strong and effective leadership The report was particularly positive and included comments and of the Company.
As a result there are no plans to change the make-up recommended actions that will be incorporated into the Committees of the current Board at the present time.
processes and activities for year ending 31 March 2018.
Further details of this review are reported in the Governance Report on page 51.
All Directors will be standing for re-election at the Annual General Activities Meeting.
The Board has set out in the Notice of the Meeting its reasons The Committee also considered its Terms of Reference to ensure for supporting the re-election of the Directors and their biographical they reflect the Committees remit, and concluded that they 70% 5% details on pages 46 and 47 demonstrate the range of experience and remain appropriate.
Board composition 10% skills which each brings to the benefit of the Company.
Succession planning 25% A breakdown of how the Committee split its time between its key Diversity policy Succession planning activities is shown opposite.
Evaluation and Succession planning at both Board and senior executive level has been an area of focus for the Committee this year.
The Committee has assessment highlighted certain individuals who could stand in for Board members should such an occasion arise.
There has also been greater emphasis The Chair of the Nomination Committee will attend the Annual this year on succession planning for senior executives and again the Committee has scheduled those individuals that can cover for existing General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that executives should the need arise.
might be raised on the Committees activities.
We are always looking ahead and through our talent management programme highlight prospective managers and executives of the future On behalf of the Committee through the training that is taking place across the Group at all levels of the business.
This includes an apprenticeship scheme, graduate development and management leadership programmes with a focus on skills, talent and career development.
This year the Committee also considered and approved, in conjunction with the whole Board and as part of the progression of the business, the appointment of another 60% senior executive to support the Executive Directors as the Group continues to expand.
Martin Davey Chair of the Nomination Committee 23 May 2017 60 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Cranswick plc 61
