STRATEGIC REPORT TR Property pp24-32 08 06 2017 15:52 Page 25 Strategy and Investment Policies The investment selection process seeks to identify well managed companies of all sizes.
The Manager generally regards future growth and capital appreciation potential more highly than immediate yield or discount to asset value.
Although the investment objective allows for investment on an international basis, the benchmark is a Pan-European Index and the majority of the investments will be located in that geographical area.
Direct property investments are located in the UK only.
As a dedicated investor in the property sector the Company cannot offer diversication outside that sector, however, within the portfolio there are limitations, as set out below, on the size of individual investments held to ensure diversication within the portfolio.
Asset allocation guidelines The maximum holding in the stock of any one issuer or of a single asset is limited to 15% of the portfolio at the point of acquisition.
In addition, any holdings in excess of 5% of the portfolio must not in aggregate exceed 40% of the portfolio.
The Manager currently applies the following guidelines for asset allocation: UK listed equities 25 50% Continental European listed equities 45 75% Direct Property UK 5 20% Other listed equities 0 5% Listed bonds 0 5% Unquoted investments 0 5% Gearing The Company may employ levels of gearing from time to time with the aim of enhancing returns, subject to an overall maximum of 25% of the portfolio value.
In certain market conditions the Manager may consider it prudent not to employ gearing on the balance sheet at all, and to hold part of the portfolio in cash.
The current asset allocation guideline is 10% net cash to 25% net gearing as a percentage of portfolio value.
Property Valuation Investment properties are valued every six months by an external independent valuer.
If a material event occurs in the intervening period, then an interim valuation will be instructed on the property in question.
Valuations of all the Groups properties as at 31 March 2017 have been carried out on a Red Book basis and these valuations have been adopted in the accounts.
Allocation of costs between Revenue & Capital On the basis of the Boards expected long-term split of returns in the form of capital gains and income, the Group charges 75% of annual base management fees and finance costs to capital.
All performance fees are charged to capital.
