The Connected Workspace explained How Mitie is moving Beyond FM... to the Connected Workspace The facilities management offering has evolved over the This is the next iteration of the FM market.
One that we call past 30 years.
Originally conceived as a way to reduce cost the Connected Workspace.
and improve quality while allowing organisations to focus on Our customers want to contract with us in different ways, their core business.
It has evolved from simple tasking depending on where they are on the facilities journey.
Our contracts for services to providing strategic advice and strategy is to put our customers at the heart of our execution on global corporate real estate portfolios.
business so we are set up to provide services however our Today with the increased availability and reduced cost of customers want them, whether that is single, bundled, technology it is possible to leverage the considerable integrated or connected.
amount of data available through the Internet of Things, Guiding Control Systems and enterprise-wide platforms to connect all of the elements of a property portfolios utilisation, efficiency, cost and environmental impact.
Markets have changed Savings Benefits Single typical contract Cleaning Best in class length 3 years Catering Allowing a customer to focus Specialist services up to 20% on its core business and to Cost reduction Security have services provided by a business that specialises Scale Maintenance in that service, generates considerable savings and increases quality.
Bundled typical contract Synergies length 3-5 years Cleaning Catering 10% When a customer is incremental Standard processes comfortable with a single savings Security Maintenance Consistent quality service FM they will often contract more than one service to the same supplier in a bundle.
Integrated typical contract Streamlined length 5 years management 10% Customer relationships can Management of full suite develop to the extent where incremental Joined-up delivery of services savings they trust you to manage Simplified invoicing and deliver the entirety of their and reporting FM services in an integrated contract.
These contracts usually involve significant consolidation of the customers supply chain and transformation of service delivery.
8 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 y g o l o n h c e t a t a D Savings Benefits Connected Workspace Corporate Real Estate optimisation Customers increasingly want more from their suppliers than just service delivery.
They want a partner with the ability to collect and Sustainability support analyse all of the available data from their organisation to inform Wellbeing insights a further 10% their property strategy, make their workspaces more productive and reduce their operational cost base.
Cost savings Reduced risk The key to a truly connected workspace is to pool the data together into a virtual data lake with neutral platforms to enable Productive workspaces access from a range of applications.
The approach is consultative, looking to establish very long-term relationships across the customers organisation.
Strategy Service delivery All elements of Seamless delivery of the Connected high-quality services Workspace support is an integral part of customer strategy any solution and evidence delivery Critical against strategic infrastructure objectives Criticality varies by business from data centres to telecoms transmissions but all need to operate effectively Sustainability Thinking and operating with a long-term perspective in terms CUSTOMERS of the environment, community and other stakeholders Secure environments Cyber and terror risks are part of the evaluation of current security threats Space Engineering utilisation performance The intelligent use Mechanical and electrical of buildings helps to assets are the life system reduce waste and of any property.
They need increase employee Analytics to be managed and satisfaction and MI maintained proactively Data needs by skilled professionals analysis and clear presentation for the benefits to be realised www.
