TR Property pp24-32 08 06 2017 15:52 Page 26 Key Performance Indicators The Board assesses the performance of the Manager in meeting the Trusts objective against the following Key Performance Indicators KPIs : KPI Board monitoring and outcome l The Board reviews the performance in detail at each meeting and Net Asset Value Total Return discusses the results and outlook with the Manager.
Outcome The Directors regard the Companys net asset 1 Year 5 Years value total return performance in comparison with the benchmark as being an overall NAV Total Return 8.0% 122.7% measure of value delivered to the Benchmark Total Return 6.5% 87.3% shareholders over the longer-term.
NAV Total Return is calculated by re-investing the dividends in the assets and the Company from the relevant ex-dividend date.
Dividends are deemed to be re-invested on the ex-dividends date.
l The Board reviews statements on income received to date and Delivering a reliable dividend which income forecasts at each meeting.
is growing over the longer term Outcome The principal objective of the Company is 1 Year 5 Years a total return objective, however, the fund Compound Annual Dividend manager aims to deliver a reliable dividend Growth 25.7% 9.7% with growth over the longer-term.
Compound Annual 3.1% 2.3% The final dividend in the time series dividend by the initial dividend in the period raised to the power of 1 divided by the number of years in the series.
l The Board takes powers at each AGM to buy-back and issue The Discount or Premium at shares.
When considering the merits of share buy-back or which the Companys shares trade issuance, the Board looks at a number of factors in addition to the compared with Net Asset Value short and longer-term discount or premium to NAV to assess Whilst investment performance is expected to whether action would be beneficial to the shareholders overall.
be a key driver of the share price discount or Particular attention is paid to the potential impact of any share premium to the net asset value of an buy-back activity on the liquidity of the shares and on Ongoing investment trust over the longer-term, there Charges over the longer-term.
are periods of volatility when the discount can Outcome widen.
The Board is aware of the vulnerability 1 Year 5 Years of a sector-specialist trust to a change of Average discount 11.9% 6.8% investor sentiment towards that sector.
Total number of shares repurchased 150,000 525,000 Average daily discount throughout the period of share price to capital only NAV.
TR Property Investment Trust 26 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT TR Property pp24-32 08 06 2017 15:52 Page 27 Key Performance Indicators continued KPI Board monitoring and outcome l Expenses are budgeted for each financial year and the Board Level of Ongoing Charges reviews regular reports on actual and forecast expenses The Board is conscious of expenses and aims throughout the year.
to deliver a balance between strong service and costs.
Outcome 1 Year 4 Years The AIC denition of Ongoing Charges includes any direct property costs in addition Ongoing charges to the management fees and all other excluding Performance Fees and 0.64% 0.69% expenses incurred in running a publicly listed Property Costs company.
As no other investment trusts hold Ongoing charges calculation introduced in 2013 therefore this statistic has only been part of their portfolio in direct property they produced for four years.
either hold 100% of their portfolio as property securities or as direct property, this statistic is shown without direct property costs to allow a clearer comparison of overall administration costs with other funds investing in securities.
l The Board reviews financial information and forecasts at each Investment Trust Status meeting which set out the requirements outlined in Section 1158.
The Company must continue to operate in order to meet the requirements for Section l The Directors believe that the conditions and ongoing 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010. requirements have been met in respect of the year to 31 March 2017 and that the Company will continue to meet the requirements.
TR Property Investment Trust 27 TR Property pp24-32 08 06 2017 15:52 Page 28 Principal Risks and Uncertainties In delivering long-term returns to shareholders, the Board must also identify and monitor the risks that have been taken in order to achieve that return.
The Board has included below details of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company and the appropriate measures taken in order to mitigate these risks as far as practicable.
Risk Identified Board monitoring and mitigation l The Board monitors the level of discount or premium Share price performs poorly in comparison at which the shares are trading over the short and to the underlying NAV longer-term.
The shares of the Company are listed on the London l The Board encourages engagement with the Stock Exchange and the share price is determined by shareholders.
The Board receives reports at each supply and demand.
The shares may trade at a discount meeting on the activity of the Companys brokers, PR or premium to the Companys underlying NAV and this agent and meetings and events attended by the Fund discount or premium may uctuate over time.
l The Companys shares are available through the F&C share schemes and the Company participates in the active marketing of these schemes.
The shares are also widely available on open architecture platforms and can be held directly through the Companys registrar.
l The Board takes the powers to buy-back and issue shares at each AGM.
l The Managers objective is to outperform the Poor investment performance of the benchmark.
The Board regularly reviews the portfolio relative to the benchmark.
Companys long-term strategy and investment The Companys portfolio is actively managed.
In addition guidelines and the managers relative positions to investment securities the Company also invests in against these.
commercial property and accordingly, the portfolio may l The Management Engagement Committee reviews not follow or outperform the return of the benchmark.
The Board has the powers to change the Manager if deemed appropriate.
l The Board receives and considers a regular report Market risk from the Manager detailing asset allocation, Both share prices and exchange rates may move rapidly investment decisions, currency exposures, gearing and adversely impact the value of the Companys portfolio.
levels and rationale in relation to the prevailing market conditions.
Although the portfolio is diversied across a number of geographical regions, the investment mandate is focused on a single sector and therefore the portfolio will be sensitive towards the property sector, as well as global equity markets more generally.
Property companies are subject to many factors which can adversely affect their investment performance, these TR Property Investment Trust 28 STRATEGIC REPORT
