Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT OUR KPIs WE MONITOR PERFORMANCE AGAINST OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES THROUGH THE FOLLOWING KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS NUMBER OF BRC Definition NUMBER OF SUPPLIER Definition NUMBER OF COMPLAINTS Definition HIGH QUALITY The number of Grade A ratings The number of supply chain audits The number of units for which GRADE A RATINGS AUDITS PER MILLION UNITS awarded during the year by the British carried out in the last twelve months complaints have been made by PRODUCTS 7.1% 20.4% -20.8% Retail Consortium BRC against its by the Cranswick Technical Services customers per million units sold.
15 Global Standard for Food Safety.
team to ensure the safety, traceability 34 14 230 13 and quality of raw materials used.
Comments The production of high quality products, 191 Comments Our long-term commitment to which are safely produced in technically 24 159 The number of Grade A ratings has Comments quality has resulted in a further and legally compliant facilities, underpins 19 increased following the acquisitions Significant effort has been made reduction in the number of customer everything we do.
and the Groups long-standing in the current year to ensure supply complaints in the current year.
2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 ADJUSTED OPERATING Definition FREE CASH FLOW M Definition RETURN ON CAPITAL Definition OPERATING Adjusted operating profit as a The level of cash generated Adjusted operating profit divided MARGIN % -13.2% EMPLOYED % percentage of sales revenue.
from operations less tax and net by the sum of the average of EXCELLENCE -29 BPS 81 BPS interest payable.
opening and closing net assets, net debt funds, pension liabilities Comments 19.0 18.2 17.0 and deferred tax.
Adjusted operating margin reduced 83.4 Comments Continued investment ensures that our 6.4 6.1 5.8 72.4 by 29 basis points to 6.1 per cent Higher operating profit was offset factories are some of the most efficient reflecting raw material price inflation by an increase in working capital Comments food production facilities in the UK.
53.5 offsetting volume growth, operational reflecting the growth of the business Return on capital employed efficiencies and the positive and the impact of acquisitions.
improved as we continued to see the contribution from acquisitions.
benefit of the ongoing investment in our asset base to provide additional 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 capacity and drive efficiencies.
LIKE-FOR-LIKE REVENUE Definition NON-EU EXPORT SALES Definition SALES FROM NEW Definition SALES GROWTH The year-on-year increase in sales The year-on-year increase in sales The percentage of total revenue GROWTH % GROWTH % PRODUCTS % revenue excluding the contribution made to non-EU customers including derived from new products launched 12.7% 37.5% 11.5% OF TOTAL REVENUE from acquisitions.
sales made to non-EU markets through during their first six months of sale.
Our long-term sales growth strategy UK-based meat trading agents.
11.5 37.5 12.7 is to consolidate existing market positions, Comments Comments develop new products and channels, Revenue growth reflects significant Comments 8.5 Significant business wins and our and grow our international operations business wins driving strong Non-EU export sales have continued ongoing commitment to innovation 23.1 22.1 6.1 and customer base.
Organic growth like-for-like volume growth of to grow strongly, driven by robust to support strong relationships 15.4 per cent.
demand for pork products in Far with our major retail customers 4.7 initiatives are complemented by Eastern markets together with saw new products account for targeted acquisitions.
RELATIVE CARBON Definition PIGS TRAVELLING LESS Definition NO.
OF RIDDOR ACCIDENTS Definition SUSTAINABILITY Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent The percentage of pigs processed at The number of accidents reportable FOOTPRINT THAN 50 MILES % PER 100 EMPLOYEES per tonne of sales.
our three facilities that have travelled to the Health & Safety Executive per -7.8% -10 BPS -21.2% less than fifty miles from the farm.
We invest heavily to secure our supply 0.248 75 0.78 Comments chains and provide career opportunities to 0.219 We committed to reducing our carbon Comments Comments 0.66 0.202 74 74 our employees, and these investments footprint by 30 per cent by 2020 The majority of pigs processed The development of our behavioural 0.52 provide confidence that we have a against our 2010 baseline and have continue to be sourced locally with safety system has resulted in a sustainable business in the longer term.
now met this target three years early.
reduction in the accident rate.
2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 34 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Cranswick plc 35 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW WE HAVE DELIVERED ANOTHER EXCELLENT YEAR OF GROWTH 17.2% 72.9m REPORTED REVENUE INCREASED BY 23 PER CENT AND ADJUSTED INCREASE IN ADJUSTED PROFIT NET CASH GENERATED FROM PROFIT BEFORE TAX GREW BY 17 PER CENT.
BEFORE TAX OPERATIONS Following the acquisition of Ballymena, The UK pig price EU-spec SPP increased Foods business was acquired, are now POULTRY OPERATING REVIEW the Wayland and Wold farming businesses by 34 per cent during the year rising steadily operating at full capacity.
To enable the Poultry, which includes fresh and cooked REVENUE AND ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT now supply approximately 16 per cent of through to the end of December before business to continue to grow and develop, poultry, represents 11 per cent of Group 2017 2016 Change our British pig requirements.
We are the third stabilising through the final quarter.
This was a new 25 million facility is being built in the revenue.
Including the contribution from largest pig producer in the UK and represent in direct contrast to a year earlier when pig North West of England which will consolidate Crown, revenue increased by over 180 per Revenue 1,245.1m 1,016.3m 22.5% 5 per cent of the total UK pig herd.
Almost prices fell by 15 per cent over the course of production from the two existing sites.
Excluding Crown, like-for-like revenue Adjusted Group operating profit Note 31 76.1m 65.1m 17.0% 90 per cent of the pigs produced from the the year.
The average price for the year to new site, based at Bury in Lancashire, will growth was 17.7 per cent.
This was comfortably Adjusted Group operating margin 6.1% 6.4% -29 bps two herds are bred outdoors, allowing us 31 March 2017 was 8 per cent higher year-onincrease current capacity by approximately ahead of the overall UK market in which to provide a complete farm-to-fork solution year.
The rise in the UK price over the summer 70 per cent and will enable existing and new poultry continues to be the lead performer for the premium pork ranges of our two months reflected a more pronounced product ranges to be produced more efficiently.
of the four principal meat protein categories.
REVENUE from Ballymena like-for-like revenue largest retail customers.
Provenance and increase in the EU reference price which Recent UK market data shows fresh poultry Reported revenue from continuing operations growth was 2.1 per cent.
Performance was end-to-end supply chain integrity are peaked 42 per cent higher than at the start GOURMET PRODUCTS growing at 6 per cent and ready to eat poultry increased by 22.5 per cent to 1,245.1 million.
comfortably ahead of the overall UK fresh important differentiators that can enable us of the year, resulting in the EU price pushing Gourmet Products, which comprise sausage, at 8 per cent.
Growth was driven by a strong performance pork category with market data for the to lock in key long-term retail relationships.
beyond the UK price before easing back in bacon and pastry, represents 19 per cent from each of our categories and reflected 52 weeks to 26 March 2017 highlighting Improvements in productivity together the autumn.
The principal reason for the of Group revenue.
Revenue increased by Sales of fresh poultry grew strongly in the positive contributions from the Crown a decline in volumes of 4 per cent, with with rising pig prices, as referred to below, increase in European prices was strong 16.4 per cent with all categories in growth.
period post acquisition compared to the Chicken and Ballymena businesses acquired much of this decline attributable to lower resulted in an improved contribution from demand for European pig meat from China same period in the prior year reflecting strong during the year.
Like-for-like revenue was promotional expenditure and lower sales pig production.
and tighter supply in European markets.
Sausage sales were extremely strong.
Crown, with its fully integrated 12.7 per cent higher, with corresponding of traditional roasting joints.
contract wins with the Groups two largest supply chain model, made a very positive volumes up 15.4 per cent.
The gap between CONVENIENCE retail customers for their Butchers Choice contribution to the Group during the period revenue and volume growth reflected the Total export revenue grew by 38.4 per cent, Convenience, which comprises Cooked ranges, which together delivered 350 tonnes and is forging strong links with our premium benefit to our customers and consumers reflecting growth in Far Eastern markets of Meats and Continental Products, represents per week of incremental volume, underpinned cooked poultry and pig farming operations.
of passing through lower input costs from 49.3 per cent together with a 14.6 per cent 38 per cent of Group revenue.
Convenience this robust category performance.
Sausage Since acquisition, the number of birds the final quarter of the previous year.
New increase into other export markets.
The revenue increased by 20.3 per cent reflecting production recommenced at our Norfolk processed by Crown has increased by 9 per contract wins, strong export sales and a strong growth in shipments to the Far East new business wins and new product launches.
facility early in the year to meet this increase cent, with around 15 per cent of the chicken greater number of pigs being processed reflected an increase in pig numbers Growth was again well ahead of the UK market.
in demand with over 150 tonnes of sausage produced by Crown now being used internally.
through our three primary processing facilities processed at our three primary processing being produced each week from the site.
underpinned this strong volume growth.
facilities, growth in the number of products Cooked Meats performed strongly reflecting Sales of premium beef burgers from the Sales of premium cooked poultry also grew being supplied and strong prices.
new business wins coming on stream Lazenbys facility also grew strongly.
The 9 million capital investment ADJUSTED GROUP OPERATING PROFIT throughout the period.
Three major new mixing and blending equipment has been programme which was completed at the start Adjusted Group operating profit increased In November 2016, we acquired Dunbia contracts, with business secured for the successfully commissioned to support the of the current financial year has enabled new by 17.0 per cent to 76.1 million.
Operating Ballymena now renamed Cranswick Country long-term and with built in pricing models next phase of growth and development of business to be secured and produced more margin at 6.1 per cent was 29 basis points Foods Ballymena, a leading Northern Irish to address raw material price movements, the facility with 6 million being invested efficiently by using the latest in-line cooking lower with the delay, as anticipated, in pork processing business.
Ballymena leave the Cooked Meats category in robust across the two sausage sites during the year.
This category recovering rising input costs through the operates from a modern, purpose built shape heading into the new financial year.
is perfectly suited to the latest consumer second half of the year being partly mitigated facility in Country Antrim, Northern Ireland The ongoing capital investment programme The premium bacon sector continues to trends which are focused on quick, easy, by a positive contribution from our rapidly and has a strategic, well-established supply resulted in 19 million being spent across the outperform the overall category, but slower healthy and tasty meal solutions, with growing poultry and export businesses and chain with strong links to the local farming three Cooked Meats sites during the period year-on-year growth compared to previous convenient protein a core component.
a strong operational performance across community.
This acquisition strengthens our to upgrade the facilities, add capacity and periods highlighted the recent trend by More recently contracts have been secured each of our businesses.
UK pork processing business and provides introduce new capability to produce slow our retail customers to move away from with two of the Groups principal grocery us with greater control over our supply chain, cook, sous vide, food to go and barbecue promotional mechanics and multi-buy offers.
CATEGORY REVIEW ensuring that we can maintain the production ranges, which have been added to our Growth accelerated in the second half of the We now disclose information about four and processing of high quality, UK farm portfolio of products following recent year following a new contract win.
product categories or operating segments assured pigs which is central to our contract wins.
Fresh Pork, Convenience, Gourmet Products customers requirements.
The facility Pastry returned to volume growth in the and Poultry which are aggregated into immediately adds 8,000 pigs per week Revenue from Continental Products also second half of the year driven by a strong one reportable segment Food.
Details to our existing production capacity.
The business continues to promotional plan with the business anchor of category performance are provided successfully source new products from a customer and a new contract win in the below and we intend to report in this way We continue to invest heavily across all three complex array of high quality premium food to go market.
sites with a major overhaul of our Norfolk suppliers across the Mediterranean region.
in operational efficiencies throughout facility being completed during the year.
The Made in Manchester concept highlights the year allied to an improved top line FRESH PORK Work is also underway at Ballymena to the significant value add that the experienced performance leave the pastry business well Fresh Pork includes our three primary extend the butchery operation which will and innovative teams at the two Manchester placed to drive further volume growth in processing facilities and associated farming enable more pigs to be processed through facilities bring to this fast-growing category.
operations and represents 32 per cent of the facility more efficiently.
We are also The two facilities, which have served the Group revenue.
Fresh Pork revenue increased planning to extend our Hull facility with work business so well since the Continental Fine by 6.7 per cent.
Excluding the contribution expected to start in the next financial year.
36 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Cranswick plc 37
