Viability Statement In accordance with section C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over a three-year period.
This assessment took account of the Groups current position and potential impact of the principal risks of the Group as set out on pages 30 to 36 of the Annual Report.
Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to 31 March 2020.
The Directors believe that a three-year period is appropriate for their viability assessment as it is supported by our strategic, budgeting and business planning cycles and is relevant to the duration of the Groups existing contracts with customers which is around three years on average.
It therefore represents a timeframe over which the Directors believe they can reasonably forecast the Groups performance.
At 31 March 2017, the Group had available 257.9m of undrawn committed borrowing facilities.
Its borrowing facilities total 526.8m and include a 275.0m Revolving Credit Facility with an expiry date of July 2021 and 251.8m of US Private Placement notes which have a range of maturity dates commencing from December 2017 out to December 2024.
Over the period under consideration for viability testing 60.2m of the 526.8m of committed borrowing facilities reaches maturity in December 2017, with a further 40.0m reaching maturity in December 2019.
The maturing facilities are comprised of the repayment of the 2010 US Private Placement 7 and 9 year notes.
The Groups assessment of viability is not dependent on refinancing these arrangements.
The Group utilised 110.7m of invoice discounting at 31 March 2017.
In making this statement, the Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
This included the availability and effectiveness of mitigating actions that could realistically be taken to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the underlying risks.
In considering the likely effectiveness of such actions, the conclusions of the Boards regular monitoring and review of risk management and internal control systems, as described on page 46, are considered.
In undertaking its assessment, the Board has considered a detailed financial plan which includes analysis of the forecast and actual performance of the Groups existing contract base, expectation for future growth including sales targets and expected win rates, overhead cost base, expected costs of financing and the availability of future funding facilities.
The Groups forecasts of its divisional and consolidated income statement, balance sheet and cash flows are used to perform analysis of forecast headroom on the Groups borrowing facilities and the Groups consequent solvency and liquidity.
A range of scenarios that encompass the principal risks were applied to the plan which included early termination of key contracts: revenue reduction over the plan period: reduced rates of margin on the existing contract base and adverse operating cash performance.
The analysis also considered a reverse stress-test scenario to illustrate the reduction in operating margin required to cause a breach of leverage covenant, in combination with the reduced revenue and operating cash scenarios.
The customer and sector diversification of the Groups operations helps minimise the risk of serious business interruption or a catastrophic damage to our reputation.
Our largest client constitutes only 7.5% of Group revenue.
The Directors considered mitigating factors that could be employed to counter the negative effects of the crystallisation of each of these risks.
The main actions included the short-term scaling down of capital expenditure, asset disposals, and limitations to acquisition activity and reductions in cash distributions.
