Board of Directors Roger Matthews Phil Bentley Sandip Mahajan Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Board Committees Board Committees Board Committees Chairman of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Results and Member of the Results and Member of the Remuneration Committee Investment Committees Investment Committees Date of appointment to the Board Date of appointment to the Board Date of appointment to the Board December 2006 November 2016 February 2017 Other current appointments Other current appointments Other current appointments None None None Past roles Past roles Past roles Previously a Non-Executive Director of Phil was the group chief executive Sandip previously worked at Balfour Mitie until his appointment as officer and director of Cable & Wireless Beatty plc, where he served as group Chairman in 2008.
Roger qualified as a Communications Plc from January director of finance from 2013 to 2016 Chartered Accountant with 2014 until its sale to Liberty Global in and held other roles in project and .
From 2007-2013 he was structured finance in its Investments number of finance roles at Cadbury managing director of British Gas and Division from 2005-2013.
Sandip was Schweppes PLC and Grand was on the board of Centrica plc from previously at Ernst & Young and British Airways Plc.
Metropolitan PLC before becoming 2000 to 2013, having held the roles of group finance director and group group finance director 2000-2004 Skills and experience managing director at Compass Group and managing director, Europe PLC and group finance director at 2004-2007.
He was a nonExecutive experience with FTSE 250 public companies for over 10 years.
During the last executive director of IMI plc from 12 years he has held a number of nonOctober 2012 to December 2014.
Significant financial and commercial executive roles including non-executive experience in the operational chairman of Pertemps Network Group Skills and experience performance of long-term contracts.
Limited and LSL Property Services plc.
Executive and non-executive Experience of creating shareholder He was previously a non-executive experience with FTSE 100 public value by structuring and negotiating director at RHM PLC, Zetar PLC and a companies for over 15 years.
trustee of Cancer Research UK.
Significant strategic and commercial Track record of leading corporate experience, both at national and Skills and experience transactions in the listed global level.
Over 25 years as a public environment.
Extensive executive and leadership company director.
Chartered Accountant, with an experience from across industry.
Experienced FTSE 100 and LLB honours law degree from Extensive financial, audit and risk FTSE 250 director in executive and Leicester University.
Chartered Accountant, with a Extensive experience in outsourcing, Masters degree from Oxford retail, hospitality and food University and an MBA from manufacturing sectors.
Significant experience in strategy, international, finance and mergers and acquisitions.
38 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Larry Hirst, CBE Jack Boyer, OBE Mark Reckitt Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Board Committees Board Committees Board Committees Member of the Audit, Nomination and Chairman of the Remuneration Chairman of the Audit Committee Remuneration Committees Committee Member of the Nomination and Member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees Nomination Committees Date of appointment to the Board Date of appointment to the Board Date of appointment to the Board February 2010 June 2013 July 2015 Other current appointments Other current appointments Other current appointments Chairman of the Imperial College Data Non-executive director and member Non-executive director and chairman Science Institute Advisory Board.
of the nominations, remuneration and of the audit committees at both Community interests include acting as an audit committees of TT Electronics PLC.
Cranswick plc and Hill & Smith ambassador to Everywoman and Black Holdings plc.
Council member of the board of the British Business.
Member of the National Engineering and Physical Sciences Past roles Research Council for Cyber Security.
Research Council and the Innovate UK Non-executive director and chairman Energy Catalyst.
Past roles of the audit committee of J D Until his retirement from IBM in 2010, Wetherspoon plc: group strategy Past roles Larry was chairman of IBM EMEA and director, Smiths Group plc: divisional Former chairman of Ilika plc: former held a number of other senior positions president, Smiths Interconnect: interim non-executive director and chairman during his 33-year career with IBM.
managing director, Green & Blacks of the remuneration committee of Chocolate: chief strategy officer at He represented IBM before the Laird PLC: deputy chair Advanced Cadbury plc.
Mark also held a range of European Commission and other Materials Leadership Council.
strategy and finance roles at Cadbury authorities.
Chairman of the Transition Previously founded and was chief since joining in 1989, including finance to Teaching Committee: a executive officer of companies in the director of Cadbury UK.
Prior to joining commissioner for the Governments engineering, telecommunications and Cadbury, Mark spent six years in Employment and Skills Council: biotechnology sectors.
Investment investment banking and retailing.
chairman of the UK Trade and banker at Goldman Sachs and strategy consultant at Bain & Co. Investment Executive Board: chairman Skills and experience of e-skills, the Sector Skills Council: Significant international strategic Skills and experience member of the British Airways experience.
International Advisory Board: a private Director of FTSE 250, AIM and Chartered Accountant.
private companies, and chairman of sector Business Ambassador, appointed by the then Prime Minister: AIM companies and private companies.
member of the South African Presidents Advisory Council.
Chief executive and entrepreneur with a track record of steering Until September 2016, Larry was a successful corporate innovation, non-executive director and chairman growth and globalisation in of the remuneration committee of multiple sectors.
Significant experience in mergers Skills and experience and acquisitions, IPOs and financial Served on both government and markets in the UK, US and Asian private sector boards at senior level.
Significant expertise in the global MBA.
information technology industry, in particular in relation to defining and executing the strategies required to drive business success.
com 39 Board of Directors continued Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance Derek Mapp Nivedita Krishnamurthy Bhagat Non-Executive Chairman-elect Independent Non-Executive Director I am well aware that Mitie has faced substantial Compliance with the UK Corporate Board Committees Board Committees challenges during the past year, with financial Governance Code the Code None Member of the Audit Committee performance falling short of our expectations.
The In September 2015, the Financial Reporting Council Board has taken decisive action in four principal areas: the FRC considered revisions to its ethical and auditing standards and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In we have implemented succession plans for the Chief parallel with this, the FRC also consulted on changes to Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and its Audit Committee Guidance.
These revisions were Date of appointment to the Board Date of appointment to the Board Chairman: designed to implement the provisions of the EU Audit May 2017 June 2017 Directive and Regulation, as well as to incorporate other we have completed a comprehensive review of our changes such as those relating to auditor reporting accounting policies and balance sheet, and the Other current appointments Other current appointments standards, and audit obligations under the Statutory appropriate write-downs and prior year adjustments Derek is chair of Informa plc and Chief executive, Infrastructure Services Services Order.
As a result, the FRC published a revised have been made: Huntsworth plc.
He is chair of & Cloud Services UK, Ireland and Code in April 2016.
This latest edition of the Code can we have disposed of our poor performing healthcare Imagesound, 3aaa and Salmon Northern Europe at Capgemini SA, a be found on the FRCs website at www.
business: and Developments Limited, which are French publicly listed multinational all privately held companies.
Derek corporation, and a member of their UK I can confirm on behalf of the Board that the Group has we have conducted a strategic review and launched a also has a number of other management board.
complied throughout the year with all of the principles technology and investment led strategy to maximise business interests.
and the relevant provisions set out in the April 2016 the value of our core businesses and which addresses Past roles edition of the Code.
Details of how we have applied the longer-term opportunity of Beyond FM to the Past roles Senior roles at Capgemini SA: Head of the principles and complied with the provisions are Connected Workspace.
CEO of Tom Cobleigh PLC, chair of Enterprise Solutions, EMEA and Head explained throughout the annual report and, in this Further details are in the Chairmans statement on Leapfrog Day Nurseries Limited, chair of London Development Centre at section, we explain how the Code is implemented pages 2 and 3. of The East Midlands Development Infosys Technologies Ltd.
Prior to via Mities governance framework.
Agency, chair of Sport England and joining Infosys, Nivedita was a Significant steps have been implemented to strengthen chairman of the British Amateur consultant in the corporate finance As reported last year, all listed companies must provide the Finance team, financial disciplines and Internal Audit, Boxing Association.
their shareholders with a Viability Statement.
We have which will lead to greater transparency in external given particular consideration to the impact that the last reporting.
The external audit will also be tendered in the Skills and experience Skills and experience 12 months has had on Mities viability reporting and risk next few months further details are in the Finance Experienced chairman and Significant international exposure, and our Viability Statement can be found in review on pages 26 to 29. entrepreneur.
the strategic report on page 37.
The challenges of the past year are behind us, and the Extensive career in ownership, Extensive technological skills base.
Board can now look forward, with a new management Throughout the year the Board has reviewed and managerial, operational and team in place and a new strategy launched, to delivering Chartered Accountant.
discussed ongoing strategy, risk, financial performance, commercial roles in service shareholder value in the years to come.
investor communication and engagement, succession industries.
planning, board composition and key matters of Wealth of commercial and governance.
This has been done through Board and governance experience within Committee meetings.
An overview of the activities and various sectors.
the effectiveness of each of our Board Committees is explained further on pages 49 to 86.
Promotes robust debate and an open and engaged culture.
The Board is responsible to shareholders and other stakeholders for the Groups activities and its long-term success.
The value of good governance is recognised by the Board as an area of great importance.
40 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance I am well aware that Mitie has faced substantial Compliance with the UK Corporate challenges during the past year, with financial Governance Code the Code performance falling short of our expectations.
These revisions were Chairman: designed to implement the provisions of the EU Audit Directive and Regulation, as well as to incorporate other we have completed a comprehensive review of our changes such as those relating to auditor reporting accounting policies and balance sheet, and the standards, and audit obligations under the Statutory appropriate write-downs and prior year adjustments Services Order.
As a result, the FRC published a revised have been made: Code in April 2016.
This latest edition of the Code can we have disposed of our poor performing healthcare be found on the FRCs website at www.
business: and I can confirm on behalf of the Board that the Group has we have conducted a strategic review and launched a complied throughout the year with all of the principles technology and investment led strategy to maximise and the relevant provisions set out in the April 2016 the value of our core businesses and which addresses edition of the Code.
Details of how we have applied the longer-term opportunity of Beyond FM to the the principles and complied with the provisions are Connected Workspace.
explained throughout the annual report and, in this Further details are in the Chairmans statement on section, we explain how the Code is implemented pages 2 and 3. via Mities governance framework.
Significant steps have been implemented to strengthen As reported last year, all listed companies must provide the Finance team, financial disciplines and Internal Audit, their shareholders with a Viability Statement.
The external audit will also be tendered in the 12 months has had on Mities viability reporting and risk next few months further details are in the Finance exposure, and our Viability Statement can be found in review on pages 26 to 29. the strategic report on page 37.
The challenges of the past year are behind us, and the Board can now look forward, with a new management Throughout the year the Board has reviewed and team in place and a new strategy launched, to delivering discussed ongoing strategy, risk, financial performance, shareholder value in the years to come.
investor communication and engagement, succession planning, board composition and key matters of governance.
This has been done through Board and Committee meetings.
An overview of the activities and the effectiveness of each of our Board Committees is explained further on pages 49 to 86.
com 41 Chairmans introduction to Corporate Governance continued As announced on 16 March 2017, we appointed a new NonBoard composition Executive Director, Nivedita Krishnamurthy Bhagat, to the During the year, we reviewed the composition of our Board Board on 1 June 2017.
Nivedita was also appointed as a and implemented the succession plan for the role of Chief member of the Audit Committee on that date.
Executive and Group Finance Director, as well as continued to look for a new Non-Executive Director.
External advisors The Board retains its focus on diversity and takes into were appointed to support the process, details of which consideration the diverse demographic of the Groups are set out in the report of the Nomination Committee employee population.
Mities female population accounts on pages 60 and 61. for 39.9% of employees, and its disclosed BME population accounts for 18.9% of employees.
Pursuant to the succession plan, Ruby McGregor-Smith stepped down as Chief Executive and Director of Mitie on Remuneration policy review 12 December 2016, and Suzanne Baxter stepped down The remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at as Group Finance Director and Director of Mitie on 10 the Annual General Meeting the AGM in July 2015.
Group has operated within the boundaries of the As part of these changes, we welcomed Phil Bentley as remuneration policy and therefore does not intend to present the policy to its shareholders this year.
Rubys successor in the role of Chief Executive Officer.
Phil joined as a Director of Mitie on 1 November 2016, Details of how the remuneration policy has been applied are and assumed the position of Chief Executive Officer on provided in the Directors remuneration report which can be 12 December 2016.
We also welcomed Sandip Mahajan found on pages 62 to 86. as Suzannes successor in the role of Chief Financial Officer and Director of Mitie on 10 February 2017.
Roger Matthews Chairman Additionally, and as announced on 9 May 2017, we appointed Derek Mapp, as Chairman-elect, who will succeed me as Chairman at the close of our Annual General Meeting on 26 July 2017.
Derek has substantial experience, having sat on public company boards for over 20 years and been in non-executive chairman roles for the past nine years.
He is currently non-executive chairman of both Informa plc and Huntsworth plc, following an extensive career in ownership, managerial, operational and commercial roles in service industries.
42 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017
