Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED SALES GROWTH 12.7% 49.3% OUR LONG-TERM GROWTH STRATEGY IS TO CONSOLIDATE EXISTING MARKET LIKE-FOR-LIKE REVENUE INCREASE IN FAR EAST POSITIONS, DEVELOP NEW PRODUCTS AND CHANNELS IN OUR CORE UK MARKET INCREASE FROM CONTINUING EXPORT REVENUE AND GROW OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS AND CUSTOMER BASE.
OPERATIONS DELIVERING ON OUR GROWTH STRATEGY PERFORMANCE DURING THE YEAR FUTURE OPPORTUNITIES We will implement our sales growth strategy by focusing primarily on the Delivered like-for-like revenue growth of 12.7 per cent reflecting We will explore further growth opportunities by: continuing to growing quality end of the market in which we operate and by establishing strong progress in our core markets.
leverage our strong customer relationships: identifying new routes meaningful and long-lasting relationships with our customers.
This action is to market: developing new products: expanding into adjacent tiers underpinned by a drive to innovate and deliver outstanding product quality Secured new online food retail business and further developed in our existing category portfolio: and broadening our reach in and customer service levels.
Further developed our export trade, particularly into high growth Far Eastern markets.
Around three quarters of our revenues come from manufacturing sector and, along with investment We made further progress during the year in consolidating our We will continue to drive growth through gaining market share in DRIVING our retail customers with whom we continuing to in our vertically integrated supply chains, underpins existing market positions by securing new business with our key existing tiers, moving into adjacent tiers and though building capacity THE CORE gain market share.
In recent years, provenance, food our core category growth strategy and supports the retail customers.
This business was spread across our product in our facilities and our supply chain.
quality and animal welfare have become increasingly development of sustainable long-term contracts categories, but focused most strongly in our Convenience and CONSOLIDATION important for our customers and consumers.
with our key retail customers.
The addition of a third primary processing facility in Ballymena, We continue to invest heavily in new product development, Northern Ireland during the year helps give us the capability to deliver OF EXISTING We have, for many years, invested heavily in our We continue to differentiate our core offering delivering innovative premium products to ensure they stay against our ambitious long-term growth aspirations.
MARKET POSITIONS infrastructure and this year we spent a record 47 through our focus on developing innovative, relevant to the rapidly evolving markets in which we operate.
million across our estate to support future growth.
premium products which remain relevant to our 11.5 per cent of revenues in the year were attributable to new Our new Continental Products facility in North Manchester, which is This expenditure ensures that our facilities are some customers and consumers.
This approach enables product launches.
due to be commissioned in the spring of 2018, will provide substantial of the most efficient and safe in the UK food us to sustain meaningful top-line growth.
capacity headroom for this part of our business.
Our recent move into the fast growing premium fresh of Crown, we now have the capacity and capability to We have delivered strong growth in our premium cooked poultry We will continue to leverage our existing retail relationships to grow EXPANDING and cooked poultry market has enabled us to further offer premium cooked poultry, sourced from our own business and secured new retail listings.
OUR OFFER diversify our product range and customer base.
internal supply chain, to our principal retail customers.
Our Convenience business has secured new listings for its recently developed slow cook and sous vide ranges.
We will also continue to invest heavily in research and development DEVELOPING Following our acquisition of Crown Chicken during We have also invested in sous vide cooking Our premium pastry business secured new business with a large and product innovation to drive growth in new channels and the year we can now offer our customers a fully technology across our Convenience business to national food to go customer.
NEW PRODUCTS integrated and encapsulated British chicken supply enable us to develop a range of products ideally AND CHANNELS chain for both fresh and cooked products.
suited to the rapidly developing ready to cook and convenience market.
The acquisition of Benson Park in October 2014 initially gave us access to the fast-growing food to go We also continue to expand our range of premium and Quick Service Restaurant QSR market.
pastry products produced in our state-of-the-art facility in Malton, North Yorkshire.
Following completion of a 9 million investment programme at our Hull facility and the acquisition We continue to make positive progress in We continue to supply baby back ribs from our We grew total export revenue by 38.4 per cent during the year.
We continue to explore new markets and develop new products with SEEKING NEW developing our export trade.
We now export to Hull facility, which is United States Department of Far East revenue increased by 49.3 per cent, supported by strong which to access both new and existing export markets.
OPPORTUNITIES a number of countries in the Far East, albeit China, Agriculture USDA approved, into the US market.
the worlds largest pork producer and consumer, We lifted exports to our more traditional EU markets, helped by The recent Ballymena acquisition not only adds scale to our UK pork GROWING OUR remains our most important market.
stronger European prices and the fall in value of Sterling.
business but also provides more product for our international export trade.
INTERNATIONAL We now ship over 1,000 tonnes of product to the OPERATIONS AND Far East each week and we account for over 50 per Substantial investment at our Norfolk site supports our objective cent of all pig meat exports from the UK to this part of securing USDA accreditation for the facility.
CUSTOMER BASE of the world.
30 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Cranswick plc 31 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED resulted in our continued accreditation to proactive approach to engaging with the Absolute Carbon Footprint SUSTAINABILITY the ISO50001 Energy Management standard wider community, demonstrated through Tonnes CO e 2 across the Group.
our role as City Partner to Hull UK City 120,000 of Culture 2017 alongside our three year Our recent acquisitions and the major partnership with Hull Freedom Festival.
Carbon footprint and Greenhouse OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY IS ALIGNED WITH OUR BUSINESS redevelopment of our Norfolk facility Both events are designed to showcase the 100,000 Gas GHG emissions have had a small impact on overall energy talent and cultural diversity within Hull MODEL AND STRATEGY.
WE BELIEVE THAT A COMMITTED APPROACH We measure our carbon footprint all Scope 1, performance this year, increasing our overall and raise the profile of the city both locally 80,000 TO ALL ASPECTS OF SUSTAINABILITY WILL BENEFIT OUR STAKEHOLDERS Scope 2 and our significant Scope 3 emissions intensity by 0.8 per cent.
This will be targeted and internationally.
The business provides using the UK Government GHG Conversion for improvement in the coming year as we significant social, economic and environmental AND STRENGTHEN OUR BUSINESS, FACILITATING FUTURE GROWTH.
Factors and use this as the overall measurement 60,000 embed ISO50001 Energy Management benefits to the city and we will utilise our of our environmental performance.
position as City Partner to engage with Our Sustainability Policy is clearly linked to environment using our resources in the wider community through an inspiring Like-for-like Total Group Our long-term target of reducing our relative our strategy, guiding principles, KPI reporting an environmentally friendly and Waste disposal programme of arts, culture and heritage, carbon footprint by 30 per cent by 2020 and risk management framework.
Our sustainable way: We continue to make significant progress in reaching out to diverse audiences, on both Waste Disposal Routes against our 2010 baseline has been met Sustainability Group meets at least four times communities being responsible to the reducing the impact of waste throughout the a local and international scale.
Success has been driven by a year chaired by the Group Finance Director communities in which we operate: and Group.
Through our long-term partnership good energy performance, reduction in GHG with representation from each of the key Shareholders providing value in their with Biffa IRM and our ongoing engagement As well as sponsorship, we actively interact 91.2 emissions and strong production efficiencies.
functions of Human Resources, Health & investment and confidence in how programmes we have reduced our landfill and engage with local communities during the Despite continued growth of 15 per cent in Safety, Environmental and Technical.
impact from the last financial year by 65 per festival through our own street food stall and like-for-like sales volumes, we have achieved 61.5 cent and continue to be on track for our informative event spaces.
57.8 a 13.1 per cent reduction in our like-for-like OUR SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES SUPPLY CHAIN SECURITY target of zero waste to landfill for the entire absolute carbon footprint.
The relative carbon Our sustainability priorities are to: We have continued to invest in dedicated group by the end of 2017 18.
We believe culture and arts have a positive footprint has also reduced by 7.8 per cent to 34.0 33.9 manufacture great quality food which supply chains in both pork and poultry.
transformational impact on audiences and we 0.202 tonnes of CO e per tonne of sales.
2 is safely produced in technically and This creates a point of difference for retailers To further increase our alignment with will be encouraging our employees to get 4.6 legally compliant facilities, prioritising and has enabled us to secure long-term the needs of our key stakeholders and our involved with various opportunities including 0.4 8.2 8.4 We continue to replace our conventional high food provenance: supply agreements with them, which provide environmental strategy, we recognise the events, competitions, activities and volunteer Landfill Recycling Refuse Global Warming Potential GWP refrigeration drive research and development confidence that we have a sustainable need to continue reducing food waste programmes in alignment with our commitment Derived Fuel systems with less damaging alternatives in line innovation through excellence in food business in the longer term.
The acquisition throughout our products lifecycle and to to Hull 2017 to further reinforce our positive 2014 2015 16 2016 17 with our plan to replace all our high GWP F-Gas science and food sector technology: of Ballymena during the year has provided continue to seek innovative ways to increase impact within the community.
This will further enhance and engage with industry stakeholders to further supply chain security with its strong our recycling re-use in a sustainable fashion.
Absolute Energy Use sustain our carbon reduction performance.
remain at the forefront of legislative, links to the farming community in Northern We are also a key partner of For Entrepreneurs kWh million food safety, agribusiness and other Ireland.
Further details on our supply chain Water use Only: a community interest company which We acknowledge the requirement to disclose technological developments which may and our focus on animal welfare and ethical 272 Water use in food manufacturing will always helps entrepreneurs of all ages to start and greenhouse gas emissions separately in the have an impact on our business: and standards can be found on pages 26 and 27. be high, driven primarily by the need to grow their businesses with the aim of creating following categories: operate our business in a sustainable way provide production facilities with the highest wealth and jobs in the Hull and Humber region.
208 199 198 with measurable KPIs in place to manage ENVIRONMENT 190 standards of hygiene and its importance in Emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide from: its impact on the environment.
We are committed to protecting our many of our processes.
The need for sound We work with local schools, colleges and i combustion of fuel and operation of natural environment, reducing the impact water management and control of emissions universities across all business areas and this facilities: and ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS of our activities on all our stakeholders and continues to rise.
We recognise that water is includes industry mentoring, attendance at ii purchase of electricity, heat, steam We recognise the importance of engaging ensuring our resource usage and products a resource with high strategic importance and interview workshops and raising awareness and cooling.
with all our stakeholders on a regular basis, are sustainable.
so continue to use it efficiently and responsibly.
of the food industry at events such as the and this ensures we capture and embrace Flavours Food Festival and university seminars.
It is impracticable for us to distinguish feedback and emerging trends.
Our leading approach to environmental Our sites use technology to monitor usage 2013 2014 2015 16 2016 17 between the two categories due to the management was recognised at the 2017 closely and ensure our emissions do not We support a number of local charities which nature of our operations: however, the Our stakeholders: Made in Yorkshire Awards where we won place a disproportionate burden on local have particular relevance to site employees Like-for-like Total Group majority of emissions come from electricity customers and consumers requiring the Green Manufacturer Award.
In line with our resource usage and have been nominated through a voting and gas, which are monitored.
great quality food: principles, we seek out and employ efficient system.
Charities include a mix of local and Absolute Water Use 3 producers and suppliers providing us Environmental management technologies, as well as running staff national organisations such as Bluebell m We recognise the significance of GHG with raw materials that are approved to Our sites are committed to helping meet engagement programmes to ensure our Childrens Hospice, the Yorkshire Air emissions from animals.
We are working with our quality standards: our sustainability goals and have developed performance remains in line with best-in-class Ambulance, Macmillan Cancer Support 1,420,809 industry peers and the scientific community people keeping our employees healthy, plans and programmes to ensure we do so.
Our recent acquisitions have had and Life for a Kid.
In 2016, we joined More to identify a means of reliably quantifying safe and motivated: All of our significant facilities are accredited an impact on our water usage, increasing our Together, a charity project which will and further understanding the impact.
to the ISO14001 Environmental relative consumption by 5.4 per cent.
This is encourage the entire Group to raise money 1,019,109 963,311 Management Standard.
primarily due to the higher water requirement for site nominated charities, along with 893,489 824,942 Energy in poultry farming and processing.
several other businesses based in the East Our energy use and the reduction of the Yorkshire region.
The project will encourage Performance in energy footprint of our products remains SOCIAL INVESTMENT employees to participate in various physical Key Performance Indicator 2015 16 2016 17 Target 2017 18 a high priority.
We recognise that reductions Community engagement challenges such as the Yorkshire Three Peaks, Relative carbon footprint Tonnes CO e Tonnes sales 0.219 0.202 reduce by 5% in energy intensity bring significant financial 2 As one of our commitments to sustainability, Total Warrior and the Humber Bridge Family and environmental benefits.
we continue to support both local and Fun Walk in the upcoming summer months.
Energy intensity kWh Tonnes sales 473 477 reduce by 5% 2013 2014 2015 16 2016 17 national communities who share links to us This is an opportunity for employees across Waste to landfill Tonnes 639 222 reduce to zero by We have continued to invest in our energy through our values and sustainable business various functions and sites to raise money for Like-for-like Total Group end of 2017 18 infrastructure and the efficiency of production strategy.
We are one of the largest employers charitable causes together.
processes, as well as nurturing energy Water intensity cubic metres Tonnes sales 2.59 2.73 reduce by 5% in the East Riding of Yorkshire and take a awareness with all our colleagues.
This has 32 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Cranswick plc 33
