The Board reviewing the Groups overall corporate governance Board members arrangements: The members of the Board and their accompanying biographies are set out on pages 38 to 40.
All Directors are delegation of authority including the division of expected to allocate sufficient time to the Company to responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief discharge their responsibilities effectively and, where Executive Officer and approval of terms of reference possible, attend all Board meetings and the AGM.
Any time of Board Committees: commitment matters are addressed by the Chairman with communication including making arrangements for the Director concerned.
dialogue with shareholders and canvassing shareholder opinion: Chairman Roger Matthews people including changes to the Board, and ensuring Board members Phil Bentley from 1 November 2016 executive adequate succession planning for the Board and senior Sandip Mahajan management: from 10 February 2017 Board members Derek Mapp from 9 May 2017 policies including approval of Group policies relating non-executive Jack Boyer to share dealing, code of conduct, health and safety, corporate social responsibility and ethical trading: and Larry Hirst Mark Reckitt other matters including approval of new material Nivedita Krishnamurthy Bhagat banking facilities: appointment of principal professional from 1 June 2017 advisors: approval of the annual renewal of the Groups insurance arrangements: and material changes to the rules or statement of investment principles of the Groups Key purpose of the Board pension schemes, as well as considering the level of The Board is collectively responsible for the sustainable funding required for the Companys pension fund.
long-term success of the Company and provides leadership and direction to management.
Accordingly, the Board Full details of the matters reserved for the Board can be reviews and agrees the strategy for the Group, proposed found at www.
by the Executive Directors, on an annual basis and reviews The Directors are mindful of their legal duties to act in a way certain aspects of the strategy at Board meetings during the they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote year.
In setting the strategy, the Board takes account of the success of the Company for its shareholders, having matters such as: market trends: competitive environment: regard also to other stakeholders.
private public sector approach: international aspects of the business and opportunities: finance: shareholder returns: Frequency of Board meetings people and talent: and the Groups corporate structure, During the year ended 31 March 2017, there were six ensuring at all times that sufficient consideration is given to scheduled Board meetings.
Attendance Key responsibilities There are key matters and responsibilities that are set aside Number of scheduled Board meetings held to be dealt with exclusively by the Board.
These include: in the year: 6 Roger Matthews 6 strategy including setting Group strategies and 1 Ruby McGregor-Smith 4 objectives: 2 Phil Bentley 3 structure including approval of material changes to the 3 Suzanne Baxter 5 Groups structure: 4 Sandip Mahajan 1 financial reporting including approving the Groups HalfJack Boyer 6 Year Report and the Annual Report and Accounts, and approving business plans and budgets and monitoring Larry Hirst 6 performance against them: Mark Reckitt 6 internal controls including ensuring that a sound system Notes: of internal controls is maintained which is designed to 1.
Ruby McGregor-Smith resigned from the Board on 12 December 2016 safeguard assets and ensure the reliability of financial 2.
Phil Bentley was appointed to the Board on 1 November 2016 information for both internal use and external publication: 3.
Suzanne Baxter resigned from the Board on 10 February 2017 and reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of those 4.
Sandip Mahajan was appointed to the Board on 10 February 2017 risk and control processes, with the assistance of the Audit Committee through Internal Audit and the Group Enterprise Risk framework: acquisitions, disposals and contracts including approving material acquisitions, disposals and business start-ups including any material transactions outside the normal course of business : corporate governance matters including undertaking a formal and rigorous review annually of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors: determining the independence of Directors and www.
com 43 The Board continued Additional ad hoc Board meetings were held, to consider ensuring that new Directors participate in a full, formal various matters relating to the status of the Companys and tailored induction programme: Healthcare division and appropriate action required to be ensuring that the performance of the Board, its taken in relation to it, as well as the Companys trading Committees and individual Directors is evaluated at announcement made on 19 September 2016.
The Board least once a year and acting on the results of such also held a full day strategy meeting.
Given the serious evaluation: and nature of the issues which the Company has faced, the maintaining sufficient contact with major shareholders Board has already held five meetings during the current in order to understand their issues and concerns, in financial year.
particular in relation to governance, strategy and remuneration, and ensuring that their views are Key areas of business communicated to the Board as a whole.
In addition to the key responsibilities described above, during the year the Board spent time discussing: The Chairman holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors, without the Executive Directors being present.
trading updates: He is available to consult with shareholders throughout the business divestment, including the trading performance year and will be available at the AGM.
and subsequent disposal of Mities Healthcare business: The Chief Executive Officer succession planning and Board composition: The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for all aspects of capital allocation policy: the operation and management of the Group and its business developments in corporate governance: within the authorities delegated to him by the Board.
principal risks and viability: He is specifically responsible for: the Modern Slavery Act: developing Group objectives and proposing and the impact of the National Minimum and National implementing strategy, having regard to the Groups Living Wage: responsibilities to its shareholders, customers, employees the impact of Brexit on Mitie and our clients: and other stakeholders: gender pay reporting: and recommending to the Board an annual budget and strategic and financial plan and ensuring their the Apprenticeship Levy.
achievement following Board approval: Division of responsibilities of the Chairman optimising the use and adequacy of the Groups and the Chief Executive Officer resources: The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer have clearly examining all investments and major capital expenditure defined and separate roles divided between running the proposed by subsidiary companies and recommending to Board on the one hand, and the business on the other, whilst the Board those which, in a Group context, are material in maintaining a close working relationship.
They have an open either nature or cost: dialogue and meet regularly between Board meetings to evaluation, approval and execution of material contracts, ensure a full understanding of business issues and facilitate investments including technology investments, efficient decision making.
The document setting out this acquisitions, disposals and new business opportunities: division of responsibilities is available on the website at www.
ensuring at all times that the Groups risk profile, including the health and safety performance of the business, is The Chairman managed in line with the extent and categories of risk The Chairman is a Non-Executive Director and is identified as acceptable by the Board: responsible for: making recommendations on remuneration policy, other remuneration related matters and in respect of the chairing the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role, including the regularity and frequency appointment of Executive Directors to the various Board Committees other than the Nomination, Audit and of meetings: Remuneration Committees : liaising with the Company Secretary to set Board setting Group HR policies, including management agendas, taking into account the issues and concerns of all Board members: development and succession planning for senior management and approving the appointment and ensuring there is an appropriate delegation of authority termination of employment of members of that team: from the Board to the executive management: ensuring the effective implementation of Board decisions, managing the Board to ensure sufficient time is and regularly reviewing the operational performance and allocated to promote healthy discussion and open debate, strategic direction of the Groups business: and supported by the right level and quality of information ensuring effective communications with shareholders.
to assist the Board in reaching its decisions: facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and encouraging active engagement by all members of the Board: ensuring constructive relations between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors: 44 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The Chief Financial Officer The Senior Independent Director The Chief Financial Officer is responsible for: The role of the Senior Independent Director includes acting as a sounding board for the Chairman, serving as an intermediary leading, directing and overseeing all aspects of the finance for the other Directors when necessary, conducting the and accounting functions of the Group, including financial Chairmans annual performance evaluation and leading any reporting, tax, treasury, strategy, performance analysis new Chairman appointment process.
He also acts as chairman and financial planning, financial systems and the of the Board, in the absence of the Chairman, where necessary.
development of the back office and management information of the Group, and managing the processes for The Senior Independent Director is available as an alternative financial forecasting, budgets and consolidated reporting: point of contact for shareholders should they have concerns which have not been resolved through the normal channels of evaluating, approving and advising the Board and the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer, or Executive Leadership Team on the financial and commercial for which such contact is inappropriate in the circumstances.
impact of material contracts and transactions including mergers and acquisitions, technology investments in Evaluation of the performance of the Board and support of the development of the Group, long-range its Committees planning assumptions, investment return metrics, risks A performance evaluation of the Board and its and opportunities and the impact of changes in Committees is carried out annually to ensure they continue accounting standards: to be effective and that each of the Directors demonstrates overseeing and directing the Groups risk, insurance, commitment to their respective roles and have sufficient pensions, internal audit and assurance functions and time to meet their commitment to the Company.
managing the relationships with the external auditor, key financial institutions and advisors to the Group: The Code recommends that the Board of a listed company should undergo an externally-led independent evaluation ensuring that effective internal controls are in place and every three years.
In accordance with this, during FY17 the that the Company complies with appropriate accounting Board underwent an externally facilitated Board review regulations for financial, regulatory and tax reporting: and which covered its performance and that of its Committees providing an underpin to all aspects of the Groups and individual Directors.
The review was undertaken by governance framework, the application of its Condign Board Consulting Condign, a firm specialising in delegated authorities, and its investment activities.
board effectiveness, which has no other connection with the Company.
The process was based upon one-to-one The Non-Executive Directors meetings with each of the Directors, and observation of the The Non-Executive Directors review proposals for the strategic Board at its Board meeting in March.
direction of the Group, constructively challenging and probing proposals presented by the Executive Directors, based on their Condign shared its conclusions and recommendations breadth of knowledge, experience and individual skills, and following the evaluation with the Board at its meeting in contributing to the formulation and development of strategy.
May 2017, and the evaluation of the Chairman was passed to the Senior Independent Director for him to discuss with They are responsible for monitoring high level corporate the Chairman.
reporting and satisfying themselves as to the integrity of financial information and the operation of key controls.
The review highlighted the challenging year that the Company has had, the potential reasons for this, and their impact on how They are required to maintain an effective understanding the Board had operated during the year, and also considered and oversight of the Groups principal risks and the the Boards efforts to remediate issues as they emerged as well assurance in place relating to those risks, including the as to pursue succession planning.
Against this difficult results of the internal audit programme.
background, and following key senior executive changes, it was found that the Board had begun to operate in a much more The Non-Executive Directors play a key role in functional, purposeful way, which could, and should, be more determining the Remuneration Policy for the Chairman, effective in delivering value to shareholders in the longer term.
the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and members of senior management, and take a primary role in Board succession planning.
They have a responsibility to exercise their independent skill and judgement in carrying out their duties.
com 45 The Board continued The Board will continue to focus on its composition in the directors and officers liability insurance arrangements.
coming year, in particular with regards to the balance of skills The Handbook was last reviewed and updated in FY17 and and experience appropriate to it, and in relation to its size, in will continue to be subject to annual review.
order to ensure appropriate coverage is in place to deal with Board accountability and assurance explained Mities challenges, its future business requirements, and Risk management approach any changes to committee arrangements.
The Board will receive regular updates on the development of the customer We would note that, as a consequence of the matters proposition, presentations from divisional management identified by the balance sheet review carried out by on the strategic development and performance of their management with the support of KPMG, the Board has businesses, as well as hearing from, and engaging with, taken a number of actions, intended to address certain appropriate external parties.
underlying issues which may have contributed to such matters.
These actions include ensuring clearer lines of Director re-election reporting for the Finance function, the enhancement of The performance of each Director has been reviewed as financial and other business controls, including more detailed part of the annual board evaluation process and the Board accounting procedures to ensure that accurate accounting is satisfied that they continue to operate effectively and judgements can be made at every level of the Finance demonstrate clear commitment to their roles.
The CEO and function and that these are subject to regular and effective CFO will stand for election at the 2017 AGM, as will Derek review.
In addition we believe that better assurance will be Mapp and Nivedita Krishnamurthy Bhagat.
The other Nonfacilitated by the strengthening of the Internal Audit function, Executive Directors, with the exception of myself, will submit including the appointment of a new Head of Internal Audit, themselves for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
as well as the establishment of a third party whistleblowing service.
In future, changes in the organisation of the The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors business to ensure a more effective back office, enabled and the Executive Directors service contracts are available by investment in IT systems will enable the production of for inspection at Mities registered office, Mities head office better quality management information on a more timely in London and at the AGM.
Other changes to move to simpler and more effective performance incentives, which support a culture within Mitie Director induction process and training that puts customers at the heart of our business and In order to ensure that Directors skills and knowledge are enables the simplification of business process, will provide regularly updated, briefing notes are circulated on matters increased assurance that risks are understood and clearly such as changes in the regulatory and governance communicated through all levels of the organisation.
Visits to different business sites and offices are arranged in order to help all Board members gain a Detailed below is the Groups existing approach to risk.
In deeper understanding of the business.
The Board also addition to the specific actions outlined above, during the receives regular updates and management presentations next few months, we will be carrying out a detailed review on the strategic development, operational and financial of our current approach and making any changes in our performance of the Group.
approach to risk management as are required to ensure that the Group adopts best practice.
All Directors receive a personally tailored induction to Mitie which includes: The Board understands that effective risk management and a sound system of internal control underpin the achievement meetings with the Executive Directors and other key of the Groups strategy and supporting objectives.
The Audit members of the senior management team: Committee recognises the enhanced risk management requirements of the Code and has continued to focus on a review of the Groups governance policies, structure and its review of the risk management framework to better business, including details of the risks and operating issues understand and address the nature of the risks faced facing the Group: by the Group.
visits to divisional offices and key client sites: and Risk culture a briefing on key contracts.
While it is understood that an effective risk management Following his appointment to the Board in November 2016, framework is essential for the achievement of the Groups Phil Bentley received training and induction sessions with the strategic objectives, values and risk management culture Chairman, the then Group Finance Director, the Company underpin how the Group operates, and our new CEO and Secretary, the Group Enterprise Risk Director, the divisional CFO have placed increased emphasis on its tone from managing directors, the Head of Internal Audit, Deloitte LLP the top message about the importance of embedding risk and other key individuals.
management into all key decisions such that opportunities to grow the Group are effectively balanced with effective Members of the Board are given access to an online board risk management decision making.
This means that portal which, as well as holding copies of all recent Board opportunities may continue to be exploited, provided and Committee reports and minutes, has a reading room risks have been properly identified and the right controls where the Directors can access a Board Handbook established or, in some cases, potential opportunities containing essential information about the Group, including: are declined as they sit outside of the Groups risk appetite.
copies of Mities current Articles of Association: the latest Annual Report and Accounts: Board and Committee terms of reference: guidance on directors statutory duties: governance and regulatory guidelines: the Groups approved delegated authorities: and an overview of the Groups 46 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Aligned with the Groups values, the code of conduct One Risk mitigation Code continues to provide the framework upon Each identified risk has a defined control owner who is which Mities risk culture is built.
One Code sets out the responsible for developing and implementing a risk expected behaviours, linked to the Groups values, for all mitigation plan.
As part of our risk review, we require employees, and supply chain partners and establishes zero each control to be reviewed and formally assessed tolerance in specific areas as part of an established ethical for their effectiveness in mitigating risk.
We will continue to review and reDuring the year we began implementation of audit and affirm our code of conduct with employees and supply chain risk committee meetings at business unit level.
These partners to ensure awareness of our values and expected committees were not fully functional throughout the year.
behaviours is maintained, especially during business To strengthen the oversight of risk management and transformation activity.
internal controls framework, these committees will be Risk management processes formalised across the Group in the current year.
Terms of The Groups risk management framework provides a reference for the operation of these meetings will be aligned with the Audit Committees objectives.
A standing agenda flexible and adaptable approach to the identification of risk across all areas of the business, to meet the demands of will require business units to review their top level risks and progress of associated mitigation plans as well as the dynamic and fast evolving environment in which the Group continues to operate.
Ultimate responsibility for risk assessment of any changes to the external environment and its consequent impact on business units risk profile.
In management lies with the Board, delegated to the Chief Executive Officer, who further delegates it to the Executive addition, results of Internal Audit and other internal or external assurance providers will be discussed with business Leadership Team, with accountability and responsibility assigned to specific risk owners.
The Group risk profile is unit audit and risk committees, with the objectives to share best practice and identify common or emerging risk themes reviewed by the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer in advance of formal review and approval by the that may impact their business unit.
This information is captured in risk registers at Assessment of the effectiveness of the control business, and functional level, as well as for large contracts, environment is undertaken at both business and Group level, which are subsequently consolidated into strategic, with the Audit Committee formally reviewing performance operational, financial and regulatory risk categories within throughout the year and advising on the effectiveness of the overall Group risk register maintained by the Enterprise the risk management system in place.
Risk monitoring and review Risk identification and assessment Principal risks to the business and their mitigation plans are When considering the risks that pose a threat to the presented to the Audit Committee and are monitored on an achievement of the Groups strategy, the Board takes ongoing basis.
both internal and external perspectives into account to ensure a thorough identification process occurs.
The internal view takes into account factors such as the changing and developing business profile, operational processes, technology and people, while the external view will include the economic position, political factors, sector and geographical risks.
A top down and bottom up approach ensures the systematic identification of significant risks to the business.
Once identified, risks are assessed using standard impact and likelihood ratings to quantify the risk to the achievement of business objectives.
Recent introduction of risk management software will help us in delivering our enterprise risk management agenda as well as enhancing Group oversight.
Our registers are formally reviewed twice a year, and approved by our business unit managing directors.
Our risk assessments are based on a 5 X 5 scale ranging from minimal to catastrophic with any risks falling into our upper limits having mandatory mitigation plans with the expectation that these risks are managed down to levels acceptable to us.
com 47 The Board continued The risk management framework is designed to manage, Internal Audit rather than eliminate, the risk of failing to achieve the The Internal Audit functions authority and responsibilities objectives and strategies of the Group and can therefore are defined in its charter, approved in May 2016.
Internal only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance Audit operates independently, reporting directly to the Audit against material risk and loss.
The Board, through the Audit Committee and administratively to the Chief Financial Committee, considers the nature and extent of significant Officer.
This reporting line offers independence from the risks in setting the Groups strategy.
Details of the principal audited activities and allows Internal Audit to achieve risks of the Group are set out on pages 30 to 36.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee oversees noted that other risks are identified as part of the risk the appointment and removal of the Head of Internal Audit management process, but these do not have a material and assesses the functions performance against the impact on the Groups overall ability to achieve business internal audit objectives.
The annual internal audit plan and objectives.
These risks are managed via the existing risk budget are approved by the Audit Committee.
significant deviation from the approved annual internal audit plan is communicated to the Audit Committee through The Audit Committee confirms that this risk management periodic activity reports.
The results of each Internal Audit process has been in place throughout the reporting year are documented in an audit report for internal distribution and remains in place up to the date of approval of the and action.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Annual Report and Accounts.
However, as described, the external auditor, Deloitte LLP, have access to all internal process will be subject to review and improvement in the audit reports that are issued during the year and the Audit current year.
Committee receives a quarterly detailed update reporting on audits completed in the period.
Whistleblowing Mitie operates a whistleblowing Speak Up service for The Audit Committee also receives regular reports employees to contact when they see behaviour or matters from Deloitte LLP who contribute a further independent that sit outside the requirements of One Code and the perspective on the internal financial control systems policies and procedures it supports.
Speak Up matters were arising from its audit work.
previously reported through an internally managed whistleblowing hotline.
However, to enable employees to Committees of the Board report any concerns, or wrongdoing anonymously without The Board has five formally constituted Committees: any fear of retaliation, Mitie has now contracted to the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the outsource its Speak Up service to a third party independent Remuneration Committee, the Investment Committee provider and it will be relaunched as soon as possible in 2017. and the Results Committee, the scope of which are set The Group Legal Counsel will independently investigate, with out on the following pages.
external specialist support where required, any issues and report back to the Executive Leadership Team and, as appropriate, the Board.
Internal control and assurance Mitie operates a three lines of defence model incorporating internal controls, risk management and functional oversight, and Internal Audit.
The implementation of the system of internal control is managed by the leadership of each business unit.
Group functions such as Finance, Legal, Human Resources and Risk collaborate with business units teams to promote continuous improvement and ensure that controls are operating effectively.
Mities policies and procedures are available to management and employees through a user-friendly intranet portal.
A formal review of the internal control environment led by the Group Enterprise Risk Management Director with engagement from business units directors and boards, is undertaken annually in each business unit through the Internal Control Questionnaire, which evaluates controls in all key business processes.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of internal controls through this process, updates from specific functions, and the independent testing undertaken by Internal Audit as part of its work.
During the year there have been a number of instances where discrepancies have been notified to the Audit Committee between the results of the Internal Control Questionnaires and concerns raised from Internal Audit and other known events.
These have resulted in additional work being undertaken to highlight the areas where the operation of internal controls has appeared to be unsatisfactory.
48 Mitie Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2017
