Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED DIVIDEND POLICY reflecting the impact of acquisitions and FINANCE REVIEW We believe in paying a sustainable dividend the increasing scale of the business.
Net REVENUE which delivers a strong return to investors, debt increased by 28.8 million in the year Reported revenue from continuing but is balanced against the need to invest in to 11.0 million including the 40.5 million net operations at 1,245.1 million increased by the future of the business.
Our policy ensures spend on corporate transactions and the net 22.5 per cent compared to the previous year.
that shareholder income streams are strongly 46.5 million invested in our asset base.
Net aligned to profitability and the sustained debt was just 2.6 per cent of Shareholders ADJUSTED GROUP OPERATING PROFIT growth in the Groups profits has been funds 2016: zero per cent as our balance sheet Adjusted Group operating profit of 76.1 matched by the Groups dividend per share continues to be conservatively managed.
million, including the post-acquisition growth which is unbroken for 27 years see contribution from Crown and Ballymena, page 4.
Our dividend policy can be found PENSIONS increased by 17.0 per cent.
Adjusted Group on our website: www.
The Group operates defined contribution operating margin was 6.1 per cent of sales pension schemes whereby contributions compared to 6.4 per cent last year.
ADJUSTED EARNINGS PER SHARE are made to schemes administered by major Adjusted earnings per share from continuing insurance companies.
Contributions to these REFINANCING AND FINANCE COSTS operations rose by 17.6 per cent to 120.9 schemes are determined as a percentage On 17 November 2016, the Group pence 2016: 102.8 pence.
The average of employees earnings.
successfully refinanced its banking facility.
number of shares in issue was 50,191,000 The new agreement, which is on improved 2016: 49,601,000.
The Group also operates a defined benefit terms, is unsecured and runs to November pension scheme which has been closed 2021 with the option to extend by up to a STATUTORY PROFIT MEASURES to further benefit accrual since 2004.
The further two years and comprises a revolving The statutory results of the business show deficit on this scheme at 31 March 2017 was credit facility of 160 million, including a a 24.8 per cent increase in profit before tax 9.5 million, compared to 4.4 million at committed overdraft of 20 million.
It also to 77.5 million 2016: 62.1 million, a 24.6 per 31 March 2016, reflecting our commitment includes the option to access a further 40 cent increase in Group operating profit to to increased funding for the scheme over million on the same terms at any point during 78.1 million 2016: 62.7 million, and a the next five years.
Cash contributions to the term of the agreement.
The facility 25.6 per cent increase in earnings per the scheme during the year, as part of the provides the business with generous share to 124.2 pence 2016: 98.9 pence.
programme to reduce the deficit, were headroom for the future.
Full reconciliations of these results to the 1.3 million.
The present value of funded adjusted measures can be found in Note 31. obligations was 36.1 million and the fair Net financing costs at 0.6 million were in line value of plan assets was 26.6 million.
with the prior year, with lower bank base rates SALE OF SANDWICH BUSINESS During the year, the triennial valuation of the and improved terms following refinancing On 23 July 2016, the Group sold its Sandwich scheme was completed.
Following a review being offset by higher average borrowings.
business, The Sandwich Factory Holdings of the valuation the Directors agreed a new Limited, to Greencore plc for net proceeds contribution schedule with the Trustees of ADJUSTED PROFIT BEFORE TAX of 15.7 million before costs.
Further details the scheme to further reduce the deficit.
Adjusted profit before tax was 17.2 per cent of the transaction are set out in Note 8.
The Over the period from April 2017 to higher at 75.5 million 2016: 64.4 million.
after-tax results of the Sandwich business for September 2022, cash contributions will both the current and prior years, including be increased to 1.8 million per annum.
TAXATION profit on disposal of 4.5 million in the current The tax charge of 15.1 million was 19.5 per year and a goodwill impairment charge of UK REFERENDUM ON EU MEMBERSHIP cent of profit before tax 2016: 21.0 per cent.
4.6 million in the prior year, are included The recent triggering of Article 50, which The standard rate of UK corporation tax in a single line item Profit loss for the year formally commenced the UKs negotiations was 20.0 per cent 2016: 20.0 per cent.
from discontinued operations at the foot to leave the EU, has yet to provide stability The effective corporation tax rate was lower of the income statement.
in currency markets or clarify the uncertainty than the standard rate due to prior year within the European labour market.
The adjustments, primarily relating to a capital ACQUISITION OF DUNBIA BALLYMENA Group therefore continues to monitor and allowance review during the year, partially On 16 November 2016, the Group acquired manage its business risks in these areas.
The higher the whole of the issued share capital of than standard rate charge in the prior year Dunbia Ballymena, a leading Northern Irish SUMMARY reflected the impact of disallowable expenses.
pork processing business, for an initial We have delivered another excellent year cash consideration of 16.7 million net of growth, making good progress against TAX STRATEGY of cash acquired, with further contingent each of our strategic objectives leaving us Our approach to tax supports our strategic consideration of 1.25 million.
Further details in a strong position to drive further growth aims and protects shareholder value by only of the transaction are set out in Note 15. going forward.
adopting tax planning arrangements that are low risk and have strong commercial merit.
CASH FLOW AND NET DEBT We have an approved tax strategy which The net cash inflow from operating activities ensures that we are in full compliance with in the year was 72.9 million 2016: 83.8 Mark Bottomley applicable tax laws in whatever country we million reflecting higher Group operating Finance Director do business.
Our tax strategy can be found profit offset by a working capital outflow on our website: www.
of 18.6 million 2016: inflow of 9.0 million 23 May 2017 38 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Cranswick plc 39 M I T I G A T I O N N O I T A C I F I T N P E R I D O I R I T Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information STRATEGIC REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK TO MINIMISE THE IMPACT OF SPECIFIC RISKS ON THE GROUPS OPERATIONS, FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND REPUTATION, IT IS CRITICAL THAT RISKS ARE IDENTIFIED AND MANAGED Board Audit Committee Group Risk Committee Operational Management RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK All business units and functions perform In making this assessment of viability, the As shown opposite, the Group has regular risk assessments that consider a Board carried out a robust assessment of embedded formal risk management range of risks and issues.
Overall through the principal risks and uncertainties facing processes in place to support the this formalised process the principal risks the Group.
However, the Board specifically identification and management of risks are determined and subsequently agreed completed a detailed sensitivity analysis across the business.
The Board has overall by the Board.
For the year ended 31 March on risks assessed to have the highest responsibility for the establishment and 2017 the risks facing the Group are broadly likelihood of occurrence or the severest oversight of the Groups Risk Management consistent with the previous year, with no impact, crystallising both individually and Framework and Internal Control procedures significant changes identified.
These were a loss of a key Board which are summarised below and discussed customer, a significant decline in consumer Responsible for the Groups system of risk management and internal control further within the Governance Report on However, following the integration of Crown demand and a reduction in overseas exports.
and for setting the Groups overall risk appetite.
Chicken into the Group, the business is mindful of the specific risks associated within The impact of these risks occurring was Audit Committee A Group Risk Committee is in place, poultry flocks, for example Avian Influenza measured by quantifying their financial Reviews the systems of internal control that are in place and provides assurance consisting of Senior Managers and chaired and the overall importance of the poultry impact on the strategic plan, and on the to the Board that the processes of risk management and internal control are by the Finance Director which meets four flock to the operations of the Group.
Groups viability against specific measures operating effectively.
times a year and provides oversight and including liquidity, credit rating and advice to the Audit Committee and Board PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES bank covenants.
Group Risk Committee in relation to current and future risk The principal risks and uncertainties facing Provides oversight and advice to the Audit Committee and Board in relation exposures and risk mitigation strategies.
the Group are summarised on pages 42 The results of the sensitivity analysis to current and future risk exposures and risk mitigation strategies.
These have been considered during highlighted that the Group would, In addition, the Group has a well-established, the production of the Viability Statement.
over the three year period, be able to Operational Management effective Internal Audit function which reports However, it is not possible to identify withstand the impact of the most severe Deploy site level risk management processes to ensure that risks directly to the Audit Committee and provides or anticipate every risk that may affect combination of the risks modelled by are adequately identified and controlled.
independent assurance that the Groups risk the Group.
making adjustments to its strategic plan management processes and key internal and capital expenditure programme.
control procedures are operating effectively.
VIABILITY STATEMENT In accordance with provisions of the UK Based on the results of this analysis, the Read more on pages 48 to 52.
IDENTIFYING AND MANAGING RISKS Corporate Governance Code, the Board has Board has a reasonable expectation that The Groups risk management process assessed the viability of the Group over a the Group will be able to continue in enables the business to identify, prioritise three year period, taking into account the operation and meet its liabilities as they and mitigate risk.
Specifically a Group risk current position, future prospects and the fall due over the period to 31 March 2020. register is in place generated from site risk potential impact of the principal risks registers owned by Operational Management outlined on pages 42 and 43 of the and this also contains identified overarching Annual Report.
Group risks which could have a significant impact on the business as a whole.
The Board has determined that a three year period to March 2020 is an appropriate period The Board formally reviews the Group risk over which to provide its Viability Statement.
register on at least an annual basis and in This timeframe has been specifically chosen addition receives a quarterly update report due to the current financial and operational on the risk profile facing the Group.
planning cycles of the Group, and debt finance in place with the Groups banking syndicate being reviewed over a three year timeframe.
40 Cranswick plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Cranswick plc 41 I S A T I O G N N I R O T I N O A M S S E S S M E N T
