Annual Report 2017 132 Great Portland Estates Report of the directors on trust for the benefit of employees within the Group.
Financial instruments and disclosures under The Trustee of the Trust has the power to exercise all the Listing Rule 9.8.
4 rights and powers including rights with regard to control of Details of the financial instruments used by the Group are the Company incidental to, and to generally act in relation set out in notes 1 and 17 forming part of the Group financial to, the ordinary shares subject to the Trust in such manner statements on page 145 and pages 157 to 160, which are as the Trustee in its absolute discretion thinks t as if it were incorporated into this Report of the directors by reference.
absolutely entitled to those ordinary shares.
The Trustee has Notes 1 and 7 on pages 145 and 147 also include details of waived the right to receive dividends on the shares held in interest capitalised by the Group.
The Groups financial risk management objectives and As far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with policies are included in the Risk management overview on significant direct or indirect holdings in the Company other pages 65 to 67, in Our capital discipline on pages 45 and 46 than those noted above.
and in Our financial results on pages 42 to 44.
The powers of the directors are contained in the Companys Information on the waiver of dividends is included in Share Articles of Association.
These include powers, subject to capital and control on page 132. relevant legislation, to authorise the issue and buy-back of the Companys shares by the Company, subject to authority Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement being given to the directors by the shareholders in a The Groups Greenhouse Gas Emissions Statement is general meeting.
included in the Sustainability section within the Strategic Report on page 64.
The rules about the appointment and replacement of directors are contained in the Companys Articles of significant shareholdings Association.
Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders in accordance with legislation As at 31 March 2017, the Company was aware of the in force from time to time.
following beneficial or discretionary interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights of the issued share capital: Change of control Number of 1,2, 3 The Company has a number of unsecured borrowing shares % facilities provided by various lenders.
These facilities BlackRock Inc 37,919,605 11.02 generally include provisions that may require any Norges Bank Investment Management 32,698,117 9.51 outstanding borrowings to be repaid or the alteration or Legal & General Investment ManagementLimited 16,125,290 4.69 termination of the facilities upon the occurrence of a change Morgan Stanley Investment Management 14,390,102 4.18 of control of the Company.
Northern Cross Investments Limited 13,401,457 3.90 The Companys 2010 LTIP and Executive Annual Bonus Plan Brookeld Investment Management Inc 11,793,619 3.43 contain provisions relating to the vesting of awards in the The Vanguard Group Inc 10,666,015 3.10 event of a change of control.
State Street Global Advisors Limited 10,480,920 3.05 Going concern 1.
Pre the 19 for 20 share consolidation approved by shareholders on 17 May 2017.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors 2.
On 15 May 2017, we received notication that BlackRock Inc had increased affecting its performance, position and future development its shareholding to 11.08%.
are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 75.
There have been no other significant changes.
Details of the nances of the Group, including its strong Share capital and control liquidity position, attractively priced borrowing facilities and favourable debt maturity prole are set out in our financial On 31 March 2017, there were 343,926,149 ordinary shares results on pages 42 to 44 and in notes 16 and 17 of the of 12.5 pence in issue.
Following the 19 for 20 share accounts on pages 156 to 160. consolidation of the Companys ordinary share capital approved by shareholders on 17 May 2017 accompanying The directors have reviewed the current and projected the special dividend and intended to maintain the Groups financial position of the Group, making reasonable share price and per share metrics there were 326,729,852 assumptions about future trading performance.
As part of 3 new ordinary shares of 13 19 pence in issue.
the review, the directors have considered the Groups cash balances, its capital commitments, its debt maturity prole, There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the including undrawn facilities, and the long-term nature of holding of the ordinary shares.
None of the shares carries tenant leases.
On the basis of this review, and after making any special rights with regard to the control of the Company.
due enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation There are no known arrangements under which financial that the Company and the Group have adequate resources rights are held by a person other than the holder of the to continue in operational existence for a period of at shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial transfers and voting rights.
The Great Portland Estates plc statements.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going LTIP Employee Share Trust the Trust is an employees concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
share scheme which holds ordinary shares in the Company Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 133 Viability statement Amendment to Long-Term Incentive Plan The Companys Viability statement is on page 67.
Resolution 15 will seek approval for the following changes to The Great Portland Estates 2010 Long-Term Incentive Statement as to disclosure of information Plan LTIP to reect the revisions being made to the tothe auditor Directors remuneration policy as set out in the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2017 see So far as the directors who held ofce at the date of Resolution 4 above.
The LTIP will continue to operate until approval of this Report are aware, there is no relevant its expiry in 2020.
In summary the proposed changes are: audit information of which the auditor is unaware and each director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have To increase the individual limit on the market value of taken as a director to make himself or herself aware of any shares subject to all awards which can be granted in a relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor financial year from 200% to a maximum of 300% of annual is aware of that information.
This conrmation is given and basic salary or such other limit as may from time to time should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of be approved in the Directors remuneration policy: section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
To introduce the ability to apply a two-year holding period to future LTIP awards, during which participants will not be Auditor permitted to exercise any awards, which had previously A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the been subject to performance conditions, until the fifth Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Dividend equivalents may accrue during any holding period.
LTIP awards, which are subject Annual General Meeting to a holding period, will not normally lapse on termination The Notice of Meeting on pages 182 and 183 sets out the of employment during the holding period, and the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting holding period will continue to apply to such awards and gives details of the voting record date and proxy although the Remuneration Committee may release appointment deadline for that meeting.
Resolutions 1 awards early from the holding period in appropriate to14 comprise ordinary business and resolutions 15 to 21 cases.
The holding period will apply to all awards granted special business.
Resolutions 18 to 21 will be proposed to Executive Directors after the 2017 Annual General asspecial resolutions.
Meeting: and To extend the circumstances in which malus provisions Remuneration report can be applied to LTIP awards to include circumstances Resolution 3 will seek approval of the directors where: i the calculation of performance targets is shown remuneration report excluding the remuneration policy for to be materially wrong or misleading: or ii events have the year ended 31 March 2017 as set out on pages 104 to occurred which may have a significant impact on the 119.
This vote is advisory, and the directors entitlement to reputation of the Company or any group company.
remuneration is not conditional on it.
Authority to allot shares and grant rights Remuneration policy At the General Meeting held on 17 May 2017 to approve the The current remuneration policy was approved at the 2014 share consolidation, shareholders authorised the directors, Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 4 will seek approval under section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 to allot of the Directors 2017 remuneration policy as set out on ordinary shares without the prior consent of shareholders for pages 120 to 130 which includes a summary of the changes a period expiring at the conclusion of the Annual General proposed.
The Directors remuneration policy, if approved, Meeting to be held in 2017 or, if earlier, on 1 October will take effect from 6 July 2017.
Once the policy is approved, 2017.
Resolution 16 will seek to renew this authority and to the Company will not be able to make a remuneration authorise the directors under section 551 of the Companies payment to a current or prospective director or a payment Act 2006 to allot ordinary shares or grant rights to subscribe for loss of ofce to a current or past director, unless that for or convert any securities into shares for a period expiring payment is consistent with the approved policy or has been no later than 1 October 2018. approved by shareholders.
Governance Annual Report 2017 134 Great Portland Estates Report of the directors Paragraph a i of Resolution 16 will allow the directors to If approved, the resolution will authorise the directors, in allot ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of accordance with the Articles of Association, to issue shares 14,330,256 representing approximately one-third 33.3% of in connection with a Rights Issue or other pre-emptive offer the Companys existing issued share capital and calculated and otherwise to issue shares for cash including the sale as at 23 May 2017 being the latest practicable date prior to for cash on a non pre-emptive basis of any shares held in publication of this Report.
In accordance with institutional treasury up to a maximum nominal amount of 2,149,538, guidelines issued by The Investment Association, paragraph which represents approximately 5% of the issued share a ii of Resolution 16 will allow directors to allot, including capital of the Company as at 23 May 2017 being the latest the ordinary shares referred to in paragraph a i of practicable date prior to publication of this Report.
Resolution 16, further of the Companys ordinary shares in The directors do not intend to issue, under a general connection with a pre-emptive offer by way of a Rights Issue authority to dis-apply pre-emption rights, more than 7.5% to ordinary shareholders up to a maximum nominal amount ofthe issued share capital of the Company for cash on a non of 28,660,512, representing approximately two-thirds pre-emptive basis in any rolling three-year period without 66.6% of the Companys existing issued share capital and prior consultation with shareholders.
calculated as at 23 May 2017 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Report.
The directors have Resolution 18 will be proposed as a special resolution to no present intention of exercising this authority.
However, if renew this authority until the conclusion of the next AGM they do exercise the authority, the directors intend to follow or, if earlier, the close of business on 1 October 2018. best practice as regards its use as recommended by The Investment Association.
Additional authority to disapply pre-emptionrights Resolution 16 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution Resolution 19 requests further shareholder approval, by torenew this authority until the conclusion of the next way of a separate special resolution in line with the best AGMor, if earlier, the close of business on 1 October 2018. practice guidance issued by the Pre-Emption Group, for Non-Executive Directors fees the directors to allot equity securities or sell treasury shares for cash without first being required to offer such securities The Companys Articles of Association currently limit to existing shareholders.
The proposed resolution reects the aggregate amount of fees that can be paid to the the Pre-emption Group 2015 Statement of Principles for Non-Executive Directors to 600,000.
This limit, which the disapplication of pre-emption rights and will expire has remained unchanged since 2014, may be increased on1 October 2018 or at the conclusion of the AGM in 2018, by ordinary resolution of the Company.
Last year Nonwhichever is the earlier.
Executive Directors fees amounted to 512,000 in aggregate.
In order to provide the Board with exibility The authority granted by this resolution, if passed: to continue to appoint and retain the best Non-Executive Directors, it is proposed that the limit be increased to a will be limited to the allotment of equity securities and 750,000.
Resolution 17 will be proposed as an ordinary sale of treasury shares for cash up to an aggregate resolution inaccordance with the Articles of Association.
nominal value of 2,149,538, which represents approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the General authority to disapply Company as at 23 May 2017 being the latest practicable pre-emptionrights date prior to publication of this Report : and At the General Meeting held on 17 May 2017, a special b will only be used in connection with an acquisition resolution was passed, under sections 570 and 573 of the orother capital investment, including development Companies Act 2006, empowering the directors to allot and or refurbishment expenditure, which is announced equity securities for cash without first being required to contemporaneously with the allotment, or has taken offer such shares to existing shareholders.
Resolution 18 place in the preceding six-month period and is disclosed will seek to renew this authority, which is set to expire in the announcement of the allotment.
at the Annual General Meeting, in line with the latest institutional guidelines.
The authority granted by this resolution would be in addition to the general authority to disapply pre-emption rights under Resolution 18.
The maximum nominal value of equity securities which could be allotted if both authorities were used would be 4,299,076, which represents approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 23 May 2017 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Report.
Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 135 There were no purchases of shares by the Company during Authority to purchase own shares the year.
The number of shares which may be purchased A special resolution was also passed at the General Meeting under the shareholders authority given at the 17 May 2017 held on 17 May 2017 enabling the Company to purchase its General Meeting was 48,976,804. own shares in the market.
Resolution 20 will seek to renew this authority.
The maximum number of shares to which At 23 May 2017, the Company held no shares in treasury.
This represents 14.99% Resolution 20 will be proposed as a special resolution to of the share capital of the Company in issue as at 23 May renew this authority until the conclusion of the next AGM 2017.
The directors intend only to exercise this authority if or, if earlier, the close of business on 1 October 2018. to do so would, in their opinion, enhance shareholder value.
If Resolution 20 is passed at the Annual General Meeting, Notice of general meetings the Company will have the option of holding as treasury shares any of its own shares that it purchases pursuant to The notice period required by the Companies Act 2006 the authority conferred by this resolution.
This would give for general meetings of the Company is 21 days, unless the Company the ability to sell treasury shares or use them shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 clear days Annual to satisfy share awards under employee share schemes, providing the Company with additional exibility in the GeneralMeetings must always be held on at least management of its capital base.
No dividends will be paid 21cleardays notice.
on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights will At last years Annual General Meeting, shareholders attach to the treasury shares.
Any shares purchased by the authorised the calling of general meetings other than an Company under this authority would be cancelled unless Annual General Meeting on not less than 14 clear days the shares are being purchased by the Company to hold notice and Resolution 21 seeks to renew this authority.
The authority granted by this resolution, if passed, will be The price paid for ordinary shares will not be less than the effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, 3 nominal value of 13 19 pence per share and not more than when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
the higher of 5% above the average of the middle market Note that in order to be able to call a general meeting on quotations of the Companys ordinary shares as derived less than 21 clear days notice, the Company must make a from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the means of electronic voting available to all shareholders for five business days preceding the day on which the ordinary that meeting.
shares are purchased and an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary The exibility offered by this resolution will be used share and the highest current independent bid for an where, taking into account the circumstances and noting ordinary share on the trading venue where the purchase the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance iscarried out.
Code, the directors consider this appropriate in relation tothe business to be considered at the meeting and in At 23 May 2017, there were 150 million 1% convertible theinterests of the Company and shareholders as a whole.
bonds due 2018 in issue which, if fully converted, would result in the issue of a maximum of 20,640,970 ordinary Recommendation shares based on the conversion price of 726.71 pence The directors consider that all the resolutions to be put per share.
to the meeting are in the best interests of the Company Under the terms and conditions of the convertible bonds, and itsshareholders as a whole.
Your Board will be voting the conversion price is subject to adjustment upon the in favour of them and unanimously recommends that you occurrence of certain corporate events and in such doso as well.
circumstances the maximum number of ordinary shares By order of the Board Desna Martin to be issued upon full conversion of the bonds may be Company Secretary higher than the amount specified above.
Any of the bonds Great Portland Estates plc can be converted, at the Companys election, into a cash Company number: 596137 24 May 2017 alternative amount.
If the outstanding bonds were fully converted, they would represent 5.9% of the issued share capital as at 23 May 2017.
If the authorities to purchase shares existing and being sought were exercised in full, that percentage would be 6.9% of the share capital.
