Strategic Report Managers Review then we neither deserve high returns nor are likely to obtain them Our Aims over anything other than carefully defined short periods.
Capital Every year we describe our investment process and portfolio.
But allocation is too serious a matter to be hostage to the bonuses we have rarely addressed our underlying objectives and purpose.
and impatience of fund managers.
This is an attempt to rectify this omission.
It may seem self-evident that our objective is to provide an Risk attractive total return after costs for our investors.
But this is far In turn, our purpose translates into a quite different definition of less a strategy than a desirable outcome.
We have an investment and attitude to risk than that inculcated by modern finance theory.
Yet this is more about the Its precepts have been taken up with alacrity by those who run method than the objective.
Ultimately we endeavour to generate the great majority of todays investment management companies returns for savers and shareholders by helping to build and sustain as businesses in themselves.
excellent businesses over long periods.
We prefer to focus on this We do not accept that risk resides in owning a portfolio that is task than on the daily gyrations of markets.
We aim to support different from the index or more volatile than the index.
Risk is the companies that contribute to productive innovation and that will permanent destruction of capital.
The threat of such destruction is eventually prove to possess deep competitive moats.
Very often less predictable than formulas allow and is frequently unrelated to this means that the companies we back are addressing hard volatility.
It may be that volatility is an essential safety valve.
It is in solving deep challenges that Certainly companies which are run to produce the regular pay-outs the greatest opportunities and rewards lie.
Naturally this requires that tend to produce low share price volatility frequently endanger determination and unusual skills on the part of these companies.
This means that volatility is not simply a But over the course of time often measured in decades such bad synonym for risk but that low volatility frequently translates into unusual enterprises can generate abnormal profits and unusually high business risk.
Or put simply that low volatility is a warning sign.
So our objective is to help in the creation and improvement of such useful enterprises.
Yet a still more important issue lurks.
We believe that we do nothing more important than taking and embracing risk even This may seem an oblique approach to generating shareholder when we thereby expose ourselves to the possibility of permanent returns.
Indeed the more that we can contribute to loss of capital.
If we join the multitude and merely place our funds business stewardship, the better returns for shareholders are in assets that are already proven and currently solidly profitable, likely to be and the more we can play a constructive role in the let alone in government bonds with minimal or negative yields, it is economic system.
If, in contrast, we merely see investment hard to see how our shareholders can expect to profit beyond the management as speculating or rather guessing which stock, norm or at the risk of pomposity how our economy and sector or geography will give the best returns over the next year Mike George, Vice President of Alexa, Echo and Appstore.
Amazon is developing wider applications for Alexa, its intelligent personal assistant technology.
The Alexa Voice Service adds intelligent voice control to any connected product that has a microphone and speaker.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 11 Strategic Report society will move forward.
The current obsession with pursuing safety, matching liabilities and targeting guaranteed returns is a profound systemic ill.
It undermines entrepreneurial wealth creation.
Portfolio Concentration We are often told that Scottish Mortgage is unduly concentrated.
We think that the shape of the portfolio is a rational response to the potential upside of a limited number of stocks, to an unhealthy preoccupation with individual stock performance and to an excessive preference for diversification in institutional portfolios.
It is the results of the overall portfolio that accrue to the owners.
In this viewpoint we follow Jeff Bezos.
Our long-standing ownership of Amazon has been good for investors but also comes with investing lessons that we need to assimilate.
One of the best and bluntest pieces of advice comes from the 2015 Letter to Shareholders which stressed the virtues of risk-taking: Given a ten percent chance of a 100 times payoff, you should take that bet every time.
But youre still going to be wrong nine times out of ten.
Naturally, we try to tilt the odds further in our favour as with more prowess does Mr Bezos.
But the central point remains that we quibble with the conventional wisdom that losing money in individual stocks is our prime foe.
Instead we question the prevalence of truncated return assumptions and believe it makes sense to consider diversification at the strategic portfolio level.
Losing money failing as it is conventionally known in individual stocks is a necessary and important part of educated risk-taking.
This allows us to maximise our returns by owning stocks with the possibility of almost unlimited returns.
For sure we have a reasonably concentrated portfolio by most standards.
This is driven by two additional but complementary Rolls-Royce Trent 900 turbofan engine fitted to the Airbus A380, perspectives.
The first is that we are acutely aware that there are the worlds largest passenger airliner.
few if any investors who are solely exposed to Scottish Mortgages Image courtesy of Rolls-Royce.
We hope that we bring certain attributes to the aggregate investment portfolios of individuals and their intermediaries but few have the concentrated exposure to Scottish Mortgage that the Managers themselves enjoy.
What is often seen by commentators should not be dismissed.
Currently exponential growth, huge as heavy exposure to individual companies through the lens of addressable markets, frequently low capital requirements and, as Scottish Mortgage alone therefore looks more like the bare ever, an enduring competitive moat are the decisive ingredients minimum to allow these same stocks to have an impact on the that give the opportunity for dramatic returns.
Not many overall returns experienced by diversified investors.
We think companies possess this combination.
over-diversification is a far more prevalent and insidious threat than Unquoted Companies excessive concentration in todays investment world.
Given the relative paucity of outstanding companies, we have to do Secondly, we do not believe that there are many stocks that offer our best to widen the funnel of opportunity.
We increasingly see the possibility of truly superior long-term returns.
Long-term equity unquoted companies as an essential part of this process.
To put it performance has a much more skewed distribution than is bluntly: we fear that equity markets are failing in their primary commonly perceived.
It is not normally distributed.
Therefore our responsibility of encouraging and enabling future entrepreneurial prime task lies in giving our shareholders the best possible success.
The reasons for this are many, well-known and hard to opportunity to capture the extreme winners.
For example 33% of rank but all sad.
What we can observe is that companies are the wealth created in the US equity markets between 19262015 finding it easier to build their businesses, raise capital and invest came from just 30 companies out of a total of 26,000 quoted without excessive fear away from early exposure to capital stocks.
This return pattern is true for most successful investors markets.
We are finding that the bulk of our emergent opportunities too: however they invest, wherever they invest, whether they lie in unquoted companies and expect this to remain so for the embrace it or not, results are highly asymmetric and top-heavy.
Moreover we believe that this pattern of returns reflects company characteristics more than random chance though the latter 12 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Whilst the companies themselves enjoy a degree of isolation from the detrimental short term focused pressures of the public markets, as investors holding such assets as part of our portfolio, we are not so immune.
We would caution that the accepted conventions for pricing unquoted equities frequently fail to capture underlying potential value creation.
They tend to stress potentially misleading comparisons with their public competitors and emphasise the general financial market mood of the moment, over the specifics of corporate progress.
Moreover any spot price underplays the uncertainties inherent in such investments.
In combination, these characteristics can lead to either undue pessimism or excessive euphoria.
We will try to indicate our perceptions of such emotions when they seem extreme.
At present we would confine ourselves to saying that we do not regard unquoted valuations as generous in absolute terms or full, relative to quoted companies.
Supporting Companies and Entrepreneurs But the problematic nature of quoted life requires us to do more than navigate around public markets.
Although it is well-beyond our abilities and significance to reform the system, we sincerely believe that we can have an important role in supporting and strengthening the ability of companies in which we invest to withstand the pressures of capital markets.
We should be plain that in many cases we are merely willing accomplices of founder owners who need little from us in the way of capital, advice or patience.
But at times, particularly critical times, we can be of help.
The usually large scale and long-term nature of our holdings matters in this context.
But we dont always succeed.
Sadly the UK offers all too many occasions when constructive activism is required.
We have worked closely but quietly with the new management at Rolls-Royce to support their determined efforts at corporate renewal.
Progress is encouraging but will require many years.
In contrast, we deeply regret that we had to sell our shares in ARM to SoftBank and only wish that ARMs Board, management and shareholders could have summoned the ambition, optimism and patience required to nurture Britains best perhaps only chance of building a global technology giant.
We should be clear that be in the UK or internationally we see corporate stewardship as not just a rightful component of our task but as perhaps the essential reinforcing link in our investment philosophy.
If we can prove in harsh times that we support teams trying to build great businesses and battling the forces of quarterly fund manager capitalism then these companies will hopefully be strengthened.
They will almost certainly want us as shareholders and in turn help us with their time and insights.
In turn other companies, quoted or unquoted, appear to want to talk to us rather more than is the norm.
James Anderson Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 13 Strategic Report Portfolio Update The big network companies are not restricting the deployment of The Growing Power of the Platforms their technology to the auto industry.
Amazon and Netflix will In recent times we have observed the increasing power and provide 16% of professional US television production budgets this dominance of a small number of companies from the west coast year.
The Internet is the third largest source of high budget of the United States and the east coast of China.
Online networks are taking over what we have has important implications for the companies involved but also for historically conceived of as offline industries and they are the multitudes that compete with and rely upon the services they providing the associated products in a way that is more offer.
We believe this is a foretaste of what is to come and our personalised and convenient for the consumer.
The conception of holdings in the companies involved continue to represent a Amazon as a retailer is increasingly out-dated.
Its devices wake significant proportion of our assets.
us in the morning providing music and sharing news and weather The importance of scale, mobile distribution and machine learning information, its web services underpin many of the online systems is increasing.
There are five and a half billion people over the age we use at work and home, its delivery services provide our of 14 alive today.
There are five billion mobile handsets in general goods and increasingly our groceries and its Kindle circulation.
This level of usage has created an addressable market devices and streaming services provide our evening far larger than anything that has gone before.
The past few years entertainment.
Its reach is expanding rapidly and there remains a have been about the build out of the mobile ecosystem but that paucity of coherent competitive offerings.
There is no longer much discussion of wars between the platforms, the technology is increasingly commoditised and the big winners are clear.
The companies are now experimenting with what they can build.
As they have refined their data gathering and machine learning capabilities through search, or social curation or cloud hosting or retail, they have been building the capability to redefine most other areas of economic endeavour.
In last years report we questioned whether the major and accelerating improvements in core technologies would lead to progress in healthcare, energy and transportation.
A year on, the strongest prospects for delivering such an outcome are with the big network companies themselves rather than established incumbents developing or adopting the relevant skills.
In the automotive industry, the past twelve months have seen Tesla make encouraging progress in its bid to electrify passenger Inditex has used its supply chain expertise to build a strong cars, but it is the technologies underlying vehicle autonomy that competitive advantage.
appear to have made the most dramatic gains.
If Tesla, Google MIGUEL RIOPA AFP Getty Images.
and Baidu use their data and machine learning capabilities to push the market into full autonomy, the ramifications for the traditional automotive companies are apparent.
However, it is the Beyond the big networks and aspirants to similarly widespread second order implications that are truly enormous.
Whither oil dominance Tesla or Illumina, it is those businesses that have demand?
What happens to ownership of the vehicle fleet?
How understood the implications of the new order and refined their would it be insured?
What would happen to congestion?
How offer accordingly that seem most likely to thrive.
Rather than would this affect the geography of our cities and the value of the competing directly for incremental e-commerce transactions or real estate?
What will happen to the logistics industry?
These online advertisements, they offer customers and suppliers questions arise from just one application of Artificial Intelligence.
Online retailer, Zalando offers brands the opportunity to tell their story in a way that isnt possible on other platforms.
Inditex is using its supply chain expertise and store network to provide a degree of convenience and differentiation that is hard for others to replicate.
Similarly Ctrip in travel and Spotify in music streaming.
We think acknowledgement and adaptation is a far more promising path to value creation than incumbents labouring to minimise the impact of the changing competitive landscape.
Zalandos compelling online platform has been successful in attracting brands.
14 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Since October 2016, all cars manufactured by Tesla have been equipped with the hardware to support full autonomous driving capability.
As the network companies have become a larger part of the But there is something else going on here.
Alibaba is one of the portfolio, we have continued to revisit their investment cases and largest online media platforms in China.
It owns Weibo, one of the ask whether future potential has been more fully reflected in share largest social networking sites.
It owns Youku Tudou which is one prices.
Thus far, we have been able to answer this question with of the largest online video sites.
It delivers top of the funnel an emphatic no.
Our top ten holdings are largely unchanged but advertising and promotion.
It can analyse consumer behaviour to we are cognisant that corporate success will bring its own predict demand.
There have not been many instances where investors It is also expanding rapidly beyond traditional e-commerce.
Its have made significant returns in companies with the market finance platform has 450 million customers and processes 300 capitalisations that this group has now achieved.
If we are to million daily transactions.
It is using its reputation and reach to make money from here it will be on the basis of redefining what it grow the business in areas such as wealth management and means to be a large company.
Given their scale and influence, it insurance.
This is a real example of where a fintech company is important that these companies are good corporate citizens.
might plausibly bypass an existing financial system by improving The technologies they are deploying may lead to significant both the customer experience and the product.
dislocation in the labour market over the coming years and they Combining social, advertising, transaction, payment, delivery and must avoid being seen as the villains in a period of turbulence and banking data, Alibaba has a data set which is the envy of the change.
This allows it to study and train its machine learning Particularly in China algorithms on consumer behaviour right through from demand generation to completed transactions based on real identity.
It Whilst the position of the American platform companies looks entrenched, the Chinese companies have a more fundamental operates in a regulatory regime which allows it to use this data to great effect.
Credit scoring and therefore bank lending look to be role in the development of their domestic economy.
Alibaba is the consumer economy in China and its fortunes are a proxy for the far more accurate than can be achieved in the West.
health of small and mid sized business.
Singles Day is Chinas equivalent of Cyber Monday, the biggest online shopping event of the year.
On that day in 2016, Alibaba took over $18bn of orders through its website.
On Cyber Monday 2016, all US websites combined took a total of $3bn of orders.
China rules the e-commerce world by a wide margin.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 15 Strategic Report Grail epitomises some of the themes mentioned earlier with Progress in Healthcare regard to unlisted companies: it is building its business, accessing Over the next decade, healthcare may turn out to be the most a large pool of capital and investing against a long-term important example of the online platforms participation in the opportunity away from the gaze of public market investors.
A local example of this comes from the NHSs Having its management and finances scrutinised every quarter by partnership with Googles parent, Alphabet.
This venture is those trying to predict short-term share price movements would applying machine learning to data from a million patients eye likely be a serious distraction and an impediment to underlying scans with the aim of achieving earlier detection and treatment of progress.
Access to a large pool of patient long-term capital common eye diseases.
ought to provide the company with a competitive advantage.
Over the past ten years we have witnessed remarkable progress Over the past few years we have allocated more of the Trusts in the field of immuno-oncology therapies that harness the bodys assets to therapeutic healthcare companies.
We continued this immune system to fight cancer.
New holdings included Unity Biotechnology diseases of developed, for example in the treatment of melanoma, which ageing, Intarcia Therapeutics diabetes and Denali Therapeutics currently appear to be a functional cure for some of the patients neurodegeneration.
We do not expect these companies to that take them.
That such treatments work for some patients and operate the capital light business models weve seen amongst the not others is driving a move away from a single standard of care large online networks.
Instead, they are attempting the difficult to a more tailored treatment approach based on an individuals and expensive task of researching novel therapies for big disease genetic profile.
This has been facilitated by the rapidly declining categories.
The traditional funding model for such companies is to cost of gene sequencing, driven by the progress at Illumina.
offer only as much capital as is required to meet the next development milestone for a new drug.
Whilst this approach encourages a disciplined and frugal approach to business development it has the significant drawback of orienting a company towards prioritising short-term landmarks ahead of long-term development.
We are interested to find out whether more substantive funding for these companies at an earlier stage of their existence will extend time horizons and increase the chances of success.
Concluding Comments The drive and vision of the founder-owners running many of our top holdings continually challenge us to reassess the scope of what they can achieve.
As these network companies have grown large we have not become less demanding in our return Installing a flow cell on an Illumina cluster station.
Progress at expectations for them.
We believe that they will have big new Illumina has driven the rapidly declining cost of gene sequencing.
opportunities over the next decade.
The enduring competitive moats that they have created seem to us to be under-appreciated in stock market and valuation terms.
Illuminas subsidiary, Grail, recently raised close to a billion dollars The entrepreneurs running newer businesses in healthcare and in a private round in which Scottish Mortgage participated.
Grail is beyond must navigate this competitive landscape.
It is exciting aiming to build a screening test for early stage cancer in that we continue to find new holdings with leaders that are asymptomatic individuals.
To do this it will need to sequence the prepared to invest and take on the challenges this presents.
DNA of hundreds of thousands of people and learn from that information.
This can only be done with access to data storage The vagaries of stock markets will drive our returns over shorter time periods but it will be the success or otherwise of these capability on a scale that few companies globally can provide.
Human analysts cannot extract useful information from such individuals and the companies they are creating that determines the longer run outcome.
For us, this is a source of great optimism.
datasets: advanced machine learning expertise is required.
In this context, it is perhaps unsurprising that the CEO of Grail was formerly an engineer at Google.
Nor was it a surprise to see that Tom Slater our co-investors included the likes of Amazon and Tencent.
16 Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report The Managers Core Investment Beliefs Whilst fund managers claim to spend much of their careers visions that are barely noticed by the markets.
There is more in the investment world than the Financial Times or Wall Street assessing the competitive advantage of companies they are notoriously reluctant to perform any such analysis on themselves.
The tendency is to cite recent performance as evidence of skill We are global in stock selection, asset allocation and attribution.
despite the luck, randomness and mean-reverting characteristics We are active not passive or far worse index plus in stock of most such data.
If this does not suffice then attention turns to a selection.
Holding sizes reflect the potential upside and its discussion of the high educational qualifications, hard work and probability or otherwise rather than the combination of the exotic remuneration packages that the fund manager enjoys.
market capitalisation and geographical location of the company Sometimes the procedural details of the investment process are and its headquarters.
We do not have sufficient confidence in outlined with heavy emphasis on risk our top-down asset allocation skills to wish controls.
Little attention is given to either to override stock selection.
We do not have the distinctiveness of the approach or the enough confidence in our market timing strategic advantages the manager might abilities to wish to add or remove gearing at enjoy in order to make imitation frequent intervals.
We do, however, have improbable.
We think we should try to do strong conviction that our portfolio should better than this.
be comparatively concentrated, and that it is We are long term in our investment of little use to shareholders to tinker around decisions.
It is only over periods of at the edges of indices.
We think this produces least five years that the competitive better investment results and it certainly advantages and managerial excellence makes us more committed shareholders in of companies become apparent.
We suspect that selecting is these characteristics that we want stocks on the basis of the past their current to identify and support.
We own market capitalisation is a policy designed to companies rather than rent shares.
protect the security of tenure of asset We do not regard ourselves as experts managers rather than to build the wealth of in forecasting the oscillations of shareholders.
Companies that are large and economies or the mood swings of established tend to be internally complacent markets.
Indeed we think that it is hard and inflexible.
They are often vulnerable to We are growth investors.
to excel in such areas as this is where assault by more ambitious and vibrant so many market participants focus and newcomers.
where so little of the value of companies lies.
Equally Baillie We are Growth stock investors.
Such has been the preference Gifford is more likely to possess competitive advantages for for Value and the search to arbitrage away minor rating the good of shareholders when it adopts a long term differentials that investors find it very hard to acknowledge the perspective.
We are a 100 year old Scottish partnership.
We extraordinary growth rates and returns that can be found think about our own business over decades not quarters.
The growth that we are particularly interested in is of an Such stability may not be exciting but it does encourage explosive nature and often requires minimal fixed assets or patience in this most impatient of industries.
We only judge indeed capital.
We think of it as Growth at Unreasonable our investment performance over five year plus time horizons.
Prices rather than the traditional discipline of Growth at a In truth it takes at least a decade to provide adequate Reasonable Price.
We need to be willing to pay high multiples evidence of investment skill.
of immediate earnings because the scale of future potential The investment management industry is ill-equipped to deal and returns can be so dramatic.
On the stocks that flourish with the behavioural and emotional challenges inherent in the valuation will have turned out to be derisorily low.
On the todays capital markets.
Our time frame and ownership others we will lose money.
structure help us to fight these dangers.
We are besieged by We believe that it is our first duty to shareholders to limit fees.
The bulk of this information is of little Both the investment management fee 0.30%, and with effect significance but it implores you to rapid and usually futile from 1 April 2017, 0.30% on the first 4 billion of assets, and action.
This can be particularly damaging at times of stress.
0.25% thereafter please see page 27 and ongoing charges Academic research argues that most individuals dislike ratio 0.44% as at 31 March 2017 are low by comparative financial losses twice as much as they take pleasure in gains.
standards but at least adequate in absolute terms.
We think We fear that for fund managers this relationship is close to that the malign impact of high fees is frequently tenfold.
Internal and external pressures make the avoidance of underestimated.
The difference between an ongoing charges loss dominant.
This is damaging in a portfolio context.
We ratio of 0.44% and one of 1.5% may not appear great but if need to be willing to accept loss if there is an equal or greater the perspective is altered to think of costs as a percentage of chance of almost unlimited gain.
expected annual returns then the contrast becomes obvious.
We are very dubious about the value of routine information.
If annual returns average 10% then this is the difference We have little confidence in quarterly earnings and none in the between removing approximately 5% or 15% of your returns views of investment banks.
We try to screen out rather than each year.
Nor do we believe in a performance fee.
Usually it incorporate their noise.
In contrast we think that the world undermines investment performance.
It increases pressure offers joyous opportunities to hear views, perspectives and and narrows perspective.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 17
