Our Strategy Our vision: To become the global provider of end-to-end solutions offering products from mechanical to electronics, powered by technology, innovation and data-led insight.
Our brands how we will win Five strategic priorities Best customer & supplier experience: We are focussed on excelling at the basics and driving differentiation for our customers and suppliers via innovation and data-led insight.
High-performance team: We are investing in talented leaders to build a results-orientated, customer-focussed, diverse, global talent base.
Operational excellence: We are focussed on continuously improving service and efficiency.
Innovation: We will introduce new products and solutions for our customers harnessing our digital expertise, data and FOCUS insight and take advantage of changing market dynamics and new opportunities for growth and efficiency.
Reinvestment to accelerate growth: We will be disciplined in our allocation of strong cash flows between investment in the business to drive faster market share gains and providing attractive returns to our shareholders.
How we create value BEST-IN-CLASS ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH for our stakeholders Global provider of end-to-end solutions Market-leading customer service Differentiated with technology, innovation and data-led insight OPPORTUNITIES Best-in-class sales process and go-to-market approach DISCIPLINED INVESTMENT LEAN OPERATING MODEL Capex at or ahead of Top-line growth driving depreciation to underpin above Driving operational gearing benefits market growth value for Stable gross margin Invest in innovation to drive Compete on value, not price improved customer experience stakeholders and increase efficiency Continuously improving on service and efficiency driving Selective value accretive further progress in headline acquisitions to accelerate operating profit conversion ratio strategy and top-line growth STRONG FREE CASH FLOW GENERATION Disciplined working capital management driving high headline operating cash flow conversion Strong balance sheet Dividend growth while re-building cover Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2017 8  Proof 2. indd 8 25314.02-AR2017- Proof Two 24 05 2017 16:57:26 Strategic Report Our brands how we will win Five strategic priorities Best customer & supplier experience: We are focussed on excelling at the basics and driving differentiation for our customers and suppliers via innovation and data-led insight.
Innovation: We will introduce new products and solutions for our customers harnessing our digital expertise, data and FOCUS FOCUS FOCUS insight and take advantage of changing market dynamics and new opportunities for growth and efficiency.
Reinvestment to accelerate growth: We will be disciplined in our allocation of strong cash flows between investment in the To supply industrial customers with To offer the widest selection of To provide global industrial B2B business to drive faster market share gains and providing attractive returns to our shareholders.
a broad range of industrial and authorised A&C and IP&E products customers with a high-quality electronic products and solutions to industrial customers in the large value-for-money, own-brand across Europe and Asia Pacific.
automation market in the Americas.
driving innovation and inspiration across all of our brands OPPORTUNITIES OPPORTUNITIES OPPORTUNITIES Market growth Market growth Market growth Automation market growing above Global industrial B2B market is Industrial markets growing at GDP GDP driven by factory refresh growing ahead of GDP and highly and customer investment to drive fragmented Market share gains productivity Market share gains Growth in customer numbers and Market share gains order frequency driven by: Rationalise and expand product Growth in customer numbers and range with a focus on what improved customer experience order frequency driven by: customers want to buy digital leadership improved customer experience Geographic expansion tailor-made customer solutions digital leadership New routes to market a greater focus on sector increased focus on sector verticals verticals, e. g. food & beverage and pharmaceuticals Sell more to existing customers: fill gaps in stocked range geographic expansion into new markets, e. g. Mexico expand non-stocked range improve value-added services Sell more to existing customers: expand range into adjacent Develop global and large customer technologies accounts programme Maintenance Repair and Operations MRO opportunity selling RS Pro into existing customer base www.
