Annual Report 2017 94 Great Portland Estates Accountability The biographies of the Non-Executive Directors are on Audit Committee and advisors pages 54 and 55 with Charles Philipps and Nick Hampton, Audit Committee members and attendance by others inparticular, having recent and relevant financial experience, Chairman 4 meetings which, combined with Richard Mully and Jonathan Shorts 1,2 Nick Hampton 2 2 extensive property experience, ensures the Committee, asawhole, has competence relevant to the real Jonathan Nicholls retired at the 2016 AGM estate sector.
2 Charles Philipps The Audit Committee provides a forum for review of the Members 1 Groups financial external reporting, including accounting Wendy Becker 1 1 policies, in respect of the Groups half-year and year-end Elizabeth Holden results involving discussions with the Groups external 1 Richard Mully 1 1 valuers, CBRE and auditor, Deloitte LLP Deloitte and for 2 Charles Philipps reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups Jonathan Short internal financial controls and internal control and risk In attendance management systems.
The Committee is also responsible Martin Scicluna for the selection and review of the effectiveness of the Toby Courtauld auditor.
Audit Committee meetings are also attended Nick Sanderson by certain Executive Directors and senior managers, by Neil Thompson invitation.
Martin Scicluna, as Chairman, also attends the Committee meetings reviewing the half-year and year-end Part attendance results.
By invitation, Nick Sanderson as Finance Director 1.
Wendy Becker, Nick Hampton and Richard Mully joined the Committee attends the half-year and year-end planning meetings.
in February 2017, October 2016 and December 2016 respectively.
Charles Philipps served as acting Chair following Jonathan Nicholls During the year, Neil Thompson or Toby Courtauld together retirement from the Board at the 2016 AGM.
Nick Hampton joined the with Nick Sanderson also attended the half-year and yearCommittee in October 2017.
As part of his induction process, Nick end Audit Committee meetings with the valuers and auditor Hampton shadowed Charles Philipps as Chair of the November 2016 Audit Committee meeting.
to provide their views on the valuation and financial results.
The Committee meets four times a year, with the meetings Our approach aligned with our financial reporting timetable.
The key objectives for Audit Committee are to review and report to the Board and shareholders on the Groups The effectiveness of the performance of the Committee financial reporting, internal control and risk management isconsidered as part of the Board evaluation process.
systems, and the independence and effectiveness of the auditor.
Our process The Audit Committee Terms of Reference are available on the Company website at: www.
co. uk about-us governance The Board believes that it is useful to have all of the independent Non-Executive Directors serve on the Audit Committee as it provides a forum to discuss and challenge the Groups portfolio valuation with the external auditor which is a fundamental aspect of the business.
At the beginning of the year, the Committee comprised of independent directors Elizabeth Holden, Charles Philipps, Jonathan Short and Jonathan Nicholls as Chairman, until he retired from the Board at the July 2016 AGM to become Chairman of Shaftesbury plc.
Independent Non-Executive Director Nick Hampton joined as Chairman of the Audit Committee on joining the Board in October 2016 and independent Non-Executive Directors, Richard Mully and Wendy Becker became members of the Committee on joining the Board in December 2016 and February 2017 respectively.
Charles Philipps served as acting Chair for the September 2016 meeting and, as part of Nick Hamptons induction process, the November 2016 Audit Committee meeting.
Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 95 After reviewing the reports from management and The Audit Committee is consulting where necessary with the auditor and valuers, responsible for overseeing the Audit Committee is satisfied that the financial and challenging the statements appropriately address the critical judgements financial reporting process, and key estimates outlined on page 96, both in respect monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls and risk of the amounts reported and the related disclosures.
management and assessing The Committee is also satisfied that the processes used for the independence and determining the value of the assets and liabilities have been effectiveness of the auditor.
appropriately scrutinised, challenged and are sufciently Nick Hampton robust.
In addition, management confirmed to the Audit Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee that they were not aware of any misstatements, either material or immaterial, made to achieve a particular presentation.
Dear fellow shareholder Fair, balanced and understandable On behalf of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to present Whether the 2017 Annual Report and financial statements my first report as Chairman of the Committee for the year are fair, balanced and understandable is considered to be a ended 31 March 2017. matter for the whole Board and the Audit Committees role As outlined on page 94, the Committee meets four times is covered on page 100. ayear to: Internal controls and risk management plan the audit: The Audit Committees role in supporting the Boards identify key accounting and areas of judgement as early oversight and review of principal risks, internal controls as possible: andrisk management processes is covered on pages 65, 66and 100. receive reports from the auditor and valuers: consider how risks and internal controls have been Our Ethics and Whistleblowing policies managed in the preceding six months in respect of Each year as part of the year-end planning meeting, thehalf-year and year-end results: the Committee considers the Groups Ethics and monitor the integrity of the Groups financial reporting: Whistleblowing policies, both of which address the and Companys policies on bribery.
This year both the policies review the independence and effectiveness ofthe auditor.
were amended to reect changes made in the Groups policies and procedures as part of its activities in relation Accounting and key areas of judgement to the prevention of modern slavery covered in more detail A key factor in the integrity of financial statements is on page 62.
In addition, at least annually, we receive a copy ensuring that suitable accounting policies are adopted of the Groups Gifts & Hospitality register and, this year, it andapplied consistently on a year-on-year basis.
was agreed at the March planning meeting that the Groups Gifts & Hospitality policy should be reviewed by the whole The Audit Committee uses the Audit Planning meetings Board as part of its annual Governance Review.
in September and March each year to consider proposed accounting treatments for major transactions, significant reporting judgements and key assumptions related to those judgements in advance of the half-year and yearend results.
It also receives an update from the Head of Corporate Finance on the Groups tax position.
This year, following the EU referendum, the Committee asked our valuers, CBRE to attend the September Planning meeting to explain how the Brexit vote was expected to affect GPEs September 2016 valuation and valuation process.
I also met with CBREseparately in November 2016 and in advance oftheyear-end Audit Committee meeting.
Governance Annual Report 2017 96 Great Portland Estates Accountability Accounting and key areas of judgement significant matter Action taken Valuation of the As the valuation of the Groups portfolio is fundamental to the Groups balance sheet, Groups portfolio the Audit Committee, together with Martin Scicluna, meets with the valuers along with the auditor to discuss the valuation included within the half-year and year-end financial statements.
This review includes the valuation process undertaken, changes in market conditions including the result of the EU referendum, recent transactions in the market and how these have impacted upon GPEs valuation, valuation movements on individual buildings and the valuers expectations in relation to future rental growth and yield movement.
The external auditor, Deloitte, independently meet with the valuers using real estate specialists and provide the Audit Committee with a summary of their review as part of their report on the half-year and year-end results.
Acquisitions, disposals Acquisitions, disposals and revenue recognition from significant lease transactions or and revenue recognition development management agreements are considered to the extent that there are any unusual terms and conditions or judgements made in relation to timing.
In the year ended 31 March 2017, the Committee in conjunction with Deloitte reviewed and discussed managements accounting proposals in relation to the sale of Rathbone Square for 435million to Deka including the treatment of Dekas put option to sell the building back should Facebooks leases not complete.
The Audit Committee concurred with the accounting treatment of this matter.
REIT status The Audit Committee reviews current year and forecast compliance with the REIT tests every six months.
Early redemption of The early redemption in March 2017 of the US Private Placement Notes maturing in 2018 and US Private Placement 2021 resulted in the recognition of a redemption premium in the year ended 31 March 2017 Notes and the Audit Committee considered the impact on the Groups IFRS and EPRA EPS and NAV metrics.
The same treatment will be applied to the early redemption in April 2017 of the US Private Placement Notes maturing in 2019 and 2022, and the early redemption premium will be recognised in the accounts in the year ending 31 March 2018.
Rathbone Square overage On the purchase of Rathbone Square from the Royal Mail Group RMG in September 2011, the Company entered into anoverage agreement that enables RMG to participate in the development profits should certain performance metrics bemet.
As the potential amount payable is a matter of judgement, the Audit Committee, in conjunction with Deloitte, has reviewed the amount proposed by management as at 31March 2017.
The Audit Committee concurred with the accountingtreatment of this matter.
Viability statement Although the viability statement and going concern are a matter for the whole Board, and going concern see pages 67 and 132 respectively, a review is made by the Audit Committee of the appropriateness of the three-year period, the Groups headroom under its covenants andundrawn facilities in relation to the Groups financial forecasts and sensitivity analyses.
Alternative Performance The European Securities and Markets Authority ESMA has released a set of guidelines on Measures APMs the use of APMs designed toensure that APMs are used to supplement rather than supplant GAAP-compliant financial measures.
The Audit Committee reviewed the Companys use of APMs and concurred with the presentation of its key APMs in line with EPRA metrics on the basis that they are widely used standard industry measures, the most appropriate measures of the Companys performance and meet the criteria set out in the ESMA guidance.
Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 97 The Committee also considered the effectiveness of the The external audit and review Groups management during the external audit process ofitseffectiveness in respect of the timely identication and resolution of The Audit Committee advises the Board on the areas of accounting judgement, with input from the auditor appointment of the external auditor, their remuneration and the Audit Committee as appropriate, as well as the for audit and non-audit work agreed by the Committee, timely provision of the draft results to Deloitte and the and their effectiveness, independence and objectivity Committee for review.
In addition, feedback was sought and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit from the auditor on the conduct of members of the finance with the external auditor.
As part of the review of the team during the audit process which confirmed that there effectiveness of the external audit, a formal evaluation had been a good level of communication and interaction incorporating views from the Audit Committee and relevant between the teams.
members of management is considered by the Committee.
Feedback from the review undertaken in September 2016, As part of the consideration of audit quality for the audit led by Charles Philipps, was provided to Deloitte as part of for the year ended 31 March 2017, the importance of the annual planning meeting.
staff continuity within the Deloitte GPE audit team was highlighted by both management and the Committee.
Areas covered by the review included: Deloitte also provided the Committee with a summary of the Financial Reporting Councils FRC AQRT findings from the calibre of the external audit rm, Deloitte including its Deloitte audits inspected in 2015 16.
This included how reputation, coverage and industry presence: areas recommended for improvement, identied on a small quality controls including review processes, partner number of the total audits reviewed, were being addressed.
oversight, reports on Deloitte from the Audit Quality It was also noted that the FRC had notied Deloitte that its Review Team AQRT and regulators, and use AQRT intended to review their audit les for GPEs March of specialists: 2017 audit as part of its 2017 annual review process.
the audit team covering quality of individuals, In addition to this process, as part of my taking on the knowledge, resources, partner involvement, team role of Chairman of the Audit Committee, I met with the rotation, the audit scope including planning and Deloitte Audit partner and director responsible for the audit execution, scope adequacy and specialist areas: in advance of the March planning meeting and separately audit fee reasonableness and scope changes: with them again before the year-end Audit Committee audit communications and effectiveness planning, meeting.
Looking ahead, I will continue to meet with the new developments regulations, approach to critical Deloitte team on a regular basis outside of the formal accounting policies, issues and risks, quality of Committee process.
processes, timely resolution of issues, freedom of communication with the Audit Committee and feedback on management performance: governance and independence internal governance arrangements, lines of communication with the Audit Committee, integrity of the audit team, Audit Committee confidence in the audit team and transparency: ethical standards including conicts of interest, non-audit work and partner rotation: and potential impairment of independence by non-audit fee income.
Overall, the Committee agreed that the audit process had been effective and it was noted that the subsidiary statutory reporting process and sustainability assurance process for the 2015 16 audit had improved.
Governance Annual Report 2017 98 Great Portland Estates Accountability Non-audit services Auditor and non-audit fees The auditor is responsible for the annual statutory audit and 2017 2016 2015 000s 000s 000s other services which the Audit Committee believe they are Audit fees 204 210 182 best placed to undertake due to their position as auditor Non-audit fees including the interim review 83 72 188 under the Groups policy for provision of non-audit services Ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees 41% 34% 103% by the external auditor available from the Companys Audit fees of joint ventures our share 28 28 38 website at www.
This year, following publication of the FRCs Revised Ethical In addition to ensuring compliance with the Groups policy Standards, we revisited the policy as part of the year-end in respect of non-audit services, the Audit Committee planning update.
This resulted in a number of changes also receives conrmation from Deloitte that it remains being made to the policy including reducing the scope of independent and has maintained internal safeguards to the potential provision of tax services and the introduction ensure its objectivity.
of a cap on non-audit services in any one year of70% of the statutory audit fee.
Auditor reappointment The revised policy was approved by the Board as part of Following a tender process, Deloitte has been the Groups its April 2017 Governance review.
As the purpose of this auditor since 2003.
It is a requirement that the audit partner policy is to ensure auditor independence and objectivity responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits is rotated ismaintained, under the policy, prior approval is required every five years and Richard Muschamp took responsibility by the Audit Committee for any non-statutory assignments as lead audit partner for the audit in June 2013.
In light of over 50,000, or where such an assignment would take the need for audit partner rotation for the year ending 2019, the cumulative total of non-audit fees paid to the external we agreed at the November 2016 Committee meeting that auditor over 50% of that years audit fees.
The appointment Deloitte would provide a list of potential candidates to take of Deloitte to undertake any non-audit services also requires over the lead audit partner role.
the prior approval of the Finance Director.
Nick Sanderson and our Head of Financial Reporting and During the year, and prior to adoption of the new Investor Relations met with a number of the candidates policy onthe provision of non-audit services, activities following which they provided their recommendations undertaken by the auditor for the Group outside of the to me.
In advance of the March 2017 planning meeting, mainaudit included: I met with the proposed candidates and, following these meetings, it was proposed, and approved by reporting on the income cover in connection with the the Committee, that Judith Tacon, who has significant debenture trust deed compliance certicate: experience in real estate, be appointed as the new audit advice on the tax legislation on property transactions: partner for the 2019 audit, subject to Deloittes continuing advice on the tax treatment of the 150 million satisfactory performance.
As part of Judiths induction, it is Convertible Bond: planned that she attend the Committee meetings for 2018 planning, half-year results and year-end results.
assurance on achievement against 2016 17 sustainability objectives and targets and energy consumption data: and Under the Companys interpretation of the transitional ad hoc accounting advice.
arrangements for mandatory audit rotation, the Company will be required to change auditor for the financial year Payments made by the Group for audit and non-audit fees ended 2024 and plans to complete a competitive tender for the year are disclosed on page 147.
The Groups audit process by this time.
Notwithstanding these requirements fees are presented to, discussed and approved by the Audit and current plans, the Committee will continue to consider Committee at the March planning meeting.
In addition, the need to tender the audit annually depending on the audit and non-audit fees paid to Deloitte in respect of joint auditors performance, taking into account the best interest ventures totalled 28,000 GPE share 2016: 27,500 and of shareholders.
The three-year average of nonaudit fees as a percentage of audit fees to the year ended 31 March 2017 as set out below is 57.6%.
Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 99 Having undertaken its review for this year, in the opinion Committee effectiveness of the Audit Committee, the relationship with the auditor Finally, although the formal review of the Committees is effective and the Committee remains satisfied with effectiveness is covered under the Board evaluation process their independence and effectiveness.
The Committee outlined in more detail on pages 92 and 93, coming new to has, therefore, recommended to the Board that Deloitte the Committee, I can report that the quality of discussion be reappointed as auditor at the 2017 Annual General and level of challenge by the Committee with management, Meeting.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the external audit team and the valuer, together with the theCompanys choice of external auditor.
timeliness and quality of papers received by the Committee, ensures the Committee is able to perform its role effectively.
The Company has complied during the year ended 31 March 2017, and up to the date of this report, with Nick Hampton the provisions of the Statutory Audit Services for Large Chairman of the Audit Committee 24 May 2017 Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Order 2014.
Our review of the need for an internal auditfunction Due to its size and structure, historically the Group has not had an internal audit function, a matter that is kept under review by the Committee.
Although there is no formal internal audit function, a rolling programme of review of key controls is conducted through a combination of the external audit process and reviews by members of the finance team and or external advisers as appropriate.
This year, following discussion at the March Audit Committee meeting and a review by management, it is proposed that an outsourced internal audit function be introduced with formal terms of reference to conduct regular annual reviews.
As PwC had previously undertaken an external review of the Groups financial controls and was considered to have provided a good service, following discussions with management and my meeting the Internal Audit Partner, Jill Emney, it was proposed to, and approved by the Audit Committee, that: PwC should be appointed to undertake the internal audit function providing the Company with access to specialist services as required throughout the financial year: and that Jill Emney, PwCs Risk Assurance Partner, should be appointed as Head of Internal Audit.
Governance Annual Report 2017 100 Great Portland Estates Accountability Internal controls and ongoing Fair, balanced and understandable a matter riskmanagement for the whole Board The Board recognises that it is responsible for maintaining The Directors statement on fair, balanced and and monitoring the Groups system of internal control and understandable is made on page 136.
When considering for reviewing its effectiveness, at least annually.
whether the 2017 Annual Report and financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide Such a system can only provide reasonable, and not information necessary for shareholders to assess the absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, Companys position, performance, business model and as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of strategy, the Board takes into account the following: failure to achieve business objectives.
the Chairman and Chief Executive provide input to and There are ongoing processes and procedures for agree on the overall messages and tone of the Annual identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks Report at an early stage: faced by the Group.
These processes and procedures individual sections of the Annual Report and financial were in place throughout the year under review and up to statements are drafted by appropriate Senior the date of the approval of the Annual Report, and accord Management, with regular review meetings to ensure with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Risk consistency of the whole document: Management, Internal Control and Related Financial and detailed reviews of appropriate draft sections of the Business Reporting.
Annual Report and financial statements are undertaken Key features of our system of internal control include: bythe Executive Directors: a final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee and the a comprehensive system of financial reporting and auditor on a timely basis to allow sufficient consideration business planning: and is discussed with the Finance Director and Senior a dened schedule of matters for decision by the Board, Management prior to consideration by the Board: and revisited by the Board at least annually: the Finance Director, in his May Board paper, includes an organisational structure with clearly dened levels a checklist of areas that the Board should take into ofauthority and division of responsibilities: consideration including successes and challenges when formal documentation procedures: reviewing the fairness, consistency and balance of the the close involvement of the Executive Directors final draft of the Annual Report and financial statements, in all aspects of day-to-day operations, including including whether the Board considers that there are any regular meetings with Senior Management to review omissions in information.
all operational aspects of the business and risk The Audit Committee reviews and reports to the Board management systems: on the Groups financial reporting, internal control and Board review of Group strategy including progress on the risk management systems and the independence and Groups development projects at each scheduled Board effectiveness of the auditor.
meeting: and formal sign-off on the Groups Ethics and Whistleblowing policies by all employees annually.
Twice a year, the Audit Committee carries out a review of the framework of the Groups risks and how they are managed through operational management procedures authorisations, ongoing review by the Executive Committee, and ongoing Board review and oversight of key controls.
The Audit Committee formally considers the scope and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and reports to the Board.
This involves the identication of property and financial market risks which may impact on the Groups objectives, together with the controls and reporting procedures designed to minimise those risks.
The risks and associated controls including business risks, financial controls, social, ethical and environmental issues and policy, and changes in the regulatory environment are reviewed, formalised and, if appropriate updated throughout the year.
A review is also carried out as to how the controls and reporting procedures have operated during the year.
Key risks to the business, how they have changed during the year and the processes in place to manage those risks are described in more detail on pages 66 to 75.
Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 101 What we did in 2016 17 2016 September 2016 Annual planning meeting Met with the valuers CBRE to consider the expected impact of the result of the EU referendum on GPEs upcoming 2016 September valuation and valuation process Met with the auditor Deloitte to review: November 2016 the effectiveness and independence of the auditor see pages 97 to 99 Review of half-year results significant accounting, reporting and judgement Met with CBRE to consider the September matters see page 96 2016 valuation Deloittes 2017 Audit Plan Met with Deloitte to review: the 2016 sustainability management letter their review of the September 2016 valuation significant accounting, reporting and judgement matters, including going concern see page 96 Group tax matters with the Head of Corporate Finance the principal risks, monitoring of internal March 2017 controls and risk management processes.
Agreement that the Head of IT and external consultants involved in review of the Groups IT Year-end planning update strategy should cover cyber risk at part of their Met with Deloitte, to review note: presentation to the January Board meeting significant accounting and key areas the half-year results announcement ofjudgement see page 96 the need for an internal audit function.
Other matters Agreement that Nick Sanderson should provide It was agreed that Deloitte should supply a list of a paper to the May Audit Committee meeting candidates in relation to the lead partner rotation in conjunction with PwC providing appropriate for the 2019 audit benchmarking data and a proposal for the scope of an internal controls review the need to review the Groups policy for provision of non-audit services by the auditor for which approval would be sought at the 2017 May 2017 Corporate Governance Board meeting the Audit Plan update including the proposed Review of year-end results level of audit materiality and level for reporting errors Met with CBRE to consider the March 2017 valuation see pages 32 and 33 the Ethics policy and Whistleblowing policy see page 95 Met with Deloitte to review: approve the 2017 audit fee see page 98 their review of the March 2017 valuation see pages 32 and 33 new accounting standards coming into force over the next few years including IFRS 9, IFRS 15 significant accounting, reporting and judgement and IFRS 16 matters including going concern see page 96 and approval of the appointment of Judith Group tax matters with the Head of Tacon as the Deloitte lead audit partner for Corporate Finance the 2019 audit the principal risks, monitoring of internal controls and risk management processes see pages 65 to 75 the Annual Report results announcement the Committees effectiveness relationship between the auditor and GPE management with feedback provided by Deloitte without management present audit retendering and reappointment of the auditor see pages 98 and 99 Other matters Decision taken to appoint an outsourced internal audit function see page 99 2017 Governance
