Annual Report 2017 54 Great Portland Estates The Board Non-Executive Director Executive Directors Senior Independent Director Martin Scicluna Toby Courtauld Charles Philipps Chairman Chief Executive ACA BCom MA, MRICS Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Member of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Executive Committee Chairman of the Nomination Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Chairman of Sustainability Committee Date appointed to the Board: Date appointed to the Board: October 2008 Date appointed to the Board: April 2014 April 2002 Independent: Yes, on appointment Independent: Yes Independent: No Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Chairman of RSA.
Formerly Non-Executive Skills and experience: Chief Executive officer of MS Amlin plc and Directorand Chairman of the Audit Committee Joined the Group in April 2002 as Chief formerly a director of NatWest Markets.
ofLloyds Banking Group following 34 years at Executive.
Previously with the property Age 58.
Deloitte, including Chairman from 1995 to company MEPC for 11 years, hegained Current external commitments: 2007.
Age 66. broadexperience ranging from portfolio Chief Executive officer of MS Amlin plc and management through tocorporate transactions Current external commitments: Executive officer of its parent company Mitsui and general management as a member of the Chairman of RSA plc, Non-Executive Director, Sumitomo Insurance, Trustee ofthe Outward Group ExecutiveCommittee.
Past President Senior Independent Director andChairman of BoundTrust.
the Audit Committee of WorldPay.
Current external commitments: Member of the British Property Federation Boardand Policy Committee, Director of TheNew West End Company, Non-Executive Director ofLiv-Ex Limited, Member ofthe Council of Imperial College.
Nick Sanderson Finance Director BA Hons, ACA Committee memberships: Member of the Executive Committee Chairman of the Health and Safety Committee Appointed to the Board: July 2011 Independent: No Skills and experience: Joined the Group in July 2011 as Finance Director.
Formerly Partner, Head of Real Estate Corporate Finance Advisory at Deloitte, following ten years of real estate investment banking experience in Europe and Asia with Nomura, Lehman Brothers and UBS Investment Bank.
Current external commitments: Member of the Finance Committee of the British Property Federation, Member ofthe Reporting & Accounting Committee of EPRA.
Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 55 Left to right: Martin Scicluna, Toby Courtauld, Nick Sanderson, Charles Philipps, Wendy Becker, Nick Hampton, Elizabeth Holden, Richard Mully, Jonathan Short.
Non-Executive Directors Wendy Becker Elizabeth Holden Jonathan Short BASc, MBA MA Hons BSc, ACIB, FRICS Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Date appointed to the Board: Date appointed to the Board: Date appointed to the Board: February 2017 September 2012 March 2007 Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Non-Executive Director of NHS England and Formerly a corporate partner at Slaughter and Founding Partner of Internos Global Investors Deputy Chair of Cancer Research UK.
Former May specialising in mergers and acquisitions, LLP, apan-European real estate investment Non-Executive Director of Whitbread PLC, corporate advisory and governance matters.
PreviouslyCEO of ChiefExecutive of Jack Wills Ltd and a partner Age 49.
Pramericas real estate private equity business of McKinsey & Company Inc. Age 51. following 16years in investment banking at Current external commitments: Lazard, Barings and SG Warburg.
Formerly Current external commitments: Non-Executive Director of YourLifespace Ltd aNon-Executive Director of Big Yellow Non-Executive Director of NHS England and and HML Holdings plc.
Deputy Chair of Cancer Research UK.
Current external commitments: Richard Mully Executive Chairman of Internos Global Nick Hampton BSc Hons, MBA InvestorsLLP and Deputy Chairman of MA Hons Committee memberships: Annington Limited Group.
Committee memberships: Member of the Audit Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Date appointed to the Board: Date appointed to the Board: December 2016 October 2016 Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Chief Financial officer of Tate & Lyle, 20 years Remuneration Committee of Aberdeen Asset with PespiCo in a number of financial, Management, Senior Independent Director commercial and operational roles.
Age 49. ofSt Modwen Properties and member of the Supervisory Board of Alstria Ofce REIT-AG.
Current external commitments: Formerly founder and Managing Partner of Chief Financial officer of Tate & Lyle.
Soros Real Estate Partners LLC and Senior Independent Director at ISG andHansteen Holdings.
Current external commitments: Non-Executive Director at Aberdeen Asset Management, Senior Independent Director at StModwen Properties and Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Alstria Ofce REIT-AG.
