Annual Report 2017 06 Great Portland Estates Why London?
Toby Courtauld explains why Great Portland Estates is 100% focused on the central London property market.
London has the largest economy of any city in Europe and generates around 22% of UK GDP.
It is one of the worlds leading commercial, creative and financial centres, and as its population increases to more than 10 million by 2030 from 8.6 million today, we can look forward to further growth over the longer term.
Its combination of a strong legal system, time zone advantages, international connectivity and a welcoming attitude to businesses from around the world has resulted in over a third of Fortune 500 companies We expect Londons commercial now having their global headquarters in London.
property market to remain cyclical, How would you with increased uncertainty describe Londons following the UKs referendum real estate market?
Central London has one of the worlds largest commercial real estate markets, with more than 238 million sq ft of ofce and retail property attracting a deep and diverse mix of occupiers and property investors, many from overseas.
Global businesses are attracted to London by its high calibre labour pool, with 1.7 million of Londons workforce employed in highly-skilled roles nearly 50% higher than New York, its nearest rival and London being home to 15 top ranked universities and business schools, more than any other global city.
Moreover, London was ranked the worlds second most popular tourist destination in 2016, supporting retailer demand for well located stores.
See our market section on pages 27 to 31 Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 07 Why is the majority What has been the What is the outlook of your portfolio in impact of the EU for London the West End?
With more than 390 million visitors a Despite the more uncertain economic Our leasing activity for the year year, the West End provides a unique backdrop following the EU referendum, demonstrates that tenant interest and diverse mix of commercial, Londons property market has proved is healthy for our brand of high retail, residential, cultural and tourist broadly resilient to date, although quality, well located sensibly priced attractions, drawing people and property valuations have fallen.
However, whilst the weight of businesses from around the world.
Whilst investment market activity was international capital looking to invest It isalso set to benefit from the opening muted in the months immediately in London remains high, we expect of Crossrail in late 2018, which is already before and after the vote, investment the uncertain political and economic acting as a catalyst for regeneration turnover was 13.1 billion in 2016, and environment to weigh on rental around the West End stations.
We own demand for high quality assets has levels across Londons commercial one of the largest commercial property remained robust, providing good property markets in the near term.
portfolios ofce and retail in the core liquidity for our profitable sales of Looking longer-term, we are optimistic West End, and with no two properties Rathbone Square, W1 and 73 89 that the capital will retain its status the same, our deep local knowledge Oxford Street, W1 during the year.
as one of only a handful of truly remains a key competitive advantage Occupational demand has also global cities.
remained stronger than expected with See our statement from the Chief Executive annual take-up of 12.3 million sq ft in on pages 25 and 26 See our portfolio on page 33 2016, close to the ten year average.
However, we expect Londons What are the commercial property market to remain cyclical, with increased uncertainty challenges of following the EU referendum.
operating in the Our 100% central London focus, disciplined approach and experienced West End?
team means we are well positioned Barriers to entry are high with around to capture the opportunities that this 70% of the core West End in a cyclicality creates.
We will ex our operational risk in tune with market conservation area and the planning environment continuing to tighten.
conditions, whilst always maintaining When combined with the West low levels of financial gearing.
Ends enduring appeal to occupiers, See how we create value on pages 8 to 9 available space remains in short supply.
Successfully navigating these barriers to development whilst delivering efficient and sustainable properties inattractive locations that meet tenants needs remains critical to profitable real estate activities.
See our relationships on pages 47 to 49 Strategic Report Overview
