Governance Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of Electrocomponents plc Company together with its subsidiary undertakings Group for the year ended 31 March 2017.
A summary of general disclosures incorporated in this Directors Report The following information required to be disclosed in this Directors Report is set out on the page numbers below: Page numbers: 1 Likely future developments 8 1 Policy on disability 29 1 Employee engagement 29 1 Greenhouse gas emissions 32 Names of Directors who served during the year 45 Results 81 Details of employee share schemes 60 and 61 Subsidiary and associated undertakings and branches 107 Financial risk management including hedging 113 1.
Information required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and included in the Strategic Report.
Information required to be disclosed in accordance with Listing Rule LR 9.8.
4R can be found in the following sections of this Annual Report: Section Page numbers: 4 LR 9.4.
3 Long Term Incentive Schemes 60 12 and 13 Shareholder waivers of dividends 102 Other than as set out above, there is no further applicable information to disclose in relation to LR 9.8.
The Company was authorised by shareholders at the Annual Results and dividends General Meeting AGM held on 20 July 2016 to purchase up to Results for the year are set out in the Group income statement on 5% of its ordinary share capital in the market.
An analysis of revenue and profit by hub is shown in Note not make use of this authority during the year.
This authority will 4 on pages 90 and 91.
The Directors have declared dividends as expire at the end of the 2017 AGM and the Company is proposing follows: a resolution to renew it for another year.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT TEAM TENURE Ordinary shares Directors indemnities Paid interim dividend of 5p per share In accordance with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 6 years paid on 11 January 2017 2016: 5p per share and the Companys Articles of Association Articles, the Company Proposed final dividend of 7.30p per share 2016: 6.75p entered into a deed in 2007 to indemnify the Directors and Officers to be paid on 26 July 2017 per share from time to time of the Company to the extent permitted by law.
Total ordinary dividend of 12.30p per share 2016: 11.75p A copy of this indemnity which remains in force as of the date on 2 for year ended 31 March 2017 per share which this report was approved is available at the registered office of the Company.
Share capital The Company purchased and maintained Directors and Officers Full details of share options and awards and shares issued under liability insurance throughout 2016, which was renewed for 2017. the terms of the Companys share incentive plans can be found in Neither the indemnity nor insurance provides cover in the event Note 8 to the accounts on pages 94 to 96. that a Director or Officer is proved to have acted fraudulently.
As at 31 March 2017, the Companys issued share capital comprised a single class of 441,345,168 ordinary shares of 10p each, totalling 44,134,516.80. www.
com Stock Code: ECM 39  Proof 2. indd 39 24 05 2017 16:58:52 25314.02-AR2017- Proof Two Directors Report taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant Financial instruments Deadlines for exercising voting rights audit information and to establish that the Auditor is aware of that For information on the Groups use of financial instruments, Voting rights may be exercised in person, by proxy or, in relation information.
including its financial risk management objectives and policies, to corporate members, by a corporate representative.
The Articles and the Groups exposure to certain financial risks, see Note 22 on Conflicts of interest provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than pages 113 to 124.
48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting The Companys Articles give the Board power to authorise or adjourned meeting.
situations that might give rise to Directors conflicts of interest.
Political contributions The Board has in place a formal conflicts of interest management Variation of rights In the year ended 31 March 2017 the Group made no political procedure.
The Board is responsible for considering whether donations or contributions.
Subject to the relevant law, the Articles specify that rights attached authorisation is required, and if it can be given, in relation to to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of Annual General Meeting new situations as they arise.
The Board reviews annually any the holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of conflict authorisations it has given and any limitations that have The Notice of the AGM is set out in a separate circular.
The AGM the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of a special been applied.
will be held at 10.30am on Thursday, 20 July 2017 at Linklaters resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of LLP, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ.
Important events since 31 March 2017 those shares.
Disclosure of information to Auditor There have been no important events affecting the Group since Transfer of shares 31 March 2017.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this All transfers of shares may be effected by transfer in writing in Directors Report each confirm that, so far as they are aware, there Company number any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to is no relevant audit information of which the Auditor is unaware: the Directors.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on Registered number: 647788. and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have behalf of the transferor and except in the case of fully paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
Transfers of shares which are in Substantial shareholders uncertificated form are effected by means of the CREST system.
In accordance with Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing and Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Company has been notified of the The Directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, in following interests in the voting rights of the Company: their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason, refuse Changes since year end to register any transfer of shares not being fully paid shares As at 31 March 2017 upto the date of this report provided that such discretion may not be exercised in such a way Nature of Number of Percentage Nature of Number of Percentage as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place interest shares held interest shares held on an open and proper basis.
Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its Group Indirect 70,560,238 15.99% No change The Directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer Silchester International Investors LLP Indirect 70,410,061 15.95% Indirect 57,367,320 12.99% of shares whether fully paid or not in favour of more than four Majedie Asset Management Ltd Indirect 22,070,869 5.02% No change persons jointly.
If the Directors refuse to register an allotment or Sprucegrove Investment Management Direct 22,025,563 5.00% No change transfer they shall, within two months after the date on which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company, send to Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Companys the allottee or transferee a notice of the refusal.
Voting rights current Articles and applicable English law concerning UK Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of Subject to statutes and applicable CREST rules, the Directors may companies the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act.
This is shares, at a general meeting, every member present in person and determine that any class of shares may be held in uncertificated a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the every duly appointed proxy has, upon a show of hands, one vote, form and that title to such shares may be transferred by means of Companies Act should be consulted if further information is required.
and on a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy the CREST system or that shares of any class should cease to be so Dividends and distributions has one vote for each share.
In the case of joint holders of a share, held and transferred.
the vote of the senior holder who tenders a vote, whether in person Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company may, A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the by ordinary resolution from time to time, declare dividends not Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a other joint holders.
For this purpose seniority shall be determined exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board transfer of shares to take place.
by the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members may pay interim dividends whenever the financial position of the in respect of the shares.
Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
The Appointment and replacement of Directors Board may withhold payment of all or part of any dividends or other Restrictions on voting Directors shall be no less than three and no more than twelve monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person in number.
A Director is not required to hold any shares of the No member shall be entitled to vote either in person or by proxy with a 0.25% interest as defined in the Articles if such a person Company by way of qualification.
The Company may by ordinary at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company resolution increase or reduce the maximum or minimum number held by him if any call or other sum then payable by him in respect with information concerning their interest in those shares required of Directors.
of that share remains unpaid.
In addition, no member shall be to be provided under the Companies Act.
entitled to vote if he has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2017 40  Proof 2. indd 40 24 05 2017 16:58:52 25314.02-AR2017- Proof Two Governance taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant Any Director who was elected or last re-elected a Director at or Deadlines for exercising voting rights audit information and to establish that the Auditor is aware of that before the AGM held in the third calendar year before the current Voting rights may be exercised in person, by proxy or, in relation information.
calendar year shall retire by rotation.
In addition, each Director to corporate members, by a corporate representative.
The Articles other than the Chairman and any Director holding an executive Conflicts of interest provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than office shall retire at each AGM following the ninth anniversary of 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting The Companys Articles give the Board power to authorise the date on which they were elected.
A retiring Director is eligible or adjourned meeting.
The Board has in place a formal conflicts of interest management Variation of rights The Board may appoint any person to be a Director so long as the procedure.
The Board is responsible for considering whether Subject to the relevant law, the Articles specify that rights attached total number of Directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in authorisation is required, and if it can be given, in relation to to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the Articles.
Any such Director shall hold office only until the next new situations as they arise.
The Board reviews annually any the holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of AGM and shall then be eligible for re-election.
conflict authorisations it has given and any limitations that have the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of a special been applied.
Powers of the Directors resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of Important events since 31 March 2017 those shares.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company will be There have been no important events affecting the Group since Transfer of shares managed by the Board, who may exercise all the powers of 31 March 2017.
All transfers of shares may be effected by transfer in writing in the Company.
Company number any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the Directors.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow Registered number: 647788. money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property behalf of the transferor and except in the case of fully paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
Transfers of shares which are in and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or Substantial shareholders uncertificated form are effected by means of the CREST system.
obligation of the Company or of any third party.
In accordance with Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing and Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Company has been notified of the The Directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, in following interests in the voting rights of the Company: Significant agreements: change of control their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason, refuse Changes since year end to register any transfer of shares not being fully paid shares All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a As at 31 March 2017 upto the date of this report provided that such discretion may not be exercised in such a way change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally Nature of Number of Percentage Nature of Number of Percentage as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the interest shares held interest shares held on an open and proper basis.
satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
There are Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its Group Indirect 70,560,238 15.99% No change no other significant agreements that take effect upon a change The Directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer Silchester International Investors LLP Indirect 70,410,061 15.95% Indirect 57,367,320 12.99% of control.
of shares whether fully paid or not in favour of more than four Majedie Asset Management Ltd Indirect 22,070,869 5.02% No change persons jointly.
If the Directors refuse to register an allotment or Amendment of Articles of Association Sprucegrove Investment Management Direct 22,025,563 5.00% No change transfer they shall, within two months after the date on which the Any amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made in letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company, send to accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act by way of the allottee or transferee a notice of the refusal.
A number of amendments are being proposed at Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of this years AGM and these are detailed in the Notice of Meeting.
Subject to statutes and applicable CREST rules, the Directors may shares, at a general meeting, every member present in person and determine that any class of shares may be held in uncertificated By order of the Board every duly appointed proxy has, upon a show of hands, one vote, form and that title to such shares may be transferred by means of and on a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy Ian Haslegrave the CREST system or that shares of any class should cease to be so has one vote for each share.
In the case of joint holders of a share, General Counsel and Company Secretary held and transferred.
the vote of the senior holder who tenders a vote, whether in person 23 May 2017 A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a other joint holders.
For this purpose seniority shall be determined transfer of shares to take place.
by the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members in respect of the shares.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Restrictions on voting Directors shall be no less than three and no more than twelve in number.
A Director is not required to hold any shares of the No member shall be entitled to vote either in person or by proxy Company by way of qualification.
The Company may by ordinary at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares resolution increase or reduce the maximum or minimum number held by him if any call or other sum then payable by him in respect of Directors.
In addition, no member shall be entitled to vote if he has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
