Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 65 Our approach to risk How the Board monitors the Groups The successful management of risk is principalrisks critical for the Group to deliver its strategic The Groups principal risks and the processes through which priorities.
Whilst the ultimate responsibility the Company aims to manage these risks are outlined on for risk management rests with the Board, pages 66 to 75.
Ongoing monitoring of our principal risks the effective day-to-day management of risk and controls by the Board is undertaken by: is integral in the way we do business and the relatively low levels of authority for transactions requiring culture of our team, where the attitude to Board approval see pages 84 and 85, with investment risk is that of collective responsibility.
transactions and development approvals requiring, amongst others, consideration of the impact on financial Our organisational structure, with close involvement of leverage, interest cover and portfolio risk composition: senior management in all significant decisions, combined the Executive Directors oversight of all day-towith our prudent and analytical approach, is designed to day significant decisions with a copy of the weekly align the Groups interests with those of shareholders.
Executive Committee minutes provided to the NonExecutive Directors: Setting and monitoring our risk appetite the Chief Executive reporting on the market conditions The Groups overarching risk appetite is set in the context dashboard, operational parameters and people at each that we focus on only one market that we know inside out ofthe scheduled Board meetings: central London.
We also operate out of a single head ofce within close proximity to all of our properties.
However, members of the Executive Committee providing a review because our market is cyclical, we apply a disciplined on the development programme, occupational markets approach to managing our operational risk, in particular and key property matters at each of the scheduled our development exposure, in tune with market conditions Board meetings: whilst always maintaining low financial risk through the Finance Director reporting on the Group forecasts conservative financial leverage.
including actual and prospective leverage metrics, the tenant watch list and delinquencies, and health and safety We use a suite of key operational parameters as an at each of the scheduled Board meetings: important tool to set and then measure the Groups risk prole.
These parameters consider, amongst others, the Senior Managers attending the Board and Audit Groups size, financial gearing, interest cover, level of Committees as appropriate to discuss specic risks either speculative and total development exposure, and single across the business, such as health and safety and cyber, asset concentration risk.
These parameters are revisited or relating to transactions: and annually as part of the Groups Strategy Review and the Audit Committee meeting with the valuers twice reviewed at each Board meeting.
Both the Groups actual a year to better understand market conditions and and forecast position over the next five years against these challenge the assumptions underlying the valuation.
Risk Assessment See our operational measures on pages 22 and 23 As part of a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, at the half year and year end, the Groups How we manage our risks principal risks including those that would threaten its We believe that effective management of risk is based on a business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity, top-down and bottom-up approach with inherent lines of the controls in place to mitigate them and how key controls defence outlined on page 66 which include: operated in the preceding six months were reviewed by our strategy setting process: the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee and the Board.
A description of the Groups principal risks, steps the quality of our people and culture: taken to mitigate those risks, together with an assessment established procedures and internal controls: of the impact and likelihood of each and how the risks have policies for highlighting and controlling risks: changed in the year is shown on pages 68 to 75. regular oversight by the relevant Committees: and a clear reading of market conditions and the cycle.
Given the market uncertainty following the EU referendum, in early September 2016 we held a series of lunchtime presentations for all employees based upon the risks disclosed in last years Annual Report and how the Executive Directors assessed the impact and likelihood of these risks had changed, along with actions that individual teams should take to address these changes.
Strategic Report Annual Review Annual Report 2017 66 Great Portland Estates Our approach to risk Board oversight of risk Board Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Executive Committee Operational Committee oversight Weekly Quarterly Development management Strategy update Asset management Health and Safety Investment management Development management review Financial management Asset management review Sustainability Policies for highlighting and controlling risk Third line of defence Investment return Debt leverage, Regular review Occupancy Development Leasing benchmarks covenant of business plans, targets appraisal objectives compliance and dashboard parameters andtenant liquidity limits lead indicators covenant testing and operational parameters Procedures and internal controls Second line of defence High level risk Strict approval Extensive Formal policies Dened External review Whistleblowing assessment requirements documentation and procedures performance of key controls policy framework to support consistently indicators with decisions applied sensitivity analysis People and culture First line of defence Focused Open Transparent Integrity in Interests Qualied and Conservative Analytical market communication disclosure with business aligned with experienced attitude rigour expertise stakeholders conduct shareholders personnel with to capital specic roles deployment Business risk Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 67 Our focus during the year Emerging risks With the more challenging market conditions as a result The risks identied on pages 68 to 75 are risks that impact of the uncertain economic environment following the EU us as of today.
However, we are also mindful that we need to referendum, the focus on our strategy and business model, consider other potential emerging principal risks in advance and the clear linkage back to overarching strategic priorities of them affecting us, including: and operational parameters, have been revisited at all of in designing our buildings, taking into account that how our scheduled Board meetings.
Three significant areas people use ofces may change over time together with identied for particular focus, and addressed in light of the impact of climate change.
We are considering both thisincreased uncertainty, have been: of these through our Disruption Project outlined more on the continued strong and pragmatic leasing activity across page 38: and our development and investment portfolios tenants becoming more fleet of foot and willing to move See more on pages 40 and 41 to new areas within central London where they perceive they will obtain greater value or where the buildings and continuing to crystallise profits through sales of 73 89 or the area appeal more to their employees.
With good Oxford Street and Rathbone Square transport being a big deciding factor in occupiers See more on pages 14 and 15, 18 and 19, and 34 and 35 decisions, in addition to the work we are doing looking at building design within the Disruption Project, we are reducing our financial risk with our leverage now at record well positioned with 85% of our buildings within walking low levels.
See more on pages 43, 45 and 46 This year, we have also amended our 2015 16 market risk of a potential economic downturn to a worsening macroeconomic environment for property investment toreect better the risk as it relates to GPE.
The key outputs from this process are Assessment of viability Viability statement financial forecasts, summarised in a Further sensitivity analysis was dashboard, which analyse profits, cash Assessment of the Groups prospects undertaken to ex the financial forecasts ows, funding requirements, key financial under a variety of macro-economic In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of ratios and headroom in respect of the scenarios, both positive and negative.
the 2014 Revision of the UK Corporate financial covenants contained in the The negative scenarios included stress Governance Code, the Board has Groups various loan arrangements.
testing the resilience of the Group, and assessed the prospects of the Group over The Strategy Review is considered by its business model, to the potential a longer period than the 12 months that the Board in early April and thereafter impact of the Groups principal risks, or has been required by the Going Concern the financial forecasts are updated and a combination of these risks.
This longer-term assessment presented for regular review by the the Board considered the impact of a supports the Boards statements on both Board.
For the year ended 31 March 2017, significant economic downturn leading viability, as set out below, and going following the result of the EU referendum to asset value declines: similar to the concern as set out on page 132. the Groups forecasts were updated market movements of 2008 9.
In addition, on a more frequent basis to reect the The Groups future prospects are a further reverse stress test was carried heightened levels of uncertainty.
assessed primarily through its annual out to understand how far property yields Strategy Review.
This review is led by the would need to rise, or rental values fall, The Groups financial forecasts contain a Chief Executive drawing on expertise before the Group was at risk of breaching number of assumptions, including: from across our integrated team.
the financial covenants contained in its estimated year-on-year movements in It includes an assessment of the macrovarious loan arrangements.
rental values and yields for each of our economic environment, forecasts of key The results of this sensitivity analysis key sub-markets: property market metrics including yields showed that the Group would be able to and rental value growth, annual valuation the renancing of the Groups debt withstand the impact of these scenarios progressions for each of its assets and facilities as they fall due within the over the period of the financial forecast.
full forecast financial statements for a forecast period: five-year period, with a primary focus Viability statement the completion of the Groups on the first three years.
The three-year committed development programme Whilst the directors have no reason to period is considered an optimum balance and the commencement of its nearbelieve that the Group will not be viable between our need to plan for the long term projects: over a longer period, based on this term and the shorter-term nature of our assessment of the prospects and viability the Group maintains its preference for active business model, which includes of the Group the directors confirm that low financial leverage: and high levels of recycling of our property they have a reasonable expectation that forecast interest rates.
portfolio and a committed development the Group will be able to continue in programme which completes over the operation and meet its liabilities as they nextnine months.
fall due over the three year period ending 31 March 2020.
Strategic Report Annual Review Annual Report 2017 68 Great Portland Estates Our approach to risk How we manage risk Market risk Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities How we monitor and manage risk Central London real estate Reduced relative The execution of the Groups strategy covering the key areas of investment, marketunderperforms other performance.
development and asset management is adjusted and updated throughout UKproperty sectors.
the year, informed by regular research into the economy, investment and occupational markets.
The Groups strategic priorities and transactions are considered in light of regular review of dashboard lead indicators and operational parameters.
The Group aims to maintain low financial leverage throughout the propertycycle.
Weakening macro-economic Property valuations Regular economic updates are received and scenario planning is undertaken environment for property may decline, with for different economic cycles, including various potential UK exit arrangements investment.
yields and reduced The Group aims to maintain low financial leverage throughout the propertycycle.
Heightened political uncertainty Reluctance by The Groups strategic priorities and transactions are considered in light and potential negative investors and oftheseuncertainties.
economic impact following occupiers to make The Groups financial forecasts and business plans continue to be prepared EUreferendum.
investment decisions under a variety of market scenarios, including to reect different potential exit whilst outcomes arrangements from the EU, with the frequency of updates increased following the remain uncertain referendum result.
and or reduced Lobbying property industry matters is undertaken by active participation attractiveness of oftheExecutive Committee members through relevant industry bodies.
London as a global commercial centre.
The Group has a diverse tenant base with around 11% in the financial service sector, including only c. 1% in the investment banking, securities trading and insurance sectors which are perceived to be most at risk in London to any adverseimpact of the UKs exit from the EU.
Investment management Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities How we monitor and manage risk Incorrect reading of the Not sufciently The Group has dedicated resources whose remit is to constantly research each of property cycle through poor capitalising on market the sub-markets within central London seeking the right balance of investment and investment decisions and or investment conditions.
development opportunities suitable for current and anticipated market conditions.
Regular review of property cycle by reference to dashboard of lead indicators.
Detailed due diligence is undertaken on all acquisitions prior to purchase to ensure appropriate returns.
Business plans are produced on an individual asset basis to ensure the appropriate rotation of those buildings with limited relative potential performance.
Regular review of the prospective performance of individual assets and their business plans including with joint venture partners where relevant.
Inappropriate asset Reduced liquidity Regular review of portfolio mix and asset concentration.
Adjustment of the concentration, building mix, and relative property portfolio as appropriate through undertaking acquisitions and or development tenant covenant quality and performance.
projects in joint venture or forward funding.
exposure, lot size and joint The Group has a diverse tenant base with its ten largest tenants representing only venture exposure.
Tenants covenants are analysed and security sought as appropriate as partof the lease approval process.
Regular contact with tenants is maintained to identify if tenants are suffering financial difficulties and theirproposed actions.
Crystallise profits through recycling Deliver development programme Drive rental growth Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 69 Likelihood Impact change change from last fromlast year year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary The central London real estate market underperformed the wider UK market during the year ended 31March2017, demonstrated by IPDs universe TPR exceeding IPDs central London by 79 basis points on an absolutebasis.
This is the first year of  since 2009, driven by central London ofce yield expansion immediately following the EU referendum, with rental levels also subsequently marginally falling resulting in property valuations falling.
The expectation of potential further rental declines over the next 12 months combined with the preceding seven years of outperformance means the likelihood of this risk after mitigation has marginally increased.
Our market on pages 27 to 31 The macro-economic growth and interest rate outlook has become more mixed over the last 12 months, in part driven by a more uncertain geo-political outlook associated with the EU referendum result, a number of recent and upcoming European elections including in the UK and the impact of the change in the US presidency.
When combined with continued stock market and increased foreign exchange market volatility, the likelihood of this risk has increased.
However, having sold 727.0 million of properties in the financial year the Groups financial strength, including a current pro forma loan to value of only 12.2%, means that it is well positioned.
Our market on pages 27 to 31 Although investor and occupier demand for London commercial property has remained broadly resilient since the EU referendum, the negotiations to leave the EU may result in arrangements that are damaging to the UK economy and or central London, further increasing the impact and likelihood of this risk from last year.
The negotiations together with the transition is expected to take several years, creating uncertainty which may impact investment, capital, financial and occupier markets.
In the long term, exit from the EU could reduce levels of investor and occupier demand as a result of reduced trade and relocation of corporations and financial institutions away from the UK.
These risks would likely be further increased by any additional impediments for Londons businesses to access talented employees from the EU and beyond.
Our market on pages 27 to 31 Likelihood Impact change change from last fromlast year year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary The Group has continued to profitably recycle capital against abackdrop ofasurfeit of buyers tosellers in the investment market, with sales totalling 727.0 million in the year.
71.0 million of bolt-on, off-market acquisitions secured during year and lack of available stock mitigated by depth of opportunity in currentportfolio with 40% in the future development pipeline.
However, the prevailing market uncertainty has increased the likelihood of this risk.
Case studies on pages 14 and 15, and 18 and 19 Investment management operational measures on page 34 Our market on pages 27 to 31 Investment management on pages 34 and 35 The Group continues to monitor its portfolio mix and asset concentration risk.
Following our sale of Rathbone Square, W1, our largest asset is now only 8.4% of thetotalportfolio and 18.0% of the portfolio was held in joint ventures at 31 March 2017.
Valuation on pages 32 and 33 2017 2016 Strategic Report Annual Review Annual Report 2017 70 Great Portland Estates Our approach to risk How we manage risk Asset management Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities How we monitor and manage risk Poor management of voids, Failure to maximise The Groups in-house asset management and leasing teams proactively manage rentalmis-pricing, low tenant income from tenants to ensure changing needs are met with a focus on retaining income in retention, sub-optimal rent investment properties.
light of vacant possession requirements for refurbishments and developments reviews, tenant failures and and liaise regularly with external advisers to ensure correct pricing of lease inappropriate refurbishments.
Tenants covenants are analysed and security sought as appropriate as part of the lease approval process.
Regular contact with tenants is maintained to identify if tenants are suffering financial difficulties and their proposed actions.
Although many tenants all-in occupational costs will increase in 2017 given the increase in business rates, our low average ofce rents ofonly 50.10 per sq ft are expected to provide some protection to our tenants.
Development management Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities How we monitor and manage risk An inappropriate level of Underperformance Regular review of the level of development undertaken as a percentage of development undertaken as againstKPIs.
portfolio, including the impact on the Groups income prole and financial apercentage of the portfolio.
Developments only committed to when pre-lets obtained and or market demand and supply considered to be sufciently supportive.
Poor execution of development Poor development See Market risk on page 68. programme through: returns.
Prior to committing to a development the Group conducts a detailed Financial incorrect reading of the and Operational appraisal process which evaluates the expected returns from property cycle: a development in light of likely risks.
During the course of a development, the actual costs and estimated returns are regularly monitored to signpost prompt inappropriate location: decisions on project management, leasingand ownership.
failure to gain viable Early engagement and strong relationships with planning authorities.
planningconsents: Early engagement with adjoining owners.
failure to reach agreement with adjoining owners on Benchmarking of costs with comparative schemes.
acceptableterms: In-house Project Management team utilise appropriate procurement methods to level of speculative optimise the balance of price certainty and risk with construction costs now xed development: on over 98% of committed schemes capital expenditure.
incorrect cost estimation: Internal and external resourcing requirements regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee, Development Director and Head of Projects.
Third party construction cost ination: resource expertise used to support in-house teams, whereappropriate.
contractor availability and Due diligence is undertaken of the financial stability of demolition, main insolvency risk: contractors and material sub-contractors prior to awarding of contracts.
insufficient human resources: Working with agents, potential occupiers and purchasers needs and aspirations a building being inappropriate are identied during the planning application and design stages.
totenant demand: In-house Leasing Marketing team liaise with external advisers on a regular weak demand for residential basis and marketing timetables designed in accordance with leasing marketing apartments: objectives.
quality and benchmarks of the All our major developments are subject to BREEAM ratings with a target to completed buildings: achieve a rating of Very Good on major refurbishments and Excellent on new construction and procurement build properties.
delays: Proactive liaison with existing tenants before and during the ineffective marketing to developmentprocess.
prospective tenants: and Selection of contractors and suppliers based on track record of delivery andcreditworthiness.
In-house Project Management team closely monitor construction and manage contractors to ensure adequate resourcing to meet programme.
Regular review of the prospective performance of individual assets and their business plans with joint venture partners.
Post-completion reviews undertaken on all developments to identify best practice and areas for improvement.
Crystallise profits through recycling Deliver development programme Drive rental growth Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 71 Likelihood Impact change change from last fromlast year year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary The Group continues to maintain a relatively low void rate which was 6.8% at 31March2017, up from 3.1% a year ago given recent development and refurbishment completions.
No tenantdelinquencies during theyearto 31 March 2017.
The Group continues to actively manage the portfolio to maximise occupancy and drive rental growth.
During the year, we secured 20.5 million of new rental income including 8.3million ofdevelopment lettings.
However, given that our vacancy rate, along with the overall vacancy rate across the central London ofce market, has increased by 3.7% over the last year to 6.8% and the market uncertainty, the likelihood of this risk has risen.
Case studies on pages 12 to 21 Asset management operational measures on page 40 Asset management on pages 40 and 41 Our approach to sustainability on page 58 Likelihood Impact change change from last fromlast year year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary The Groups committed development exposure has reduced signicantly over the year, from 26% of the total portfolio 12 months ago to only 12% at 31 March 2017, with only 34.8% being on speculative basis.
As a result, the impact of this risk has fallen.
Case study on pages 20 and 21 Development management on pages 36 to 39 The Groups development exposure has signicantly decreased since 31 March 2016 following four scheme completions and the profitable forward sales of pre-let schemes at 73 89 Oxford Street, W1 and Rathbone Square, W1.
The Group currently has only three schemes on-site with a combined GDV 414.8 million which are already 65.2% fide-risked through residential unit pre-sales and with capex to come of only 44.5million.
Whilst the Groups committed development exposure has reduced signicantly during the year, the more uncertain market conditions mean the risk likelihood after mitigation is unchanged.
Case study on pages 20 and 21 Development management operational measures on page 36 Development management on pages 36 to 39 Our approach to sustainability on page 58 2017 2016 Strategic Report Annual Review Annual Report 2017 72 Great Portland Estates Our approach to risk How we manage risk Financial risks Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities How we monitor and manage risk Limited availability of Growth of business is Cash ow and funding needs are regularly monitored to ensure sufficient furthercapital.
constrained or unable undrawn facilities are in place.
to execute business Funding maturities are managed across the short, medium and long term.
The Groups funding measures are diversied across a range of bank and bond markets.
Strict counterparty limits are operated on deposits.
Increased interest rates and or a Adverse market Consistent policy of conservative financial leverage.
movements negatively Regular review of current and forecast debt levels and nancing ratios under impact on debt various market scenarios.
Our annual Business Plan which is regularly updated includes stress tests considering the impact of a significant deterioration in the markets in which we operate.
Formal policy to manage interest rate exposure by having a high proportion ofdebt with xed or capped interest rates through derivatives.
significant headroom over all financial covenants at 31 March 2017.
We estimate that, absent any mitigating management actions, values could fall by around 62% from their 31 March 2017 levels before Group debt covenants could be endangered.
Sub-optimal NAV per Regular review of current and forecast capital requirements and gearing levels share growth.
People Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities How we monitor and manage risk Incorrect level and mix retention Strategic priorities Regular review is undertaken of the Groups resource requirements and of people to execute our notachieved.
business plan, combined with The Group has a remuneration system that is strongly linked to performance inability to attract, develop, anda formal six-monthly appraisal system to provide regular assessment of motivate and retain talent.
Benchmarking of remuneration packages of all employees is undertakenannually.
Annual personal development planning and ongoing training support for all employees together with focused initiatives to nurture potential successors.
Focus on people engagement with regular two-way communication and responsive employee-focused activities e. g. exible working.
High prole, attractive development pipeline and high quality assets to manage.
Crystallise profits through recycling Deliver development programme Drive rental growth Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 73 Likelihood Impact change change from last fromlast year year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary The Group has continued to extend the maturity ladder of its debt nancing and maintain diverse funding sources.
During the year, the Group extended the maturity of its 450 million revolving credit facility to October 2021 and raised 175 million of seven year private placement notes.
Asa result, the Groups weighted average debt maturity has increased to 6.4 years.
Cash and undrawn credit facilities were 378 million at 31 March 2017 and committed capex to come has fallen from 269.9 million 12 months ago to 44.5 million today.
Our capital discipline on pages 45 and 46 Our financial results on pages 42 to 44 Notes 16 and 17 forming part of the Group financial statements on pages 156 to 160 Having delivered seven years of like-for-like positive property valuation growth, this years decline of 4.9% may reect the market cycle inection point and over the next 12months we expect rental growth to be at to marginally down along with modest yield expansion for secondary properties.
Whilst broader economic and political uncertainties have kept global interest rates at very low levels, there remains an expectation of increases in UK interest rates in the medium-term given increased ination and increasing US interest rates.
However, this risk likelihood after mitigation is unchanged given our significant headroom against debt covenants and 100% of the Groups debt being at xed or hedged interest rates.
Our capital discipline operational measures on page 45 Our capital discipline on pages 45 and 46 Our financial results on pages 42 to 44 Notes 16 and 17 forming part of the Group financial statements on pages 156 to 160 The Groups existing capital structure is well placed to take advantage of opportunities as they arise and to deliver our remaining development commitments.
Our capital discipline on pages 45 and 46 Our financial results on pages 42 to 44 Likelihood Impact change change from last fromlast year year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary The motivation of our people remains fundamental to the delivery .
However, staff retention is high at 89% and 96% of participants in our inaugural employee engagement survey stated that they would recommend GPE as a great place to work.
The risk likelihood after mitigation is unchanged overthe year with our new Investment Director and Portfolio Director both settling in well, combined with various successful HRinitiatives.
Our culture and people operational measures on page 50 Our culture and people on pages 50 to 57 Remuneration report on pages 104 to 130 2017 2016 Strategic Report Annual Review Annual Report 2017 74 Great Portland Estates Our approach to risk How we manage risk Regulatory Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities How we monitor and manage risk Adverse regulatory risk, including Reduces exibility and Senior Group representatives spend considerable time, using experienced tax, planning, environmental may influence potential advisers as appropriate, to ensure compliance with current and potential andother legislation increases investor and occupier futureregulations.
Lobbying property industry matters is undertaken by active participation of the Executive Directors through relevant industry bodies.
Environmental Policy Committee meets at least quarterly to consider strategy in respect of environmental legislation.
We maintain a low-risk tax status and have regular meetings with HMRC.
Resultant reputational The Group has dedicated Health and Safety personnel to oversee the Groups Loss of life or injury to employees, damage.
management systems which include regular risk assessments and annual contractors, members of the audits to proactively address key Health and Safety areas including employee, public or tenants.
contractor, members of the public and tenant safety.
On all construction projects, the Group operates a pre-qualication process toensure selection of competent consultants and contractors which includes aHealth and Safety assessment.
Contractors responses to accidents and near misses are actively monitored and followed up by our Project Managers and Head of Sustainability, with reporting to the Executive Committee and Board as appropriate.
Business interruption risk Link to strategic Risk Impact priorities How we monitor and manage risk An external event such as a significant damage, The Group has a Business Continuity Plan with predetermined processes and power shortage, extreme disruption and or escalation for the Crisis Management Team.
Asset emergency plans exist for weather, environmental incident, reputational damage individual properties.
civil unrest or terrorist or to the Groups portfolio Physical security measures are in place at properties and security threats are cyber attack that signicantly andoperations.
regularly assessed through links with security agencies.
affects the Groups operations, Regular testing of IT security is undertaken, the Groups data is regularly backed particularly given our portfolio up and replicated, and staff awareness training on cyber risk was undertaken concentration in centralLondon.
during the year by all employees.
The Groups insurance policies include cover for catastrophic events including re, storm, riots and terrorism.
Cyber risk insurance is being evaluated.
Crystallise profits through recycling Deliver development programme Drive rental growth Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 75 Likelihood Impact change change from last fromlast year year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary In addition to the significant regulatory and tax uncertainty associated with the UKs exit from the EU, the June 2017 general election may result in further tax changes which adversely impact the property sector, along with the upcoming implementation of the Base Erosion and profit Shifting legislation and the transition to higher business rates.
We are closely monitoring whether recent changes in the political leadership of Westminster City Council impacts any existing planning policy and or procedures.
Our market on pages 27 to 31 Property industry representation on pages 54 to 57 Sustainability on pages 58 to 64 With reduced levels of development activity, the likelihood of this risk marginally fell overthe year.
The Group had no reportable accidents and no reportable incidents during the year.
Health and safety on page 64 Likelihood Impact change change from last fromlast year year Likelihood after mitigation Commentary The likelihood of this risk has increased given the increased terrorism threat in London given recent events and the elevated prole of cyber security threats.
