Governance Report Directors and Management Members of the Board come from a broad variety of backgrounds.
The Board can draw on a very extensive pool of knowledge and experience.
Directors JPHS Scott Professor JA Kay John Scott, the Chairman, is a former international John Kay has a distinguished record as an economist, investment banker.
John was appointed a Director in 2001 academic, author and commentator on business, government and became Chairman on 31 December 2009.
He is also and economic issues.
John was appointed a Director in 2008.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He is a former executive He is a fellow of St Johns College, University of Oxford and director of Lazard Brothers & Co. Limited.
During his twenty Investment Officer of the College and he is a director of Value and years with Lazard, he was involved with the merchant banks Income Trust PLC.
corporate advisory activities and its Asian businesses.
He is currently Chairman of Impax Environmental Markets plc and Alpha Insurance Analysts Limited, as well as being a director of various companies including Bluefield Solar Income Fund Limited and CC Japan Income & Growth Trust plc.
LJ Dowley Professor PH Maxwell Justin Dowley is a former international investment banker Patrick Maxwell is the Regius Professor of Physic and Head and was appointed a Director in September 2015.
He qualified of the School of Clinical Medicine at Cambridge University.
He as a chartered accountant at Price Waterhouse in 1980. was appointed a Director on 1 April 2016.
Patrick has extensive Subsequently he was a director of Morgan Grenfell & Co. Limited, knowledge and experience of the biotechnology sector and holds Head of Investment Banking at Merrill Lynch Europe and a a Wellcome Trust senior investigator award for his research on founder partner of Tricorn Partners LLP.
Formerly the Chairman of oxygen sensing.
He was elected a Fellow of the Academy of Intermediate Capital Group plc he is currently a non-executive Medical Sciences in 2005.
He is currently a director of the Global director of Melrose Industries plc, Novae Group plc and a number Medical Excellence Cluster GMEC and a member of the boards of private companies.
of MedCity, Cambridge University Health Partners CUHP and Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 25 Governance Report Directors Managers and Secretaries The Company has appointed Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Baillie Gifford & Co, as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager and Company Secretary.
Baillie Gifford & Co Limited has delegated portfolio management services to Baillie Gifford & Co. Baillie Gifford & Co is an investment management firm formed in 1927 out of the legal firm Baillie & Gifford, WS, which had been Managers and Secretaries to the Company since its formation in 1909.
Baillie Gifford is one of the largest investment trust managers in the UK and currently manages seven investment trusts.
Baillie FC McBain Gifford also manages unit trusts and open ended investment Fiona McBain is the former chief executive of Scottish companies, together with investment portfolios on behalf of Friendly Assurance, a mutually owned financial services pension funds, charities and other institutional clients, both in the group with over 1,000,000 policyholders.
Fiona was appointed UK and overseas.
Funds under the management or advice of a Director in 2009.
Before joining Scottish Friendly in 1998, Fiona, Baillie Gifford total around 163 billion.
Based in Edinburgh, it is a chartered accountant, was employed by Prudential plc and one of the leading privately owned investment management firms Arthur Young now Ernst & Young where she spent some time in the UK, with 43 partners and a staff of around 970. working across a number of industry sectors, both in the UK and The Managers of Scottish Mortgages portfolio are James in the United States.
She is also a trustee of Save the Children UK Anderson and Tom Slater.
James Anderson is a partner of Baillie and non-executive director of the Humanitarian Leadership Gifford & Co and Head of the Long Term Global Growth team.
Academy and Dixons Carphone plc.
Tom Slater is also a partner and Head of the North American equities team.
Baillie Gifford & Co and Baillie Gifford & Co Limited are both authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Dr P Subacchi Paola Subacchi is an economist, writer and commentator on the functioning and governance of the international financial and monetary system.
Paola was appointed to the Board in 2014.
She is the author of The Peoples Money: How China is building a global currency Columbia University Press, 2017.
She is a senior fellow at Chatham House, visiting professor at the University of Bologna, a governor of St Marylebone School in London and an advisory member of Wilton Park FCO.
An Italian national, she studied at Universit Bocconi in Milan and at the University of Oxford.
In 2016 she was awarded the honour Cavaliere della Stella dItalia.
All Directors are members of the Nomination and Audit Committees.
