Governance Report Directors Report The Directors present their Report together with the Financial Mr JPHS Scott will retire at the Annual General Meeting and will Statements of the Company for the year to 31 March 2017. not offer himself for re-election.
All other Directors will retire at the Annual General Meeting and Corporate Governance offer themselves for re-election.
The Corporate Governance Report is set out on pages 30 to 32 Following a formal performance evaluation the Board considers and forms part of this Report.
that the performance of the Directors continues to be effective Manager and Company Secretaries and each remains committed to the Company.
Their contribution Baillie Gifford & Co Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Baillie to the Board is greatly valued and the Board recommends their Gifford & Co, has been appointed as the Companys Alternative re-election to shareholders.
Investment Fund Manager AIFM and Company Secretaries.
Director Indemnification and Insurance Baillie Gifford & Co Limited has delegated portfolio management The Company has entered into qualifying third party deeds of services to Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Investment Management indemnity in favour of each of its Directors.
The deeds cover any Agreement sets out the matters over which the Managers have liabilities that may arise to a third party, other than the Company, authority in accordance with the policies and directions of, and for negligence, default or breach of trust or duty.
The Directors are subject to restrictions imposed by, the Board.
The Investment not indemnified in respect of liabilities to the Company, any Management Agreement is terminable on not less than six months regulatory or criminal fines, any costs incurred in connection with notice.
The annual management fee for the year to 31 March 2017 criminal proceedings in which the Director is convicted or civil was 0.30% of total assets less current liabilities excluding short proceedings brought by the Company in which judgement is term borrowings for investment purposes.
With effect from 1 April given against him or her.
In addition, the indemnity does not apply 2017 the annual management fee is 0.30% on the first 4 billion of to any liability to the extent that it is recovered from another total assets less current liabilities excluding short term borrowings person.
The indemnities were in force during the year to 31 March for investment purposes and 0.25% thereafter.
2017 and up to the date of approval of this report.
Careful consideration has been given by the Board as to the basis The Company maintains Directors and Officers Liability Insurance.
on which the management fee is charged.
The Board considers that maintaining a low ongoing charges ratio is in the best Conflicts of Interest interests of all shareholders as lower costs mean higher returns, Each Director submits a list of potential conflicts of interest to the particularly when compounded over long periods.
The Board is Nomination Committee on an annual basis.
The Committee also of the view that calculating the fee with reference to considers these carefully, taking into account the circumstances performance would be unlikely to exert a positive influence over surrounding them and makes a recommendation to the Board on the long term performance.
whether or not the potential conflicts should be authorised.
Board The Board as a whole fulfils the functions of the Management authorisation is for a period of one year.
Having considered the Engagement Committee.
The Board considers the Companys lists of potential conflicts there were no situations which gave rise investment management and secretarial arrangements on a to a direct or indirect interest of a Director which conflicted with continuing basis and a formal review is conducted at least annually.
the interests of the Company.
The Board considers, amongst others, the following topics in its Dividends review: the quality of the personnel assigned to handle the Companys affairs, the investment process and the results achieved The Board recommends a final dividend of 1.61p per ordinary to date, the administrative services provided by the Secretaries and share which, together with the interim dividend of 1.39p per the marketing efforts undertaken by the Managers.
Following the ordinary share already paid, makes a total of 3.00p for the year most recent review and the good performance particularly over the compared with 2.96p per ordinary share for the previous year.
long term, it is the opinion of the Directors that the continuing If approved, the recommended final dividend on the ordinary appointment of Baillie Gifford & Co Limited as Alternative shares will be paid on 3 July 2017 to shareholders on the register Investment Fund Manager and the delegation of investment at the close of business on 9 June 2017.
The ex-dividend date is management services to Baillie Gifford & Co, on the terms agreed, 8 June 2017. is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
The Companys Registrars offer a Dividend Reinvestment Plan Depositary see page 65 and the final date for elections for this dividend is In accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers 12 June 2017.
Directive BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited has been Share Capital appointed Depositary to the Company.
Capital Structure The Depositarys responsibilities include cash monitoring, The Companys capital structure as at 31 March 2017 consists of safe keeping of the Companys financial instruments, verifying 1,421,730,880 ordinary shares of 5p each, of which ownership and maintaining a record of other assets and 1,358,569,485 are allotted and fully paid and 63,161,395 are held monitoring the Companys compliance with investment limits and in treasury.
There are no restrictions concerning the holding or leverage requirements.
The Depositary has delegated the custody transfer of the Companys ordinary shares and there are no function to The Bank of New York Mellon SA NV the Custodian.
special rights attached to any of the shares.
Directors Information about the Directors, including their relevant experience, can be found on pages 25 and 26.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 27 Governance Report Dividends Annual General Meeting The ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends.
Interim Resolution 12 Authority to allot shares dividends are determined by the Directors, whereas the proposed Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 provides that the final dividend is subject to shareholder approval.
Directors may not allot new shares without shareholder approval.
Resolution 12 seeks to renew the Directors authority to allot Capital Entitlement shares up to a maximum amount of 6,861,847.40, representing On a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the approximately 10 per cent.
of the Companys total issued ordinary surplus assets will be paid to ordinary shareholders in proportion share capital excluding treasury shares as at 11 May 2017, being to their shareholdings.
the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document.
Voting The Directors presently intend to exercise this power only once the Each ordinary shareholder present in person or by proxy is number of shares held by the Company in treasury is not sufficient entitled to one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to one to support share issuance by the Company in accordance with its vote for every share held.
As at 11 May 2017, the Company held 49,361,395 Ordinary Shares in treasury, representing approximately Information on the deadlines for proxy appointments can be found pages 63 and 64.
of the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury shares as at 11 May 2017, being the latest practicable Major Interests Disclosed in the Companys Shares date prior to publication of this document.
The authority will expire on 29 September 2018 or, if earlier, at the end of the Annual No.
of ordinary 5p shares held General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2018, unless at 31 March % of previously cancelled or varied by the Company in general meeting.
Name 2017 issue Resolution 13 Disapplication of pre-emption rights BlackRock Inc Indirect 127,945,039 9.4 Resolution 13, which is being proposed as a special resolution, D. C. Thomson & Company Limited Direct 50,005,000 3.7 seeks to renew the Directors authority to allot equity securities, or Investec Wealth & Investment Limited Indirect 40,646,265 3.0 sell treasury shares, for cash without having to offer such shares to existing Shareholders pro-rata to their existing holdings, up to a There have been no changes to the major interests in the Companys total nominal amount of 6,861,847.40, representing shares disclosed to the Company up to 11 May 2017. approximately 10 per cent.
of the Companys total issued Ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares.
Ordinary Share capital as at 11 May 2017, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document.
Share Issuances and Share Buy-backs At the last Annual General Meeting the Directors were granted The Directors consider that the authority proposed to be granted by Resolution 13 continues to be advantageous when the power to allot equity securities or sell ordinary shares held in treasury for cash up to a maximum nominal amount of Companys shares trade at a premium to net asset value and the level of natural liquidity in the market is unable to meet demand.
The Directors do not intend to use this authority to sell or issue During the year to 31 March 2017 the Company sold 53,050,000 Ordinary Shares on a non-pre-emptive basis at a discount to net shares from treasury on a non-pre-emptive basis nominal value asset value on the basis of debt valued at fair value.
The attention 2,653,000, representing 4.0% of the called up share capital, of Shareholders is drawn to information set out under Resolution excluding treasury shares, at 31 March 2016 at a premium to net 14 below.
asset value on the basis of debt valued at fair value on 61 separate occasions at an average price of 326.47 pence per While the level of the authority being sought is greater than the 5 per cent.
recommended by the Pre-Emption Group in their share raising net proceeds of 174,550,000.
At 31 March 2017 the Company held 63,161,395 treasury shares.
Between 1 April Statement of Principles on disapplying pre-emption rights, it is specifically recognised in the Statement of Principles that, where an and 11 May 2017 the Company sold a further 13,800,000 shares from treasury raising proceeds of 51,383,000. investment trust is seeking authority to issue shares at a premium to the underlying net asset value per share, this should not normally During the year to 31 March 2017 the Company bought back raise concerns and the Directors consider the greater flexibility 7,005,000 ordinary shares nominal value 350,000 representing provided by this authority to be justified in the circumstances.
0.5% of the called up share capital, excluding treasury shares, at 31 March 2016, on the London Stock Exchange, all of which Resolution 14 Authority to issue shares at a discount to were added to shares held in treasury.
The total consideration for net asset value these shares was 19,558,000.
Between 1 April and 11 May As noted above, the Directors do not intend to sell Ordinary 2017 no further shares were bought back into treasury.
Shares held in treasury or to issue new Ordinary Shares on a non-pre-emptive basis at a discount to net asset value on the The Directors will again be seeking authorities at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to buy back shares and to sell shares basis of debt valued at fair value.
The Directors are aware that LR 15.4.
11 of the Listing Rules prohibits the issue of Ordinary Shares held in treasury and allot new shares at a premium to the net asset value per share with debt valued at a fair value.
Details of including Ordinary Shares held in treasury for cash at a price below the net asset value per share of those shares without such these resolutions are set out below.
shares first being offered to existing Shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
28 Annual Report 2017 Governance Report It is a general market understanding in this context that net asset The Directors intend that this authority, if conferred, will be value is determined on the basis of debt valued at fair value, but, exercised only if to do so would result in an increase in net asset for the purposes of LR 15.4.
11, the term net asset value is not value per Ordinary Share for the remaining Shareholders and if it specifically defined.
As a result, having regard to guidance is in the best interest of Shareholders generally.
previously received from the UKLA and consistent with the Recommendation approach adopted last year, the Directors wish to ensure that any The Board considers that all the Resolutions to be proposed at sale of Ordinary Shares held in treasury or issue of new Ordinary the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Shares will not result in an inadvertent breach of the Listing Rules Company and its Shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the by virtue of the UKLA determining that net asset value should be Board unanimously recommends that you vote in favour of all of calculated on the basis of debt valued at par value.
Resolution 14 the Resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their seeks to renew the authority granted to the Company at the 2016 own beneficial shareholdings which amount in aggregate to Annual General Meeting to issue shares at a discount to net asset 522,658 shares, representing 0.04% of the current issued share value, in order to continue to protect against any such inadvertent capital of the Company.
The Directors wish to reiterate that they will in no circumstances seek to issue Ordinary Shares including Ordinary Financial Instruments Shares held in treasury for cash at a price below the net asset The Companys financial instruments comprise its investment value per share on the basis of debt valued at fair value.
portfolio, cash balances, bank borrowings and debtors and creditors that arise directly from its operations such as sales and Resolution 15 Market purchase of own shares by the purchases awaiting settlement and accrued income.
The financial Company risk management objectives and policies arising from its financial The Directors are seeking Shareholders approval by way of a instruments and the exposure of the Company to risk are Special Resolution at the Annual General Meeting to renew the disclosed in note 19 to the accounts.
authority to purchase up to 14.99 per cent.
of the Ordinary Shares in issue excluding treasury shares as at 11 May 2017, Articles of Association being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by document or, if less, up to 14.99 per cent.
of the Ordinary Shares special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
in issue excluding treasury shares on the date on which the Resolution is passed.
This authority will expire at the end of the Disclosure of Information to Auditors Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2018.
Such The Directors confirm that, so far as each of the Directors is purchases will only be made at a discount to the prevailing net aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the asset value.
The Company may hold bought back shares in Companys Auditor is unaware and the Directors have taken all treasury and then: the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to a sell such shares or any of them for cash or its equivalent make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to under the Companies Act 2006 : or establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
b cancel such shares or any of them.
Independent Auditor Shares will only be re-sold from treasury at or at a premium to The Auditor, KPMG LLP, is willing to continue in office and, the net asset value per ordinary share on the basis of debt valued in accordance with section 489 and section 491 1 of the at fair value, in accordance with Resolution 14.
Companies Act 2006, resolutions concerning KPMG LLPs reappointment and remuneration will be submitted to the Annual Treasury shares do not receive distributions and the Company will General Meeting.
not be entitled to exercise the voting rights attaching to them.
Under the Listing Rules, the maximum price exclusive of Post Balance Sheet Events expenses that may be paid on the exercise of the authority shall The Directors confirm that there have been no post Balance be an amount equal to the higher of: Sheet events up to 12 May 2017 see note 20 on page 61. i 5 per cent.
above the average closing price on the London Greenhouse Gas Emissions Stock Exchange of an Ordinary Share over the five business All of the Companys activities are outsourced to third parties.
The days immediately preceding the date of the purchase: and Company therefore has no greenhouse gas emissions to report ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the from its operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other highest current independent bid as stipulated by Article 5 1 of emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Commission Regulation EC 22 December 2003 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013. implementing the Market Abuse Directive as regards Bribery Act exemptions for buy back programmes and stabilisation of The Company has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and is financial instruments No.
2273 2003. committed to carrying out business fairly, honestly and openly.
The minimum price again exclusive of expenses that may be The Managers also adopt a zero tolerance approach and have paid will be the par value of an Ordinary Share.
Purchases of policies and procedures in place to prevent bribery.
Ordinary Shares will be made within guidelines established, from time to time, by the Board.
The Company does not have any warrants or options in issue.
By order of the Board John Scott 12 May 2017 Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 29
