Annual Report 2017 126 Great Portland Estates Directors remuneration report Approach to recruitment remuneration The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract appropriate candidates to the role, and our principle is that the pay of any new recruit would be assessed following the same principles as for the directors and the policy previously summarised.
Executive Director recruitment Component Policy Base salary The salary level will be set taking into account relevant market data, the experience and skills of andbenets the individual, responsibilities of the individual and the salaries paid to similar roles in comparable companies in line with the current process undertaken by the Committee when setting the salary levels for its existing directors.
Whilst it is not envisaged that it will be required, as provided for in the relevant regulations, the Committee reserves the right to exceed the xed pay limits set out in the policy table, in exceptional circumstances, to secure the appointment of a high calibre individual.
Executive Directors shall be eligible to receive benets in line with the Companys benets policy asset out in the remuneration policy table.
Pension Executive Directors will be able to receive a pension contribution or receive a supplement in lieu of pension contributions in line with the Companys pension policy as set out in the remuneration policytable.
Annual bonus Executive Directors will be eligible to participate in the Annual Bonus Plan as set out in the remuneration policy table.
For Executive Directors joining part way through a year, awards would be pro-rated.
Different performance measures may be set initially for the annual bonus, taking into account the responsibilities of the individual, and the point in the financial year that they joined.
The annual maximum potential opportunity under this plan is 150% of salary.
Long-term incentives Executive Directors will be eligible to participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan set out in the remuneration policy table.
Awards may be granted up to the maximum opportunity allowable under plan rules at the Committees discretion of 300% of salary under the LTIP.
An award may be made onor shortly following an appointment assuming the Company is not in a prohibitive period.
Share buyouts Awards may be granted to replace those forfeited by the Executive Director from a previous replacement awards employer on taking up the appointment where considered necessary by the Committee.
The Committee will seek to structure any replacement awards such that overall they are no more generous in terms of quantum or vesting period than the awards due to be forfeited.
Where the Company compensates new directors in this way, it will seek to do so under the terms of the Companys existing variable remuneration arrangements, but may compensate on terms that are more bespoke than the existing arrangements, including awards granted under Listing Rule 9.4.
2, where the Committee considers this to be appropriate.
In such instances, the Company will disclose afull explanation of the detail and rationale for such recruitment related compensation.
In making such awards, the Committee will seek to take into account the nature including whether awards are cash or share based, vesting period and performance measures and or conditions for any remuneration forfeited by the individual in leaving a previous employer.
Where such awards had outstanding performance or service conditions which are not signicantly completed, the Company will generally impose equivalent conditions.
In exceptional cases the Committee may relax those requirements where it considers this to be in the interest of the shareholders, for example through applying a significant discount to the face value of the replacement awards.
Relocation policies In instances where the new Executive Director is non-UK domiciled or needs to be relocated, the Company may provide one-off or ongoing compensation as part of the Executive Directors relocation benets to reect the cost of relocation for the Executive in cases where they are expected to spend significant time away from their country of domicile.
The level of the relocation package will be assessed on a case-by-case basis and may take into consideration any cost of living differences, housing allowance and or schooling.
Legacy arrangements Where an Executive Director is appointed from within the organisation, the normal policy of the Company is that any legacy arrangements would be honoured in line with the original terms and conditions on a pro rata basis.
Similarly, if an Executive Director is appointed following the Companys acquisition or merger with another company, legacy terms and conditions on a pro rata basis would be honoured.
Non-Executive Director recruitment Component Policy Fees Newly appointed Non-Executive Directors will be paid fees consistent with existing Non-Executive Directors.
Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 127 Service agreements and payments for loss of ofce The policy of the Company is to have service contracts for Executive Directors with notice periods of one year.
It is sometimes necessary when recruiting a new Executive Director to give a service contract with an initial term of up to 18 months in which case a 12-month notice period may be given no earlier than six months from the start date or the contract.
Non-Executive Directors who have letters of appointment, are subject to the provisions of the Articles of Association dealing with appointment and rotation every three years, however, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Codethey are subject to annual re-election and have a notice period of three months by either party.
They are not eligible for payment in lieu of notice or any other payment on termination.
The following table sets out the dates of each of the Executive Directors service agreements and their unexpired term, the dates of the Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment and the date on which the Non-Executive Director isnextsubject to reappointment or re-election.
Executive Date of service agreement Unexpired term months Toby Courtauld 18 March 2002 amended 2017 12 Nick Sanderson 7 June 2011 amended 2017 12 Non-Executive Date of appointment letter Date when next subject to appointment or re-election Martin Scicluna 1 October 2008 6 July 2017 Wendy Becker 12 January 2017 6 July 2017 Nick Hampton 28 September 2016 6 July 2017 Elizabeth Holden 3 September 2012 6 July 2017 Richard Mully 12 October 2016 6 July 2017 Charles Philipps 10 January 2014 6 July 2017 Jonathan Short 22 March 2007 6 July 2017 Executive Directors may, with the consent of the Committee, retain fees paid to them for acting as a Non-Executive Director of a company outside the Group, except where the directorship is as a representative of the Group.
The Companys policy on termination payments for Executive Directors is to consider the circumstances on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the relevant contractual terms, the circumstances of the termination and any applicable duty tomitigate.
It is the Committees policy not to reward poor performance.
The Committee will always seek to minimise the cost to the Company whilst seeking to reect the circumstances in place at the time.
The Committee will honour Executive Directors contractual entitlements.
Service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
If a contract is to be terminated, the Committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each case.
There are no contractual arrangements that would guarantee a pension with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
There is no agreement between the Company and its directors or employees, providing for compensation for loss of ofce or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Company reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising on connection with the termination of an Executive Directors ofce or employment.
The Company may also deem it appropriate to pay on behalf of a departing executive modest legal, outplacement or other fees.
Contracts have been amended to introduce a right for the Company to achieve mitigation through payment on a monthly phased basis with payments reducing ceasing if an alternative role is found during the balance of any notice period.
Base salary, benets and pension Toby Courtaulds compensation in lieu of notice payable at the Companys discretion is 12 months basic salary.
Compensation in lieu of notice to Nick Sanderson, payable at the Companys discretion, is 12 months basic salary, pension allowance and the value of benets in kind provided in the previous year, or the actual provision of those benets.
Governance Annual Report 2017 128 Great Portland Estates Directors remuneration report Approach to other remuneration payments on termination of employment and change of control In addition to the payment of base salary, benets and pension as set out above, the Groups annual bonus, long-term incentives, SIP and SAYE contain provisions for the termination of employment.
Component Good Leaver Bad Leaver Change of control Annual Bonus Where an Executive Directors Outstanding award An Executive Director may receive Plan employment is terminated after isforfeited.
a bonus, the amount of which will the end of a performance year be determined by the Committee, but before the payment is made, taking into account such factors the Executive will be eligible for as it considers relevant, including an annual bonus award for that the proportion of the elapsed performance year subject to an performance period at the date of assessment based on performance change of control and performance achieved over the period.
Where an Executive Directors employment is terminated during a performance year, a pro rata annual bonus for the period worked in that performance year may be payable inrelation to that years bonus in the case of injury, ill health, disability, death or retirement or in relation to personal objectives set only in other Good Leaver cases.
2010 Plan Awards may vest at the date of Outstanding awards lapse.
In accordance with the Rules of the LTIP SMP cessation of employment or the 2010 Plan, on a change of control, normal vesting date at the discretion vesting will occur immediately.
Performance against targets will be assessed by the Committee on Awards will vest based on the change of control.
The number of performance achieved up to the date Plan shares vesting will normally of cessation normal vesting date at be reduced pro rata to reect the discretion of the Committee and the amount of time elapsed from be prorated to reect the amount the Award Date until the change of time elapsed since the award of control as a proportion of date.
The Committee retains the the original vesting period.
The discretion to disregard time when Committee retains the discretion determining the level of vesting.
todisregard time when determining This would only be considered in the level of vesting.
This would exceptional circumstances and only be considered in exceptional where considered, the Committee circumstances and where would take into account the considered, the Committee would circumstances of the cessation take into account the overall context ofemployment.
of the deal and the actual value Upon death, all long-term incentive delivered to shareholders.
awards vest immediately in full.
Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 129 Component Good Leaver Bad Leaver Change of control Share Incentive All Plan shares can be sold or Free shares and matched All Plan shares can be sold or Plan SIP transferred out of the Plan.
Free, shares held for less than transferred out of the Plan.
Free, matching and partnership shares three years will be forfeited.
matching and partnership shares may be removed tax free.
If dividend Partnership and Matched may be removed tax free.
If dividend shares are taken out of the SIP within shares held for more than shares are taken out of the SIP within three years of being awarded, the three years but less than three years of being awarded, the dividend used to buy them is subject five years will be liable to tax dividend used to buy them is subject to income tax at the dividend rate.
depending on time held in to income tax at the dividend rate.
If dividend shares On resignation, matched shares are taken out of the SIP within held for less than three years will three years of being awarded, beforfeited.
the dividend used to buy them is subject to income taxat the dividend rate.
Save As You Earn Options may be exercised during Options held for less than Options may be exercised in the Scheme SAYE a period of six months following three years will lapse on event of a change of control of cessation of employment or cessation.
12months following cessation more than three years may in the event of death.
be exercised during a period of three months following cessation, except where the reason for cessation ismisconduct.
Good leavers under each of the Annual Bonus Plan, 2010 Plan, SIP and and the performance in the context of each plan and will provide a full SAYE are those leaving under specified conditions as set out below.
explanation to shareholders of the basis of its determination.
The exercise of the Committees discretion under one plan will not predetermine the Annual Bonus Plan and 2010 Plan: exercise of its discretion under another.
d eath: Good leavers under the SIP and SAYE are those participants leaving in ill-health, injury or disability evidenced to the satisfaction of the certain circumstances as under applicable legislation including death, Remuneration Committee : injury, disability, retirement and redundancy.
redundancy: Bad leavers are those leavers who are not good leavers.
retirement: the award holders employing company or business being transferred out of the Group: or any other circumstances at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, including where appropriate and exceptionally, resignation.
The Committee will only use its general discretion where it considers this to be appropriate, taking into account the circumstances of the termination Governance Annual Report 2017 130 Great Portland Estates Directors remuneration report Executive Director remuneration scenarios Consideration of remuneration based on performance ofotheremployees The charts below set out the potential remuneration Our approach to salary reviews is consistent across receivable by Executive Directors for minimum, where the Company, with consideration given to the level of performance is below threshold for variable awards, responsibility, experience, individual performance, salary on-target and maximum performance.
Potential reward levels in comparable companies and the Companys opportunities are based on the policy and applied to ability to pay.
Remuneration surveys and meetings with salaries as at 1 April 2017.
It should be noted the projected sector specialists are used, where appropriate, to establish values exclude the impact of any share price movements market rates.
When determining remuneration of the Executive Directors, Chief Executive 000 the Committee takes into account pay and conditions across the Group, especially when determining the 3,500 3,297 annual salary increase.
Prior to the annual pay review, the 3,000 Committee receives a report setting out changes to all employees remuneration levels and proposed discretionary 2,500 1,722 52% bonus awards.
2,000 The Company did not consult with employees on the policy 1,500 1,489 or use any remuneration comparison metrics during the 344 23% 861 26% 1,000 year reported.
431 29% 500 Consideration of shareholder views 714 100% 714 48% 714 22% 0 When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into Minimum On target Maximum account the guidelines of investor bodies and shareholder Fixed Annual bonus LTIP views.
The Committee is always open to feedback from shareholders on remuneration policy and arrangements, and commits to undertaking shareholder consultation in Finance Director 000 advance of any significant changes to remuneration policy.
Fixed element: Base salary as at 1 April 2017, related pension contribution and benets received during 2016 17.
Annual bonus element: The on-target award level for the bonus plan is assumed to be 75% of salary i. e. 50% of the maximum with a maximum award of 150% of salary.
There is nil payout for minimum performance.
LTIP element: Estimated value at target and maximum vesting based on performance measures for 2017 18 awards.
Consistent with practice elsewhere, the threshold level of 20% of the maximum has been assumed for target performance.
Again a nil payout has been assumed for minimum performance.
