Annual Report 2017 102 Great Portland Estates Relations with shareholders In total, the directors and senior management had The EU Referendum result 270 formal meetings with shareholders and potential andshare price reaction shareholders from more than 200 institutions during the led to even higher levels year.
This elevated level of engagement was largely driven ofshareholder engagement by the greater uncertainty in the market following the EU as a result we had 270 meetings during the year.
As a result, we actively sought to engage with investors to provide additional colour in respect of market Stephen Burrows conditions and the implications of the vote.
Head of Financial Reporting and Investor Relations We were also pleased to be voted #1 for investor relations inthe European property sector in the 2016 Extel Survey.
Investor contact by location Communication with our investors is given a high priority.
United Kingdom 11 As a result we maintain a regular dialogue with shareholders, United States and Canada 30 potential shareholders, debt providers and analysts Rest of Europe through a comprehensive investor relations programme.
Rest of World The programme is executed across a number of geographies, reecting the international nature of our share 270 register, and through a variety of routes including roadshow meetings 62 meetings, meetings at industry conferences, investor and 167 analyst events, property tours and presentations to analysts and investment banks equity sales teams.
Institutional shareholders by geography at 31 March 2017 North America and Canada 3.0% Investor contact by method United Kingdom Rest of Europe Meeting 4 9 23.2% Rest of World 38.4% Conference 39 Call Tour Meeting and tour 117 270 meetings 35.4% 101 For our top shareholders see page 132 During the year ended 31 March 2017 our Head of We are also committed to providing investors with regular Sustainability and Head of Financial Reporting and Investor announcements of significant events affecting the Group, Relations met with a number of our largest investors to including its business activity and financial performance.
understand their perception of our sustainability strategy.
These announcements are available on the Groups Their feedback was invaluable in understanding their view website at www.
co. uk along with results webcasts, of our sustainability performance and was also used to help analyst presentations, property videos, press releases and inform our recently updated sustainability strategy.
For the interviews with the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
forthcoming year we will be offering to meet with investors to discuss our Towards the 2030s strategy.
In addition The Executive Directors and the Head of Financial to this engagement, we believe that it is essential that we Reporting & Investor Relations are the Companys principal provide transparent reporting and, therefore, participate in representatives with investors, analysts, fund managers, a number of sustainability indices including: press and other interested parties, and independent feedback on presentations by the Executive Directors to shareholders and analysts is provided to the Non-Executive Directors on a regular basis.
Martin Scicluna, as Chairman, also offered to meet major shareholders owning between them 42% of the Company and during the year he met or spoke with seven institutional investors.
Annual Report 2017 Great Portland Estates 103 The Executive Directors and Corporate Finance Team also have regular dialogue with our debt providers, including What we did in 2016 17 relationship banks, private placement investors, debenture holders and convertible bond holders.
2016 The Chairman and Senior Independent Director, Martin May 2016 Scicluna and Charles Phillips respectively are each available, as appropriate, as a contact for shareholders.
The Annual Investor roadshow: London General Meeting provides the Board with an opportunity to Equity sales force meetings 2 communicate with, and answer questions from, private and institutional shareholders and the whole Board is available before the meeting, in particular, for shareholders to meet new directors.
June 2016 The Chairman of each of the Audit, Nomination and Investor roadshows: Remuneration Committees is available at the Annual Amsterdam US General Meeting to answer questions.
Details of the Conferences: July 2016 Kempen Amsterdam, resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting Morgan Stanley London on 6 July 2017 can be found in the Notice of Meeting on Annual General Meeting pages 182 and 183.
After the Annual General Meeting, Equity sales force meetings 2 the Companys Registrars will count and verify the poll votes.
The results will be announced to the London Stock Exchange and will be published on our website at September 2016 www.
co. uk investors  agmgm Conferences: BAML New York, EPRA Paris Shareholder engagement November 2016 As part of our active engagement with both our shareholders and the analyst community we held a number of events to Investor roadshows: provide additional insight on our activities.
London Equity sales force meetings 3 In March 2017, we hosted a property tour for the Groups analysts at our newly completed development at December 2016 30Broadwick Street, W1.
This provided an opportunity to see the building before the new tenants take occupation, speak to the development team on its construction and design and Investor roadshow: US understand our recent leasing successes.
Conference: UBS London In April 2017, we hosted a dinner for a number of institutional January 2017 Equity sales force meetings 1 investors providing them with the opportunity to meet the wider management team, in particular, the new members of Conference: the Executive Committee and the wider heads of department.
JP Morgan Cazenove London Feedback from both events was very positive.
Investor roadshow: Amsterdam Equity sales force meetings 1 February 2017 Investor roadshow: Singapore Hong Kong March 2017 Conferences: Citi US, BAML London Equity sales force meetings 2 Analyst tour 30 Broadwick Street, W1 2017 Governance
