Strategic Report 12 Our business model How BTG creates value BTG 1.
Product Healthcare opportunities development needs 2.
Acquisitions products, we invest in lifecycle management, which 1.
Identifying opportunities includes product innovation and clinical studies to We focus on addressing unmet healthcare needs, by support new regulatory approvals.
We also invest in providing innovative products in specialist areas of commercial expansion and our development and medicine to better serve doctors and their patients.
acquisition strategy is focused on opportunities that We provide training and ongoing support to the complement our current product portfolio.
Through this specialist physicians who use our products, ranging strategy we seek to balance late-stage development and from safe use to reimbursement guidance.
We also invite marketed product opportunities with efforts to build an proposals for funding to explore the use of our products early-stage pipeline that will ensure long-term in different patient populations.
These interactions give sustainable business growth.
us valuable insights into our customers and the way they treat their patients, helping to inform our innovation 3.
Manufacturing strategy and identify new product opportunities.
We manufacture a number of products in-house including the Bead products, the EKOS Endovascular 2.
Product development and acquisitions System, Varithena, the PneumRx Coil, the GALIL Having identified appropriate market opportunities and Cryoablation Solutions, and the polyclonal antibodies target product profiles, we build our portfolio through CroFab and DigiFab.
We use third-party contractors organic development and through acquisition and to manufacture TheraSphere and to supply certain key in-licensing activities.
To exploit the full value of our materials and services.
We have robust quality systems, BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report 13 We generate value by acquiring, developing, manufacturing and commercialising specialist medical products that meet the needs of our customers and advance the treatment of their patients Reinvest Stakeholders Income 3.
Commercialise Products Customers Patients policies, and procedures in place to ensure we meet our Aligning our business model with legal and compliance obligations.
We put patient safety our strategy first in meeting the expectations of our customers and BTG is an agile, responsive organisation.
Our strategy is regulatory authorities.
We continue to invest in upgrading to become commercial and technical leaders in our our manufacturing operations and capabilities to ensure chosen therapy areas through our ability to deliver we meet all relevant standards as they evolve and to high-value, innovative products.
By staying close to the provide further capacity as the business grows.
medical community and forming strong relationships with the key opinion leaders in our therapy areas, we 4.
Commercialise gain valuable insights into their needs.
This informs our We have dedicated product sales teams in the US, product development and acquisition strategy which we Europe and Asia and we use distributors for some can then bring to the market using our manufacturing of our products where it makes economic sense.
Our sales teams are supported by marketing and brand specialists and we have experienced professionals working in regulatory affairs and market access who ensure that BTG adheres to all relevant regulations and that our products receive the appropriate coverage and reimbursement.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
