Governance 54 Corporate Governance report Effectiveness There is an agreed procedure for directors to take Induction and training independent professional advice, if necessary, at the All new non-executive directors receive a personalised Groups expense.
They also have direct access to the and comprehensive induction that is tailored to their advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is experience, background and particular area of focus.
responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are The programme has evolved, taking into account followed and providing advice on corporate governance.
The process includes written The Group provides appropriate directors and officers information on areas such as directors duties and liability insurance.
Further information on Directors corporate governance guidelines and best practice.
indemnities is given in the Directors report on page 98.
It also includes meetings with other directors and a cross section of senior management at a Group and Performance evaluation business unit level, and site visits are encouraged.
The Board recognises that a rigorous evaluation of its New members also receive a full briefing on the financial performance is important to optimise our continued and operating history of the Group and details of its effectiveness and development.
strategy, risk management and compliance processes, operating plans, budgets and forecasts for future years.
The CEO appraises the performance of the CFO.
All directors, including those newly appointed, are given The Chairman and non-executive directors review the the opportunity to attend external courses and refresh performance of the CEO.
The non-executive directors, their knowledge regularly through publications and led by the Senior Independent Director, with input from conferences and through information provided by the the executive directors, evaluate the performance of the Group and its advisers.
Specific training during the year Chairman each year.
The committees also review their has included training in connection with the new Market own performance and report the results to the Chairman Abuse Regulation and the changes to the rules and the Board.
During the year, the non-executive governing the disclosure and control of inside directors held a meeting without the executive directors information.
At their request, a number of directors have in order to discuss the performance of the executive received internal training on the US global market directors and their management of the Groups affairs.
access and reimbursement process to assist in their A formal evaluation is carried out annually and is understanding of this area.
externally facilitated every three years.
This year the Board and its committees carried out an internal review Support of progress against the objectives set following last There are robust processes in place to ensure that the years internal evaluation as well as its overall Board receives management information and reports on performance during the year through a series of strategic and operational matters for discussion on a comprehensive web-based questionnaires that timely basis via a secure Board portal.
The Board encourage comment and observation.
calendar includes annual strategy days, and senior Progress on the output from the 2016 evaluation management regularly attend meetings to enhance the and objectives following the 2017 evaluation are set non-executive directors understanding of the business out on the next page.
and to present deep dive analysis of their areas of the business.
Board meetings are occasionally held at other Group locations outside of the UK, affording nonexecutive directors an additional opportunity to meet employees and enhance their understanding of Group businesses.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Governance 55 Board evaluation Key 2016 objectives Progress Key 2017 objectives Continue to focus on the Progress on strategic focus has In response to the results of identification of key strategic continued and good progress this years evaluation the options and risks and further has been made in assessing the following Board objectives integration of the risk risks of the business.
Further have been set for 2017: management process into the clarity on longer-term drivers of The risk management process process for formation and value is being developed.
is to be further integrated into review of strategy.
The Board will receive further strategic updates throughout the year as part of an iterative discussion.
Continue the improvement of Risk identification and risk Continue to evolve the top the risk management process reporting has significantly down macro risk assessment and specifically the top down improved.
Further articulation of those external developments risk review as well as further of key strategic risks in relation that may adversely impact definition of risk appetite: a to the longer-term strategy and the business.
continued focus on the impact articulation of the Boards risk Definition of key risks inherent of structural changes in the appetite is being developed.
in the strategy and discussion healthcare industry generally of appropriate risk appetite in and how ex-US markets such key areas.
Further review of the R&D R&D strategy review completed Monitor the execution of the strategy of the Group.
and activities to sustain R&D strategy and evaluation longer-term growth through of the pipeline of earlier stage innovation and early-stage development opportunities.
Greater focus on contingency Capability assessments have Continue the varied leadership plans for people and having been introduced.
succession plans in place for plans for the cadre of Continue the consideration of senior staff.
management below Leadership capability needs at Board level.
Team LT are being developed.
Enhanced leadership development programmes have been put in place.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 56 Corporate Governance report Effectiveness continued Under the various revenue sharing agreements, Related parties and conflicts of interest the Group pays a share of any income it receives to The Group maintains robust procedures to ensure Oxford University or Oxford University Innovations, that related party transactions and potential conflicts depending on the specific technology that generated of interest are identified, disclosed and managed.
As the revenue sharing agreements do To address the effect of Section 175 of the Companies not permit these organisations to have any input over Act 2006, the Groups Articles of Association enable the the commercialisation of the licensed products or the Board to authorise situations that might give rise to amount payable under the relevant revenue sharing directors conflicts of interest.
Directors declare interests agreement, Giles Kerr is not able to influence the in other businesses on appointment to the Board, as amounts received in his position outside the Group.
they arise and also complete an annual self-certification.
As Giles has no influence over any aspect of these Board members are regularly reminded to disclose any agreements in his role outside the Group, the Company conflicts should they arise and any such notifications are considers that his independence in relation to the Group kept in a conflicts register maintained by the Company is not compromised.
Any director who considers they may have a To avoid any possible conflict of interest, it has been potential conflict of interest is required to report this to agreed that Giles Kerr will not participate in any the Chairman in the first instance, who may consult discussions or decisions concerning the relevant the Nomination Committee and report its findings to agreements either within the Board or in any other the Board.
discussions or meetings with the executives of Where it is identified that a related party relationship its subsidiaries.
exists, the Board agrees specific additional procedures The Board has considered, and is satisfied with, to ensure the effective management of potential conflicts the separation of duties and safeguards.
At the March 2017 Board meeting all directors were asked to review and make any necessary amendments to their existing declarations.
The Company Secretary has reviewed the latest declarations and has confirmed that no conflicts are believed to have arisen.
Giles Kerr, a non-executive director of the Board, is also Director of Finance for Oxford University and a director of Oxford University Innovations Limited, a subsidiary of Oxford University.
Wholly owned subsidiaries of the Group entered into technology commercialisation and revenue sharing agreements with these organisations prior to Giles Kerr joining the Board.
The Group has licensed the intellectual property rights covered by these agreements to independent third-party companies that are developing and or selling the licensed products.
Under these licence agreements, the Group is entitled to receive milestone payments and or royalties on sales of the products sold by the third-party licensees.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
