Strategic Report 16 Performance BTG has continued to perform well during the year delivering  and strategic objectives Business Products Our four key segments objectives Interventional Medicine Delivering products for our Beads Oncology TheraSphere customers and their patients 1 GALIL We deliver innovative, differentiated products that provide specialist physicians Page 17, to read more with new treatment options to address unmet patient needs.
EKOS Vascular Varithena Investing for growth We invest to expand our product portfolio 2 Page 20, to read more and pipeline to generate long-term value.
PneumRx Pulmonology People and practices Coils We strive to ensure that our organisational 3 structure, capabilities and systems are scalable and fit for purpose.
Page 22, to read more CroFab Financial management Specialty DigiFab We report on four financial KPIs Pharmaceuticals 4 Voraxaze that demonstrate progress towards our Vistogard long-term goals.
Page 24, to read more Various Licensing royalties Page 25, to read more BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report 17 1&2 Delivering products and investing for growth Oncology Our Interventional Oncology franchise comprises the liver cancer treatments TheraSphere, glass microspheres that deliver internal radiation therapy, and LC Bead and DC Bead, our embolisation and chemoembolisation polymer beads.
During the year we acquired Galil Medical, a leader in interventional oncology cryoablation technology.
Beads and TheraSphere About liver cancer Primary liver cancer, including the most common form hepatocellular carcinoma HCC, occurs when tumours grow in the liver.
Secondary liver cancer occurs when tumours from other organs spread to the liver.
Common causes of HCC include high levels of alcohol consumption or chronic infections of hepatitis B or C, which damage the liver and can lead to cirrhosis.
It is estimated that 50%-60% of patients with colorectal DC Bead LUMI cancer will develop metastases during the course of their disease, one of the most common being metastatic colorectal cancer mCRC in the liver.
When diagnosed early, liver tumours can be removed and some patients are suitable for a transplant.
However, if diagnosed when symptomatic, surgical resection is usually no longer an option.
For unresectable tumours, locoregional treatments including embolisation, chemoembolisation, internal radiation therapy and ablation may be used to shrink the tumours and delay the progression of the disease.
Market opportunity in liver cancer We estimate that globally the combined annual incidence of HCC and mCRC is approximately 1.2 million people, of whom around 147,000 patients annually would be amenable to locoregional treatments BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report 18 Performance continued Beads and TheraSphere continued 1.
DC Bead containing negatively charged sites are bound with a positively charged cancer drug.
Water is displaced as the cancer drug is absorbed based on their disease progression and taking into throughout the beads.
account access to treatment and affordability in different countries.
This represents a global opportunity of approximately $1.3 billion.
The drug loaded embolic beads are inserted into an artery through We are exploring ways to expand the use of our products a catheter which is then advanced into a tumour feeding vessel.
in treating cancer and in non-hepatic indications which, if successful, could increase the market opportunity for our product.
Our target is to deliver sustainable mid- 3.
The beads are guided to the teens annual product sales growth.
tumour site and there they block , depriving the tumour of oxygen.
Competition Embolisation and transarterial chemoembolisation TACE have become established treatments for unresectable, intermediate-stage HCC around the world.
Conventional TACE cTACE involves the administration of a compounded oil and drug solution emulsion followed by an embolising material.
LC Bead competes with a small number of commercially available beads while DC Bead competes with cTACE and a small number of other beads that are capable of being loaded with chemotherapeutic drugs.
BTG has a leading position in the US and the EU, and we are building our presence in Asia.
TheraSphere is one of only two commercially available selective internal radiation 90 Y products used to treat liver tumours.
DC Bead start a controlled release of a chemotherapeutic Growth strategy and progress drug over time which results in ishchemia and tumour cell death.
To sustain our mid-teens average annual product sales growth target we are investing in commercial and geographic expansion, focusing on product innovation and generating clinical data to support new indications and expanded use of our products.
TheraSphere was approved during the year in Mexico, South Korea, Malaysia and a number of other territories in Asia, and we made progress with plans to seek regulatory approval in China.
We received CE Mark certification in the EU and approval in Canada for 90 Simplicit Y dosimetry software, designed to optimise the planning of TheraSphere and facilitate personalised treatment for patients with liver cancer.
The novel visible bead DC Bead LUMI, received a CE mark in the EU and was approved in Canada.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report 19 Recruitment into the STOP-HCC and EPOCH trials of TheraSphere in primary liver cancer and mCRC has accelerated as planned.
We formed a collaboration with the Society of Interventional Oncologists to explore the role of localised treatments alongside immuno-oncology and have provided funding for several new investigator initiated studies to explore potential new uses of the Beads and TheraSphere.
TheraSphere GALIL Cryoablation Galil Medical provides cryoablation technology for use 1.
To freeze the cancer, special ultra-thin probes called in oncology and other indications.
It has a leading cryoablation needles are inserted market position in the cryoablation of kidney cancer, through the skin into the tumour.
where there is one other provider of cryoablation technology.
Globally, kidney cancer is the twelfth most common 2.
The needles are inserted under cancer with an annual incidence of approximately guidance of CT, ultrasound 1 340,000 new cases.
Causes include smoking, though imaging or MRI.
there are other risk factors including being overweight, hypertension and having polycystic kidney disease.
Treatment choices depend upon the stage of the cancer 3.
Argon gas is delivered under pressure into a small chamber when diagnosed and include surgery, ablation, radiation inside the tip of the needle where therapy and biologic and chemotherapies.
Cryoablation it expands and cools, reaching a temperature well below -100C.
is generally used on early-stage kidney tumours that are less than 4cm across, and Galil Medicals cryoablation technology is growing strongly.
Galils growth strategy is to expand its use in US hospitals and to continue to expand its global presence.
During the period the first patients were treated in 4.
This produces an iceball of Argentina.
Two studies progressed well which, if predictable size and shape around the needles.
The iceball is visible successful, would support adoption in treating under imaging, allowing the metastatic lung and bone tumours.
physician to ensure the iceball fully engulfs the tumour, killing the cancerous cells.
The body temperature gradually melts the iceball, resulting in ablated tissue.
co. uk BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report 20 Performance continued 1&2 Vascular We have two products within our Interventional Vascular portfolio.
The EKOS System is an ultrasonic catheter drug delivery device used in the treatment of blood clots.
Varithena is a proprietary engineered microfoam used in the treatment of varicose veins.
EKOS About blood clots Every year, thousands of people die as a result of 1.
When blood clots form in the body they can cause chronic pain some form of blood clot.
The collective term is venous and swelling.
The clot might also thromboembolism VTE and this includes deep vein break free and travel through your thrombosis DVT, which is a blood clot in one of the blood stream to major organs, such as your lungs resulting deep veins in the body, and pulmonary embolism PE, in a life-threatening pulmonary a blood clot in the vessel that carries blood from the embolism PE.
An infusion catheter is inserted A growing market opportunity within the blood vessel through the clot.
The incidence of VTE has increased markedly, driven in part by an aging population and rising levels of obesity.
Each year in the US, approximately 1 million people suffer a severe clot and, of those, we estimate about 70% 3.
A unique ultrasonic core, are amenable to interventional treatment.
The annual containing numerous ultrasound number of interventional procedures in the US has transducers, is then inserted grown from about 95,000 in 2013 to over 150,000 today.
We expect the growth in this market to continue as healthcare professionals recognise the increasing importance of treating severe VTEs early.
The ultrasonic core then delivers acoustic pulses that Strategic progress  enmesh the blood clot.
This We continue to expand hospital penetration in the US acoustic action combined with the where we have been working closely with hospital staff to direct placement of a thrombolytic establish new patient referral programmes and treatment drug results in faster and more complete clot dissolution.
During the year a new control unit that is optimised for treating PEs received 510 k approval in the US.
We also made good progress in our commercial 5.
 expansion plans outside of the US with our first within the vessel.
treatments carried out in Taiwan and Hong Kong.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report 21 Drivers of future growth Adding to the clinical data already generated by EKOS will enable us to build on our leadership position in the treatment of VTE.
Patient enrolment into the OPTALYSE and ACCESS PTS studies is now complete, and the results from both are expected during 2017.
We are strengthening our presence in Europe and making good progress on our plans to take the EKOS System into other geographies.
Varithena Transforming the treatment of varicose veins 1.
Tiny valves help the leg veins work against gravity to push Varithena is a uniform, low-nitrogen, engineered the blood back to the heart.
microfoam, that is dispensed from a proprietary canister Varicose veins are formed when the valves weaken and blood device.
Treatment is a non-surgical procedure and leaks backwards where it pools, usually takes less than one hour after which patients resulting in swelling, pain, may resume light activities.
throbbing and itching of the veins.
The doctor administers a small Market opportunity amount of Varithena through a catheter or by direct injection into It is estimated that there are approximately 30 million the malfunctioning vein with the Americans with varicose veins, of whom about 2.5 help of ultrasound imaging.
million develop symptoms each year that qualify them to receive reimbursed treatment by their healthcare provider.
Varicose veins are a progressive disease and, 3.
The uniform density, size and stability of the microfoam if left untreated, can result in more serious and painful  leg ulcers.
Competition in the US reimbursed sector Approximately 70% of reimbursed procedures are conducted in private vein clinics, with the remainder primarily conducted in hospitals.
Since 2005, most symptomatic varicose vein treatments involve a combination of heat ablation of the great saphenous vein GSV, stab phlebectomy of the visible varicosities and sclerotherapy of the visible veins.
Growth strategy and progress Varithena has broad application across the spectrum of 4.
The diseased vein collapses varicose veins.
We continue to expand insurance policy and the microfoam is deactivated.
coverage and, during the year, we made progress When the malfunctioning vein towards establishing new reimbursement codes that will collapses, bloodflowshiftsto healthier veins nearby.
specifically cover the use of Varithena.
These are expected to be implemented in January 2018.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report 22 Performance continued 1&2 Pulmonology In January 2015, Interventional Pulmonology became a new focus area for BTG with the acquisition of PneumRx, which makes implantable coils that are used in the treatment of severe emphysema.
Emphysema and the PneumRx Coil 1.
The coils are small, shapememory nitinol implants, designed to gather and compress diseased tissue, re-tension the diseased airway network and 2.
Coils are inserted into the mechanically increase the elastic Emphysema is a debilitating lung disease, most diseased part of the lung during a recoil in the emphysematous lung.
commonly caused by cigarette smoking, which affects millions of people globally.
It is characterised by damage to the elasticity and function of the lung tissue, leading to shortness of breath and significant disability.
Treatments to alleviate symptoms include pharmacotherapy, pulmonary rehabilitation and oxygen therapy as needed.
A very small number of patients may qualify for lung transplants or lung volume reduction surgery.
Interventional treatments including implantable coils and valves, which are currently cleared for use only in Europe and select other countries, are relatively new, minimally invasive treatment options.
The PneumRx Coils are made of a shape-memory material called nitinol, pre-programmed in a double-loop shape.
After being straightened for insertion into the lung via a bronchoscope, they gather up and compress the diseased lung tissue surrounding them, retensioning the airway network, as they recover their original shape.
The coils are designed to improve lung function by enabling more efficient contraction during 3.
Several coils are placed in a the breathing cycle, and by tethering open small airways, are designed to gently regain single lung to tighten the entire preventing airway collapse during exhalation.
their shape, gathering and airway network.
The procedure compressing damaged lung typically takes 35-45 minutes.
tissue and holding open surrounding airways.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report 23 PneumRx Coil In Europe, we are focused on ensuring growth resumes Market opportunity in Germany, our largest market.
We expect that national The PneumRx Coil, which received CE mark clearance payment coverage will be confirmed by the German in Europe in 2010, has been shown in clinical studies to government during the current financial year.
We expect improve lung function, exercise capacity and quality of to secure national reimbursement and coverage in life in a broad range of patients with severe emphysema.
France, where there is also a government process under This includes patients in stages III and IV as defined in way, and we will continue to build momentum in other the GOLD Global initiative for chronic Obstructive Lung European territories.
It is estimated that there are over 5 million people in the US and Europe with Our Premarket Approval application has been accepted GOLD stage III and IV emphysema.
As we interact with the US FDA we will in parallel develop our launch and reimbursement strategy for the US market.
Growth strategy and progress Interventional Pulmonology is an emerging medical field and the PneumRx Coil is at an early stage in its commercial development.
Our growth strategy comprises medical development and expanding commercial activities.
We intend to build on the clinical data available from the three randomised studies that have been conducted to date to refine the criteria that will enable physicians to select patients that are most likely to respond to treatment, and to support development of clinical practice guidelines and referral pathways for appropriate patients to receive treatment.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report 24 Performance continued 1&2 Specialty Pharmaceuticals & Licensing Our portfolio of four acute care products offers rescue medication to patients for whom there are few or no other treatment options.
Total sales 2016 17 Specialty 171.1m Pharmaceuticals 29% 12% CER We have built leading positions within our Specialty Pharmaceuticals business.
Over the years, our portfolio has grown from two marketed products to four and we sell these in the US through two dedicated BTG field forces.
Elsewhere in the world, where approved or permitted on a named patient basis, we sell through our commercial partners.
Our ongoing commitment to delivering safe and effective treatments means that we continually invest in these rescue medicines.
This year we signed a new partnership agreement with Clinigen Group plc to strengthen our distribution channels.
Our US oncology sales team continues to work closely with the medical community on raising the awareness of the toxic side effects that can result from certain chemotherapeutic medications.
CroFab is currently the only marketed treatment for North American crotalid snake envenomation.
In 2016, we completed a successful study evaluating the use of CroFab in the treatment of envenomations from the Copperhead snake, giving physicians more confidence in our product for this type of bite.
Our first smartphone app, Snakebite911, which can aid the public and first responders in the event of a snakebite has also proved very popular.
CroFab BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report 25 Vistogard, the first and only treatment for early-onset of severe 5-fluorouracil 5-FU toxicity, has made a promising start in its first full year of launch.
During the year the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services approved a New Technology Add-on Payment meaning that Medicare will pay up to 50% reimbursement of the Our ongoing commitment to cost of Vistogard within the hospital setting.
This is delivering safe and effective expected to stay in place for two years.
treatments means that we continually invest in these rescue medicines Licensing BTG continues to receive royalties relating to the sales of products that are subject to intellectual property licence agreements between us and various partners.
These royalties vary but usually amount to a single digit percentage of our licensees sales.
Within this segment, royalties from sales of Johnson & Johnsons prostate cancer drug Zytiga are the largest contributor.
Our Licensing business has been a source of strong cash flow from which we have been able to invest in the higher growth, higher margin opportunities in our Interventional Medicine portfolio.
Establishing new license arrangements is not a strategic priority.
Overall royalties are expected to decline over time as patents on existing out-licensed products expire.
Lemtrada royalties will expire in 2017 18 and Zytiga royalties may be impacted by generic competition as early as the 2018 19 financial year.
TM Zytiga Lemtrada royalties royalties 2015 16: 118.9m 2015 16: 19.8m 123.2m 39.0m 4% 97% BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report 26 Performance continued 3 People and practices People How does our culture drive value?
BTG employs more than 1,500 people across 17 locations around the world.
We benefit from the diverse mix of perspectives that their variety of backgrounds and experiences bring.
Each of our employees contributes to and shares in BTGs success.
At BTG, it s not important where you are in the org chart or who you work for, were far more interested Our culture We believe that our unique culture, which we call our in who youre working with and what DNA, enables us to better serve our customers and youre working on their patients, and to differentiate our business in the marketplace.
Our culture is defined by the behaviours we aspire to, based on our shared values, and these guide how we interact with our customers and each other.
By allowing us to be agile, ensuring clear accountabilities, and encouraging openness and communication, these behaviours translate to business advantages and help us meet our ambitious goals.
Championing behaviours As we grow, both organically and through acquisition, maintaining our culture continues to be a priority.
A group of influential employees we call Champions have been chosen from all parts of the business.
They are empowered to maintain and propagate our culture through role-modelling, sharing experiences, and other peer-to-peer interactions.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report 27 Continuous learning Learning & We invest in our people through a robust agenda of Learning & Development offerings and we provide a Development range of development opportunities intended to build  .
Thisyear  Development Programme, a bespoke course designed and delivered by BTG to develop promising new talent and reinforce our culture.
Weve bolstered our leadership 92% 98% development by working with innovative learning of employees rate Learning & feel the course met their partners such as getAbstract and Challenge24.
Our Development offerings between development needs mentoring programme has also paired 37 employees good and excellent quality with senior leaders to further develop their leadership, management and executive presence skills.
We continue to place a strong focus on succession planning and have improved successor readiness across the organisation.
87% Following the successful piloting of our apprentice and say they used their learning graduate trainee programmes in 2016 17, the Company outcomes within one month is looking for more people across a range of business of completing a course areas to continue our focus on the next generation of talent.
Health and well-being Listening to Ensuring the physical well-being of our employees is also critical to our success.
This years lost time our people accident rate is half the prior years rate, largely driven by We regularly seek employee feedback to help the diligence of our managers in our higher risk facilities.
understand and respond to their needs and concerns, We are particularly proud of our employees at our and to ensure we remain an attractive employer.
The production site in Australia, who celebrated a 365-day results of our 2016 employee engagement survey, period without a lost time accident.
This was achieved conducted by the Great Place to Work institute, through fostering a culture of safety and encouraging showed that our overall Trust Index score was reporting and root cause assessments of near misses.
73% compared with 75% in our 2014 survey, and our other scores were also broadly consistent: Accidents per 100,000 hours Month year worked1 End March 2017 0.17 End March 2016 0.34 76% 86% 1.
This figure includes accidents where people have returned to feel BTG is a great place feel a sense of pride in what work and were given alternative duties as they were not able to work 78% in 2014 we accomplish 89% in 2014 .
82% feel they make a difference 81% from 2014 We are focusing on the outcomes of the survey to deliver programmes that will drive improvements.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report 28 Performance continued 3 People and practices continued Practices We have a culture of open and honest communication Our code We do not compromise with truth, ethics, or integrity.
Every employee in every region and function is trained annually in our Code of Conduct, and regularly reminded of its importance.
Contractors and other third parties we work with are expected to adhere to the same standards.
The principles, policies and procedures described in the Code ensure that our business operates in accordance with the requirements of our highly regulated industry.
We have a culture of open and honest communication and encourage employee incident reporting through internal channels or via an externally managed anonymous hotline.
Our code prohibits retaliation of any kind against anyone who reports a concern.
The latest version of our full Code of Conduct is available on the Responsibility section of our website.
Pressure testing Nothing is as important to us as the quality of the products we produce.
In addition to FDA, MHRA, BSI and other regulatory agencies inspecting our operations, this year our Quality team began holding mock inspections at each production site to pressure test our systems and better understand areas of risk.
We continuously look for opportunities to improve our processes and ensure the integrity of our products.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report 29 Doing the right thing Anti-bribery Ethically and corruption priced Our anti-bribery and corruption ABAC policy Each of our products is priced in accordance with prohibits BTG employees, and those acting on their its value from the points of view of healthcare behalf, from offering anything of value as a bribe or professionals, patients and payers, and to allow inducement to others to make decisions that favour our continued investment in R&D.
These policies are designed to products we offer Patient Assistance and access promote compliance with the UK Bribery Act, the programmes to ensure life-saving treatments are US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA, and other available to patients who need them.
Environmental Transparency responsibility We are committed to environmental responsibility To ensure the transparency of our relationship with and sustainable business practices, and each healthcare providers, BTG collects, tracks, and year we are finding new ways to reduce our reports payments to healthcare professionals and environmental impact.
We continue to monitor organisations in accordance with the US Physician and report our annual CO, water and electricity 2 Payment Sunshine Act.
use, as well as waste production See Environmental Data on page 99.
com standards responsibility BTG has publicly committed to respecting international standards such as the United Nations The Responsibility section of our website Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
The Board summarises our policies and positions on a range approved a Human Rights Statement, available on of social, environmental and governance topics we our website and satisfies the UK Modern Slavery consider relevant to our business.
Act and the US California Transparency in Supply Chains Act.
Donations During this fiscal year we donated 44,000 2015 16: 27,000 to charitable causes chosen by our employees.
The list of charities we supported is available on our website.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
