Governance Governance 71 Corporate Governance report Relations with shareholders The Board recognises its responsibility to deliver a Investor contact by management type programme of engagement with shareholders and % communication with investors is given a high priority.
a CEO 27% The Group is committed to regular and open dialogue b CFO 21% with all current and potential shareholders and analysts, c IR 52% led by the CEO, the CFO and the Groups Investor Relations IR department.
Meetings with investors are principally to communicate the Groups strategy, performance and policies and their views are regularly shared with the Board.
a The Board believes that appropriate steps have been taken during the year to ensure that all members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of the major shareholders.
The Investor Relations department acts as the day-to-day contact point for investors and c analysts and provide a report at each Board meeting, giving information on material changes in shareholdings and any feedback from the Groups brokers and investors enabling the Board to further develop an understanding b of any issues and concerns of major shareholders.
There is a period of concentrated activity following the announcement of the half-year and full-year results, when the CEO and CFO present these results to the Groups institutional shareholders, analysts and the media.
The Group also participates in UK and overseas investor roadshows and conferences throughout the Annual General Meeting AGM year.
In addition, the Chairman is available to meet institutional investors and the Senior Independent At the AGM, shareholders will hear directly about the Director and other non-executive directors are available Groups performance and strategy with a presentation to meet with major shareholders on request.
No such by the CEO, and the Board will have the opportunity to meetings were requested during the year.
communicate with, and answer questions from, private and institutional shareholders.
The forthcoming AGM Extensive information, including annual and interim will be held on 13 July 2017 and the Chairs of the Audit, reports and all press releases, is published in the Nomination and Remuneration Committees will be Investor Relations area on the Groups website available to answer questions.
com investors and individuals can also register to receive electronic copies of all All resolutions are voted on by way of a poll and results announcements on the day they are issued.
of voting will be published in a market announcement and on BTGs website following the meeting.
Further details of the 2017 AGM can be found on page 101.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
