Governance Governance 57 Corporate Governance report Accountability Audit Committee Report As in previous years the Committee has considered the integrity of BTGs internal controls, its financial reporting and the way risks are identified, evaluated, mitigated and reported.
A significant amount of the Committees time and attention was devoted to these matters in 2016 17.
It is essential that compliance processes remain fit for purpose, particularly in light of the growth in size, complexity and international reach of the Group in recent years.
Consequently, the Committee also sought to enhance processes and controls around distributor due diligence, selection, compliance, training, monitoring and audit programmes, particularly those relating to anti-bribery and anti-corruption.
Graham Hetherington Following on from a review conducted last year, Audit Committee Chairman we have focused on strengthening the financial processes and capabilities required to meet the Dear Shareholder ever-increasing needs of a growing business.
To this As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I am pleased to end, 2016 17 has seen a revised finance organisation present our report for the year ended 31 March 2017. put in place, together with external hires to bolster This is my first report since joining the Board and finance capabilities.
As part of this continued taking the role as Chair of the Committee last August.
evolution, the Group has focused on financial process, I would like to thank my predecessor, Giles Kerr, for his controls and system optimisation to meet the Groups hard work as Chair over the past nine years, and I am needs now and in the future.
grateful for his continuing support as a member of the The Committee has additionally directed a review of Audit Committee.
the Companys general governance framework during the year and a number of policies, including Matters This report sets out the activities of the Committee Reserved for the Board approval, Delegation of over the past year and how it has discharged its Authorities and Treasury Policy, have been revised responsibilities to provide effective governance over to ensure that they best serve the business.
the Groups financial and other activities.
In submitting the report we have considered the Financial Reporting There have been several other important changes to Council FRC Guidance on Audit Committees BTGs financial reporting during the year, including published during 2016. changes to the format of the income statement, the focus of the KPIs and adoption of new guidelines in The report also provides an overview of the respect of the reporting of Alternative Performance Committees focus areas, including oversight in relation Measures APMs.
to financial reporting, internal controls, compliance and risk management, as well as the relationship with the external and internal auditors.
Throughout the year the Committee has also monitored the broader risks and challenges relevant to the Group, as well as growing threats such as cyber security.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 58 Corporate Governance report Accountability continued During the year the Company settled the investigation Turning to external audit, KPMG LLP has served as with the US Department of Justice DOJ in relation the Companys external auditor since 1995, with to the historic marketing of LC Bead.
The resolution the current audit partner having served since his was facilitated by the Companys existing extensive appointment in 2013.
In accordance with EU and compliance programme, which we continue to keep national regulations and the UK corporate Governance under review and evolve as appropriate.
As a result, the Code, and having considered the transitional settlement did not involve the imposition by the DOJ of arrangements necessary to effect an external audit a Corporate Integrity Agreement containing additional rotation, it is the Committees intention to put the compliance requirements over and above our existing external audit out to tender during 2017 with a view compliance programme.
to the appointment of a new external auditor for the financial year ended March 2019.
Until such time and In addition to the work ensuring that the processes and following the review of KPMGs continued performance procedures of the Group are suitable for the next stage and independence, the Committee have recommended of its journey, the Committee has continued its ongoing to the Board the reappointment of KPMG as external focus on the approach to risk management, driving the auditor for the 2017 18 financial year.
process further into the operations of the business units and consideration of risks external to BTG, in Graham Hetherington the general healthcare industry and at a more macroAudit Committee Chairman economic level.
Further detail of this work by the Committee can be found on page 66 of this report.
The Companys second Viability Statement can be found on page 35 of this report.
The Committee once again scrutinised in detail the elements of the statement as well as reflecting on the impact of the previous 12 months on the statement.
The Committee considered the FRC guidance and concluded that the approach and the internal work undertaken to support the viability statement is robust and the three year period covered by the statement was appropriate.
This report provides the Committees opinion as to whether the Annual Report taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Board, after taking advice from the Committee, has confirmed that to be the case and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Governance 59 The Audit Committee and its membership The Committee, established by the Board, is responsible for monitoring all aspects of financial reporting and management of risk.
The Committees full terms of reference are available on the Groups website, or from the Company Secretary on request.
Graham Hetherington as Chairman is designated as the Committee member with recent and relevant financial experience.
The other members of the Committee are deemed to have the necessary accounting or related financial management experience and ability to discharge the responsibilities of the Committee.
Members have experience and competence relevant to the sector in which the Group operates.
More information on the experience and expertise of Committee members can be found in the directors biographies on pages 42 and 43.
Committee members Date of appointment to the Committee Graham Hetherington Committee Chairman 1 August 2016 Giles Kerr Committee Chairman until 1 August 2016 6 November 2007 Ian Much 1 November 2010 Richard Wohanka 1 January 2013 Time spent by the Composition of the Committee Committee during the year As at the year end the Committee comprised four non-executive directors.
a Internal Audit 15% b External auditor inc. non-audit services 16% c Financial reporting 21% Directors biographies d Tax 9% e Risk Management and compliance inc. whistle-blowing 17% See pages 42 and 43. f Governance Policy other 22% Meeting attendees: Only members of the Audit Committee are entitled to participate in meetings, however, there is a standing a f invitation for other non-executive directors to attend meetings of the Committee as observers.
The Group CEO, CFO, other senior business, compliance and finance team members, representatives from the external auditor KPMG LLP and the internal auditor b are invited to attend meetings at the request of the Committee.
The Group Company Secretary serves as secretary to the Committee.
e Scheduled meetings during the year The Committee has a standing agenda aligned with the Companys financial calendar and within the annual c d audit cycle for consideration at each of its meetings.
Four meetings were held in the year and details of attendance can be found on page 49.
During the year, immediately following a Committee meeting, private meetings were held with the external and internal auditor to allow them the opportunity to discuss matters without management being present.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 60 Corporate Governance report Accountability continued Activities During the year, in discharging its responsibilities, the Committee received and considered reports across a number of areas as summarised below: Area of review Activities undertaken Review of the Groups half-year and full-year results.
Financial reporting Consideration of whether the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
Review of external auditor reports on the half-year and full-year results.
Consideration of significant accounting issues as detailed on the following table.
Review of prospective changes in accounting standards and their potential impact.
Review of trading updates issued by the Group.
Assessment of the going concern basis of preparation for the financial statements and considering whether there were any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to adopt this basis over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
Review of, and advise the Board on, the Viability Statement.
Review of the adoption of new guidelines in respect of reporting APMs.
Review of the performance and objectivity of the external auditor, including the External auditor independence of the external auditor.
Review of the strategy, scope and results of the half-year review and full-year audit.
Review and approval of external auditor remuneration.
Review of use of the external auditor for non-audit work.
Review of the Audit Quality Review findings for their review of the 2015 16 external audit.
Review of risk management systems, internal controls and fraud, anti-bribery and Risk management anti-corruption procedures.
and internal control Review of compliance systems and policies.
Review by internal and external auditors of internal controls and processes.
Review of the Groups whistle-blowing policy and any allegations arising from it.
Review of the results of internal compliance monitoring and auditing.
Review of the Groups tax affairs.
Tax Internal audit Review of the internal auditors work plan.
Review of internal audit reports produced throughout the year.
Review of the performance of PwC who lead the internal audit function.
Committee Review of Committee terms of reference.
governance Review of revised Non-Audit Services Policy.
Review of revised Delegation of Authorities and Treasury Policy.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Governance 61 Significant accounting matters The Committee considered the following key accounting issues, significant judgements, areas of estimation and disclosures during the course of the year: Significant issues considered How the issue was addressed The Committee critically reviewed a report from management setting out the Carrying value Companys risk-based approach to reviewing the recoverability of Goodwill and of Goodwill and Intangible Assets in accordance with IAS 36.
Intangibles Assets The Committee also critically reviewed the Companys assessment of the recoverability of goodwill and certain intangible assets, including developed technology and In-process R&D assets.
This review particularly focused on the forecast assumptions and valuation methodology which underpinned the valuation of these assets, as further disclosed in Note 11.
Key assumptions reviewed included discount rates, assumed growth rates, peak sales and sensitivity analysis for the relevant assets.
Recognition of The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of deferred tax assets recognised and unrecognised and the movements on deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year.
Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities The Committee also reviewed the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities in respect of the Groups acquisition of Galil Medical.
Investigation and The Committee received and critically assessed the progress of, including the ,  contingent liabilities investigation that was settled during the year.
Contingent The Committee reviewed the key assumptions, including the probability of technical success and likelihood of FDA approval of the PMA for the PneumRx Coils by consideration 31 December 2017, relating to the Companys determination of fair value of the liabilities contingent consideration liability for the $60m milestone, which may be payable to former shareholders of PneumRx, Inc. as part of the deferred acquisition cost.
Presentation format The Committee considered and approved a change to the format of the Consolidated Income Statement to a single column format and the removal of certain immaterial of Consolidated line items from the face of the income statement.
Income Statement The Committee considered the Companys selection, presentation and appropriateness Alternative ,  Performance became applicable for the Company during the year.
Measures Other matters During the course of the year, the Committee received updates from management on , foreignexchange hedging, the presentation of derivative gains and losses, tax strategy and the adoption of new accounting standards.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 62 Corporate Governance report Accountability continued External auditor Appointment The Committee reviews and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to the reappointment of the external auditor, taking into account its overall performance, independence and audit partner rotation.
At its AGM in July 2016, KPMG was reappointed as auditor of the Company.
Evaluation Each year the Committee reviews the performance of and considers the independence of the external auditor.
During the year the Committee and senior members of the finance team evaluated the external auditor performance reviewing the strength of the audit team, its expertise and experience, the completion of the approved audit plan, communication, interaction with Internal Audit and reporting.
In considering the independence of the external auditor, the committee received a statement of independence, a report describing their arrangements for identifying and managing conflicts of interest and confirmation that the provision of non-audit services would not impair its independence or objectivity.
After the annual review, the performance of the external auditor was deemed satisfactory.
Audit scope For the year under review, the external auditor presented their proposed audit plan to the Committee for consideration and approval.
The Committee agreed the approach and scope of the audit plan which had been discussed with management to align with business focus.
The Committee agreed the terms of engagement and fees for the audit work to be undertaken.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor for the audit services are provided in Note 5 to the accounts.
Non-audit work The Committee has a formal policy for approving the use of the auditor for non-audit work, detailing areas where the auditors may not be used, areas where they may be used subject to the agreement of the Committee and areas where prior approval is not required.
A review of the non-audit services policy was conducted during the year, and this revised policy was approved by the Committee.
The external auditor is precluded from engaging in non-audit services that would compromise their independence or violate any laws or regulations affecting their appointment as external auditor.
During the year, no approval was granted for any non-audit services not in full accordance with these standards.
The Committee receives a written annual report from management summarising the fees paid to the auditors for non-audit work and whether such services were pre-approved or specifically approved by the Committee.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor for non-audit services are set out below.
Fees Audit Committee approval Task 000 Pre-approval required: Taxation compliance services 424 Other compliance related services 60 Audit tender The Committee reviews annually whether it is an appropriate time to put the external audit to tender, taking into account the complexity of the business, the services offered by incumbent auditor and their independence.
As detailed in my opening letter, during the year the Committee determined it appropriate to now put the external audit out to tender.
A tender for external audit services has been scheduled to coincide with the rotation of KPMGs audit partner at the end of the 2017 18 financial year.
An evaluation of potential audit firms to be invited to tender was conducted with consideration given to experience in the Groups sector, audit quality findings from FRC audit quality reviews, and a review of non-audit services currently being provided to the Group.
The shortlisted firms will be invited to engage in the tender process later in the 2017 calendar year with a successful candidate being identified ahead of the 2017 18 year end.
A plan for the transition of audit services will be agreed, including inviting the chosen firm to shadow KPMG during their audit of the 2017 18 year end.
The appointment of the new audit firm would be put to shareholders for their approval at the Companys AGM in July 2018.
Reappointment The Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that KPMG be proposed for reappointment by shareholders as its external auditor at the July 2017 AGM and the Board has authorised the Audit Committee to determine the auditors remuneration.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Governance 63 Risk management and internal control committee considerations Ensuring the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control Approach to risk systems is the responsibility of the Board.
Additional details of our approach to management risk management and the specific principal risks that may affect the business are given on page 15 in the Strategic Report and on pages 68 to 70 following this report.
The Committee oversees, on behalf of the Board, the risk management process Audit Committee and the effectiveness of internal controls and reports to the Board on its findings interaction with biannually and also via more specific deep dive reviews in selected areas.
The Group Risk goal is to ensure the Company is able to identify, assess and effectively manage or Management process mitigate existing and newly emerging risks.
The overall risk assessment structure is designed to manage appropriately rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group operates a Risk Committee that is chaired by the CFO, Rolf Soderstrom and comprises senior members of staff representing relevant parts of the business and key functions.
The output from the Risk Committee is formally reported, biannually, to the Leadership Team and Audit Committee.
This Group Risk report is also shared and discussed with the Board and individual risks may be considered by the Board as they arise throughout the year.
Leading indicators of material changes in principal risks are monitored six monthly by the Board via the Audit Committee.
The criteria applied by the directors in judging the effectiveness of these controls, are that they allow the maximisation of shareholder value by exploiting business opportunities while ensuring that risks are properly identified and managed and the Groups legal, regulatory and other obligations are met.
To strengthen the control framework of the business, the Group has an Internal Audit group supported externally by PwC.
The Committee discharges these duties using a combination of reports from Areas of focus management, Internal Audit and the external auditor reviews.
A risk management reporting structure has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the financial statements and is regularly reviewed by the directors in accordance with the Code.
The Committees review focuses on a wide range of areas including financial, operational, anti-bribery, regulatory and healthcare law compliance risks and controls, for the year under review and up to the date of this Report.
This year the Committee also specifically considered the key risks that could impact the business model and strategy over the longer term, such as the changing healthcare landscape in the US.
The Company has engaged PwC to perform the role of the Companys Internal Use of Internal Audit Audit function that operates under the direction of the Audit Committee.
The Committee monitored and reviewed the work of internal audit throughout the year.
During the year, internal audit reviews of the risk management programme, cyber security, HR processes, local site finance processes, EU healthcare law compliance and R&D programme management were undertaken, as well as thirdparty distributor audits focusing primarily on the robustness of their programmes to prevent bribery and corruption.
The work carried out by internal audit did not identify any material weaknesses in internal controls but included proposals to enhance control procedures.
The Committee monitors managements responses to ensure that control improvements are instigated on a timely basis.
During the year the Committee evaluated the performance of the internal auditor using the same methodology applied to the external auditor.
In general, performance of the Internal Audit group was deemed satisfactory.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 64 Corporate Governance report Accountability continued Communications with shareholders, such as results announcements, interim Assessment reports, annual reports and AGM and trading updates, are reviewed carefully of fair, balanced and approved by the Board, or a sub-committee of the Board, to ensure they are and understandable accurate, transparent, balanced and understandable in the view they give of the Groups progress and prospects.
A key role of the Committee includes a review of the significant financial reporting judgements contained in the Annual Report with the aim of ensuring that they present a fair and balanced view of the Group and comply fully with the relevant statutes and accounting standards.
Where requested by the Board, the Committee will advise on whether, taken as a whole, the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable.
As part of this review it discusses the audit findings and Auditors Report with management and the external auditor and considers significant judgements and issues contained within those reports.
Following this discussion the Chairman of the Committee reports the results of its review to the full Board.
The Committee has assessed and recommended to the Board that, taken as a whole, the Companys 2017 Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
The statement of directors responsibilities in relation to the preparation of the financial statements is set out on page 102 and the auditors statement on the respective responsibilities of directors and the auditor is included within its report set out on pages 104 to 109.
Corporate The Company places great emphasis on the embedded behaviours and values that define the BTG DNA, which we believe have been integral in building the policies, values organisation to date and we believe them to be key for continuing success.
and compliance These are underpinned by the Code of Conduct, which covers all aspects of ethics, business practices and compliance, including a whistle-blowing policy, an anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy and policies related to the ethical conduct of research and development and interactions with doctors and other healthcare professionals.
A Companywide meeting is held each month where all sites join via video conference.
The CEO updates employees on different aspects of the business and presentations are given by employees from all areas of the business.
Whistle-blowing An open door policy is used across the Group and in line with best practice, the Group supports an independent and confidential whistle-blowing procedure.
The Leadership Team is responsible for ensuring that arrangements under which employees may raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial performance or other matters, are operating effectively and that appropriate follow-up action takes place.
Included within the Employee Code of Conduct and various employee trainings are details of the Groups whistle-blowing and nonretaliation policy.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Governance 65 The Group has continued to operate its anti-bribery and anti-corruption ABAC Anti-bribery and Policy introduced in 2010.
The ABAC programme reflects the Groups anti-corruption policy commitment to ethical business practices and is in response to various country and international laws, including the UK Bribery Act 2010.
This has included the conduct of due diligence on existing and new key business partners who may act on behalf of the Group in higher risk areas of business.
Further enhancements were completed during the year to develop a tool kit of simple policies and procedures for third parties with whom the Company contracts.
We will provide training on the tool kit with the aim of ensuring third parties are able to operate in accordance with our policies in practice, including those relating to bribery and corruption.
Committee evaluation and action plan for 2017 18 The review of the Committee and its effectiveness was considered as part of the overall Board evaluation.
At its meeting in March 2017, the Committee considered the contents of the internally facilitated review, and the results and recommendations for development were reported to the Board.
The review found that the Committee continued to function efficiently and effectively, providing a healthy balance between in-depth assessment and analysis and a clear practical approach.
As part of the evaluation, it was agreed that in 2017 the Committee would, as well as monitoring changes in EU and UK regulation, continue to focus on improving the content and strategic focus of Board information, the composition and succession planning for Committee members and contributors, developing a high-level risk map integrated with strategy, developing the role and impact of the Internal Audit function in the context of a growing group and providing guidance and oversight on financial systems strategy and capabilities.
These items have been incorporated into the Committees planned activities for the coming financial year.
Graham Hetherington Audit Committee Chairman BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 66 Corporate Governance report Accountability continued Where appropriate the Audit Committee will undertake a Risk Management and Principal Risks deep dive assessment of a key risk to better understand Accountability for oversight of risk its nature and to consider available mitigation options that could be deployed to better manage that risk, The goal of the Board is to ensure the Company is able together with the costs, timelines and likelihood of to identify, assess and effectively manage or mitigate success of those options.
In 2016, the Audit Committee existing and newly emerging risks.
That includes commissioned PwC to undertake an analysis of the BTG oversight of the progress of agreed risk mitigation risk management process.
This exercise recommended strategies and any changes to the materiality of key a number of enhancements, which the Board and risks.
The Board also assess the likelihood and potential Leadership Team are evaluating for implementation impact of plausible concurrent risks and seeks to ensure in 2017. that the overall risk profile of the Group is appropriate in light of its strategy.
The Board utilises information from the risk management process to define the appropriate risk With direct support from the Audit Committee, the Board appetite for the Viability Statement.
The Board also believes it has taken all reasonable steps to satisfy itself considers new material risks in a timely fashion as that the risk management process is effective and fit for they arise.
Nevertheless, as with all risk management processes, there remains a degree of uncertainty and planned mitigations may not be effective and unpredicted Governance and risk risks may arise.
As a consequence there cannot be management systems any guarantee that all risks to the business will be An integral part of the risk management framework is the successfully identified, controlled or mitigated.
Risk is operation of a number of compliance and governance inherent in a number of aspects of the Companys growth systems, each of which comprises a framework of strategy, such as investments in product development, policies, processes and procedures used to ensure that M&A and geographic expansion.
BTG fulfils all tasks required to achieve the desired corporate governance objectives.
Examples include the The specific risks considered by senior management corporate functions such as Internal Audit, Compliance, and the Board are those that are believed could cause the Finance, Legal, Regulatory, Research & Development, Groups future results, financial condition and prospects Pharma Device vigilance, Quality, Environmental, to differ materially from current expectations, including Health & Safety and other assurance groups.
These are the ability to meet the objectives outlined in the Strategic integrated to ensure an overall robust risk management Report.
The Board believes it has taken all material and and assurance framework.
plausible risks into account and, based on that analysis, have confirmed the viability of the Company over the A number of these systems are required by legislation next three years as set out in the Viability Statement or by authorities governing our industry e. g. in the required by the UK Corporate Governance Code see pharmaceutical industry, product quality is governed by page 35, the Viability Statement.
the principles of Good Manufacturing Practice GMP, enforced by the Food and Drug Administration FDA Risk review process in the US and Medicines and Healthcare Products BTG has a three-year financial plan that is updated Regulatory Agency MHRA in the UK and other annually.
Performance against that plan is monitored on equivalent agencies in other territories.
These BTG governance systems each have a series of Key Performance Indicators KPIs, reviewed by The corporate goals have been built into the risk the Leadership Team at set intervals and fed into management process and, as such, form one of the bases on which business risks are measured.
Individuals in the business unit and Group Risk Registers.
the business managing discrete risks on a day-to-day Non-conformances are investigated and corrective basis produce and update their business unit specific actions defined and tracked to completion.
These registers are consolidated These systems aim to ensure that risks arising into a Group Risk Register which is reviewed at least from internal activities or those conducted via third twice-yearly by the Risk Committee before being parties with whom we work do not become material.
reported to the Audit Committee and Board.
The principal systems are outlined in the following table.
Further detail of the work of the Group Risk Committee can be found on page 45.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Governance 67 Outline of BTG Governance & Risk Management Systems Functional Area Summary of KPIs Measured Product quality control and assurance: Ensuring all products placed on a market meet applicable release criteria for the market for which they are intended.
Ensuring all products: Assessment against internal operating standards and procedures.
meet applicable specifications, GMP and other regulatory requirements.
Testing the effectiveness of training.
deliver expected efficacy and safety.
FDA MHRA Internal Audit findings and delivery on remediation plans.
are supported by necessary manufacturing and marketing licences in Monitoring customer complaints, for example, product failures or adverse relevant markets.
events via a comprehensive device pharmacovigilance system.
Monitoring completion of corrective actions for all measures reported.
Healthcare law compliance: Collection of internal monitoring data and assessment against operational targets.
Ensuring: Internal audit findings, auditing of commercial partners and delivery on compliance by BTG Group and its principal commercial partners with remediation plans.
applicable laws and regulations relating to the conduct of business Monitoring of complaints queries allegations.
Conduct of investigations including, for example, the UK Bribery Act, US False Claims Act, US where required.
Anti-Kickback Statute and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Testing the effectiveness of training of BTG employees and commercial other applicable regulations to prevent improper conduct, inaccurate partners.
regulatory submissions, misleading or off-label marketing of products, or the submission of false claims for reimbursement of products.
Finance: Internal and external audit findings at BTG businesses and commercial partners.
Ensuring: Adherence to budget, delegated authorities and other internal financial the ongoing viability of BTGs business and adequate financial resources controls and assurance procedures.
to meet our operational and strategic objectives.
all BTG employees abide by internal and external transaction and Monitoring completion of corrective actions for all measures reported.
BTG is not subject to serious fraud or misappropriation of Company assets.
Supply chain: Collection of internal monitoring data and assessment against operational targets.
Ensuring: Maintaining adequate inventories based on risk assessments of raw products are delivered on time and orders completed.
materials, intermediates and finished goods.
Implementation of process and facility improvement plans.
maintenance and management of supply chains such that all internal and Rigorous monitoring of third-party suppliers: dual sourcing implemented regulatory standards are met.
or being investigated where practicable.
Environment, Health & Safety EHS : Investigation of lost time accidents minimum one day lost and all first aid incidents.
BTG operations are safe for employees, visitors and the public who interact Carbon footprint.
we appropriately manage our impact on the environment.
Internal audits and site assessments monitoring training and completion compliance with internal and external regulatory standards.
of corrective actions for all measures reported.
Research & Development R&D : Assessment against internal operating standards and procedures and ongoing review of the scope and content of the policy framework Ensuring: and procedures.
we protect the safety and data privacy of patients participating in our Testing of the effectiveness of training.
clinical studies and meet all applicable laws and regulations with respect to FDA MHRA Internal Audit findings and delivery on remediation plans.
conduct of R&D for example, the requirements of Good Clinical Practice Active monitoring of clinical studies and other activities.
Detailed review of project progress against agreed stage gate milestones we generate adequate data to support regulatory submissions and product for further funding.
Ongoing review of the portfolio as a whole against wider strategic needs.
we define appropriate development plans to meet our strategic goals.
we meet project specific and portfolio budgets and timelines.
Skills and capabilities: Assessment processes to define the future capability or development needs of the Group in light of strategy.
Ensuring: Reviewing the competitiveness of Company reward programmes and the business attracts, retains and develops talented individuals of the employee benefits.
calibre and with the capabilities needed to deliver on the Groups Ensuring key individuals have adequate ongoing development as well operations and strategy.
as succession plans in place.
Enhancing overall leadership development programmes.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 68 Corporate Governance report Accountability continued physicians and patients: commercially viable levels of Principal risks product reimbursement being established: safety and Although not exhaustive, we describe in the following efficacy continuing to be demonstrated: maintaining table what we believe to be the most significant risks continuity of supply: the impact of competition and the that could materially affect the Groups ability to achieve successful enforcement of the Groups intellectual its financial goals, operating and strategic objectives.
property or defence against third-party intellectual While other risks are deemed less material at this time, property rights.
given the nature of the Companys business, risks continually change.
Notably the macroeconomic risks in The pharmaceutical and medical device industries are both the US and UK changed markedly in 2016, with the highly competitive and require substantial ongoing new administration in the US seeking to undertake product investment, innovation and development healthcare reform, and the UK decision to exit the EU.
to sustain a continuing competitive advantage.
Both of these events introduce significant uncertainty.
The Groups success will continue to depend on its BTG are monitoring all possibilities and will produce ability to in-license, acquire or develop new products mitigation and control strategies as the situation and businesses and to realise the expected benefit from becomes clearer.
At this point apart from the effect of the such activities by the application of resources and devaluation of Sterling, there are no immediate effects on effectively integrating acquired opportunities into the the BTG trading position.
As BTG operates in such a highly specialised industry, in order to deliver against our strategic As a general risk, the existing and future products objectives we require highly skilled and experienced launched by the Company may not be a commercial employees who are highly sought after by our success depending on a number of complex and competitors.
Challenges in attracting, retaining and inter-related factors including: the receipt, maintenance motivating such employees may impact our ability to and the scope of the applicable required marketing maintain performance levels and to deliver against our approvals and clearances and the time and investment strategic growth objectives.
required to obtain approvals : product acceptance by Risk General Change in 2016 17 mitigation strategy Market Access: Securing adequate reimbursement for BTGs products   The Company continues to strengthen reimbursement by third-party payers, including government based on accurate data and analysis its global market access reimbursement and private health insurers, is limited or unavailable.
While adequate levels of The Group may be subject to price limits on reimbursement Ensuring accurate and complete reimbursement for Varithena can be of products that are outside of its control, reducing sales submissions.
BTG is seeking to utilise its secured, inadequate coverage and or volume or prices, negatively impacting Group revenues.
expanding expertise across the portfolio, slow payment has slowed adoption and  both within and outside the US.
proportion of the Groups revenues are derived, and in light plans increasingly seek to create the data Progress continues with the expectation of the potential US healthcare reforms, which may reduce likely to be required to secure the desired CPT Codes for Varithena will be secured the number of insured patients and require increased level of reimbursement for the applicable from January 2018.
A residual risk is rebates or discounts to be provided.
Third-party payers products after commercial launch.
the uncertainty regarding the value that are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs will be set for these codes which will be through measures that are likely to impact the products determinedduring2017 18financialyear.
Acceptable progress continues to secure appropriate reimbursement for other products across the portfolio.
A future focus will be on supporting appropriate reimbursement levels for the PneumRx Coil both in EU and in US following approval.
Notwithstanding progress to date, in  relating to Varithena and the generally challenging external environment in the industry, the overall risk is assessed to have remained the same as last year.
Key Increased risk Unchanged risk Decreased risk BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Governance 69 Risk General Change in 2016 17 mitigation strategy Obtaining Maintaining product regulatory approvals The pharmaceutical and device industries are highly The Company has expert internal teams In 2016 DC Bead was successfully regulated in relation to the development, approval, dedicated to ensuring compliance in reclassifiedintheEU.
Asimilar manufacturing and sale of products.
The development of eachoftheseareas, definingregulatory application has been made for DC Bead healthcare products has a high level of inherent risk and strategies and supporting product LUMI, the outcome of which is awaited.
An inability to meet existing or new approvals and maintenance of existing This follows the successful launch of the regulations or regulatory guidance may result in delays or product licences.
sister product LC Bead LUMI in the US failures in bringing products to market, additional material last year.
The process is supported by the costs of development or the imposition of restrictions on  The PMA submission to seek US approval or the sale of a product or its manufacture or monthly monitoring of performance approval of the PneumRx Coil, was distribution, including the possible withdrawal of a product against goals and of changes in the made in February 2017. from the market.
The overall level of risk is deemed to Such events may adversely impact the Groups revenues have modestly reduced during the and prospects.
 development teams were reorganised and strengthened during the year.
The R&D team continues to be developed.
The use of external resources such as contract clinical research organisations CROs are .
IP Legal challenges BTG may be subject to challenges relating to the validity Maintenance of the IP and legal functions  of contracts or its patents or alleging infringement by BTG as core capabilities of the Group, revenues for BTG, and is subject to of intellectual property IP rights of others, which might supplemented by external expertise, multiple challenges by manufacturers of result in cessation of BTG product sales, litigation and or which monitors third-party patent generic versions in the US.
The position settlement costs and or loss of earnings.
BTG might elect portfolios and patent applications and IP has not changed since last years Annual to sue third parties for their infringement of BTGs IP in rights.
Monitoring of BTGs satisfaction Report.
Generic competition may enter the order to protect current or future product revenue streams.
of its obligations under key contracts.
Development and implementation yearintheUSand2020 21financialyear ofBTGpatentfiling, defenceand in the EU when the ten-year post-approval BTG may not be able to secure or maintain the necessary enforcement strategies, pursuing data exclusivity period ends.
In each case IP in relation to products sold, acquired or in development, litigation or settlement strategies where generic competition would substantially limiting the potential to generate value from these products appropriate.
Robust processes are in place  and the level and investments.
Patent expiries can adversely impact the to automate patent renewals: internal of royalties received by BTG.
Groups revenues due to a resultant increase in competition controls established to avoid disclosure of and price erosion.
BTG is in a current dispute with Wellstat  over the commercialisation of Vistogard.
applications and to protect valuable Wellstat are seeking damages and know-how.
to terminate the commercialisation agreement under which BTG obtained rights to sell Vistogard in the US.
A trial has been heard in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware but no judgement has yet been issued.
The Group estimate the likelihood of material  asset to be possible, not probable, and therefore no liability has been recognised.
It is currently not possible to make a reliable estimate of any amount that may be required to be paid in respect of the dispute.
The overall risk is assessed as unchanged compared with last year.
Competition BTGs products may face competition from products that BTG focuses on select opportunities The competitive environment remains ,  addressing specialist segments where a challenge particularly within the effectprofiles,  there are relatively high barriers to entry, Interventional Oncology business but price than BTGs products.
for example, relating to the development overall the level of risk is unchanged and manufacturing processes, or the from last year.
A key strategic goal for There are currently no competitive products to CroFab,   DigiFab, Voraxaze or Vistogard but Instituto Bioclon clinical data to gain approval and wider range of products within the may launch a competitor product to CroFab around commercial acceptance.
The Galil Medical acquisition October 2018.  and launch of LUMI beads are key TheraSphere competes with a product from Sirtex our products by demonstrating, in pillars of this strategy, which it is hoped Medical Limited and LC Bead and DC Bead compete clinicaltrials, , will maintain BTGs lead position in the , Terumo  .
Varithena competes with other acceptance.
is at risk of further competition as noted.
treatment modalities including heat ablation, vein stripping It should be noted that Brexit and evolving and physician-compounded sclerosing foam.
healthcare policies in the US may have EKOS competes with other interventional clot treatment , .
however, at this stage it is too early to  There is a competitor to PneumRx in the form of the accuracy.
InLicensing, Zytiga competes with a number of other treatments for prostate cancer Overall, the risk is assessed as including Xtandi enzalutamide and is at risk of unchanged compared with last year.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance 70 Corporate Governance report Accountability continued Risk General Change in 2016 17 mitigation strategy Healthcare law compliance Extensive laws and regulations relate to how BTG markets A comprehensive compliance programme During 2016 BTG reached agreement its products and interacts with its customers and payers.
with the US Department of Justice DOJ is in place as referred to above.
Ongoing Failure to meet applicable requirements may result in regarding actions by Biocompatibles monitoring and auditing is undertaken to criminal or civil proceedings against the Group, exclusion and their associated distributors prior seek to ensure any material failures are of sale of products in certain territories and material to acquisition dating back to 2003. .
 The successful resolution of this action The programme is continually reviewed Group or their commercial partners, or their respective without the imposition by the DOJ of  employees or directors.
additional compliance controls is seen and changes to the external environment.
as evidence of the appropriateness of Defending actual or alleged violations may require The BTG compliance programme is a the BTG compliance programme.
As a , Company standard which is introduced result the risk in this area has decreased even if not proven.
The programme has been fully implemented by the latest Compliance however remains a key area additions to the BTG Group, PneumRx of vigilance for BTG and complacency is and Galil Medical.
Monitoring continues and all issues are thoroughly investigated and corrective actions tracked through to completion.
There can be no guarantee however that other investigations will not be instigated by the DOJ or other agencies in future.
It is expected that legislative burdens in this area will increase in most jurisdictions and therefore programmes will need to be continually improved.
Supply chain continuity of supply There are inherent risks to the BTG supply chain as the BTG has extensive quality, risk and BTG sites and supply chain partners Companys products are typically high value, low volume business continuity management systems underwent seventeen inspections by manufacture.
Diversifying the supply chain of such to ensure resilience of the supply chain.
external bodies such as FDA, MHRA products for example by establishing dual sources of These management systems are applied .
BTGthereforerelies equally to both the internal and external  on the following single sources of supply.
received and corrective actions for all observations were completed or are Wales for supply of manufactured antibodies and a single Each supply chain is thoroughly on track to the timetables agreed with assessed and stocks of raw materials, in site in Farnham, UK, for the manufacture of the Beads the authorities.
Consequently there is the possibility of  disruption to, or loss of supplies resulting from, technical are maintained as a result of that risk BTG changed its business interruption issues, contamination or regulatory actions.
Risk assessments are insurance provider in October 2016, antibody products rely on serum produced from our sheep reviewed annually or when business as a result all key sites received an audit flocksinAustralia,  predictions change.
Adherence from the new provider.
to the agreed stock levels are reviewed actions have been mutually agreed with monthly through regular business the insurance provider, and are being BTG manufactures its EKOS products at a single site review meetings.
in Seattle, Washington, USA and the PneumRx Coil at a single site in Santa Clara, California, USA, with  As a result of the acquisition of the the consequent possibilities from disruption to or loss interruption insurance, which is Galil Medical business in June 2016, of supply.
maintained at a level for each business to BTG purchased additional war and cover at least two years loss of business terrorism business interruption insurance Galil Medical consumable items are manufactured at a as result of catastrophic loss of supply.
site in Israel, with the control units manufactured at a site located in Arden Hills, Minnesota, USA.
Standard business interruption insurance remains at two years for most key sites For other products, namely Voraxaze and TheraSphere, and business but has been maintained we continue to rely on third-party contractors for the supply at three years for the Wales and of many key materials and services.
inherently carry risks of failure and loss of product are risks over which the Company has a lower degree of control.
Overall, the supply chain risk is considered to remain unchanged in comparison with last year.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
