Strategic Report 10 Pricing and reimbursement Industry As the healthcare industry faces increased pricing pressures, we look to mitigate this by investing in overview innovative, differentiated products that advance the treatment of patient populations that are currently underserved.
Demonstrating the value of our products helps us to gain market acceptance and appropriate reimbursement coverage and pricing.
The context for Markets and competition our business Companies compete to attract and retain technical and commercial talent, to develop and acquire products, and Global healthcare markets are expected to gain share in their chosen markets and geographies.
We focus on medical areas where we can develop to grow over the coming years, fuelled market-leading positions through our capability and by population growth, increasing resources to undertake product innovation, clinical longevity, technological advances, development and commercial expansion.
consumer empowerment and economic A detailed description of the market opportunity and competition is provided in the performance reviews on expansion.
To benefit from these trends, pages 16 to 38.
BTG s strategy is to invest in innovation and development and demonstrate value for money to physicians, patients and payers.
Regulation The healthcare industry is highly regulated by governments, with strict rules overseeing research, clinical development, manufacturing and commercial activity.
At BTG we have developed extensive quality, pharmacovigilance and compliance systems and procedures.
We also recruit highly skilled and  ensure that we comply with all relevant regulatory standards.
We pay close attention to the future regulatory landscape and the potential impact of healthcare reforms.
This is of particular importance when reviewing product development or acquisition opportunities.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report 11 Risk management Rigorous governance, along with our consistent risk management systems and processes enable us to identify, assess, manage and mitigate the key existing and newly emerging risks facing the business.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the Groups risk management and internal control systems and for regularly and robustly assessing these systems.
We believe the most significant risks that could materially affect the Groups ability to achieve its financial goals and its operating and strategic objectives are: ensuring continuity of product supplies: securing acceptable product reimbursement: obtaining maintaining product regulatory approvals: Intellectual Property IP legal challenges: competition: and healthcare law compliance.
BTGs risk management governance and processes, and the principal risks listed above, are described in detail on pages 66 to 70.
$500bn Worldwide medtech sales forecast by 2022 5% Compound annual growth rate of the global medtech industry forecast by 2022 Source: EvaluateMedTech World Preview 2016 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
