DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Objectives For many years we have focussed on the pursuit of the Groups objective of achieving long term, low risk growth in net asset value and rental income, and in prudently growing our dividends.
Net asset value per share Dividends per share p 110 100 100 90 90 80 70 80 60 50 70 40 30 60 20 10 0 50 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Strategy The strategy for achieving our objectives has three principal elements: Management of our property portfolio to maximise net rental income and thereby enhance capital values Identification and completion of value enhancing development opportunities within our portfolio Identification and completion of new property acquisitions which have the potential, through development or otherwise, for long term enhancement to net asset value In pursuing this strategy we take the view that property is a long term business which does not always fit conveniently into the annual reporting cycle.
Development opportunities, in particular, can take many years from first idea to first letting and will often involve substantial investment over a period of years before any gain is achieved.
We carefully monitor our exposure to ensure that the impact on our resources remains manageable.
Business model The main activity of the Group, as carried on through its subsidiary companies, is investment in commercial, industrial and residential property in the UK and also on the eastern seaboard of the USA.
The Group generally holds its properties for the long term in order to generate rental income and capital appreciation although in the right circumstances any property could be available for sale.
The Group operates a substantially outsourced business model.
Day-to-day management of the Groups properties in the UK is carried out by Highdorn Co. Limited and Freshwater Property Management Limited.
These companies also provide the staff who carry out all of the UK functions of the Group.
Further details of the relationship with these companies are set out in Note 17 to the financial statements.
Similar arrangements with local managing agents operate in the USA.
Managing risk Whilst retaining an entrepreneurial culture, the Group has a low appetite for risk.
This underpins our approach to all aspects of the business and is appropriate to our strategic objective of delivering long term, low risk growth in net asset value per share.
The Board has undertaken a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, by reviewing detailed risk reports at each Board Meeting, including those threatening its business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity.
In relation to financial instrument risk, the Group operates a cautious financial policy on a nonAbove and right: speculative and long term basis in order to enable the Group to carry on its business in confidence Strand Palace Hotel, and with strength.
The Group aims to ensure that the cost of capital is kept to a minimum through Strand, London WC2.
Page 4 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT continued the maintenance of its many long standing relationships with leading banks and other financial institutions.
The Group seeks to minimise the risk of sudden or unexpected rises in finance costs by way of fixed rate debt and financial derivative instruments whilst retaining some flexibility in relation to short term interest rates.
As explained in Note 1 g to the financial statements, the Group does not hedge account.
Note 16 to the financial statements details the Groups exposure to the various financial instrument risks.
Managing risk has been central to the success of the Group over many years and in particular gearing has been kept at a relatively low level for the property industry: currently gearing is 14.6%.
The Board recognises that, in common with all companies, it can only have limited control over many of the external risks which it faces.
The largest of such uncontrollable factors is the economic cycle which has a major impact on the demand for and price of property and the ability of the Group to achieve its strategic objectives.
The principal risks facing the Group are described in the following paragraphs together with the steps which are taken to mitigate and manage them.
External risks Economic outlook The UK is facing a period of slowing economic growth, increasing inflation and unprecedented political uncertainty.
Special mention must also be made of the additional level of uncertainty for business driven by the ongoing Brexit negotiation process.
Until some clarity emerges as to the nature of the UKs on-going relationship with the EU it will be difficult for businesses to plan for the future.
Such circumstances increase the risk of downward pressure on rental and capital values and an increase in vacancy rates and bad debts.
The USA continues to experience economic growth and sustained demand for commercial space and residential accommodation.
This is the background which provides the risks and opportunities for our residential tenants and for the businesses of our commercial tenants and their demand for space.
We seek to mitigate and manage such risk by: Continuous monitoring of the economic outlook Continued maintenance of low gearing Rigorous tenant covenant checks including independent assessments for major lets.
In the case of smaller properties we undertake such checking as is appropriate Enhanced rent collection effort to minimise the possibility of bad debts Availability of finance on acceptable terms In order to undertake significant acquisitions or projects of development and value enhancement within our portfolio the Group relies in part on funding from the UK and USA property finance market.
At present our experience shows that suitable finance can be obtained on acceptable terms.
Nevertheless any reduction in the availability of finance for property at an acceptable cost and for an appropriate period would adversely affect the Groups ability to undertake acquisitions and major schemes of redevelopment and refurbishment.
We seek to mitigate and manage this risk by: Monitoring funding trends and the development of banking regulations Above and Sustaining relationships with our principal financing partners, both banks and other lending opposite page: institutions Seaplane House, Securing term finance facilities to meet our foreseeable requirements Medway City Estate, Rochester, Kent.
Ensuring that the maturities of major loan arrangements are spread over a period of years Page 6 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT continued Movements in currency rates of exchange With over 26% by value of the Groups property portfolio located in the USA, any significant movement in the sterling dollar rate of exchange will impact our reported results.
The period since the decision to leave the EU has seen a significant fall in the sterling dollar exchange rate: the reduction in the financial year was 13%.
This has had the effect of increasing the reported value of our USA net assets and profits.
We mitigate and manage this risk by: Funding US assets by US dollar borrowings and local retained earnings.
This means that the impact of movements in the exchange rate is limited to accounting adjustments in the Groups consolidated accounts.
An accounting gain of 29.1 million arises in reserves mainly on the retranslation of the opening net book value of assets in the USA Incurring all costs used to generate US dollar rental income in US dollars Regulation Regulations aimed at the control of residential rental levels or shorthold tenancy arrangements could have an adverse impact on the Group.
Similarly, increased regulation on building standards environmental, health and safety or planning matters could impose additional costs.
We seek to mitigate and manage this risk by: Careful monitoring of developments in legislation with the help of our professional advisers Catastrophic events The operations of the Group could be adversely affected by a significant catastrophe such as extreme weather, fire, cyber-attack, civil disturbance or terrorism which could result in the loss of any of our principal buildings or offices and the records stored in them.
Page 8 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 We seek to mitigate and manage this risk by: Insuring buildings with third parties Physical building security Fireproof storage of leases and other documents of title Dispersal of business critical IT systems and enhanced data security measures Tenant default Tenant default constitutes a risk to income and, ultimately, to capital value.
The multi-tenanted nature of the portfolio, with rental income derived from numerous properties, provides a natural measure of protection against the risk of individual default.
In addition, we seek to mitigate and manage this risk by: Seeking tenants with strong covenants Credit checks on new tenants including independent assessments for major lets Careful monitoring of tenants showing signs of financial stress Actively using recovery mechanisms for overdue debts Internal risks Regional concentration in UK portfolio Within the UK the majority of our properties are situated in and around the London area.
In recent years the increase in value of our UK portfolio has been almost entirely derived from the London area which has enjoyed a period of well publicised growth.
A slowdown in the London market such as has occurred over the last year will significantly reduce the net annual revaluation uplifts in the UK portfolio.
Changes in aggregate property value have a direct impact on the net worth of the Group.
Opposite page top and below: Cadogan Square, Glasgow.
Page 9 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT continued We seek to mitigate and manage this risk by: Continuing to invest in the USA Regular monitoring of the property market for opportunities, not just in London but throughout the UK Regular professional revaluations by our independent surveyors in the UK and USA Acquisitions The Group seeks well priced acquisitions which will meet the strategic objective of adding long term, low risk growth in net asset value.
The Groups oft stated aversion to undue risk means that in a period of economic and political uncertainty, opportunities for acquisition will be approached with extreme caution.
There is nevertheless a risk that an inappropriate or ill-judged acquisition could destroy value.
We seek to mitigate and manage this risk by: Rigorous pre-acquisition screening of all buying opportunities and appropriate due diligence Development The Group continues to seek development opportunities, principally from within the portfolio but also elsewhere.
Development provides an opportunity to enhance income and net asset values but carries risk as to planning, construction timing, costs and letting.
We seek to mitigate and manage these risks by: Rigorous screening of all development opportunities including external professional advice and, where appropriate, market research Focusing on a limited number of developments at any one time Close monitoring, together with our external advisers, of active developments People The Group relies heavily on the involvement of key executive directors in both strategic and day-today affairs.
Loss of this involvement would be disruptive to business.
We have sought to mitigate and manage this risk by: The appointment of new directors from the next generation of the Freshwater family The appointment of independent non-executive directors The establishment of a strong Group management team to support the executive directors Investment properties A professional valuation of all of the Groups properties was carried out at 31 March 2017.
The UK properties were valued by Colliers International Property Advisers UK LLP, Chartered Surveyors.
In the USA, properties were valued by Joseph J. Blake and Associates, Inc. and Metropolitan Valuation Services, Inc. both of which are Certified General Real Estate Appraisers.
The table below shows a summary of the valuation of our investment property at 31 March 2017: Valuation Percentage March 2017 change m in year Commercial property UK 951.0 5.2% USA 84.6 38.3% Residential property Above and opposite UK 717.6 14.1% page: Wyfold Road, USA 517.9 21.4% Fulham, London Total 2,271.1 12.4% SW6.
Page 11 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT continued Analysis by property type Property UK Property USA Residential Residential Commercial 517.9m Commercial 717.6m 951.0m 84.6m Commercial Property UK Commercial Property USA Retail Industrial 3.5m 37.1m Offices Land & Offices 81.1m Development 361.8m 71.6m Leisure & Services 84.6m Retail 395.9m Analysis by location UK Valuations USA Valuations North & Wales & Scotland Pennsylvania Greater West 52.3m Baltimore 43.7m London 59.6m New York 27.0m 1,332.5m Midlands & 298.3m East Anglia New Jersey 89.5m 43.7m South East 134.7m Boston 78.2m Florida 111.6m Page 12 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Whilst the percentage changes shown on page 11, in the main, are attributable to net surpluses arising on revaluation, they also include movements resulting from purchases, capital expenditure, disposals and changes in currency rates of exchange.
This is shown in the analysis below: 2017 2016 m m Opening valuation 2,009.4 1,855.2 New acquisitions 0.5 10.4 Additions to existing properties 29.7 16.6 Disposals 1.2 3.7 2,038.4 1,878.5 Revaluation gain 144.5 117.9 Foreign exchange gain 73.9 13.0 Closing valuation 2,256.8 2,009.4 In this table and in the financial statements, the total valuation of 2,271.1 million 2016 2,020.7 million has been reduced by an amount of 14.3 million 2016 11.3 million relating to lease incentives, as required by accounting standards see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.
Left and opposite page: progress on the Travelodge Hotel, Middlesex Street, Aldgate, London E1, inset: artists impression of the finished project.
Notwithstanding the view of our professional valuation advisers that property values in the last year had essentially remained flat, in the UK we saw an overall net valuation surplus of 7.2% 2016 5.3% and in the USA a surplus of 6.2% in dollar terms 2016 9.8%.
This has arisen mainly because our portfolio is well represented in those segments of the market which continue to show growth.
So, for example, in Central London the highest value residential properties 2 million plus have fallen back Percentages calculated in value but values of flats in the range of 0.5 million to 1 million where we have many properties as net valuation gains on investment properties have continued to advance.
In the UK, our residential property values rose 2.8% as our professional divided by prior year advisers decreased the discount for condition following review of historical costs incurred.
investment property value Note 2 which for the USA The residential market in New York City has shown a similar trend with values in Manhattan and is adjusted by the foreign Brooklyn remaining flat while the more affordable areas of Bronx and Queens continue to show exchange movement growth.
Page 13 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT continued In general we have seen a fall in the values of UK offices due to yield softening but this has been offset in a number of cases by new lets at improved rents.
In the UK we have seen a significant increase in the value of the development site adjacent to the hotel which we have under construction for Travelodge in Aldgate on the eastern fringe of the City of London.
Acquisitions and Developments In the UK our development efforts have been concentrated in three main areas: Hotel Development The project to develop a 395 bedroom hotel for Travelodge on our site in Aldgate on the eastern fringe of the City of London is well under way.
The total project cost is estimated to be 31 million of which 9 million was spent in the year.
The development is due to be completed in the spring of 2018.
Temple Street, Birmingham In March 2017 we completed the refurbishment of our property at Temple Street which, as shown on pages 16 and 17, created 35,000 sq feet of high quality office space in Central Birmingham.
Since the year end 10,000 sq feet have been successfully re-let.
Flat development program As mentioned last year, a plan has been drawn up for the development in the UK of some 250 new flats Page 14 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 spread over a number of our existing sites.
Southgate Lodge, Croydon was completed in January 2016 and 17 flats in Abbey Foregate, Shrewsbury were completed in the financial year.
Construction work is currently underway on a total of 98 units, of which 84 are located at Prestamex House in Brighton, Sussex.
Since the year end our conversion of Wyfold Road, Fulham, into 9 flats has been completed.
In the USA our major investment has been in enhancement work on both residential and commercial properties aimed at raising rental values and generally improving the quality of the portfolio.
In the UK we have continued to consolidate our interests in a potential development site at the eastern end of Oxford Street, close to the new Crossrail station at Tottenham Court Road which is due to open next year.
We are still at the early stages of what will be a significant project spanning several financial years.
Boongate Retail Park, Peterborough, There have been no significant new property acquisitions in the year.
Results for the year Opposite page: Frankie & Bennys, The profit before taxation for the year ended 31 March 2017 amounts to 198.4 million 2016 this page: Range, 173.2 million.
The result includes a net valuation gain of 144.5 million arising on investment properties 2016 117.9 million.
Page 15 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT continued The table below shows the performance of our core rental business before and after valuation movements: 2017 2016 m m Total rental and related income from investment property 140.7 138.2 Property operating expenses 75.9 70.0 Net rental and related income from investment property 64.8 68.2 Profit on disposals of investment property 14.6 11.7 Administrative expenses 12.6 13.0 Net operating profit before net valuation gains 66.8 66.9 Net valuation gains on investment property 144.5 117.9 Net financing expense 12.9 11.6 Profit before taxation 198.4 173.2 Overall total rental income has been flat this year.
In the UK there have been a number of successful rent reviews but their positive effect has very largely been offset by reductions elsewhere in the portfolio.
We have experienced greater rental increases in the USA but even here by far the largest component of the overall increase in rental income derives from the reduction in the dollar sterling rate of exchange during the year.
This year has seen service charge income reduce to a more normal level consistent with the period prior to 2016.
Last years charge was inflated by the conjunction of a number of major works projects into a single financial year.
The increase in Property Operating Expenses is principally again due to the reduction in the dollar sterling rate of exchange during the year.
Opposite page, left and above: 10 Temple Street, Birmingham.
Page 17 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT continued As has been the case for several years our profits on disposals derive overwhelmingly from leasehold extensions in the UK.
These arise on long leaseholds where the properties have been previously derecognised, and the Group has no control on when or if these extensions will occur.
The increase in net finance costs is entirely due to the change in the dollar sterling rate of exchange.
In constant currency terms the cost of USA borrowing has actually decreased slightly reflecting the refinancing at lower rates which took place last year.
The Groups overall effective tax rate was 18.3% 2016 17.5%.
In the UK the effective rate was 11.3% 2016 8.0% : 2016 benefited from a reduction in the rate of future deferred tax from 20% to 18%.
A further, but smaller, reduction of the future deferred tax rate from 18% to 17% took place in 2017.
In the USA the effective rate has remained consistent and in line with the statutory rate at 40.6% 2016 39.5%.
Earnings per share This year earnings per share stands at 9.93 2016: 8.77 an increase of 13.2%.
14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 This increase in earnings per share is consistent with our increase in profit for the year.
Underlying profit The profit reported in the financial statements has for some years included property revaluation movements and fair value adjustments to financial instruments.
In addition to this measure of Opposite page: 1-31 Barton Street, Bath, Somerset, above and left: Thorncliffe Court, Clapham, South West London.
Page 19 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT continued performance we also focus on underlying profits which do not include these valuation items.
Underlying profits for the last two years are set out below: 2017 2016 m m Profit before tax per the income statement 198.4 173.2 Property valuation surplus 144.5 117.9 Financial instruments fair value adjustments 0.1 0.8 Adjustment to measurement of disposal profits Note 9 1.0 1.3 Underlying profit before tax 54.8 55.8 This years underlying profit of 54.8 million represents a decrease of 1.8% on the previous year and reflects the broadly flat rental income and reduced service charge income in the period.
Underlying profit represents that element of our reported results which has actually been realised and is not dependent on valuation judgements.
It represents the performance of our core rental business together with disposal profits which tend to fluctuate from year to year.
It is our underlying profit which generates the cash we use to re-invest in the business and to pay dividends and taxes.
Gearing Gearing, the ratio between our loans and borrowings and the value of our total assets, is 14.6% 2016 14.9% for the Group as a whole.
In the UK the ratio is 6.5% 2016 7.2% whilst in the USA, where each property is financed separately on a ring-fenced basis, it is 35.8% 2016 38.3%.
As the majority of our loans and borrowings are secured on our investment property assets, our gearing ratio is useful as it indicates our capacity to borrow further to invest in our business and also shows the level of headroom we have in case of adverse property valuation movements.
Shareholders funds At 31 March 2017 shareholders funds amounted 1,655.7 million, an increase of 11.9% on last years figure of 1,480.0 million.
Shareholders funds have grown in recent years as follows: 1,800 1,600 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Shareholders funds per share is calculated by dividing total equity attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average shares in issue during the year.
We believe this is a useful measure of fair value per share as it reflects the fair value of the investment property we hold.
For Above and this reason it is a common measure used in the property industry.
opposite page: Dividend Simpson House, The proposed total dividend for the year of 98p per share represents an increase of 5.4% Croydon, 2016 93p.
Page 20 million DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT continued Outlook In his introduction on page 2, the Chairman has set out the general political and economic issues which provide the background against which the business will be conducted in the coming year.
Within the business our focus will continue to be the enhancement of our overall rent roll in order to increase both income and capital growth.
The uncertainty in the UK economy means that we will approach the coming year with more than usual caution and with a bias towards the conservation of our cash resources.
Notwithstanding the immediate economic and political uncertainty, we continue actively to consider a number of significant schemes of redevelopment which we hope to bring to fruition over the coming years.
In the UK, current market sentiment is that we are at, or about at, the peak of this property cycle.
Although it is possible that modest valuation gains may continue, significant uplifts will be dependent upon the completion of successful developments, rent reviews and lettings.
In particular the block of properties which we have assembled at the eastern end of Oxford Street, WC1 offers the opportunity for significant value enhancement through redevelopment over the coming years.
This project is at a very early stage.
In the USA we continue to seek suitable acquisition opportunities and, whenever possible, to refinance existing properties at more advantageous rates.
It is a very competitive market with many buyers seeking similar opportunities, but we are rigorous in our approach and prepared to take time to select the right transactions where we can identify opportunities to enhance rental income and capital value.
Employees As mentioned above, day-to-day activities are outsourced to management companies which are responsible for the provision of the services of the staff on which we rely to run the business.
As part of the arrangements with the management companies in the UK, those individuals engaged on the Groups affairs hold joint employment contracts but the management companies retain sole responsibility for setting recruitment, employment, training, health and safety, diversity and human rights policies for their staff.
Whilst the Group supports and encourages good practice in all of these areas, detailed responsibility for the establishment and execution of such policies lies with the management companies.
As a result, this report does not contain the kind of information mentioned in the Companies Act 2006 s414C 7 b ii and iii.
Opposite page, above and left: Africa House, Kingsway, London WC2.
Page 23 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT continued So far as health and safety is concerned, the Board recognises the importance of ensuring that our properties provide a safe and healthy environment for all users.
With this in mind the Board has requested that the management companies ensure that: All its employees receive appropriate training in the identification and management of health and safety risks.
Every employee is required to be familiar with health and safety policies and has responsibility for ensuring that they are followed in their area of work Regular cyclical risk assessments are undertaken by external consultants on all properties for which the Group has responsibility.
A dedicated team is tasked with resolving issues raised by such assessments and with monitoring policy compliance An annual presentation is made to ensure that awareness of the importance of this issue continues at the highest level within the Group.
All Directors of the Company are male and no new recruitment to the Board is planned which would cause this to change in the near future.
Properties in Community Kingston-UponThe Group has long recognised the importance of supporting the communities in which we operate.
Many companies encourage and facilitate their employees to donate their time and efforts to Opposite page: community projects: because our staffing is outsourced this route is not available to us.
Our support 100 London Road, therefore takes the following forms: this page: Eagle House, Donations, largely to educational charities: this year the donations amounted to 151,000 Ram Passage.
2016 150,000 Page 24 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Dividends on donated shares: following the donation some years ago to charities of shares representing 6.3% of the capital of the Company, dividend payments in the year of 960,659 2016 909,010 have passed to charitable companies Environment As mentioned above, all the staff engaged in the business and who control our buildings are provided by management companies.
We do not have responsibility for the greenhouse gas emissions related to the employment of those people.
The greenhouse gas emissions arising from our let properties are the responsibility of our tenants.
In consequence, we have no disclosures to make in relation to greenhouse gas emissions and therefore this report does not contain information of the kind mentioned in Part 7 of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
However, when we undertake new developments or major schemes of refurbishment we strive to achieve the highest environmental standards consistent with the nature of the building and the scheme being undertaken.
So, for example, the hotel which we are developing for Travelodge has been designed to achieve a BREEAM excellent rating.
The environmental features include combined heat and power for energy efficiency, management of surface water run-off, energy efficient lighting, and the use of recycled aggregates and sustainably sourced construction materials.
The scope for enhancing the environmental standards across the majority of our properties is limited.
In the main they were constructed before the advent of modern standards and it would be neither practically nor economically feasible to undertake a complete upgrade to meet modern requirements.
However, we do take the opportunities which arise each year as part of programmes of repair and refurbishment to improve the energy efficiency of our buildings and the plant therein.
Page 25 DAEJAN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT continued Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2014 Revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors appointed a team led by senior management to assist the Board in undertaking a viability assessment.
A thorough review has been undertaken of the Groups current financial, strategic and operational position, the Boards future plans for the business and the principal risks faced by the Group, described on pages611of the Strategic Report.
The Directors consider that five years remains an appropriate time horizon for assessing the longerterm viability of the business and this is consistent with the period which has been used for strategic planning.
The Group has a low risk, balanced portfolio of properties, with many commercial properties occupied by tenants with long leases.
Based on current trends, the Directors continue to believe that the Group will be able to grant short term leases on residential properties and new leases on commercial properties at comparable rents for at least five more years.
The Group utilises external funding and has available and committed facilities which are spread over a period of years.
Most bank finance is available for an initial term of five years and 77.5% of the Groups current facilities mature between March 2021 and March 2022.
Discussions regarding the renewal or replacement of facilities will occur in advance of their maturity.
Assessment of the Groups viability over the next five years included stress testing key business metrics with what is considered the plausible worst-case potential impact of the principal risks.
Whilst carrying out this assessment, the strength and effectiveness of the controls in place to mitigate risks were considered.
In determining what should be regarded as the plausible worst-case impact, the Board and senior management team have considered in detail and sought advice on the potential impact to UK property prices, demand for UK property and the associated impact on rents and yields, and the willingness of financial institutions to lend to UK property companies.
Particular attention was given to the potential impact of an unfavourable Brexit agreement and the possible consequences of the current political climate within the UK and the USA.
Headroom on loan covenants have been stresstested, the maturities of loan agreements reviewed and a five-year cash flow forecast produced.
The Directors confirm that, based on the analysis, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group can continue to operate and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five-year period of their assessment.
By order of the Board M R M Jenner Company Secretary 24 July 2017 Above & right: The Promenade, Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, opposite page: The Orchards Shopping Centre, Dartford, Kent.
