14 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 Our business model Our financial capital and fixed asset base Our business The way in which our investment is funded is an important part Our transmission business operates as a regulated monopoly.
National Grid plc has long-term sustainable We have one regulator, Ofgem, who safeguard customers assets and strong credit ratings, meaning we are able to secure interests by setting the level of charges we are allowed to pass efficient funding from a variety of sources.
on and the standards of performance we must achieve.
As System Operator we make sure that supply and demand are How we generate value balanced in real-time and we facilitate the connection of assets to the transmission system.
We are a long-term, asset-based business.
Our operations are regulated, which means we create value for our stakeholders through predictable revenue streams and cash flows.
The foundations of our business model Revenue Our people and our culture The vast majority of our revenues are set in accordance with Our business is built by our people.
We work hard to make sure our regulatory agreements, and are calculated based on a that we keep them as safe as possible.
We have nearly 2,000 number of factors, including: people working in National Grid Gas.
performance against incentives: Being a responsible business deprecation of regulated assets: and Doing the right thing is a responsibility we take seriously.
Being return on equity and costs debt.
a responsible and sustainable business is fundamental to the way we work and how we manage our impact on the See pages 3 to 5 for more information about our regulatory communities in which we operate.
Our relationships with stakeholders and regulators Cash flow We engage widely in debate that helps guide future energy Our ability to convert revenue to profit and cash is important.
We work with Ofgem to help them develop the managing our operations efficiently, safely and for the long frameworks within which we can meet the changing energy term, we are able to generate strong sustainable cash flows to needs of the communities we serve.
finance returns through dividends but also to provide funds for growth.
Our customer focus Our customers wants and needs are evolving with a greater Investment desire to manage their energy use and expectations of how we We invest efficiently in our networks to deliver strong and interact with them.
To remain relevant to our customers, we sustainable growth in our regulated asset base over the long must understand and respond to their changing values and term.
deliver outstanding experiences, products and services.
We continually assess, monitor and challenge investment Innovation decisions in order to allow us to continue to a deliver safe, Thinking differently and challenging the norms allow our people reliable, and cost-effective network.
to develop innovative and more efficient ways of delivering our services and maintaining our networks.
Our business creates value for our stakeholders in both financial and non-financial terms.
Our KPIs benchmark our performance of each of these key areas as shown below.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 15 KPIs Benchmark Stakeholder How we generate value Our measures of success Stakeholders and Operating as safely, reliably and sustainably as possible: Operating excellence safety communities Focusing on affordability to reduce the impact on customer Network reliability bills: Greenhouse gas emissions Delivering essential services, while managing loss of supply and customer service issues in a timely way: and Customer satisfaction Aiming to improve customer satisfaction at all times.
People Paying them a market competitive wage, and an overall pay Employee engagement index package that rewards competency and performance: and Workforce diversity Providing an inclusive culture and encouraging development and employee enablement.
Shareholder Making sure our regulatory frameworks maintain an Return on equity acceptable balance between risk and return: Regulated asset base growth Operating within our regulatory frameworks as efficiently and compliantly as possible: Performing well against our regulatory incentives, so we can make the most of our allowed returns: Careful cash flow management and securing low-cost funding: and disciplined investment in our networks and protecting our reputation.
