2 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 What we do - Gas The gas transmission system has to be kept constantly in The gas industry connects producers, processors, balance, which is achieved by buying, selling and using stored storage and transmission and distribution network gas.
This means that, under normal circumstances, demand operators, as well as suppliers to industrial, commercial can be met.
We are the sole owner and operator of gas and domestic users.
transmission infrastructure in Great Britain.
The UK energy industry has four main sectors.
Distribution Gas leaves the transmission system and enters the distribution 1.
Production and importation networks at high pressure.
It is then transported through a There are seven gas reception terminals, three LNG importation number of reducing pressure tiers until it is finally delivered to terminals and three interconnectors connecting Great Britain consumers.
GB via undersea pipes with Ireland, Belgium and the Netherlands.
Importers bring LNG from the Middle East, the For six months National Grid Gas owned four of the eight Americas and other places.
The Gas Distribution business and associated assets were sold on 1 October 2016 to National We do not produce gas.
Gas used is mainly sourced from gas Grid Gas Distribution Limited, a fellow National Grid group fields in the North and Irish seas, piped from Europe and undertaking.
imported as liquefied natural gas LNG.
Transmission Pipeline shippers bring gas from producers to suppliers, who in The transmission system includes pipes, compressor stations turn sell it to customers.
and storage facilities, including LNG storage.
They connect production through terminals to the distribution systems.
We do not supply gas, however we own National Grid Metering, which provides meters and metering services to supply Gas enters the transmission system through importation and companies, under contract.
reception terminals and interconnectors and may include gas previously held in storage.
Compressor stations located along Customers pay the supplier for the cost of gas and for its the network play a vital role in keeping large quantities of gas transportation.
We transport the gas through our network on flowing through the system, particularly at times of high behalf of shippers, who pay us transportation charges.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 3 What we do Regulation There is no impact on the price control following the sale of the Our business operates as a regulated monopoly.
The six price controls, as mentioned have one economic regulator for our business, Ofgem.
National Grid Gas will carry operating The regulator safeguards customers interests by setting within two of the price controls, and the UK Gas Distribution the level of revenues we are allowed to recover, ensuring business has responsibility for operating within the price we provide value for money while maintaining safe and controls relating to its four gas distribution networks.
reliable networks, and deliver good customer service.
In addition to the six price controls, there is also a tariff cap How we make money from our regulated assets price control applied to certain elements of domestic metering and daily meter reading activities carried out by National Grid Our licence, established under the Gas Act 1986, as amended Metering.
the Act requires us to develop, maintain and operate economic and efficient networks and to facilitate competition in the supply of gas in Great Britain GB.
It also gives us statutory RIIO Price Controls powers.
These include the right to bury our pipes under public Our regulatory framework is called RIIO revenue incentives highways and the ability to use compulsory powers to purchase innovation outputs and lasts for eight years until March 2021. land so we can conduct our business.
The building blocks of the RIIO price control are broadly similar to the historical price controls used in the UK.
However, there Our network is regulated by Ofgem, which has established price are some significant differences in the mechanics of the control mechanisms that set the amount of revenue our calculations.
Price control regulation is designed to make sure our interests, as a monopoly, are How is revenue calculated?
balanced with those of our customers.
Ofgem allows us to Outputs charge reasonable, but not excessive, prices.
This gives us a Under RIIO the outputs we deliver are clearly articulated and future level of revenue that is sufficient to meet our statutory are integrally linked to the calculation of our allowed revenue.
duties and licence obligations, and make a reasonable return These outputs have been determined through an extensive on our investment.
consultation process, which has given stakeholders a greater opportunity to influence the decisions.
The price control includes a number of mechanisms designed to help achieve its objectives.
These include financial incentives The six output categories are: that encourage us to: Safety - ensuring the provision of a safe energy network.
efficiently deliver by investment and maintenance the Reliability and availability - promoting networks capable of network outputs that customers and stakeholders delivering long-term reliability, as well as minimising the number require, including reliable supplies, new connections and duration of interruptions experienced over the price control and infrastructure capacity: period, and ensuring adaptation to climate change.
innovate in order to continuously improve the services we give our customers, stakeholders and communities: Environmental impact - encouraging companies to play their and role in achieving broader environmental objectives, specifically, efficiently balance the transmission networks to support facilitating the reduction of carbon emissions, as well as the wholesale markets.
minimising their own carbon footprint.
Customer and stakeholder satisfaction - maintaining high The Gas Distribution business and associated assets was sold levels of customer satisfaction and stakeholder engagement, on 1 October 2016 to National Grid Gas Distribution Limited, a and improving service levels.
fellow National Grid group undertaking.
National Grid plc announced on 31 March 2017 that a majority interest in the UK Customer connections - encouraging networks to connect Gas Distribution business was sold to a consortium of investors.
National Grid has retained a 39% equity interest in the new Social obligations GD only - extending the gas network to separate Gas Distribution business.
communities that are fuel poor where it is efficient to do so, and introducing measures to address carbon monoxide poisoning.
The UK Gas Transmission UK GT and UK Gas Distribution UK GD businesses operate under six separate price controls Within each of these output categories are a number of primary in the UK.
These comprise two for our UK GT operations, one and secondary deliverables, reflecting what our stakeholders as transmission owner TO and one as system operator SO : want us to deliver over the remaining price control period.
The and one for each of the four regional gas distribution networks.
nature and number of these deliverables varies according to the While each of the six price controls may have differing terms, output category, with some being linked directly to our allowed they are based on a consistent regulatory framework.
4 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 revenue, some linked to legislation, and others having only a Ofgem use an external benchmark interest rate to incentivise us reputational impact.
The benchmark interest method also provides an opportunity to outperform our regulatory allowance.
The allowed rates of return on equity and debt are included in Totex the table on page 5.
Ofgem, using information we have submitted, along with independent assessments, determines the efficient level of Depreciation of regulated assets the value of regulated expected costs necessary to deliver our outputs.
Under RIIO assets is depreciated over an anticipated lifespan.
The amount this is known as totex, which is a component of total allowable of depreciation is included in our allowed revenue, which expenditure, and is the sum of what was defined in previous represents the repayment of the amount we have invested in price controls as operating expenditure opex, capital the asset.
expenditure capex and, in GD price controls, mains replacement expenditure repex.
The asset life for regulatory depreciation is 45 years for Gas Distribution and GT TO RAV additions.
For the GT SO the asset A number of assumptions are necessary in setting the outputs, life is 7 years.
such as certain prices or the volumes of work that will be needed.
Consequently, there are a number of uncertainty We are also allowed to collect additional revenues related to mechanisms within the RIIO framework that can result in non-controllable costs.
adjustments to totex allowances if actual prices or volumes differ from the assumptions.
These mechanisms protect us and Performance against incentives our price controls include our customers from windfall gains and losses.
incentives that are designed to encourage specific actions, such as reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
Where we underor over-spend the allowed totex for reasons that are not covered by uncertainty mechanisms, there is a The incentive mechanisms can increase or decrease our sharing factor.
This means the underor over-spend is shared allowed revenue and result from our performance against between us and customers through an adjustment to allowed various measures related to our outputs.
RIIO has incentive revenues in future years.
This sharing factor provides an mechanisms that encourage us to align our objectives with incentive for us to provide the outputs efficiently, as we are able those of our customers and other stakeholders.
For example, to keep a portion of savings we make, with the remainder performance against our customer satisfaction targets can have benefiting our customers.
a positive or negative effect of up to 1% of allowed annual revenues.
Most of our incentives affect our revenues two years This sharing factor is one of the ways that RIIO has given after the year of performance.
Innovation includes traditional areas such as new technologies, as well as the broader Timing our regulated revenue entitlements are set based on challenge of finding new ways of working to deliver outputs our regulatory price controls.
We use forecast energy volumes more efficiently.
This broader challenge has an impact on that we expect to deliver to set the billing tariff.
Where there is a everyone in our business.
difference between the actual and estimated energy volumes, the amount of revenue we collect will be different.
We recover Allowances to fund totex costs are split between fast and slow or repay this difference in a future year.
money a concept under RIIO, based on a specified percentage that is set for the duration of the price control.
Fast money represents the amount of totex we are able to recover in the year.
Slow money is added to our regulated asset value RAV effectively the regulatory IOU.
For more details on the fast slow money rates and sharing factors under RIIO, please see the table on page 5.
In addition to fast money, in each year we are allowed to recover a portion of the RAV regulatory depreciation and a return on the outstanding RAV balance.
Return on equity and cost of debt regulated assets are funded through a mixture of debt and equity.
The equity portion earns a return on equity.
This represents the profit we can earn on our investment in regulated assets.
The debt portion earns an allowance based on the cost of debt interest costs.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 5 Mid period review Sharing factors and fast money Under the RIIO controls, we are required to deliver agreed The sharing factor means that any overand under-spend is outputs for consumers and are funded to cover the costs of shared between the businesses and consumers.
The eight year price control includes a number figures displayed in the table below are the sharing factors that of uncertainty mechanisms to take account of the fact that some apply to Gas Transmission and Distribution.
outputs and funding cannot be set with certainty at the start of the period.
One of these uncertainty mechanisms is the review Sharing factors under RIIO are as follows: of outputs.
Gas North East of West 4 During the eight year period of the price control our regulator Distribution West England Midlands London included a provision for a potential mid-period review, with Replacement expenditure: Stepped decline from 50% in 2013 14 to 0% in 2020 21 in scope driven by: seven equal instalments of 7.14% per annum 1 Fast 73.90% 73.37% 75.05% 76.53% changes to outputs that can be justified by clear Replacement expenditure: changes in government policy: and Stepped increase from 50% in 2013 14 to 100% in 2020 21 in seven equal instalments of 7.14% per annum the introduction of new outputs that are needed to meet 2 Slow 26.10% 26.63% 24.95% 23.47% the needs of consumers and other network users.
5 Sharing 63.04% In May 2016, Ofgem announced a mid-period review of the Gas Transmission System RIIO-T1 price control looking at specific output measures in Gas Transmission Operator Operator 1 3 Transmission.
The outcome of the review was that Ofgem Fast Baseline 35.6%, Uncertainty 10% 62.60% 2 3 Slow Baseline 64.4%, Uncertainty 90% 37.40% removed outputs relating to a pipeline project at Avonmouth 5 Sharing 44.36% and reduced allowances by 169 million in Gas Transmission.
These changes flow through to an adjustment to our revenues 1 Fast money allows network companies to recover a percentage of total from April 2018. expenditure within a one year period.
2 Slow money is where costs are added to RAV and, therefore, revenues are recovered slowly e. g. over 45 years from both current and future Allowed returns consumers.
3 The Baseline is the expenditure that is funded through ex ante allowances, The cost of capital allowed under RIIO is as follows: whereas the uncertainty adjusts the allowed expenditure where the level outputs delivered differ from the baseline level, or if triggered by an event.
Transmission Distribution 4 This was a National Grid Gas business until 1 October 2016.
Cost of equity post-tax real 6.8% 6.7% 5 The sharing factor is the proportion of over and under spend retained by National Grid Gas.
Cost of debt pre-tax real iBoxx 10 year simple trailing average index 2.38% for 2016 17 For more information on RIIO, including incentive mechanisms, Notional gearing 62.5% 65.0% please see the relevant investor fact sheets on the Investor Vanilla WACC 4.03% 3.89% Relations section of our website, www.
Vanilla WACC cost of debt x gearing cost of equity x 1-gearing This was a National Grid Gas business until 1 October 2016.
