National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 11 Our strategic objectives We first set out our current strategy in our 2012 13 Annual Report and have continued to report on our progress against it since then.
As we describe on pages 6 to 9, there is an extraordinary amount of change facing our industry, so we have evolved our purpose, vision, strategy and values see page 10.
We aim to be a recognised leader in the development and operation of safe, reliable and sustainable energy infrastructure, to meet the needs of our customers and communities and to generate value for our investors.
We measure our progress in creating value for our investors.
Strategic Description How we deliver Relevant KPIs objective Deliver Achieve world-class levels of Our customers, communities and other stakeholders demand safe, secure Employee lost time operational safety, reliability, security and and reliable supply of their energy.
This is reflected in our regulatory injury frequency rate excellence customer service.
contracts where we are measured and rewarded on the basis of meeting our commitments to customers and other stakeholders.
Customer satisfaction Network reliability Return on equity ROE Engage our Create an inclusive, highIt is through the hard work of our employees that we will achieve our vision, Employee people performance culture by respond to the needs of our stakeholders and create a competitive engagement index developing all our employees.
Encouraging engaged and talented teams that are in step with our strategic objectives is vital to our success.
Workforce diversity Stimulate Promote new ideas to work Our commitment to innovation allows us to run our networks more efficiently See principal more efficiently and effectively.
innovation and effectively and achieve our regulatory incentives.
Across our business, operations section we explore new ways of thinking and working to benefit every aspect of what we do.
Engage Work with external stakeholders Policy decisions by regulators, governments and others directly affect our Community externally to shape UK and EU energy business.
We engage widely in the energy policy debate, so our position and engagement and policy.
perspective can influence future policy direction.
We also engage with our investment in regulators to help them provide the right mechanisms so we can deliver education infrastructure that meets the changing needs of our customers and stakeholders.
Embed Integrate sustainability into our Our long-term sustainability strategy sets our ambition to deliver these aims Climate change sustainability decision-making to create value, and to embed a culture of sustainability within our organisation.
help preserve natural resources Greenhouse gas and respect the interests of our emissions communities.
Drive growth Grow our core businesses and We continue to maximise value from our existing portfolio, while exploring Regulated asset develop future new business and evaluating opportunities for growth.
Making sure our portfolio of base growth options.
businesses maintains the appropriate mix of growth and cash generation is necessary to meet the expectations of our shareholders.
