38 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited consolidated Research and development financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 March Expenditure on research and development was 4 million 2017.
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies during the year 2015 16: 6 million.
Act 2006, the following sections describe the matters that are Financial instruments required for inclusion in the Directors Report and were Details on the use of financial instruments and financial risk approved by the Board.
Further details of matters required to be management are included in note 25 to the consolidated included in the Directors Report are incorporated by reference financial statements.
into this report, as detailed below.
Future developments Directors Details of future developments are contained in the Strategic The Directors of the company who were in office during the Report.
year and up to the date of signing the financial statements were: Employee involvement Andy Agg Details of how the Company involves its employees are Julian Allsopp Resigned 1 October 2016 contained in the Strategic Report on pages 16 and 17, which Catherine Bell SID are incorporated by reference into this report.
Chris Bennett Appointed 25 June 2016 Clive Elphick SID Audit information Alan Foster Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors in Chris Murray Resigned 27 July 2016 office at the date of the signing of this report are aware, there is Cordi OHara no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware Mark Ripley Resigned 24 June 2016 and each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make Nicola Shaw CBE Appointed 27 July 2016 themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to Chris Train Resigned 1 October 2016 establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Pauline Walsh sufficiently independent director Annual General Meeting The Company has arranged, in accordance with the Companies Notice of the National Grid Gass Annual General Meeting for Act 2006 and the Articles, qualifying third party indemnities 2017 will be issued separately to the shareholder.
against financial exposure that Directors may incur in the Going concern course of their professional duties.
Equivalent qualifying third Having made enquiries and reviewed managements party indemnities were, and remain, in force for the benefit of assessment of the going concern assumption, the Directors those Directors who stood down from the Board during the year consider it appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a ended 31 March 2017.
Alongside these indemnities, the going concern basis.
The going concern basis presumes that Company places Directors and Officers liability insurance the Company has adequate resources to remain in operation, cover for each Director.
and that the Directors intend it to do so, for at least one year Principal activities and business review from the date the financial statements are signed.
More detail A full description of the Companys principal activities, on our financial risks, including liquidity and solvency, is businesses, key performance indicators and principal risks and provided in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements.
uncertainties is contained in the Strategic Report on pages 13 There have been no major changes to the Groups significant to 23, which are incorporated by reference into this report.
liquidity and solvency risks in the year.
Although not assessed over the same period, the viability of the Group has been Material interests in shares assessed on page 23.
National Grid Gas plc is a wholly owned subsidiary undertaking of National Grid Gas Holdings Limited.
The ultimate parent On behalf of the Board company of National Grid Gas plc is National Grid plc.
Dividends During the year, interim dividends totalling 8,100 million were Alan Foster paid 2015 16: 620 million interim dividend.
The Directors Director 30 June 2017 have not proposed a final dividend.
National Grid Gas plc, Share capital 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH Share capital remains unchanged.
See note 21 to the Registered in England and Wales Number 2006000 consolidated financial statement for further details.
