10 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 Our purpose, vision, strategy and values through more efficient and customer-focused processes.
Given To make sure we are well positioned to respond to the scale of our core business, even small improvements will changes in the operating environment, we have evolved have a huge impact on our overall performance.
Finding new our purpose, vision, strategy and values.
ways of optimising our operational performance will be an important factor in our ability to compete and grow.
It creates the financial capacity and the capability for us to future-proof Our purpose our business.
Having a clear sense of what we stand for as a company and what it is that binds us all together is vitally important.
This is 2 Look for opportunities to grow our core business what we call our purpose.
In simple terms its what drives our Delivering solid operational performance provides us with a desire to serve our customers and its that thing that makes us foundation to pursue other opportunities.
We will continue to proud about the work we do.
pursue business development opportunities that are close to our core business.
Our purpose is to bring energy to life In its simplest form bring energy to life means getting the heat, 3 Make sure National Grid is better equipped for the future light and power that customers rely on to their homes and We need to future-proof our business against the effects of a businesses.
But life also means supporting the communities changing energy landscape.
The operation of our networks is that we are a part of and live amongst to support the economic already affected by changes to the generation mix, while the growth and sustainability of wider society.
needs and expectations of our customers are evolving.
Our values Our vision We know that how we deliver is as important as what we Our vision describes how we create value not just today, but deliver.
If our purpose is the why, our values are the how.
They help shape our spirit, attitude and what guides us.
We Our vision is: We will exceed the expectations of our have to adapt and develop our values to align with the customers, shareholders and communities today and make expectations of our customers and communities, without losing possible the energy systems of tomorrow.
sight of the things that make us strong today.
The needs of our customers, shareholders and communities Our values build on and protect our strong foundations while are at the heart of everything we do.
So, our vision statement looking to the future.
Theyre aligned to our purpose and help clearly describes the ambitious challenge we have set our people understand how we expect to achieve our purpose ourselves to make sure we deliver value for them every day.
and vision for our customers and each other.
Our vision also looks to the future, reminding us of the critical role we will play for future generations.
We are already seeing Every day we do the right thing and find a better way.
changes in our energy system as more renewable and decentralised generation is introduced.
To be relevant in this Do the right thing pulls together our foundational values future, we have to play an active role in helping shape the keeping each other and the public safe: complying with all the energy landscape, and benefiting from what it provides.
relevant rules, regulations and policies: respecting our colleagues, customers and communities: and saying what we think and challenging constructively.
Find a better way Our strategy challenges us to focus on performance and continuous We have three strategic priorities for our business that will help improvement for our customers, our shareholders and us achieve our vision.
1 Find new ways of optimising our operational performance Our customers want and need us to be more efficient, so we must find ways to improve how we run our business.
We have looked at enhancing our productivity and customer experience
