Risk management and corporate governance 03 Compliance Regulatory change continues to be a key on delivering good customer outcomes Wholesale markets challenge in the financial sector with global and effectively managing conduct risk The FCA continues a proactive and political events adding to uncertainty as to throughout our business.
This has included assertive approach in identifying and continued and ongoing investment in and the shape of financial services regulation addressing risks arising from firms conduct enhancement of the conduct risk and going forward.
compliance frameworks in place throughout Global regulators remain focused on This has included an increasingly intensive the group.
countering market abuse with heightened approach to supervisory activities and scrutiny and regulatory attention in this Senior managers and certified thematic reviews as well as several high area.
Accordingly, the Market Abuse persons regime profile referrals to enforcement.
Regulation MAR took effect across the EU During the period Investec Bank plc Wholesale markets have also been the on 3 July 2016 in connection with thistopic.
successfully implemented the core focus of significant regulatory reform over components of the Senior Managers This year, global regulators have the past 12 months.
The most significant Regime which came into force on continued to focus on promoting stability proposed reforms have included the 7 March 2016.
From 7 March 2017 the and resilience in financial markets, with finalisation of the incoming Markets in Conduct Rules will be applied to banking sustained emphasis on recovery and Financial Instruments Directive MiFID II sector staff who are not within the Senior resolution plans and structural reforms to which is due to be implemented by January Managers or Certification Regime.
This the banking sector as well as customer and 2018 and MAR.
regime establishes a new regulatory market conduct related reforms.
The MiFID II reform package will form framework for individuals working in the Investec remains focused on complying a revised framework governing the UK banking sector.
The incoming regime with the highest levels of compliance requirements applicable to investment consists of three key components: in relation to regulatory requirements firms, trading venues, data reporting A new Senior Managers Regime which and integrity in each of our jurisdictions.
service providers and third-country firms will clarify lines of responsibility, and providing investment services or activities Our culture is central to our compliance enhance the regulators ability to hold in the EU.
These reforms will drive change framework and is supported by robust senior individuals in banks accountable across Investec Bank plc, Investec Asset policies, processes and talented and require banks to regularly vet Management and Investec Wealth & professionals who ensure that the interests their senior managers for fitness and Investment.
Investec remains on course for of our customers and shareholders remain propriety: implementation by January 2018. at the forefront of everything we do.
A Certification Regime requiring firms to Material reforms also continue to take effect assess fitness and propriety of staff in Year in review in the OTC markets as a result of the EUs positions where the decisions they make Market Infrastructure Regulations EMIR.
could pose significant harm to the bank Conduct risk or any of its customers: and The FCA has continued to focus on Financial crime A new set of Conduct Rules, which take advancing its three operational objectives: Financial crime continues to be a regulatory the form of brief statements of high level securing an appropriate degree of focus with regulators globally encouraging principles setting out the standards of protection for consumers: protecting firms to adopt a dynamic approach to behaviour for bank employees.
and enhancing the integrity of the UK the management of risk and to increase Investec Bank plc has successfully financial system: and promoting effective efforts around systems and controls implemented the core components of competition in the interest of consumers.
to combat both money laundering and the regime which came into force on The FCAs aim is to ensure that clients bribery and corruption.
In 2016 the FCA 7 March 2016. interests are at the forefront of firms published Our future mission in which it agendas and that their needs are placed states we see financial crime as a risk to Consumer protection at the heart of the firms strategy.
Firms the wider economy and market integrity.
The FCA has continued to pursue its are also expected to behave appropriately The FCA Business Plan 2016 17 also consumer protection objective.
Over in the wholesale markets in which they highlights financial crime and anti-money the period this has included issuing of operate with a view to conduct risk launderingas one of the seven priorities for significant fines and performing continued considerations.
strategic reviews into areas such as: The Investec board, along with senior product design and sales practises, management are ultimately responsible for provision of advice, treatment of customers Investecs conduct risk strategy.
Investec who suffered unauthorised transactions and has continued to focus over the period product andservice suitability.
122 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Risk management and corporate governance Compliance 03 continued Tax reporting FATCA CRS The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA aims to promote cross-border tax compliance by implementing an international standard for the automatic exchange of tax information relating to US investors.
The provisions call on tax authorities all over the world to obtain detailed account information from financial institutions relating to US investors and exchange that information automatically with the United States Internal Revenue Service on an annual basis.
The OECD has recently taken further steps to improve global cross-border tax compliance by releasing the Common Reporting Standard CRS.
The CRS is a set of global standards for the annual exchange of financial information by financial institutions pertaining to customers, to the tax authorities of the jurisdictions in which those customers are resident for tax purposes.
CRS took effect on 1 January 2016 in the UK, with reporting commencing from 2017.
Investec plc is currently compliant with itsobligations.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 123
