Corporate information Secretary and Transfer secretaries registered office Computershare Investor Services plc The Pavilions David Miller Bridgwater Road 2 Gresham Street Bristol BS99 6ZZ London EC2V 7QP United Kingdom United Kingdom Telephone 44 879 702 0003 Telephone 44 20 7597 4000 Facsimile 24 20 7597 4491 Directorate Internet address Refer to pages 127 to 132. www.
com For contact details for Investec offices refer to pages 270.
3633621 Auditors Ernst & Young LLP For queries regarding information in this document Investor relations Telephone 44 20 7597 5546 44 20 7597 4493 e-mail: Investorrelations@investec.
com en za #home investor relations.
html Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 1 Ongoing and statutory information The sale of certain group In order to present a more meaningful view Based on this principle, the following items of our performance, additional management are excluded from underlying statutory profit businesses during the information is presented on our ongoing to derive ongoing operating profit: 2015 financial year had businesses.
This information is set out on The results of the businesses sold in the pages 35 to 41.
The additional information a significant effect on 2015 financial year, i. e. Investec Bank presented on an ongoing basis excludes Australia Limited, Kensington Group plc the comparability of items that in managements view could and Start Mortgage Holdings Limited distort the comparison of performance our statutory financial The remaining legacy business as set between periods.
out on page 42. position and results, This basis of presentation is consistent with particularly in financial the approach adopted for the year ended years 2015 and 2016.
A reconciliation between the statutory and ongoing income statement is provided on pages 36 and 37.
All information in our annual report is based on our statutory accounts unless otherwise indicated.
Cross reference tools 1 2 3 4 5 Audited information Page references Website Sustainability Reporting standard Denotes information Refers readers to Indicates that additional Refers readers to further Denotes our in the risk and information elsewhere in information is available information in our consideration ofa remuneration reports this report on our website: sustainability report reporting standard that forms part of the www.
com available on our website: groups audited annual www.
com financial statements 2 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Contents Corporate information 1 Investec plc in perspective 01 5 Overview of the Investec groups and Investec plcs organisational structure Overview of the activities of Investec plc 6 Our operational footprint 8 Highlights 9 Financial review 02 Financial review 15 Risk management and corporate governance 03 47 Risk management Credit ratings 120 Internal Audit 121 Compliance 122 Corporate governance 124 Shareholder analysis 162 Communication and stakeholder engagement 165 Corporate responsibility 166 Annual financial statements 04 170 Directors responsibility statement Approval of annual financial statements 170 Strategic and directors report 171 Schedule A to the directors report 174 Independent auditors report to the members of Investec plc 177 Consolidated income statement 179 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 179 Consolidated balance sheet 180 Consolidated cash flow statement 181 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 182 Accounting policies 184 Notes to the annual financial statements 193 Parent company annual financial statements Balance sheet 261 Statement of changes in shareholders equity 262 Notes to the Investec plc parent company annual financial statements 263 Contact details 270 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 3 01 Investec plc in perspective Investec plc in perspective Overview of the Investec groups and Investec plcs organisational structure 01 Operating structure Investec plc, which During July 2002 Investec Group Limited since renamed Investec Limited implemented houses our nona dual listed companies DLC structure and listed its offshore business on the London Stock Exchange.
Southern African A circular on the establishment of our DLC structure was issued on businesses, has been 20 June 2002 and is available on our website.
listed on the London In terms of the DLC structure, Investec Limited is the controlling company of our businesses Stock Exchange since in Southern Africa and Mauritius, and Investec plc is the controlling company of our nonSouthern African businesses.
Investec Limited is listed on the JSE Limited South Africa 2002. andInvestec plc is listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Our DLC structure and main operating subsidiaries as at 31 March 2017 Investec Limited Investec plc JSE primary listing LSE primary listing Sharing agreement NSX secondary listing JSE secondary listing BSE secondary listing Non-Souther n African Southern African operations operations Investec Asset Investec Asset Investec Management Investec Investec Management Investec Bank Property Group Holdings Securities Bank plc Limited Limited Holdings Pty Ltd Pty Ltd 84% Pty Ltd 84% Investec Investec Investec Investec Wealth Reichmans IEP Group Holdings Bank Import & Investment Holdings Pty Ltd Australia Mauritius Solutions Limited Pty Ltd 45% Limited Limited Pty Ltd All shareholdings in the ordinary share capital ofthe subsidiaries are 100%, unless otherwise stated.
16% held by senior management in the company 31 March 2016: 15%.
Previously Investec Equity Partners Pty Ltd. 55% held by third party investors in thecompany together with senior management of the business.
Salient features of the DLC structure Investec plc and Investec Limited are separate legal entities and listings, but are bound together by contractual agreements and mechanisms Investec operates as if it is a single unified economic enterprise Shareholders have common economic and voting interests as if Investec plc and Investec Limited were a single company Creditors, however, are ring-fenced to either Investec plc or Investec Limited as there are no cross-guarantees between the companies.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 5 Investec plc in perspective Overview of the 01 activities of Investec plc Asset Management Established in South Africa in 1991, we At Investec Asset Management, we believe in have grown to become a successful global investment management firm investing in a better tomorrow.
We want to assist from the emerging markets.
We people around the globe to retire with dignity or continue to develop an owner culture and are committed to building a longmeet their financial objectives by offering specialist, term intergenerational business.
We are a patient, Our investment team of over 195 investment professionals applies long-term business offering  clear investment philosophies and processes across multiple asset investment capabilities through active segregated classes.
Our client group is organised mandates or mutual funds to sophisticated clients.
across five geographically defined units.
These teams are supported by Our clients include some of the worlds largest our global operations platform.
private and public sector pension funds, financial We manage 95.3 billion assets globally.
institutions, corporates, foundations, central banks and intermediaries serving individual investors.
Our business is to manage our clients investments to the highest standard possible by exceeding their investment and client service expectations.
Wealth & Investment The UK operation is conducted through Investec Wealth & Investment Limited.
Investec Wealth & The other Wealth & Investment operations are conducted through Investec Bank Switzerland, Investec Wealth & Investment Ireland, Investec Wealth & Investment Investment offers its Channel Islands and in Hong Kong, through Investec Capital Asia Limited.
clients comfort in its Over 1 300 staff operate from offices located throughout the above jurisdictions, with combined funds under management of 35.6 billion.
Investec Wealth & Investment is scale, international one of the UKs leading providers of private client investment management services.
reach and depth of investment processes.
Investments and Pensions and Financial savings retirement planning Discretionary and advisory Discretionary investment Succession planning portfolio management services management for company ISAs for private clients pension and Self Invested Retirement planning.
Personal Pensions SIPPs Specialist investment management services for Advice and guidance on charities, pension schemes and pension schemes and trusts lifeassurance.
Independent financial planning advice for private clients Specialist portfolio management services for international clients.
6 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Investec plc in perspective Overview of the activities of Investec plc 01 continued Specialist Banking Each business provides specialised The specialist teams are well products and services to defined positioned to provide services for targetmarkets.
both personal and business needs right across Investment, Corporate and Institutional Banking, and Private Banking activities.
Focus on helping our A highly valued partner and adviser to our clients clients create and preserve wealth High-income and high net Corporates government institutional clients worth private clients Corporate and Investment Institutional Banking Private activities activities Banking activities Principal investments Treasury and trading services Transactional banking and foreign exchange Property investment and fund Specialised lending, funds and debt capital markets management Lending Institutional research, sales and trading Deposits Advisory and equity capital markets Investments Australia Australia UK and Europe Hong Kong Hong Kong UK and Europe India UK and Europe USA Our principal investments Our Corporate and Institutional Banking division is a High-tech and high touch private businesses focus on providing client-focused business concentrating on traditional client offering providing day-to-day capital to entrepreneurs and lending and debt origination activities, as well as banking, savings, financing and management teams to allow the provision of advisory services and treasury and foreign exchange tailored to suit our them to further their growth trading services that are customer flow-related.
Investments are Our target market includes small, mid-sized and Our target market includes high assessed on a case-by-case listed corporates, private equity community and net worth individuals, wealthy basis, with the aim to deliver institutions.
entrepreneurs, high-income returns on a risk-adjusted basis.
professionals, owner managers In addition we provide niche, specialist solutions in Our property business focuses in mid-market companies and aircraft, project and resource finance.
on property fund management sophisticated investors.
Natural linkages between the private client and corporate business Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 7
