Risk management and corporate governance Internal Audit 03 As a result of the regulatory responsibilities responsible audit committee.
Veryhigh Internal Audits arising from the DLC structure, there are risk businesses and processes are two group Internal Audit departments audited at least every 12 months, with activity is governed located in London and Johannesburg, other areas covered at regular intervals responsible for Investec plc and Investec based on their risk profile.
There is an by an internal audit Limited respectively.
Investec Bank plcs ongoing focus on identifying fraud risk as charter which is Irishbranch has its own Internal Audit well as auditing technology risks given function reporting into Investec plc Internal Investecs dependence on IT systems.
approved by the group Audit.
In combination, the functions cover Internal Audit also liaises with the external all the geographies in which Investec auditors and other assurance providers to audit committees and operates.
These functions use a global enhance efficiencies in terms of integrated is reviewed annually.
risk-based methodology and cooperate assurance.
The annual plan is reviewed technically andoperationally.
regularly to ensure it remains relevant and The charter defines responsive, given changes in the operating The heads of Internal Audit report at each environment.
The audit committee approves the purpose, authority audit committee meeting and have a direct any changes to the plan.
reporting line to the chairman of the audit and responsibilities of committee as well as the appropriate Significant control weaknesses are chief executive officers.
They operate reported, in terms of an escalation the function independently of executive management, protocol, to the local assurance forums, but have regular access to the local chief where remediation procedures and executive officers and to business unit progress are considered and monitored executives.
The heads of Internal Audit in detail by management.
The audit are responsible for coordinating internal committee receives a report on significant audit efforts to ensure coverage is global issues and actions taken by management and departmental skills are leveraged to to enhance related controls.
For administrative on the status of previously raised issues purposes, the heads of internal audit also is provided by Internal Audit to each audit report to the global head of corporate committee.
If there are concerns in relation governance and compliance.
The to overdue issues, these will be escalated functions comply with the International to the executive risk review forum to Standards for the Professional Practice expediteresolution.
of Internal Auditing, and are subject to an Internal Audit proactively reviews its independent Quality Assurance Review practices and resources for adequacy and QAR at appropriate intervals.
The most appropriateness to meet an increasingly recent independent QAR benchmarked demanding corporate governance and the functions against the July 2013 regulatory environment.
The audit teams publication by the Chartered Institute for comprise well-qualified, experienced Internal Auditors entitled Effective Internal staff to ensure that the function has the Audit in the Financial Services Sector.
The competence to match Investecs diverse results were communicated to the audit requirements.
Where specific specialist committees in March 2014 and to the skills or additional resources are required, respective regulators.
A QAR follow-up these are obtained from third parties.
review was completed and results issued Internal Audit resources are subject to to the audit committees in January 2015 as review by the respective auditcommittees.
well as to the respective regulators.
Annually, Internal Audit conducts a formal risk assessment of the entire business from which a comprehensive risk-based audit plan is derived.
The assessment and programme are validated by executive management and approved by the Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 121
