Annual financial statements 04 Schedule A to the directors report The board may withhold payment of all or Additional information Deadlines for exercising any part of any dividends or other monies voting rights for shareholders payable in respect of Investec plcs shares from a person with a 0.25% or more Set out below is a summary of certain Votes are exercisable at a general meeting interest in nominal value of the issued provisions of Investec plcs current Articles of Investec plc in respect of which the shares if such a person has been served of Association the Articles and applicable business being voted upon is being heard.
with a notice after failure to provide Investec Votes may be exercised in person, by English law concerning companies theUK plc with information concerning interests in Companies Act 2006.
This is a summary proxy, or in relation to corporate members, those shares required to be provided under by corporate representatives.
The Articles only and the relevant provisions of the the Companies Act 2006.
Articles or the Companies Act 2006 provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours before should be consulted if further information the time appointed for the holding of the isrequired.
Voting rights meeting or adjourned meeting.
Subject to any special rights or restrictions Share capital attaching to any class of shares, at a Variation of rights general meeting, every member present in The issued share capital of Investec plc at person has, upon a show of hands, one Subject to the Companies Act 2006, 31 March 2017 consists of 657 105 625 vote and, on a poll, every member who is theArticles specify that rights attached ordinary shares of 0.0002 present in person or by proxy has one vote to any class of shares may be varied with each, 2 754587 non-redeemable, for each share.
In the case of joint holders the written consent of the holders of not non-cumulative, non-participating of a share, the vote of the senior who less than three-fourths in nominal value preference shares of 0.01 each, 131 447 tenders a vote, whether in person or by of the issued shares of that class, or with ZAR non-redeemable, non-cumulative, proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the sanction of an extraordinary resolution non-participating preference shares the votes of the other joint holders and for passed at a separate general meeting of of R0.001 each, 301 165 174 special this purpose seniority shall be determined the holders of those shares.
At every such converting shares of 0.0002 each, by the order in which the names stand in separate general meeting the quorum the special voting share of 0.001, the the register of members in respect of the shall be two persons or, if there is only UKDAN share of 0.001 and the UK DAS share.
Under the Companies Act 2006, one holder, that holder at least holding or share of 0.001 each class as defined in members are entitled to appoint a proxy, representing by proxy at least one-third in theArticles.
who need not be a member of Investec nominal value of the issued shares of the plc, to exercise all or any of their rights to class calculated excluding any shares held attend and vote on their behalf at a general Purchase of own shares as treasury shares.
The rights conferred meeting or class meeting.
A member may upon the holders of any shares shall not, Subject to the provisions of the appoint more than one proxy in relation to a unless otherwise expressly provided in Articles, the Companies Act 2006, the general meeting or class meeting, provided the rights attaching to those shares, be uncertificated securities regulations 2001 that each proxy is appointed to exercise deemed to be varied by the creation or and every other statute for the time being the rights attached to a different share or issue of further shares ranking pari passu in force concerning companies and shares held by that member.
Where, under the companys affecting Investec plc, the approval of that is a corporation may appoint an share incentive plan, participants are the shareholders as provided in the Investec individual to act on its behalf at a general beneficial owners of the shares, but not the plc Articles, and without prejudice to meeting or class meeting as a corporate registered owners, the participants are not any relevant special rights attached to representative.
The person so authorised entitled to exercise any voting rights until any class of shares, Investec plc may shall be entitled to exercise the same the shares are released to the participants.
purchase, or may enter into a contract powers on behalf of such corporation as Under the companys employee trust, under which it will or may purchase, any the corporation could exercise if it were an the trustee does not vote in respect of of its own shares of any class, including individual member of Investec plc.
without limitation any redeemable shares, in any way and at anyprice whether at Restrictions on voting par or above or belowpar.
Transfer of shares No member shall be entitled to vote either All transfers of shares may be effected by in person or by proxy at any general Dividends and transfer in writing in any usual or common meeting or class meeting in respect of any form or in any other form acceptable to the distributions shares held by him if any call or other sum directors.
The instrument of transfer shall be then payable by him in respect of that share Subject to the provisions of the signed by or on behalf of the transferor and remains unpaid.
In addition, no member Companies Act 2006, Investec plc may except in the case of fully paid shares by shall be entitled to vote if he has been by ordinary resolution from time-to-time or on behalf of the transferee.
Transfers of served with a notice after failure to provide declare dividends not exceeding the shares which are in uncertificated form are Investec plc with information concerning amount recommended by the board.
effected by means of the CREST system.
interests in those shares required to be The board may pay interim dividends The directors may, in the case of shares in provided under the Companies Act.
whenever the financial position of Investec certificated form, in their absolute discretion plc, inthe opinion of the board, justifies and without assigning any reason, refuse to suchpayment.
register any transfer of shares 174 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 Annual financial statements Schedule A to the directors report 04 continued notbeing fully paid shares, provided that Non-redeemable, Rand-denominated such discretion may not be exercised in non-cumulative, nonnon-redeemable, such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place on participating preference non-cumulative, nonan open and proper basis.
The directors shares participating perpetual may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether fully paid or preference shares The following are the rights and not in favour of more than four persons privileges which attach to the perpetual the ZAR perpetual jointly.
If the directors refuse to register preferenceshares: an allotment or transfer they shall within preference shares Each perpetual preference share will rank two months after the date on which the The ZAR perpetual preference shares are letter of allotment or transfer was lodged as regards dividends and a repayment subject to substantially similar terms and with Investec plc send to the allottee or of capital on the winding up of Investec conditions as the existing Pounds Sterling transferee a notice of the refusal.
plc prior to the ordinary shares, the non-redeemable, non-cumulative, plc special converting shares, the UK The directors may decline to recognise any non-participating preference shares, DAN share, the UK DAS share, but pari instrument of transfer unless the instrument as outlined above, save that they are passu with the plc preference shares.
of transfer is in respect of only one class of denominated in South African Rands.
The perpetual preference shares shall share and, when submitted for registration, confer on the holders, on a per perpetual is accompanied by the relevant share preference shares and equal basis, the Shares required for the certificates and such other evidence as the right on a return of capital on the winding directors may reasonably require.
Subject DLC structure up of Investec plc of an amount equal to the Companies Act and regulations and to the aggregate of the nominal value Investec SSC UK Limited, a UK trust applicable CREST rules, the directors may and premiums in respect of perpetual company, specially formed for the purpose determine that any class of shares may preference shares issued, divided by the be held in uncertificated form and that of the DLC structure, holds the plc special number of perpetual preference shares title to such shares may be transferred by voting share, the plc special converting in issue means of the CREST system or that shares shares, the UK DAN share and the UK of any class should cease to be so held DAS share.
These shares can only be Each perpetual preference share may andtransferred.
transferredto another UK trust company, confer upon the holder thereof the right inlimited circumstances.
to receive out of the profits of Investec A number of the companys employee plc which it shall determine to distribute, share plans include restrictions on transfer The plc special voting shares are specially in priority to the ordinary shares, the plc of shares while the shares are subject to the created shares so that shareholders of both special converting shares, the UK DAN plans, in particular, the share incentive plan.
Investec plc and Investec Limited effectively share and the UK DAS share, but pari vote together as a single decision-making passu with the plc preference shares, body on matters affecting shareholders of Plc preference shares the preference dividend calculated in both companies in similar ways, as set out accordance with the Articles The following are the rights and privileges in the Articles.
which attach to the plc preference shares: The holders of the perpetual preference Prior to a change of control, approval of shares shall be entitled to receive notice On a return of capital, whether or not on termination of the sharing agreement which of and be present but not to vote, either a winding up but not on a redemption regulates the DLC, liquidation or insolvency in person or by proxy, at any meeting of or purchase of any shares by Investec of Investec plc, the plc special converting Investec plc, by virtue of or in respect plc or otherwise, the plc preference shares have no voting rights, except in of the perpetual preference shares, shares will rank, pari passu interse relation to a resolution proposing the: unless either or both of the following and with the most senior ranking preference shares of Investec plc in circumstances prevail at the date of i variation of the rights attaching to the issue ifany from time-to-time and with themeeting: shares or any other shares of Investec plc that are The preference dividend or any part ii winding up, and they have no rights expressed to rank pari passu herewith thereof remains in arrears and unpaid to dividends.
The special converting as regards participation in the capital, as determined in accordance with the shares are held on trust for the and otherwise in priority to any other Articles after six months from the due Investec Limited ordinary shareholders.
class of shares of Investec plc date thereof: and or Investec plc and Investec Limited have Investec plc may, at its option, redeem A resolution of Investec plc is proposed established dividend access trust all or any of the plc preference shares for which resolution directly affects the arrangements as part of the DLC.
the time being issued and outstanding rights attached to the perpetual on the first call date or any dividend preference shares or the interests of Investec plc has issued two dividend payment date thereafter the holders thereof, or a resolution access shares, the UK DAS share and UK of Investec plc is proposed to wind DAN share which enables Investec plc Holders of plc preference shares will up or in relation to the winding up of to pay dividends to the shareholders of not be entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of Investec plc.
Investec plc or for the reduction of its Investec Limited.
This facility may be used Holders will be entitled to attend and capital, in which event the preference by the board to address imbalances in vote at a class meeting of holders of plc shareholders shall be entitled to vote the distributable reserves of Investec plc preferenceshares.
and Investec Limited and or to address only on such resolution.
Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017 175 Annual financial statements 04 Schedule A to the directors report continued the effects of South African exchange Significant agreements: controls and or if they otherwise consider it change of control necessary or desirable.
The Articles of Investec plc and the Memorandum of Incorporation of Investec Appointment and Limited ensure that a person cannot replacement of make an offer for one company without directors having made an equivalent offer to the shareholders of both companies on Directors shall be no less than four and no equivalent terms.
A director is not required to hold any shares of Investec plc Pursuant to the terms of the agreements establishing the DLC structure, if either by way of qualification.
Investec plc may by special resolution increase or reduce the Investec plc or Investec Limited serves written notice on the other at any time after maximum or minimum number of directors.
either party becomes a subsidiary of the other party or after both Investec plc and Powers of directors Investec Limited become subsidiaries of a third party the agreements establishing the Subject to the Articles, the Companies DLC structure will terminate.
Act 2006, the CREST regulations and every other statute for the time being in All of Investec plcs share plans contain force concerning companies and affecting provisions relating to a change of control.
Investec plc, and any directions given by Outstanding awards and options would ordinary or special resolution, the business normally vest and become exercisable of Investec plc will be managed by the on a change of control and, where board who may exercise all the powers of applicable, subject to the satisfaction of any Investec plc.
performance conditions at that time.
The board may exercise all the powers of Investec plc to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property, assets and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of Investec plc or of any third party.
176 Investec plc silo excluding Investec Limited annual financial statements 2017
