DIVISIONAL REVIEW UNITED ARAB EMIRATES MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 51 KEY FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS Mediclinic Middle East accounted for 24% of the Groups revenues 2016: 16% and 15% of its underlying EBITDA 2016: 16%.
In the Middle East, as at the end of the reporting period, the combined business operated 6 hospitals and 31 clinics with a total of 714 beds and 6 375 employees.
The platform is one of the largest private healthcare providers in the UAE with the majority of its operations in Dubai and Abu Dhabi including Al Ain.
The Mediclinic Middle East financial results represent the combined business for FY17.
In FY16, Al Noors results were only consolidated from 15 February 2016.
AED3 109m During the period under review, revenue increased by 72% to AED3 109m 2016: AED1 802m.
The existing Dubai business increased revenue by 5% including 72% the related ramp up benefit from the new Mediclinic City Hospital North Wing.
However, the Abu Dhabi REVENUE business underperformed, down 19% compared to the prior year pro forma revenue.
On a pro forma basis, inpatient admissions and day cases declined by 4.8% and outpatient attendance decreased by 9.7%.
Bed AED364m days sold decreased by 6.2%.
Abu Dhabi inpatient and outpatient volumes were down 12% and 14% respectively versus the prior year due to the unforeseen changes -5% in the regulatory environment with the introduction of a co-payment on local Thiqa insurance card holders, UNDERLYING EBITDA a need to align Al Noor with the sustainable business and operational practices of the Group, doctor vacancies, increased competition and the sale of several non-core assets.
Thiqa patient volume declines were greater than -6.2% other insurance categories in Abu Dhabi with inpatients down 33% and outpatients down 31%.
BED DAYS SOLD Underlying EBITDA decreased by 5% to AED364m 2016: AED384m and the underlying EBITDA margin decreased to 11.7% from 21.3%.
Despite good progress -2.3% made in respect of the integration benefits from the combination, this was more than offset by the AVERAGE REVENUE PER BED DAY revenue shortfall.
Operating profit decreased by 58% to AED134m 2016: AED321m.
Mediclinic Middle East contributed 33m to the Groups underlying earnings compared to 57m in the comparative period.
82.4% In early June 2016, the platform amended and increased the existing debt facilities to AED1 012bn of PATIENT EXPERIENCE INDEX which AED220m remains undrawn from AED282m in the prior year, to refinance the bridge loan facility, as well as to continue to fund existing expansion projects across the UAE.
3.92 The provision for impairment of receivables increased by EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT AED113m AED89m relating to Abu Dhabi receivables grand mean score based on a 1 to 5 rating scale and was charged to the income statement.
In FY16, AED25m AED9m relating to Abu Dhabi receivables was charged to the income statement.
Furthermore, an opening balance sheet adjustment of AED73m was made to the Al Noor receivables to finalise the Al Noor purchase price allocation.
52 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DIVISIONAL REVIEW UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Al Madar Medical Centre Al Fardan Clinic Mediclinic Al Qusais OMAN Mediclinic Welcare Hospital RAS Mediclinic City Hospital AL-KHAIMAH ARABIAN GULF Mediclinic Dubai Mall Mediclinic Al Sufouh Mediclinic Beach Road AJMAN QATAR Mediclinic Ibn Battuta SHARJAH FUJAIRAH Mediclinic Meadows Mediclinic Arabian Ranches Manchester Clinic Mediclinic Mirdif DUBAI Sanaya Clinic ABU DHABI Mediclinic Baniyas Mediclinic Aspetar ICAD Medical Centre Mediclinic Al Noor Hospital Mediclinic Corniche Al Madar Diagnostic Centre Mediclinic Mussafah Mediclinic Al Madar Mediclinic Al Mamoura Mediclinic Ghayathi Mediclinic Al Bateen Mediclinic Airport Road Hospital Mediclinic Al Hili AL AIN Mediclinic Al Ain Hospital Mediclinic Al Mirfa Mediclinic Zakher ENEC Clinic Mediclinic Al Jowhara Hospital Mediclinic Al Bawadi Mediclinic Al Yahar SAUDI ARABIA Mediclinic Madinat Zayed OMAN Clinics Hospitals Mediclinic Middle East invested AED188m on expansion outpatient and inpatient services provided by private capital projects and new equipment and AED57m on healthcare facilities in Abu Dhabi previously 100% for the replacement of existing equipment and upgrade most services.
It was mandatory for private healthcare projects.
The major components of the expansion providers to collect the full co-payment from patients, capital expenditure were the Mediclinic City Hospital which Mediclinic adhered to with immediate effect.
North Wing and Mediclinic Parkview Hospital projects A further change saw the Thiqa plan cover only in Dubai.
The former was successfully opened in 50% of the cost if patients sought medical services September 2016 and houses, amongst other outside Abu Dhabi including Dubai and the Northern disciplines, the Comprehensive Cancer Centre, Dubais Emirates.
In Dubai, UAE nationals are covered under most advanced facility for the diagnosis and treatment the ENAYA and SAADA health insurance programme, of cancer, built in association with Hirslanden in under the supervision of the Dubai Health Authority, Switzerland.
Patient volumes since opening the North with a 10% co-payment for inpatient and outpatient Wing have been encouraging.
Construction of the services in public and private sector.
As mentioned, Parkview Hospital, the seventh hospital of the platform, these changes had a significant impact on the Thiqa is progressing well and is on track to be completed patient volumes in the Abu Dhabi business.
However, in the fourth quarter of the financial year ending on 26 April 2017, following a period of engagement 31 March 2019. with various authorities and stakeholders, His Highness Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Crown Prince As part of the ongoing investment in the region, a of Abu Dhabi and Deputy Supreme Commander of the partner was selected for an Electronic Health Record UAE Armed Forces, ordered the waiving of the 20% system which will be implemented over the coming Thiqa co-payment when receiving treatment at private years.
By creating unified records for patients, healthcare facilities in Abu Dhabi, with immediate effect.
regardless of which facility they receive treatment at, It was also confirmed that the co-payment for services the system will enable the business to deliver improved provided to Thiqa patients outside of Abu Dhabi would service quality and seamless care for patients.
Preparations are ongoing for the introduction of diagnosis-related groups in The regulatory environment in the Middle East had Dubai expected to be implemented in April 2018.
The a significant impact on the platforms performance platform continues to maintain an active dialogue with this year.
On 30 June 2016, the Health Authority Abu government authorities on regulatory changes within Dhabi HAAD announced a number of amendments the UAE healthcare sector.
to Abu Dhabis health insurance programmes with immediate effect as of 1 July 2016.
Changes to the A key focus during the year has been integrating the Thiqa plan health insurance for UAE Nationals or Abu Dhabi-based Al Noor Hospitals Group with the others of similar status in Abu Dhabi stipulated established Mediclinic Middle East business in Dubai.
that patients receive 80% coverage of the fees for DIVISIONAL REVIEW UNITED ARAB EMIRATES MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 53 The regional management team successfully addressed MARKET OVERVIEW a number of key issues including the establishment of a clear operational and clinical strategy in Abu The region continues to witness economic uncertainty Dhabi, doctor vacancies, integrating the functional owing to influences such as the strength of the departments of the two businesses, conforming United States dollar which is affecting the tourism revenue cycle management with the Middle East and property market in particular, rising interest rates, business, identifying synergies in procurement and weakened consumer sentiment, and the continuing low headcount and consolidating the two corporate offices oil price which, although stabilising in recent months and executive management teams.
The Group remains at around USD55 per barrel, still remains well below on track to generate annualised synergies of AED75m the levels seen in the UAEs more prosperous periods.
from the combined Middle East business.
Some Despite this, population growth is expected to drive 136 new doctor appointments were made in the Middle domestic demand in the next year, albeit at a reduced East during FY17 and a further 52 doctors are currently rate.
Growth rates are expected to accelerate slightly in in the process of recruitment helping to fill the vacant Dubai as Expo 2020 draws closer but not to the levels positions that resulted from the departure of doctors in experienced in 2012 to 2014. the 12 months leading up to the Al Noor combination Within the regions healthcare market, the increased and at the start of FY17.
involvement of government authorities in the private As part of an extensive review of the Abu Dhabi sector and its introduction of stricter regulatory business, certain units, non-core to the central strategy controls, continue to affect the market.
This remains of the platform, were identified for divestment.
The a significant challenge to Mediclinic Middle East, Group has classified AED42m assets and AED9m along with persisting economic uncertainty, rising liabilities as held for sale in relation to these units.
The costs and increased competition.
The true impact platform completed the sale of Rochester Wellness, of the proposed introduction of value-added tax in consisting of two clinics in Dubai and Oman, to Emirates January 2018 also needs to be assessed, as well as the Health during the year.
In November 2016, the platform effects of a possible introduction of corporate tax in the completed the sale of Gulf International Cancer Centre medium term.
The construction of Opportunities for the business lie within Mediclinic a new hospital in the Western Region was postponed.
Middle Easts own areas of development, including Several new facilities were opened in Abu Dhabi during bringing newly-opened facilities to capacity, ensuring the year.
These included the Mediclinic Al Jowhara timely delivery of its projects under construction and Hospital formerly Al Noor Hospital Al Jowhara, identifying areas that will add further value to its a 51-bed multi-disciplinary hospital in Al Ain that patients and stakeholders.
was delayed by several months, clinics in Ghayathi Western Region and Al Yahar Al Ain, as well as the Aspetar Clinic Al Ain.
The Khalifa City A Clinic OUTLOOK was opened in April 2017.
Areas of opportunity were identified in Abu Dhabi, including the expansion The economic outlook for the UAE is mixed, with and redevelopment of Mediclinic Al Noor Hospital its fortunes linked fundamentally to issues such as formerly Al Noor Hospital Khalifa Street and the oil price and US economic policy which affects the creation of a new Comprehensive Cancer Centre at strength of the US dollar, to which the UAE dirham is Mediclinic Airport Road Hospital formerly Al Noor pegged as well as inflation.
We are, however, confident Hospital Airport Road.
In September 2016, the that our strategy to reduce reliance on the low-priced platform completed the purchase of the remaining 25% insurance sector, and to further increase the levels of interest in the Al Madar group of clinics, based in Abu services available to our patients, will enable us to build Dhabi.
The important strategic decision to rebrand on our newly defined base.
Other key focus areas are Al Noor facilities to Mediclinic was taken in to continue to implement an effective business and February 2017 reflecting the ongoing and future clinical strategy for the combined business including investment in the Abu Dhabi business.
The project further divestments where appropriate, continual commenced in April 2017 and due to regulatory improvement of the patient experience, bringing all requirements, is expected to take approximately one new facilities to capacity, the identification of further year to complete.
As a result of the rebranding decision, growth opportunities and the delivery of new projects an accelerated amortisation charge of AED36m in already underway.
connection with the acquired Al Noor trade name asset Preparations for the introduction of diagnosis-related has been recognised during the period under review.
groups in Dubai are ongoing.
The platform continues The remaining balance of the trade name will be fully to maintain an active dialogue with government amortised in FY18.
The accelerated amortisation charge authorities on regulatory changes within the UAE has been excluded in determining underlying earnings.
