CLINICAL SERVICES OVERVIEW MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 41 The collection of certain key clinical performance FUTURE OBJECTIVES indicators in the Al Noor facilities are mandatory as defined by the Health Authority in Abu Dhabi HAAD.
Patients First at Mediclinic The reported indicators have been standardised across Identify patient pathways qualifying for all the facilities and is not limited to the regulatory standardisation.
The clinical performance indicators for Introduce a continuous patient experience all the facilities are reported on a monthly basis, and survey for all inpatients.
include patient safety, infection prevention and control as well as clinical effectiveness indicators.
Integrated care Continue with the definitions of the requirements PATIENT SAFETY of the system provider model, and develop Mediclinic Middle East has the lowest case mix index in evaluation criteria to determine the introduction the Group and serves a younger, healthier community.
Providing safe care remains a priority across the platform.
Clinical information systems Figure 4 reflects the rate of adverse events per Continue with the rollout of the radiology 1 000 patient days.
information system in a second hospital.
Medication errors increased markedly by 116.7% during Introduce a standardised documentation approach 2016.
The increase is due to a reporting drive, with for doctors in the electronic patient record.
the main contributor being prescribing errors.
The Continue with the rollout of the patient data majority of the medication errors are identified, and management system PDMS.
reported, by pharmacy and prevented from reaching Conceptualise the integration of the PDMS and the patients.
The early identification of prescription the electronic patient record.
errors was enabled by a pharmacy initiative, focussing on identification and reporting of prescription errors.
Medication management remains a big focus area for MEDICLINIC MIDDLE EAST the group.
There was an increase in the fall rate from 0.3 to 0.4 per CLINICAL PERFORMANCE 1 000 patient days recorded for inpatients during 2016.
Both Mediclinic Middle East and the Al Noor group of Fall assessments and the required interventions were hospitals collected clinical performance indicators for reinforced across the group.
the period under review and the combined figures are The rate of inpatient pressure ulcers reduced by 60% reflected in the graphs below.
and can mainly be attributed to the implementation of the appropriate clinical risk prevention strategies and protocols in all clinical areas.
FIGURE 4: ADVERSE EVENTS MEDICLINIC MIDDLE EAST Adverse event type 2015 2016 2014 Rate per 1 000 patient days 0.6 Medication 0.6 errors 1.3 0.5 Falls 0.3 0.4 0.6 In-hospital pressure 0.5 ulcers 0.2 42 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CLINICAL SERVICES OVERVIEW Integrated care INFECTION PREVENTION AND CONTROL Signed a formal affiliation agreement with  infections Mohammed Bin Rashid University of Health A reduction was seen in most of the measures and Sciences in Dubai in May 2016 as an accredited this is influenced by changes in the definition in line external training facility for medical students, with the 2016 Centre for Disease Control guidelines.
and the first medical students started in In addition, the platform has a sustained focus on September 2016. infection prevention and control and reducing infection Further developed the current Breast and rates further.
Metabolic centres at Mediclinic City Hospital to The HAI rate decreased by 18.8% in 2016.
The rate of streamline clinical processes.
CAUTI increased by 33.3% over the last 12 months, Successfully commissioned and opened the new however, the actual numbers remain low seven cases.
comprehensive cancer centre in the North Wing The rate of CLABSI decreased by 37.5% in 2016. expansion at Mediclinic City Hospital.
Centralised and consolidated the laboratory services for the group.
CLINICAL EFFECTIVENESS Relocated the IVF centre previously in Mediclinic Actual mortality decreased by 7.7% during the Al Noor Hospital to Mediclinic Al Ain Hospital.
period under review and remained lower than the Reviewed the existing clinical pathways and actual mortality for both Mediclinic Southern Africa developed additional pathways in preparation for and Hirslanden.
This can be attributed to the young the implementation of diagnosis-related groups population average age of 32 years in the UAE, and DRGs and the implementation of a clinical generally less invasive and complex surgical procedures information system.
performed than in the other two operating platforms.
Mediclinic Middle East used the APACHE IV scoring Clinical information systems system in the CCUs in the two hospitals in Dubai until Selected a new EHR system for the group.
SAPS3 was subsequently rolled out in all the hospitals in Mediclinic Middle East in October 2016 and reports will be available in the next FUTURE OBJECTIVES annual report.
The APACHEIV mortality index is 0.62 Patients First at Mediclinic and well below 1.
Continue to focus on the full integration of clinical The re-admission rate decreased by 47.4% from 1.9% to services of the combined group.
All admission types, except oncology, are Standardise the doctors appraisal process for included in the calculation.
Comparable benchmarks the combined group and implement clinical KPIs are not readily available.
Expand and implement new clinical indicators PROGRESS AGAINST OBJECTIVES across the group.
Expand the outcome database participation and Patients First at Mediclinic include obstetrics and gynaecology.
Appointed patient safety officers, established a Implement a clinical indicator dashboard across quality department and updated its patient safety the group.
Formulate the JCI re-accreditation strategy for all Successfully had all Dubai-based facilities as well the facilities in the group for 2019. as the Mediclinic Al Ain hospital re-accredited by Continue to develop clinical pathways as part of JCI in 2016. preparing for the implementation of DRGs.
Standardised clinical indicators across the group, Update the quality and patient safety strategy for and created a central repository: the group.
the V ermont Oxford databases were implemented in all the Al Noor facilities: and the S APS3 was implemented in all the CCUs across the combined group.
Combined the clinical services departments of the group and implemented clinical oversight committee structures.
Developed clinical key performance indicators KPIs for doctors.
Not implemented, due to infrastructure and resource challenges, a clinical dashboard which does, however, remain a priority for the future.
CLINICAL SERVICES OVERVIEW MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 43 The measurement of hand hygiene compliance, Integrated care methodology and data collection tool, has been Formulate a clinical strategy for the units and standardised across Mediclinic Southern Africa certain key service lines for the combined group and Mediclinic Middle East.
comprehensive cancer centre, IVF, metabolic A master person index has been developed and centre, cardiology, cosmetics, etc.. implemented in Mediclinic Southern Africa for the Continue to develop the metabolic surgery services identification of healthy neonates.
at Mediclinic Airport Road Hospital and prepare for Initiatives are underway to coordinate health accreditation of the centre.
technology assessments centrally, and will be Further develop and expand coordinated care further refined.
initiatives across the group breast centre, Thought leadership, oversight and close comprehensive cancer centre, metabolic collaboration has been provided in the selection centre, etc.. of an EHR system in the Middle East and Southern Continue the centralisation and consolidation African platforms.
strategy for laboratory services in the group.
Continued collaboration and support are provided Complete the ISO certification for the laboratories to Hirslanden with the implementation of their in the Mediclinic Al Noor hospitals.
Clinical information systems FUTURE OBJECTIVES Implement the newly selected HER system across the group, over a three-year period, starting Refine clinical performance measures.
Establish a patient safety sub-committee to standardise and enhance collaboration.
Coordinate collaboration of nursing services MEDICLINIC INTERNATIONAL across operating platforms.
Mediclinic Internationals Clinical Services Department Coordinate collaboration of clinical risk consists of a small team that coordinates clinical management across operating platforms.
The team provides Source a clinical adverse event and clinical strategic direction, oversight and accountability, risk management solution suitable for all coordinates collaboration across operating platforms operating platforms.
and are directly involved in selected projects.
Continue to provide thought leadership, oversight and close collaboration in the selection of an EHR PROGRESS AGAINST CURRENT system in Mediclinic Southern Africa.
OBJECTIVES Continued to collaborate and provide support to Mediclinic Middle East and Hirslanden with the The first phase of a master data management implementation of their EHR systems.
programme, compiling and governing data relating Refine and optimise the clinical governance to doctors, has been concluded in Southern Africa.
structure to enforce the Ward-to-Board The migration from APACHEIV to SAPS3, accountability framework across the Group.
intensive care outcome measurement tool, has been completed in Mediclinic Southern Africa and Mediclinic Middle East.
Clinical operational dashboards have been refined, and an obstetric management operational dashboard developed for the Southern African platform.
44 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DIVISIONAL REVIEW SWITZERLAND DIVISIONAL REVIEW SWITZERLAND CEOS STATEMENT During the year, Hirslanden once again successfully increased both its turnover and the underlying EBITDA.
In the saturated Swiss healthcare market, strong growth is only possible with a forwardlooking investment strategy.
At Hirslanden, this strategy includes investments in our core business at the hospitals, as well as rounding out our range of services in the outpatient sector.
Hirslanden will therefore continue its transformation from being purely a hospital operator to becoming an integrated healthcare provider that o ers medical services across various levels of care.
The improved EBITDA is the result of increased productivity and effi ciency achieved by the ongoing implementation of standardised structures and processes throughout the entire Group.
In addition to our relentless focus on medical quality and patient satisfaction, improving effi ciency is a key part of Hirslandens approach: the ongoing improvement of patient value.
Looking forward, the public policy environment creates a number of uncertainties and risks.
For instance, another tari reduction is expected in the outpatient sector.
Meanwhile the shift towards outpatient treatment continues and regulations are currently being drafted to ensure that in future certain procedures are only carried out in an outpatient setting.
In the canton of Zurich, a special tax on services for privately insured inpatients was fortunately rejected.
Despite these challenges and uncertainties, as the largest private medical network in Switzerland, Hirslanden is well positioned to take advantage of future opportunities for growth, and will remain Dr Ole Wiesinger a source of clinical excellence for the wider Chief Executive Offi cer: Hirslanden Mediclinic Group.
KEY STATISTICS 16 4 1 677 97 9 402 NUMBER OF NUMBER OF NUMBER NUMBER OF NUMBER OF HOSPITALS CLINICS OF BEDS THEATRES EMPLOYEES 6 722 full-time equivalents DIVISIONAL REVIEW SWITZERLAND MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 45 KEY FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS Hirslanden accounted for 48% of the Groups revenues 2016: 54% and 53% of its underlying EBITDA 2016: 52%.
As at the end of the reporting period, Hirslanden operated 16 hospitals and 4 clinics with a total of 1 677 inpatient beds and 9 402 employees 6 722 full-time equivalents.
It is the largest private acute care hospital group in Switzerland servicing approximately one third of inpatients treated in Swiss private hospitals.
During the period under review, revenues increased by 3% to CHF1 704m 2016: CHF1 657m.
This was driven by a 1.7% growth in inpatient admissions.
CHF1 704M The reduction in both bed days sold -0.7% and the average length of stay -2.3% was offset by an increase of 3.0% in the average revenue per bed day sold.
This is largely due to an increase in the 3% average severity of cases, with an increasing number REVENUE of doctors performing complex procedures at Hirslanden hospitals.
Outpatient revenues increased by 9% and now contributes nearly 20% to overall Hirslanden revenues.
CHF340M Underlying EBITDA increased by 5% to CHF340m 2016: CHF325m with the underlying EBITDA margin increasing from 19.7% to 20.0% due to several productivity measures and cost savings initiatives 5% implemented during the year and an underlying UNDERLYING EBITDA tariff provision release of CHF8m.
These were offset by continued investment in Hirslanden 2020 and the ongoing shift in patient mix from semi and private to basic insured.
Operating profit increased by 7% to -0.7% CHF259m 2016: CHF243m.
Hirslanden contributed 121m to the Groups underlying earnings compared to BED DAYS SOLD 101m in the prior year.
Hirslanden invested CHF74m in expansion capital projects and new equipment and CHF89m on the replacement of existing equipment and upgrade 76.2% projects as well as investments in Hirslanden 2020 and relocation of the corporate head office.
In April 2016, BED OCCUPANCY Hirslanden Clinique Cecil in Lausanne opened a new hybrid operating theatre and an outpatient surgery unit.
In August 2016, Hirslanden Klinik Aarau opened its third cardiac catheterisation laboratory.
At Hirslanden 3.0% Klinik St. Anna and Hirslanden Klinik Stephanshorn, two new modular operating theatres were completed AVERAGE REVENUE PER BED DAY in October and December 2016, respectively.
Further important development projects completed included new doctors consulting rooms for Hirslanden Clinique La Colline, restructuring of radiology for 86% Hirslanden Klinik Stephanshorn and restructuring of the sterilisation unit for Hirslanden Klinik Permanence.
PATIENT SATISFACTION Hirslanden Klinik Im Park in Zurich opened its new outpatient surgery centre in April 2017, which includes a ward for procedures requiring short inpatient stays.
Building work commenced on an expanded emergency 3.91 department for Klinik Hirslanden in Zrich and there are plans for a range of other expansion projects to EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT increase the business capacity.
grand mean score based on a 1 to 5 rating scale During the year, Hirslanden increased efficiency in various areas of the business.
Supply costs and The patient satisfaction results of Hirslanden are not labour costs were successfully reduced, while more comparable with the results of Mediclinic Southern Africa and focused management led to increased utilisation of Mediclinic Middle East as the Groups standardised Patient Experience Index has not been rolled out to Hirslanden.
Hirslanden is focused on achieving The results of Hirslanden are based on the ANQ the Swiss further efficiency gains and optimisation, leveraging National Association for Quality Development satisfaction off the broader Groups economies of scale to manage survey and relates to the number of patients who would cost pressures.
absolutely recommend Hirslanden to family and friends.
46 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DIVISIONAL REVIEW SWITZERLAND There were a number of regulatory developments in Hirslandens main competitors are the public hospitals.
In April 2017, the Zurich Many of these will improve their infrastructure in the Cantonal Parliament voted not to approve the proposed coming years.
According to publicly available sources, VVG levy.
As part of a Cantonal budget review and CHF16bn is earmarked for the construction and cost savings initiative, the Canton had proposed a renovation of hospital buildings.
levy to be introduced based on the proportion of Additional challenges include working within an privately insured patients treated in listed hospitals.
environment regulated by 26 cantons that supervise This complex matter went through an extended and manage hospitals and ensure their funding in legislative process and Hirslanden engaged with the collaboration with the mandatory health insurance.
relevant public authorities to raise concerns regarding Besides the regulation of the inpatient sector the the process, equality and the impact the proposed cantons increasingly intervene in the outpatient levy would have had on the business.
Hirslanden will market by defi ning lists of medical interventions to be continue to monitor developments in the canton whilst performed ambulatory or by establishing a moratorium maintaining its dialogue and engagement with the for foreign doctors.
relevant public authorities to ensure that it can, on a sustainable basis, deliver high-quality, cost-effi cient, healthcare to patients.
OUTLOOK The national outpatient tariff TARMED is still in There continues to be a signifi cant focus on revision and the current tariff structure is valid until the shift of basic medical treatments from the the end of the 2017 calendar year.
The Swiss Federal inpatient to the outpatient sector outmigration.
Government has released proposed adjustments to The Federal Government is preparing a framework TARMED as a transitional solution whilst healthcare for the outmigration of services, likely to be ready for providers and funders continue to negotiate and agree implementation from 1 January 2018, across Switzerland.
The government proposal The Zurich Cantonal Parliament, in April 2017, approved is targeting annual savings of around CHF700m an amendment to the cantonal hospital law, providing across the public and private outpatient sectors.
a legal basis for the cantonal government to create a Outpatient services contribute approximately 20% list of interventions that in future should generally be of Hirslanden revenues, at around CHF300m in the treated as outpatient rather than inpatient services.
Based on initial analyses of the The fi final list of interventions will be agreed following complex proposal, the expected annualised impact a working group review.
In the Canton of Lucerne on Hirslanden outpatient revenues is around CHF30m similar measures are expected to be implemented from before any mitigating actions are considered.
These 1 July 2017. mitigations could include improved utilisation and increased effi ciencies that would help to reduce the Hirslanden is responding to the trend of outmigration impact of the transitional solutions proposed by with the opening of new outpatient facilities and the Federal Government on the underlying EBITDA the creation of an integrated medical network that and margins of the business.
Due to its implementation facilitates the access to healthcare for patients.
This date on 1 January 2018, the impact on Hirslanden is is also important because outpatient clinics are a expected to be limited in the next fi financial year.
well-established route for the subsequent allocation of patients to hospitals and specialists.
The establishment of outpatient facilities is part of the Hirslanden 2020 MARKET OVERVIEW strategic programme.
This programme has two main goals: to increase the effi ciency of the existing The Swiss healthcare market is one of the best funded business by implementing standardised systems and in the developed world and continues to grow steadily.
processes: and to develop new areas of business, Hirslanden is the largest medical network and the such as outpatient facilities.
Having opened the largest private hospital group in Switzerland, and new outpatient surgery centre at Klinik Im Park, works eff ectively within a high-quality healthcare Hirslanden will also open two new medical centres in system where the population enjoys freedom of choice Zurich Seefeldstrasse and Cham canton of Zug in and high-quality services in both the public and private spring 2018 and a further one at Schuppis canton of sector.
A survey, fi nanced by the Commonwealth Fund St. Gallen in 2019. and conducted in eleven countries, found that 60% of respondents in Switzerland rated the Swiss functioning Given the external environment, the investment of the healthcare system as good or very good.
programme within Hirslanden and the potential for 66% considered the medical care provided as either increased synergies, the platform is well-positioned excellent or very good.
Of the 11 countries surveyed, to maintain its status as the largest medical network Switzerland had the best response.
in Switzerland while continuing to improve patient satisfaction and clinical outcomes.
DIVISIONAL REVIEW SOUTHERN AFRICA MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 47 DIVISIONAL REVIEW SOUTHERN AFRICA CEOS STATEMENT Mediclinic Southern Africa delivered satisfactory operational and fi financial results for the period under review in challenging market conditions.
We have continued to make good progress with the roll out of further strategic initiatives to improve clinical performance and the patients experience and we gained momentum in the development of an integrated healthcare system provider concept through the introduction of a number of new initiatives.
Mediclinic Southern Africa successfully followed its incremental growth strategy by adding 78 acute care beds at existing hospitals.
We continued to address a number of matters in the wider business environment, specifi cally Koert Pretorius the Health Market Inquiry and National Health Chief Executive Offi cer: Mediclinic Southern Africa Insurance developments.
KEY STATISTICS 52 2 8 095 278 16 848 NUMBER OF NUMBER NUMBER OF NUMBER OF NUMBER OF HOSPITALS OF DAY LICENSED THEATRES EMPLOYEES CLINICS BEDS 20 349 full-time equivalents, which includes 3 501 agency staff
