48 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DIVISIONAL REVIEW SOUTHERN AFRICA KEY FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS Mediclinic Southern Africa accounted for 28% of the Groups revenue 2016: 31% and 33% of its underlying EBITDA 2016: 32%.
In Southern Africa including South Africa and Namibia, as at the end of the reporting period, Mediclinic operated 52 hospitals and two day clinics with a total of 8 095 beds and 16 848 employees.
The platform is the third largest private hospital provider in Southern Africa.
During the period under review, revenue increased by 7% to ZAR14 367m 2016: ZAR13 450m.
Bed days sold and average revenue per bed day increased by R14 367M 0.8% and 5.8%, respectively.
Admissions increased by 0.6% with growth in medical cases partially offset by a decrease in surgical day cases as the outmigration trend continues.
The average length of stay increased 7% by 0.2%.
REVENUE Underlying EBITDA increased by 6% to ZAR3 049m 2016: ZAR2 877m resulting in the underlying EBITDA margin decreasing from 21.4% to 21.2% due to the ongoing shift in mix towards medical versus surgical R3 049M cases, wage and cost inflation, including higher price increases on pharmaceuticals sold at zero margin and investment in additional clinical personnel.
6% Operating profit increased by 15% to ZAR2 584m 2016: ZAR2 252m.
Mediclinic Southern Africa UNDERLYING EBITDA contributed 67m to the Groups underlying earnings compared to 63m in the prior year, impacted by an additional ZAR182m 10m interest charge on additional debt following the refinance of the Groups 0.8% bridge loan.
BED DAYS SOLD Mediclinic Southern Africa invested ZAR790m on expansion capital projects and new equipment and ZAR515m on the replacement of existing equipment and upgrade projects.
The number of beds increased by 78 taking the total number of beds to 8 095.
Key 71.5% projects completed during the year were at Mediclinic BED OCCUPANCY Upington, Mediclinic Worcester, Mediclinic Emfuleni and Mediclinic Windhoek.
The building projects in progress are expected to add some 54 additional beds by the end of FY18, taking the total number of licensed beds across the operating platform to 8 149.
Several 5.8% additional building projects are due for completion in FY19 and FY20, which are expected to add some AVERAGE REVENUE PER BED DAY 350 additional beds in both existing facilities and new day clinics.
During FY16, Mediclinic Southern Africa announced the 81.9% proposed acquisition of a controlling share in Matlosana Medical Health Services Proprietary Limited MMHS, PATIENT EXPERIENCE INDEX based in Klerksdorp in the North-West Province of South Africa.
MMHS owns two multi-disciplinary hospitals, Wilmed Park Hospital 144 licensed beds and Sunningdale Hospital 62 licensed beds, as well 3.73 as a 51% share in Parkmed Neuro Clinic, a psychiatric hospital 50 licensed beds.
This proposed acquisition EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT supports Mediclinics core focus of providing acute grand mean score based on a 1 to 5 rating scale care, multi-disciplinary specialist hospital services.
Although substantially completed, the transaction DIVISIONAL REVIEW SOUTHERN AFRICA MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 49 remains subject to approval by the competition be promoted.
The inquiry was due to publish its authorities.
In January 2017, Mediclinic Southern recommendations in December 2016, but has advised Africa also announced the proposed acquisition of a of further delays with the HMI now guiding that the 50% 1 share interest in Life Path Health, which operates final publication is expected at the end of the 2017 seven mental health facilities and is in the process of calendar year.
Mediclinic has submitted documentation establishing three further facilities, with applications to the inquiry and will continue to engage with all approved by Department of Health for further stakeholders as draft documents are published through facilities.
This transaction is subject to a number of the year to achieve an agreeable outcome.
The South African Government is seeking to address the shortcomings of the public health system through the phased introduction of a National Health Insurance EFFICIENCY AND OTHER system over a 14-year period.
A draft White Paper DEVELOPMENTS outlining the financing and design of the envisaged system has been released for consultation and Mediclinic Southern Africa progressed with several Mediclinic has submitted comprehensive comments.
improvements to its core processes during the period However, there remain a large number of obstacles that under review.
The new SAP solution for financial and still need to be addressed before greater clarity about central procurement processes was successfully rolled the outcomes can be communicated.
out to 32 Mediclinic Southern Africa hospitals.
In addition, the platform introduced action plans OUTLOOK to improve employee engagement and conducted the second survey through its Employee Mediclinic Southern Africa remains well positioned Engagement Index.
Detailed plans to improve to face the significant challenges that exist in the employee engagement were successful in improving business environment, such as increasing regulatory employee engagement to 3.73 2016: 3.67 during oversight, slow economic growth, a fragmented private the year the grand mean score based on a 1 to healthcare delivery model and a shortage of healthcare 5 rating scale.
Mediclinic Southern Africa remains cautiously optimistic about its prospects in the region.
MARKET OVERVIEW The private healthcare industry has reached maturity with limited opportunities for growth of the current Growth in the South African private healthcare market business.
Future growth will focus on related business has stagnated due to elevated political uncertainty, low opportunities, for example mental health and primary economic growth and a lack of job creation.
offers isolated incremental growth opportunities to The focus in the coming year will be on further expand existing hospitals, and to build new hospitals developing the operating platforms strategy to position and day clinics.
Challenges include lowering healthcare itself for future value-based contracting opportunities.
costs across the value chain in a fragmented market, The platform will continue to focus strategically on whilst at the same time improving outcomes for the value that it delivers to patients, by continuing to patients, attracting and retaining qualified staff and improve the safety and quality of its clinical care, the investing in infrastructure and medical technology.
quality of the patient experience, and opportunities The Competition Commission is currently undertaking to improve operational efficiency.
The platform will a market inquiry into the private healthcare sector in also continue to focus on opportunities to develop an South Africa to understand both whether there are integrated Southern African private healthcare delivery features of the sector that prevent, distort or restrict model for the future.
competition and how competition in the sector can 50 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 DIVISIONAL REVIEW UNITED ARAB EMIRATES DIVISIONAL REVIEW UNITED ARAB EMIRATES CEOS STATEMENT The Middle East platform faced signifi cant challenges during the period under review due to unexpected regulatory changes in Abu Dhabi, increased competition, and the process of aligning the Al Noor business with the operational and commercial practices of the overall Mediclinic Group following the Combination in February 2016.
This has impacted our fi financial performance and, together with the forecast continued lower economic growth in the UAE, our short-term growth expectations in the region.
During the year, however, we implemented various initiatives to e ectively deal with these challenges which, combined with the decision of the Abu Dhabi Government to reverse co-payments by Thiqa members, the introduction of new facilities and services and the ongoing upgrade of David Hadley existing units, places Mediclinic Middle East on a Chief Executive Offi cer: Mediclinic Middle East more sustainable and long-term growth path.
KEY STATISTICS 6 31 714 30 6 375 NUMBER OF NUMBER OF NUMBER NUMBER OF NUMBER OF HOSPITALS CLINICS OF BEDS THEATRES EMPLOYEES
