22 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 BUSINESS MODEL BUSINESS MODEL MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 23 BUSINESS MODEL Mediclinics business model has resulted in quality service delivery, manageable risks, and generally a business that sustains growth and creates value for its stakeholders.
The business model varies BUSINESS HOW WE BUSINESS slightly in the three operating platforms.
In Mediclinic Southern INPUTS RESOURCES GENERATE VALUE OUTCOMES Africa, operations are supported by specialists who are not employed by the Group, but operate independently.
This is a regulatory limitation in terms of the Health Professions Council 1 of South Africa, which prohibits the employment of doctors by FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER VALUE private hospitals, although permission has been obtained to Mediclinic has a strong financial profile, INVESTING IN A focus on disciplined cost management appoint doctors in emergency units.
In Hirslanden and Mediclinic underpinned by an extensive property and improving efficiencies has delivered a Middle East, some doctors are employed, while other doctors portfolio.
The Group has good access to strong track record of growth in revenue capital and invests for growth, generating are independent.
and EBITDA with a total dividend to positive cash flow and a track record of shareholders of 7.90 pence per share good returns on its capital investments.
refer to the Directors Report on AR page 128 for a record of dividends for GROWTH AND EXPANSION OF THE GROUPS WORLD CLASS FACILITIES the year.
MANUFACTURED The Group has a track record of investing in carefully selected capital Mediclinic has a leading position in the key projects that deliver satisfactory returns and has demonstrated the OUR VISION markets in which it operates.
The Group ability to integrate and extract value from acquisitions and expansions.
QUALITY HEALTHCARE SERVICES owns, develops and operates 74 high-quality Mediclinic builds and continuously improves its facilities across its All three platforms have seen an increase hospitals and 37 clinics, providing over platforms, investing in medical technology of an international standard in inpatient admissions, benefiting from 10 400 beds across three regions, utilising TO BE RESPECTED INTERNATIONALLY to offer the best care possible.
superior clinical performance through the technology of an international standard.
skill of Mediclinics staff and supporting AND PREFERRED LOCALLY doctors and the standard of its HUMAN facilities, as well as high levels of patient The Group employs over 32 600 employees experience.
During the year, 303m WE WILL BE RESPECTED INTERNATIONALLY FOR: across its three platforms.
During the year, 2016: 264m was retained for delivering measurable quality clinical outcomes the Group invested 3.2% of Mediclinic future growth and to maintain and HIGHLY QUALIFIED STAFF continuing to grow as a successful international Southern Africas payroll, 4.8% of replace assets.
Continuous investment in the training and development of staff healthcare group Hirslandens payroll, and 0.1% of Mediclinic creates a highly-trained workforce and talent pipeline.
Our Global Middle Easts payroll in training across all enforcing good corporate governance Reward Centre of Excellence ensures optimal remuneration practices HIGHLY SKILLED WORKFORCE platforms, including extensive formal nurse acting as a responsible corporate citizen across the Group.
Integrated talent strategies are deployed to ensure During the year, 1 231m 2016: 934m training in Southern Africa.
proactive attraction and retention of scarce skills.
was paid to employees as remuneration and other benefits, alongside investment INTELLECTUAL in the training and well-being of staff, WE WILL BE PREFERRED LOCALLY FOR: Mediclinic has an experienced Board and creating a motivated and engaged management team with deep industry delivering excellent patient care workforce, both in clinical and knowledge.
The continued growth of ensuring aligned relationships with doctor communities business services.
Mediclinic is testament to the strong being an employer of choice, appointing and retaining IMPROVING EFFICIENCIES management team and their ability to competent staff A relentless focus on extracting efficiencies from key business GOVERNMENT execute the Groups strategy.
The expertise processes, using resources as effectively as possible and driving cost The Mediclinic Group contributed 75m building constructive relationships with all stakeholders of the Groups clinical staff is a critical savings and synergies across the Group, are critical to ensure that it 2016: 63m in taxes and other state and being a valued member of the community element of its business, allowing it to delivers cost-efficient services.
local authority levies to the economies provide quality healthcare services.
where it operates during the year.
3 OUR RELENTLESS FOCUS ON PATIENT NEEDS WILL SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIPS SOCIETY CREATE LONG-TERM SHAREHOLDER VALUE AND Mediclinic has excellent relationships with PROVIDING Mediclinic makes an economic and ESTABLISH MEDICLINIC INTERNATIONAL AS A LEADER key stakeholders, regularly engaging with social contribution to the communities IN THE GLOBAL HEALTHCARE INDUSTRY.
employees, funders, patients, supporting where it operates with a corporate social doctors, suppliers, governments and investment of ZAR12.3m 2016: ZAR11.8m communities.
It has a proven commitment by Mediclinic Southern Africa, CHF2.5m to ensure a high standard of ethics, social 2016: CHF2.5m by Hirslanden and responsibility, accountability, cooperation and transparency.
CARE AED1.0m 2016: AED0.8m by Mediclinic The Groups main business activity is caring Middle East during the year.
Deep operational expertise NATURAL delivers a seamless patient experience, The Group is committed to efficient energy ENVIRONMENT underpinned by high-quality nursing care.
use in all its hospitals and continuously The Company was included in the strives to reduce its water consumption CDPs global 2016 Climate A List and carbon emissions, with an increasing recognising companies for their actions number of its hospitals certified to the in mitigating climate change, focusing ISO 14001 standard.
DELIVERING VALUE TO mainly on Mediclinic Southern Africas environmental management.
Please see the Financial Review from page 14.
AR Please see the Clinical Services Overview from page 37 and the Clinical Services CSR Report available on the Companys website PATIENTS SHAREHOLDERS at www.
Through superior clinical Through growth in Please see the Sustainable Development performance in a safe clinical capitalisation and shareholders environment and through returns, with the balance of Highlights from page 54 and the providing the best possible funds retained for investment in SDR Sustainable Development Report patient experience in an expansion.
available on the Companys website at increasingly integrated and www.
24 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OUR STRATEGY, PROGRESS AND AIMS OUR STRATEGY, PROGRESS AND AIMS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 25 OUR STRATEGY, PROGRESS AND AIMS OUR OBJECTIVE Mediclinics overall objective is to generate long-term shareholder value through: putting Patients First: improving efficiencies: continuing to grow: and investing in employees.
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES DESCRIPTION PROGRESS 2016 17 FY AIMS 2017 18 FY The Group strives to ensure that the clinical services provided Reinforced clinical governance by reconstituting the Further refine the clinical performance model PUTTING PATIENTS FIRST across all platforms are effective, efficient and occur within a safe Quality Committee as a Clinical Performance and and indicators.
Sustainability Committee of the Board, designing a Develop clinical services initiatives for the benefit PERFORMANCE IN A SAFE clinical performance model, and strengthening the of the Group.
CLINICAL ENVIRONMENT Group leadership team.
In Southern Africa, improve the processes that prevent More information on this priority Created alignment across the Group serious adverse events: and refine nursing workforce is included in the Clinical Services through standardised clinical key performance effectiveness.
AR Overview and the Sustainable indicator reporting.
In Switzerland, identify patient pathways qualifying Development Highlights material In Southern Africa, increased the number of hospital for standardisation.
CSR issue 1, as well as the more detailed clinical managers to 11: progressed on key clinical In the Middle East, implement standardised outcome Clinical Services Report and the performance indicators: improved transparency databases: commence roll-out of standardised SDR Sustainable Development Report by reporting hospital-specific clinical performance electronic health record system: and set centralised available on the Companys website indicators to medical schemes: and elevated the clinical strategies for key service lines.
reporting and investigation of serious adverse events.
In Switzerland, progressed with the clinical information system: and successfully initiated a pilot project on patient-related outcome measurement relating to joint replacements.
In the Middle East, developed a clinical strategy for the combined business post the Al Noor Combination : revised the clinical strategy for each business unit: and selected an electronic health record system.
The Group focuses on improved patient experience in processes, Rolled out the patient experience index in Switzerland.
Further refine patient experience index and set targets PUTTING PATIENTS FIRST accommodation and aesthetics, meals and nutrition, interactions with for improved performance across the Group.
Managed the patient experience indices and set targets IMPROVED PATIENT doctors, points of care and hospitality towards visitors and family.
for improvement in Southern Africa and In Southern Africa, release a summary of the patient EXPERIENCE Middle East Dubai business.
experience index publicly: standardise communication More information on this priority with patients and family: and complete the In Southern Africa, improved data quality, hosted is included in the Clinical Services implementation of hourly rounding, handover in front workshops, developed focused and appropriate action AR Overview and the Sustainable of patients and flexible visiting hours initiatives.
plans: and developed and implemented a complaint Development Highlights material handling component of a stakeholder relationship In Switzerland, analyse patient experience index of CSR issue 1, as well as the more detailed management system.
new system and determine action plans.
Clinical Services Report and the In the Middle East, improved facilities in especially In the Middle East, continue to roll out and embed SDR Sustainable Development Report the Abu Dhabi Al Ain businesses: aligned revenue the standardised patient experience index across the available on the Companys website management processes to become more patient combined business post the Al Noor Combination.
centred: upgraded the contact centre services for patients: ran clinical communication training: and conducted patient experience training for hospital and contracted staff aligned with the rebranding in Abu Dhabi Al Ain.
