26 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OUR STRATEGY, PROGRESS AND AIMS OUR STRATEGY, PROGRESS AND AIMS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 27 STRATEGIC PRIORITIES DESCRIPTION PROGRESS 2016 17 FY AIMS 2017 18 FY The Group is gradually moving towards a better integrated healthcare In Southern Africa, strengthened the clinical Continue to develop structures to encourage PUTTING PATIENTS FIRST delivery model, with a key focus on improving collaboration and management at hospital level, shared information integrated, collaborative and coordinated care DELIVER INTEGRATED AND coordination between clinical care providers.
with doctors: commenced with a pilot project at across the Group.
COORDINATED CARE five hospitals to lay the foundation for improved Continue with operational initiatives to integrate, More information on this priority collaboration with doctors: and pioneered an integrated collaborate and coordinate where possible, and is included in the Clinical Services AR hip and knee replacement protocol at 35 hospitals with continue to pursue a multi-disciplinary approach Overview and the more detailed good support from orthopaedic surgeons and medical to treatment across the Group.
CSR Clinical Services Report available on schemes.
the Companys website In Switzerland, set a policy for indication quality and the at www.
introduction of indication boards: commenced a project to introduce fast track orthopaedics: and implemented a common structure for highly specialised medicine services.
In the Middle East, simplified the operational structure: improved the internal referral processes and system: combined clinical senior leadership meetings: and increased the number of clinical practice guidelines.
The Group seeks to leverage its combined international capacity through Improved the standardisation of processes and systems Expand scope for central synergies focused on clinical IMPROVING EFFICIENCIES collaboration and shared resources.
through the continued introduction of services, ICT and human resources for the benefit of IMPROVED OPERATIONAL SAP enterprise resource planning software across the Group.
EFFECTIVENESS The Group pursues various initiatives throughout its operating platforms the Group.
Develop cost ratio benchmarks setting productivity to improve operational efficiency.
More information on this priority Broadened master data management and data indices across the Group.
is included in the Chief Executive warehouse projects across the Group.
Establish a corporate finance strategy for the Group.
Strengthened central ICT by establishing support Improve Group reporting capabilities.
infrastructure for SAP, Microsoft and network security In Southern Africa, manage salary costs and improve environments, generating savings for the Group.
In Switzerland, roll out a first phase of the programme for service differentiation per insurance type: and continue with the Hirslanden 2020 project to improve operational efficiency.
In the Middle East, develop pricing strategies for implementation: improve collections and reduce rejections of claims: further refine operational structures: and standardise to SAP.
The Group pursues growth by increasing capacity at existing infrastructure, In Southern Africa, commissioned 78 new beds at Evaluate further growth opportunities across the CONTINUING TO GROW acquisitive or organic growth in existing platforms and considering further existing hospitals: approved the development of Group applying risk-adjusted returns.
five new day clinics: acquired, subject to regulatory In Southern Africa, grow acute care business with approvals, a controlling share in three hospitals with 54 additional beds: continue day clinic roll out: and 256 beds in Klerksdorp: and acquired, subject to due grow related business focusing on psychiatric and diligence and regulatory approvals, a 50% 1 share primary care.
interest in Life Path Health mental health.
In Switzerland, evaluate and analyse related business In Switzerland, opened a new hybrid operating theatre opportunities: and implement further shared service and outpatient surgery unit at Hirslanden Clinique Cecil, and centre of excellence structures according to a third cardiac catheterisation laboratory at Hirslanden Hirslanden 2020.
Klinik Aarau and completed two new modular operating In the Middle East, commission Khalifa City A clinic: theatres at Hirslanden Klinik St. Anna and Hirslanden progress with Mediclinic Parkview Hospital: and Klinik Stephanshorn, respectively.
consider alternative growth options such as public In the Middle East, commenced construction of the private partnerships.
Mediclinic Parkview Hospital 161 beds : opened Aspetar, Ghayathi and Al Yaher Golden clinics: opened the North Wing of Mediclinic City Hospital 27 beds : and opened Al Jowhara Hospital 51 beds.
28 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OUR STRATEGY, PROGRESS AND AIMS OUR STRATEGY, PROGRESS AND AIMS MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 29 STRATEGIC PRIORITIES DESCRIPTION PROGRESS 2016 17 FY AIMS 2017 18 FY The Group relies on identifying, attracting and retaining leading specialists Introduced action plans to improve employee Continue to measure progress with employee INVESTING IN EMPLOYEES and talented healthcare professionals.
engagement and conducted a second survey through engagement based on the employee engagement More information on this priority the employee engagement index across the Group.
is included in the Sustainable The Group also measures the engagement of its employees and focuses In Southern Africa, completed the initiative to double Continue to implement targeted improvement plans AR Development Highlights material on targeted initiatives to improve employee engagement.
training capacity by changing the nurse training funding based on the Employee Engagement Index across issue 2, as well as the more detailed model and expanding training capacity: and designed the Group.
SDR Sustainable Development Report and prepared to launch an employee recognition In Southern Africa, implement new training available on the Companys website programme.
programmes for new nursing qualifications: and at www.
In Switzerland, launched the Leadership Development launch the employee recognition programme.
Programme for senior management with the aim to In Switzerland, progress with the concept of a further promote a culture of teamwork and feedback.
Hirslanden Private Medical School for medical doctors: In the Middle East, standardised working and evaluate potential cooperation partners in the field of employment conditions across the combined business nurse training: and continue with the range of training post the Al Noor Combination.
programmes for all types and levels of employment.
In the Middle East, build on the affiliation with the Mohammed Bin Rashid University Medical School Programme, which will give direct access to a new pool of medical students and newly qualified doctors: implement the employee engagement index and the related processes to the Abu Dhabi Al Ain part of the business: and develop and Emiratisation strategy.
The Group uses central resources to achieve procurement efficiencies across Established a Group Purchasing Organisation to Expand savings initiatives on the procurement of IMPROVING EFFICIENCIES all platforms.
generate savings on the procurement of major capital major capital items and high volume surgical and LEVERAGE INTERNATIONAL items as well as surgical and consumable products consumable products across the Group.
GROUP BENEFITS across the Group.
30 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES RISK MANAGEMENT, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Board is ultimately accountable for the Groups risk management objectives, methodology, risk appetite, risk identification, assessment and treatment processes management process and system of internal control.
and the responsibilities of the various risk management In terms of a mandate by the Board, the Audit and Risk role-players in the Group.
The ERM policy is subject to Committee monitors the risk management process and annual review, and any amendments are submitted systems of internal control of the Group.
The Board to the Audit and Risk Committee for approval.
oversees the activities of the Audit and Risk Committee, the Groups internal and external auditors, and the The objective of risk management in the Group is to Groups risk management function as delegated to establish an integrated and effective risk management the Companys Audit and Risk Committee.
framework where important and emerging risks are identified, quantified and managed.
An ERM software application supports the Groups risk management RISK MANAGEMENT process in all three operating platforms.
The Groups principal risk items grouped by COSO category, The Groups Enterprise-wide Risk Management business process and strategic priorities, the ERM policy follows the international Committee movement in risk during the financial year, together of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway with key measures taken to mitigate these risks, are Commission COSO framework and defines the risk listed in the table below.
KEY COSO REFERENCE CATEGORY BUSINESS PROCESSES STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Strategic Strategy management: Continue to grow and market strategic investments Leverage international Group benefits Operational Human resources: information Invest in employees effectiveness and communications technology Improve safe, quality clinical and quality ICT : clinical: infrastructure: care and patient safety marketing and corporate Deliver integrated, communication: operations coordinated care Improve efficiencies Financial and Revenue cycle: procure to pay reporting risks cycle: payroll cycle: cost control: assets management: treasury Compliance risks Legal and secretarial: governance risk and compliance: environmental management Risk exposure increased due to change in business environment, increased investments, increased dependency of operations on information technology, information sensitivity and cost involved.
Proactive and continuous monitoring, favourable results of negotiations, effective treasury and risk management processes have resulted in lowering of risk exposure.
Risk exposure has not changed much as the operating and regulatory environment has more or less remained the same and enhanced risk mitigation measures have kept the risk at same level.
RISK MANAGEMENT, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 31 MOVEMENT PRINCIPAL RISK IN 2017 DESCRIPTION OF RISK MITIGATION OF RISK Adverse changes in laws and Proactive engagement strategies REGULATORY AND regulations impacting the Group with stakeholders COMPLIANCE RISK or the failure to comply with laws Health policy units created to and regulations which may result in conduct research and provide losses, fines, prosecution or damage strategic input for to reputation.
reform processes Active industry participation The risk includes ethical and across all platforms governance risks that refer to Company secretarial and legal unexpected negative consequences departments support operational of unethical actions or the failure management, monitor regulatory of the control and oversight developments and, where mechanisms which were designed necessary, obtain expert and implemented to uphold the legal advice for the effective ethical standards and controls of implementation of the organisation.
compliance initiatives Compliance risks identified and assessed as part of departmental risk registers Compliance management Visible ethical leadership Monitoring and investigation of incidents reported on the ethics line Board-level oversight The risk relating to the uncertainty Proactive monitoring COMPETITION created by the existence of Strategic planning processes competitors or the emergence of Quality and value of care new competitors with their own processes strategies.
The risk includes the outmigration of care, partly driven by further technological developments and the development of alternative care models.
The increased financial exposure Strategic planning processes BUSINESS relating to major strategic business Due diligence processes INVESTMENT AND investments and acquisitions.
Investment mandates ACQUISITION Board oversight During the prior financial year, RISKS Mediclinic made strategic Post-acquisition management investments in Spire Healthcare, processes and acquired the Al Noor Hospitals Group.
The downturn in the general Systems to monitor ECONOMIC economic and business developments in the economic AND BUSINESS environment, including all those and business environment ENVIRONMENT factors that affect a companys of trends and early warning operations, customers, competitors, indicators stakeholders, suppliers and Proactive monitoring and industry trends.
negotiation by Groups funder relations departments The business environment risk Focus on quality and continuum includes the power of funders and of care to reinforce the the potential negative impact on Companys position tariffs and fees resulting from the shift of the relative negotiating power towards funders, away from healthcare service providers.
32 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 RISK MANAGEMENT, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES MOVEMENT PRINCIPAL RISK IN 2017 DESCRIPTION OF RISK MITIGATION OF RISK Operational risk refers to various Preservation of a sound internal OPERATIONAL types of operational events with a financial control environment AND CREDIT RISKS potential for financial loss.
Effective risk management processes Credit risk is the risk of loss due Extensive combined assurance to a funders inability to pay the processes outstanding balance owing, default Monitoring operations by banks and or other depositthrough KPIs taking institutions, or the inability to recover outstanding amounts due Continuous enhancement from the patient.
of operational efficiency and cost reduction Regulated minimum solvency requirements for funders.
Monitoring approved funders Treasury policy Board-level oversight The cost, terms and availability Long-term planning of AVAILABILITY AND of capital to finance strategic capital requirements and cash COST OF CAPITAL expansion opportunities and or flow forecasting Including financing and the refinancing or restructuring of Scrutiny of cash-generating liquidity risk existing debt which was affected by capacity within the Group prevailing capital market conditions.
Proactive and long-term agreements with banks and The impact of negative interest rates other funders relating to currently prevalent in Switzerland.
funding facilities Monitoring compliance with requirements of debt covenants Further details on capital risk management and the Groups borrowings are contained in the consolidated financial AR statements on page 164.
All clinical risks associated with the Refer to the Clinical Services AR CLINICAL RISKS provision of clinical care resulting in Overview from page 37 and the CSR undesirable clinical care or clinical Clinical Services Report available outcomes.
on the Companys website at www.
com for a The risks include a pandemic and detailed analysis of the strategies disease outbreak.
A pandemic is to manage and monitor an epidemic of infectious disease clinical risks that is spreading through human A Group-wide clinical risk populations across a large region.
register implemented per Disease outbreak involves highly platform infectious diseases with a high Accreditation processes mortality rate.
Clinical governance processes Such risks may also result in damage Monitoring clinical performance to the Mediclinic brand equity.
indicators Brand equity refers to the value of Implementation of the Groups brand names.
comprehensive processes for infection control and prevention Marketing and communication strategies Focus on quality management processes Stakeholder engagement and disclosure strategies RISK MANAGEMENT, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 33 MOVEMENT PRINCIPAL RISK IN 2017 DESCRIPTION OF RISK MITIGATION OF RISK Information systems security risk Comprehensive IT logical access, INFORMATION including cyber risk relates to the change and physical access SYSTEMS unauthorised access to information controls SECURITY AND systems, failure of data integrity Disaster recovery planning AVAILABILITY RISK and confidentiality.
Availability System design and architecture risk relates to the instances where Group ICT security committee systems are not available for use by Experienced project its intended users.
management team A risk closely associated with Proactive monitoring and information systems risk is project oversight delivery.
Project delivery risk Reallocation of tasks and refers to issues or occurrences resources that may potentially interfere with successful completion of projects, including its scope, timeliness and appropriateness of delivery.
The risk refers to the quality of Patient experience surveys QUALITY AND service and the stability of the both internal and external STABILITY OF operations.
It includes but is not Complaints monitoring OPERATIONAL limited to: Training programmes SERVICES Supervision of service levels incidents of poor service or incidents where operational Emergency backup power management fail to respond generation effectively to complaints.
Emergency planning operational interruptions, which Plans to deal with disasters are any disruption of the facility Extensive fire-fighting and and including the threat of detection systems, including disrupted power or water supply: comprehensive maintenance and processes fire and allied perils causing Comprehensive insurance to deal damage or business interruption.
with financial impact of potential disasters The availability and support of Monitoring doctor satisfaction, AVAILABILITY, admitting doctors, whether movement and doctors profiles RECRUITMENT independent or employed, are critical Details on the relationship AND RETENTION to the services the Group provides.
with doctors are provided in OF SKILLED the Sustainable Development There is a shortage of skilled labour, SDR RESOURCES Report available on the particularly a shortage of qualified AND MEDICAL Companys website at and experienced nursing staff in www.
The employment recruitment and retention strategies are explained in the Sustainable Development Highlights on page 60 and in more detail in AR the Sustainable Development Report available on the SDR Companys website at www.
Extensive training and skills development programme, and foreign recruitment programme, further explained in the Sustainable Development Highlights on page 61 and in AR more detail in the Sustainable Development Report available SDR on the Companys website at www.
