STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 129 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance Annual Report, including the financial statements, in and integrity of the financial and associated corporate accordance with applicable law and regulation.
information published on the Companys website at www.
Legislation in the United The UK Companies Act requires the Directors to Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination prepare financial statements for each financial year.
of financial statements may differ from legislation in The Directors prepared the Group and Company other jurisdictions.
financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted The Directors consider that the Annual Report and by the European Union.
The Directors should only Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced approve the financial statements if they are satisfied and understandable and provides the information that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and of the Group and Company and of the profit or loss Companys performance, business model and strategy.
of the Group and Company for the reporting period.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are listed on pages 70 to 71 of the Annual Report, confirm AR required to: that to the best of their knowledge: select suitable accounting policies and apply them the Group and Company financial statements, consistently: which were prepared in accordance with IFRS, state whether applicable IFRS have been followed, as adopted by the European Union, give a true and subject to any material departures disclosed and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position explained in the financial statements: and profit of the Group: and make judgements and accounting estimates that the Directors Report includes a fair review of the are reasonable and prudent: and development and performance of the business prepare the financial statements on the goingand the position of the Group and the Company, concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to together with a description of the principal risks presume that the Group and Company will and uncertainties that it faces.
The Groups consolidated financial statements, as set The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate out on pages 143 to 217 and approved by the Board AR accounting records that are sufficient to show and on 23 May 2017, were prepared on a going-concern explain the Groups and Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the basis.
The Directors believe that the Group and the financial position of the Group and Company and Company will continue to be in operation in the enable them to ensure that the financial statements foreseeable future.
AR and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with For and on behalf of the Board.
the UK Companies Act and, in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of Danie Meintjes Jurgens Myburgh fraud and other irregularities.
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 23 May 2017 23 May 2017 130 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 CONTENTS AND GENERAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 131 Independent auditors report 143 Consolidated statement of financial position 144 Consolidated income statement 145 Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income 146 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 148 Consolidated statement of cash flows 149 Notes to the consolidated financial statements COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 218 Independent auditors report 221 Company statement of financial position 222 Company statement of changes in equity 223 Company statement of cash flows 224 Notes to the Company financial statements GENERAL INFORMATION These financial statements are consolidated financial statements for the Group consisting of Mediclinic International plc and its subsidiaries.
A list of subsidiaries is included from page 211 to 216.
Mediclinic International plc the Company is a public limited company, which is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The Company has secondary listings on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and the Namibian Stock Exchange.
A wholly-owned subsidiary, Hirslanden AG issued bonds on the SIX.
Registered Address: 40 Dukes Place London EC3A 7NH United Kingdom The main business of the Group is to provide comprehensive, high-quality hospital and related services on a costeffective basis.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 23 May 2017.
No authority was given to anyone to amend the financial statements after the date of issue.
All press releases, financial reports and other information are available on our website: www.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 131 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Mediclinic International plc REPORT ON THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR OPINION In our opinion, Mediclinic International plcs group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs at 31 March 2017 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
WHAT WE HAVE AUDITED The financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements, comprise: the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 March 2017: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of other comprehensive income for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: the consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year then ended: and the notes to the financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information.
Certain required disclosures have been presented elsewhere in the Annual Report and Financial Statements, rather than in the notes to the financial statements.
These are cross-referenced from the financial statements and are identified as audited.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the financial statements is IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable law.
OUR AUDIT APPROACH OVERVIEW Materiality Overall group materiality: 14.9 million which represents approximately 5% of profit before tax.
Our audit included full scope audits at six reporting units which accounted for 93% of consolidated revenue and 92% of consolidated profit before tax.
We Audit scope separately performed specified procedures at two further reporting units meaning that our audit covered all reporting units that individually contributed more than 1% to the Groups revenue and 3% to profit before tax.
Finalisation of the purchase price allocation for the reverse acquisition of Al Noor Areas of Impairment of intangible assets and goodwill focus Valuation of associate interest in Spire Healthcare Group plc Spire Risk of fraud in revenue recognition 132 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT AND OUR AREAS OF FOCUS We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland ISAs UK & Ireland.
We designed our audit by determining materiality and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
As in all of our audits, we addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
Procedures designed to address these risks included testing of material journal entries and post-close adjustments, testing and evaluation of managements key accounting estimates for reasonableness and consistency and undertaking cut-off procedures to verify proper cut-off of revenue and expenses.
In addition, we incorporate an element of unpredictability into our audit work each year.
The risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit, including the allocation of our resources and effort, are identified as areas of focus in the table below.
We have also set out how we tailored our audit to address these specific areas in order to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a whole and any comments we make on the results of our procedures should be read in this context.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 133 Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus 1.
Finalisation of the purchase price allocation of the reverse acquisition of Al Noor refer to Audit and Risk Committee Report on page 116 and notes 4 and 29 in the Group Financial Statements On 15 February 2016, Mediclinic completed We obtained managements assessment of the reverse acquisition of Al Noor for a total adjustments required to the take-on balance sheet of consideration of 1 359m.
Al Noor and independently assessed the completeness of adjustments identified.
We performed an The purchase price allocation for the independent assessment of the additional provision acquisition was considered to be provisional at for the impairment of receivables at the date of the 31 March 2016 and was disclosed as such in take-on balance sheet by evaluating the results of the 2016 financial statements.
At that time, the claim audits by medical insurers, ageing analyses of Group was in discussions with UAE medical receivable balances and analysis of payments received insurance funders and other third parties about subsequent to the acquisition date.
We substantiated conforming Al Noors commercial practices to managements assessment that the additional provision the rest of the Group and there was therefore related to revenue transactions which occurred before uncertainty about the adequacy of provisions for the the acquisition date.
collection of accounts receivable and for insurance rejections.
Management has subsequently finalised We extended our testing to the assessment of the purchase price allocation in the current financial recoverability of Al Noors receivable balances at year as required by IFRS.
The net assets of Al Noor 31 March 2017.
We obtained an understanding of the assumed by the Group have been adjusted by 14m process followed by management to identify impaired through an additional provision for the impairment balances and performed an independent assessment of of receivables.
A corresponding adjustment has the provision calculated by management by evaluating been recorded to goodwill.
the results of claim audits by medical insurers where available, historical trends of disallowed claims and The adjustment required to increase the provision subsequent settlements and ageing analyses.
We also for the impairment of receivables at the date of tested receipts subsequent to year-end.
acquisition resulted in a rigorous assessment by management of the provision for impairment of Based on the procedures performed, we did not Al Noor receivables at 31 March 2017. identify any material adjustment required to the position reported by the Group in the take-on balance We focused on this area because of the extent sheet of Al Noor or at 31 March 2017.
In addition, we of judgement and estimation involved in the considered whether any additional adjustments were assessment to adjust the take-on balance sheet required to the initial purchase price allocation that of Al Noor as opposed to accounting for the might have been required as the Group conforms adjustments subsequent to the acquisition Al Noors accounting and operational practices with as part of post-acquisition earnings.
We the rest of Mediclinic following the acquisition.
We focused on the provision for the impairment of did not identify any material additional adjustments.
receivables at year-end as this area requires the We were also satisfied with the adequacy of the exercise of significant management judgement disclosures in respect of the finalisation of the purchase and estimation.
price allocation, comprising a restatement of certain comparative balance sheet accounts.
134 MEDICLINIC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Area of focus How our audit addressed the area of focus 2.
Impairment of intangible assets and goodwill refer to Audit and Risk Committee Report on page 117 and notes 4 and 7 in the Group Financial Statements The Group has 2 156m of intangible assets.
Deploying our valuation specialists, we obtained This balance consists mainly of goodwill relating to managements impairment calculations and tested the Mediclinic Middle East operations of 1 401m, the reasonableness of key assumptions, including goodwill on the acquisition of the Swiss operations cash flow forecasts and the selection of growth rates of 307m, Swiss trademarks of 341m and the and discount rates.
We challenged management to Al Noor brand name of 28m.
substantiate its assumptions, including comparing relevant assumptions to industry benchmarks and The Group is required to perform annual impairment economic forecasts.
The Swiss trademarks were classified as indefinite life intangible assets We substantively tested the integrity of supporting at the time of the acquisition and the Group calculations and corroborated certain information with carries out annual impairment tests based on valuethird party sources.
The Group also performed an impairment assessment of the cash generating unit We agreed the underlying cash flows to approved CGU to which the Al Noor brand name has been budgets and assessed growth rates and discount rates allocated as specific impairment indicators were by comparison to third party information, the Groups identified for this CGU.
cost of capital and relevant risk factors.
Future cash flow assumptions were evaluated in the context of current No impairment losses were recorded during the trading performance against budget and forecasts, current or prior years in respect of these assets.
considering the historical accuracy of budgeting and However, the carrying values of goodwill and forecasting and understanding the reasons for the intangible assets are contingent on future cash growth profiles used.
flows and there is a risk if these cash flows do not meet the Groups expectations, or if significant We evaluated managements sensitivity analyses to judgements like the discount rates or growth rates ascertain the impact of reasonably possible changes change, that the assets will be impaired.
to key assumptions on the available headroom.
We agree with managements assessment that the Middle We focused on the impairment assessments of East and Hirslanden goodwill impairment assessments these intangible assets as the impairment reviews are sensitive to reasonably possible changes to carried out by the Group contain a number of key assumptions.
significant judgements, including the classification of the Swiss trademarks as indefinite life intangible We evaluated managements judgement regarding assets and the level at which goodwill is monitored the level at which goodwill arising from the Al for impairment, and estimates, including growth Noor acquisition is monitored for impairment and rates and discount rates.
Changes in these concluded that the decision to combine Al Noor assumptions might lead to a significant change in with Mediclinic Middle East for goodwill impairment the carrying values of the related assets.
review purposes is reasonable based on the initial commercial rationale for the acquisition, which included expected synergies from integrating the legacy Al Noor business with the legacy Mediclinic Middle East business that would be realised across the Middle East operating segment.
Based on our work performed, we concurred with management that no impairments were required for goodwill or for the acquired intangible assets at 31 March 2017.
We found that the judgements were supported by reasonable assumptions and that the disclosures in respect of the impairment assessments are a fair reflection of the judgements made by the Group.
