Our strategy helps us pursue our vision of being We buy assets and start development early in the best property company in the UK in the eyes the cycle: manage assets actively to ensure Our strategy of our customers, communities, partners and they generate strong income: and sell at the employees.
appropriate time and recycle capital.
We aim We make understanding and meeting to make sound, long-term investments so Our strategy is designed peoples needs our top priority, always looking to our assets keep their appeal, meet changing use our experience to provide them with great regulations and generate returns for years to ensure we are a experiences.
We act early in response to changes to come.
and trends in our markets.
And we aim to lead sustainable business our industry forward on critical long-term issues, through the market from diversity to community employment, carbon and climate resilience.
cycles, creating and protecting value over the long-term.
Our strategic objectives Deliver sustainable long-term shareholder value Maximise the returns from the investment portfolio Manage our balance sheet effectively Maximise development performance Ensure high levels of customer satisfaction Attract, develop, retain and motivate high performance individuals Continually improve sustainability performance Go to page 24 for more information Nova: our strategy in action Completed in April 2017, Novas extraordinary office, residential and restaurant spaces reflect the changing expectations of our customers.
20 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Our strategic choices How were addressing our biggest opportunities Relationships Develop close relationships with our and challenges customers, communities, partners and employees, so we understand their evolving needs and they trust us to 6 opportunities meet their expectations.
Market 1 Focus on two dynamic sectors of the UK commercial property market offices, retail and leisure in London: and retail and leisure Evolving customer needs outside London.
Being active in these two Strategic focus on creating great experiences sectors rather than one provides us with Designing in greater flexibility, connectivity greater financial stability as they work to and technical resilience different cycles.
Focus on well-connected locations in London and dominant retail destinations Timing Prioritising cost per head over cost per sq ft Apply our experience and insight so we buy, develop, manage and sell assets at the appropriate time in the property cycle.
2 Scale Balance of supply and demand Maintain our size and strength so when we Speculative development programme judge the timing is right we can deploy our brought to a close in London capital and acquire or develop a number of Monitoring buying opportunities closely major assets at the same time.
Significant asset management activity Locations across the business Buy and develop in thriving locations or places Delivering the largest current retail with excellent potential.
Good transport development in the UK this year in a city links are becoming more highly valued than with a significant shortage of contemporary fashionable postcodes.
retail space Finance Enhance returns through appropriate levels 3 5 of debt using our assets as security to drive down costs.
Economic uncertainty Product innovation Operational and financial gearing at Investment in customer insight Risk historic low and forecasting Address the risk that space will be left Access to capital for acquisitions Strengthening our customer-led culture unlet or let at low rents if supply Preparing now for the next cycle Leadership on sustainable design and outstrips demand by owning assets with innovation strong appeal, developing early in the cycle Working groups with partners to improve and managing actively.
Act early to 4 industry processes mitigate risks related to changes in climate, legislation and resource availability.
UK competitiveness 6 Strong belief in prospects of London and the UK Sustainability as advantage Ongoing investment in Londons physical and social infrastructure Vision is to lead UK listed real estate Company well represented in public debate sector in sustainability and industry groups Innovative collaboration on community employment First property company to have an approved science-based carbon target Pioneering use of green gas and renewable electricity Get an overview of these opportunities and challenges on page 18 Landsec Annual Report 2017 21 Pr op e r t y v a l u e s Market cycle Sell Selling some assets at the right point in a rising market means value can be crystallised and the portfolio can be biased towards high quality assets with long lease lengths.
Buy Develop Falling values Starting schemes at bring opportunities the right point in a rising to buy assets at market helps maximise attractive prices.
Manage Active management of assets through the cycle helps to reduce voids and ensure space meets occupiers changing needs.
Weve drawn our large We fide-risk developments by speculative development seeking substantial pre-lettings programme to a close for before we start construction.
We have plenty of And we ensure we contribute to options for development within the environmental, social and our portfolio and the financial economic fabric of the local capacity to acquire new area and community, which London Retail development sites.
helps to make our centres busy and well regarded.
The London office market sees The retail property market is less Manage marked periods of overand volatile than London offices and We talk to our customers Manage under-supply, and the balance is fundamentally driven by longregularly so we understand their We are proactive managers, can shift from one to the other term structural changes such as changing needs and can respond constantly looking for quite quickly.
This helps us to retain opportunities to enhance our trends or the impact of online Buy customers and improve rental space in line with the changing retailing.
We are focused on We aim to buy assets when values, keeping our portfolio needs of our customers and London and the best regional values are falling or low, or when attractive and resilient.
we see a long-term opportunity refresh the tenant mix in our to enhance value.
Were currently Sell destinations and work hard to Buy watching the market carefully, We sell assets when we see create the most compelling We acquire when we see an monitoring around 2 billion of better ways to use the capital.
blend of retail and leisure.
opportunity to transform an potential acquisitions.
Our strong We aim to sell when theres under-managed property or balance sheet and access to strong demand for the space Sell land into a great destination for capital mean we can buy when and ahead of a turn in the cycle We dispose of an asset when we shoppers and visitors.
we spot the right opportunity.
We see opportunities to use capital look to add value through asset elsewhere to create better, Develop Develop management or refurbishment more valuable space with We put strong emphasis We start to develop early in the ahead of selling an asset.
on creating attractive, well cycle so we benefit from lower considered space where people For more on our For more on our construction costs, aiming to want to spend time and return London Portfolio Retail Portfolio deliver completed schemes when frequently.
We help customers see pages 46-49 see pages 50-53 demand from customers is rising pursue multi-channel strategies and levels of available space and we ensure our environments are low.
use new technology to enhance the shoppers experience.
22 Landsec Annual Report 2017 P r o p e r t y v a l ue s Strategic Report We believe that responding to peoples needs, Whenwe have control of assets we can take We aim to buy, develop, and giving careful consideration to the decisive action to improve things for the better.
environment, economy and community, helps We aim to develop and manage buildings manage and sell assets usto create enduring financial, social and in a sustainable and innovative way: make in a way that benefits physical value over the long term.
efficient use of natural resources in everything Where we acquire or develop, we work closely we do: and create jobs and opportunities for those closest to us our with customers and communities to ensure the the people who live near our assets, including customers, communities, new space meets their needs and expectations.
disadvantaged groups who are furthest from We manage most of the buildings we own employment.
by value which means we get to see how people interact with them and hear their views.
Investing through the life-cycle Refurbish or retrofit to re-let Invest Reinvest capital capital Buy Develop Manage Sell We acquire an asset if it We develop when we see an We work with customers, We sell an asset when we has the potential to meet opportunity to create space communities and partners to see an opportunity to deploy the evolving needs of our that will appeal to customers, ensure our buildings operate our capital more effectively customers and communities, enhance the area and create efficiently and to help increase elsewhere.
Through our can be acquired at the right financial value for us.
investment and activity, price, and is likely to create We design for the We redesign and the building we sell should financial value for us over time.
safety, health and wellbeing refurbish space if we spot an perform at a higher level Published this year, of occupants.
We also opportunity to make it more than the building we bought our Responsible Property design for efficiency and attractive, useful and valued.
financially, socially and Investment Policy sets out the productivity.
And we design We work with occupiers to environmentally.
This should standards for acquisitions.
to improve the public manage energy, waste and make it more valuable.
realm around our buildings, water as cost efficiency and We aim to build a positive including connectivity and environmental factors.
100% legacy, leaving a place in a wider infrastructure.
Our of the electricity we buy for better state than when we development activity creates our managed portfolio is now arrived.
By helping to improve job opportunities, both during renewable and we collaborate peoples lives, we strengthen construction and when the with customers to reduce our reputation and add value development opens.
To help us pursue our aim about sustainability helps us of being a sustainability leader to protect the building from in our industry, by the end of external risks such as price this year we had enhanced the volatility, changing regulation, Sustainable Development Brief supply issues and premature we give to partners.
And it enables forward, we will set tougher us and them to meet our targets and higher expectation commitments.
The brief gives equal weight to social and environmental issues.
