Executive Directors Board of Directors 1.
Robert Noel Chief Executive Robert was appointed to the Board in January 2010 as Managing Director, London Portfolio, and became Chief Executive in April 2012.
Career A chartered surveyor and graduate of the University of Reading, Robert was Property Director at Great Portland Estates plc between August 2002 and September 2009.
Prior to that, he was a director of the property services group, Nelson Bakewell.
He is a former director of the New West End Company and former Chairman of the Westminster Property Association.
Robert is a director of the European Public Real Estate Association EPRA.
On 5 July 2016, he was appointed a Director of the British Property Federation.
He is also a trustee of the Natural History Museum.
Skills, competencies and experience Robert has over 30 years experience in anumber of sectors within the property market, and extensive knowledge of the London commercial property market in particular.
He has substantial executive leadership and listed company experience.
Committees Chairman of the Groups Executive, Asset and Liability, Health, Safety & Security, Investment and Sustainability Committees.
He attends the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees at the invitation of the Committee Chairmen.
Martin Greenslade Chief Financial Officer Martin joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer in September 2005.
Career A chartered accountant, having trained with Coopers & Lybrand, Martin was previously Group Finance Director of Alvis plc.
He has also worked in corporate finance serving as a member of the executive committee of Nordeas investment banking division and Managing Director of its UK business.
Martin is a trustee of International Justice Mission UK.
Skills, competencies and experience Martin brings extensive and wide-ranging financial experience to the Group from the property, engineering and financial sectors in the UK and overseas.
He also has extensive financial expertise, particularly in relation to corporate finance and investment arrangements, and significant listed company experience at board level.
His oversight responsibilities coverthe Groups finance, tax, treasury, risk management and internal audit, insurance and information technology teams.
Committees A member of the Groups Executive, Asset and Liability and Investment Committees.
He attends Audit Committee meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
58 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Governance Non-executive Directors 3.
Cressida Hogg CBE Chairman of the Board Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Dame Alison was appointed to the Boardas Kevin was appointed to the Board as a Stacey joined the Board as a NonCressida joined the Board as a Nona Non-executive Director in September 2004 Non-executive Director in April 2008 and executive Director in January 2012. executive Director in January 2014. and became Chairman in November 2008. held the position of Senior Independent Career Stacey is a Director Emeritus of Career Cressida spent almost 20 years Director from April 2012 to 21 July 2016.
Career Dame Alison worked in McKinsey & Company where she served with 3i Group plc having joined them in investment banking and corporate Career Kevin is a chartered accountant clients in the US and internationally for 1995 from JP Morgan.
She co-founded 3is finance for 20 years before pursuing who trained with Arthur Andersen.
Whilst there, she co-founded infrastructure business in 2005, becoming aportfolio career.
During her banking wasappointed Chief Financial Officer of the New Jersey office and was the first Managing Partner in 2009, and led the career, she became the first female JSainsbury PLC on 9 January 2017, joining woman to be appointed as an industry team which acted as Investment Adviser director of J. Henry Schroder Wagg & Co. them from Poundland Group PLC where practice leader.
She was a leader in the to 3i Infrastructure plc, a FTSE 250 Dame Alison was also a Senior Partner at hehad been Chief Executive Officer from firms Retail and Consumer Goods investment company.
She advised on all Phoenix Securities and a Managing 1July 2016 until 31 December 2016.
Practices, served as the head of the North of3i Infrastructures transactions from Director at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
Formerly, he was Group Finance Director American Retail and Apparel Practice itsflotation in 2007 through to her leaving She has served as a non-executive director of Kingfisher plc from 2008 to 2012 and acted as the Global Retail Practice in 2014. of Friends Provident plc, Gallaher Group following which he became CEO of its Convener.
She retired from McKinsey & Cressida was previously a member of plc, Glas Cymru Cyfyngedig Welsh B&Qand Kotas businesses in China, Company in September 2010 and has the advisory board for Infrastructure UK, Water, Barclays plc and Man Group plc.
Turkey, Germany and the UK, until he left since then pursued a portfolio career.
the HM Treasury unit that works on the UKs Dame Alison is currently a nonthat business in May 2015.
His previous Stacey has served as Chairman of long-term infrastructure priorities.
She is executive director of Zurich Insurance roles include Group Finance Director of theBoard of Fiesta Restaurant Group Inc currently Managing Director, Head of Group Limited, Paccar Inc a Fortune 500 Dixons Retail plc and European Finance aNASDAQ listed company since Infrastructure, of the Canada Pension Plan company and CICAP Limited, and a senior Director of The Quaker Oats Company.
February 2017 and as a non-executive Investment Board and a non-executive advisor to Evercore Partners.
She is also a director since 2012.
Former positions director of Anglian Water Group Limited Skills, competencies and experience member of the UK Panel on Takeovers and include non-executive director of CEB Inc and of Associated British Ports Holdings Ltd. Kevin has extensive understanding of retail Mergers and a supervisory board member a NYSE listed member-based advisory Cressida received a CBE in 2014 trends, operations and insights gained and audit committee chair of the Frankfurt company, ANNInc a NYSE listed forservices to infrastructure investment during a number of senior financial and listed chemicals company, BASF SE.
womans specialty apparel retailer and and policy.
general management positions at large Dame Alison was appointed a Dame Tops Holding Corporation.
He is a long-standing Skills, competencies and experience in 2014 for her services to business.
Non-executive Director and Chairman of Skills, competencies and experience Cressida has a deep understanding of Skills, competencies and experience the Audit Committee who is able to use his Stacey brings deep analytical thought to large, long-term infrastructure projects Dame Alison has very significant board experience gained across a property cycle the Board, with considerable expertise of and businesses.
She has considerable level experience gained across a range of to bring additional challenge to retail trends and insights gained at a experience of investment returns, general industries and countries.
leading international management management and leadership.
to create the optimal Board environment consultancy.
She has significant board Committees Chairman of the Audit Committees A member of the and get the best out of her fellow Directors level experience gained through nonCommittee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
both during and outside meetings.
She has executive positions held in retail and Nomination Committee.
expertise in alternative asset management, other industries.
Committees A member of the Audit Committees Chairman of the Committee and, from 1 April 2017, a Nomination Committee and a member of member of the Nomination Committee.
Nicholas Cadbury Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Edward joined the Board as a NonChris was appointed to the Board as a Simon was appointed to the Board as a Nicholas joined the Board as a Nonexecutive Director in January 2014.
He was Non-executive Director in August 2009.
Non-executive Director in August 2010. executive Director on 1 January 2017. appointed Senior Independent Director on Career Chris is a chartered surveyor.
He Career A senior figure within the private Career Nicholas is Group Finance Director 21 July 2016. was Chairman and Partner of Orchard equity industry, Simon has had a of Whitbread PLC, a position he has held Career Edward became Vice Chairman of Street Investment Management LLP, successful and broad ranging career in since November 2012.
Jupiter Fund Management plc in March aleading commercial property investment investment banking, consulting and Before that, he held the position of 2014, having been Chief Executive Officer manager focused on the UKmarket, until private equity.
He started his career at Chief Financial Officer of Premier Farnell of the company since June 2007.
During his 31 March 2015, and continued to act as Chase Manhattan before moving to Bain PLC, which he joined in 2011, and prior to time as CEO, Edward steered the company anadviser to that firm until 31 March 2017.
He left there in 1988 to join that he worked at Dixons Retail PLC in a through a management buy-out from its He was a Board Counsellor of The Crown Bankers Trust as a Vice President and variety of management roles, including as previous owners, Commerzbank, in 2007 Estate until 31December 2015, having moved to BC Partners, a private equity Chief Financial Officer from 2008 to 2011. and oversaw the firms listing on the previously served as a Board Member.
firm, in 1990 where he worked for 17 years, Nicholas originally qualified as an London Stock Exchange in 2010.
Former positions include Managing rising to the position of Managing Partner.
Edward joined Jupiter in 1994 as a Director of Haslemere NV, Chairman of Simon then became Chairman of the Skills, competencies and experience UKfund manager and held the position Jones Lang Wootton Fund Management, private equity firm Centerbridge Partners Nicholas brings wide-ranging and ofChief Investment Officer from 1999 to President of the British Property Europe, a post he held until 2013.
He is international financial and general 2000.
He started his career at Schroders Federation and Chairman of the Bank nowa non-executive director of UK management experience to the Group in1982 as an investment analyst before ofEngland Property Forum.
Government Investments, a Senior Adviser gained from working in consumer facing moving to Electra Investment Trust in 1986 Chris is currently a Wilkins Fellow to TowerBrook Capital Partners and an businesses, particularly in the retail, leisure where he was a fund manager.
ofDowning College, University of adviser to the private equity arm of GIC.
He also has Edward is a Board member of The Cambridge, and an advisory board He is an MBA graduate of The Wharton extensive commercial and operational Investor Forum, a trustee of the Esme member to certain overseas entities within School, Pennsylvania.
knowledge and skills in relation to strategy Fairbairn Foundation and a trustee of the Brack Capital Real Estate Group.
Simon is a trustee of the University and IT development.
theOrchestra of the Age of ofPennsylvania and The Tate Foundation.
Skills, competencies and experience EnlightenmentTrust.
Committees A member of the Audit Chris is a scion of the property industry, Skills, competencies and experience Committee.
He will become Chairman of Skills, competencies and experience with decades of property investment, Simon has extensive understanding of that Committee, in succession to Kevin Edward has significant experience of fundmanagement and capital allocation portfolio management, financial metrics OByrne, at a date to be confirmed in 2017. general management as a former CEO of experience gained across a range of and the impact of interest rates on capital a private equity backed and a large listed businesses and disciplines within the real markets.
He has expertise in private equity Independent as per the UK Corporate company.
Having been a fund manager estate sector.
He has significant and capital markets and considerable Governance Code.
for many years, he also has an excellent experience of general management as a experience managing highly talented understanding of stock markets and former Chief Executive and Chairman of professionals.
Committees Chairman of the Committees A member of the Committees A member of the Audit Remuneration Committee and a member and Nomination Committees.
Remuneration Committee and, from 29September 2016, a member of the Nomination Committee.
