Executive Management Team The Board is supported by a highly experienced management team.
Operational day-to-day matters are delegated to the Group Chief Executive Officer together with the rest of the Executive Management Team.
Ian Kellett Mike Iddon Sally Hopson MBE Group Chief Executive Officer Group Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer Vet Group Joined Pets at Home Joined Pets at Home Joined Pets at Home 2006 2016 2008 Biography Biography Biography Ian joined Pets at Home as Chief Financial Mike joined Pets at Home in September 2016 Sally joined Pets at Home in 2008 as the Officer in April 2006, was appointed as Chief as Group Chief Financial Officer.
Customer, People and Development Director Executive Officer of the Retail Division in June and became Chief Executive Officer of the Vet Mike was the Chief Financial Officer of New 2015 and moved to the role of Group Chief Group in June 2014.
Prior to this, Executive Officer in April 2016.
Mikeheld a number of finance roles at Sally joined Pets at Home from Asda where During his eleven years at Pets at Home, Tescoplc over a period of 13 years, with his she held a number of senior roles over 14 Ianwas involved in the sale of the business final position as Group Planning, Treasury years.
After graduating from the School of toKKR in 2010, the acquisition of Vets4Pets andTax Director.
Before this he held finance Oriental and African Studies at the University in 2013 and the IPO of the Group in 2014. roles with Kingfisher plc and Whitbread plc.
of London with a degree in Middle Eastern Aswell as focusing primarily on his role as He qualified as a Chartered Accountant History, Sally joined the graduate scheme CFO and more recently as Chief Executive with Arthur Andersen.
atHabitat and began a long and enjoyable Officer of Retail Division, Ian has previously career in retailing.
held responsibility for distribution and Sally is also a Non-Executive Director for the logistics, business systems, and the strategic Retail Trust and for Jardiland, a French garden development of the business across both centre chain.
A particular interest in diversity Merchandise and Services.
In addition, Ian led to a four year period as a commissioner has been a member of the Vet Group Board onThe Women in Work Commission and for the last eleven years.
theLearning and Skills Council which was Previous to his time at Pets at Home, Ian was recognised in an MBE awarded in 2006.
Finance Director of Staples retail business inthe UK between 20042006 and Deputy Finance Director of JD Wetherspoon plc between 19992004.
Pets Zico Oscar Ted Stanley Flynn Pets at Home Group Plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Peter Pritchard Louise Stonier Chief Executive Officer of Retail Chief People and Legal Officer Joined Pets at Home Joined Pets at Home 2011 2004 Biography Biography Peter joined Pets at Home in January 2011 Louise joined Pets at Home in 2004 as as Commercial Director and moved to the Headof Legal and Company Secretary and role of Chief Executive Officer of Retail was promoted to Group Legal Director and inMarch 2016.
She became Chief People and Legal Officer in 2017.
Peter has worked in retail for 30 years in various senior operational and commercial Louise is also the Chair and Trustee of roles.
Previous companies include Asda, thecharity, Support Adoption For Pets.
Sainsburys, Iceland, Marks and Spencer Louise graduated from Nottingham University and Wilkinson Hardware Stores.
Peter has a with an LLB Hons and joined CMS Cameron Masters Degree in Business Administration McKenna as a trainee solicitor.
After qualifying from Stirling University.
as a Corporate solicitor in 1999, Louise Peter is a Trustee of Community Integrated moved to DLA Piper LLP and as an associate Care, one of the UKs largest health and in the Corporate Team, acted on a number social care charities.
They work in the ofcorporate finance and M&A transactions.
community delivering life enhancing support to people with learning difficulties, mental health concerns, autism, age related needs and dementia.
Pets Pets Oscar Skye Leo Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 73
