Mission and strategy Delivery our strategy Delivery of our strategy across the PawPrint supports growth in like-for-like sales, space rollout and margins.
Grow like-for-like sales Pets Before Multiple opportunities to continually improve our profit customer offer and deliver resilient growth World class Innovation Services Evolve our Food offer to give pets better Develop our vet, grooming and advisory shopping quality diets.
Develop new and exciting services, which creates more reasons Accessories to ensure customers are for customers to engage with us.
Loyalty A truly Private brands Grow the VIP club and personalise our amazing place Expand and grow our private labels in approach to targeted marketing so we can Foodand Accessories, which are only increase our share of customers spend.
to work stocked in Pets at Home.
Engagement Value Maintain leading levels of customer Ensure a tight focus on delivering overall engagement with our highly trained value for customers: through pricing, colleagues, to ensure we are the product features, service and convenience.
Omnichannel Friendly Stay relevant to customers evolving experts shopping habits through an improved Our mission omnichannel experience and convenient delivery & collection options.
is to be the Read more page 22 best pet shop in the world The best vets and groomers Grow retail and services space At the heart Increase our footprint across the UK to improve convenience to existing customers and access new customers of every community New stores & services Additional growth Open new superstores containing vet Expand into veterinary market areas that Always new practices and grooming salons, in optimal are complementary to our core business and exciting locations, to access unmet market spend.
and provide additional growth opportunities.
Retrofit services Retrofit vet practices and grooming salons to improve the customer offer in stores that Read more page 24 do not have pet services.
Pets at Home Group Plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Strategy Key performance indicators page 26 Grow margins Pets Before Focus on strategies that will deliver long term profit operating margin improvement World class Services Simplicity Focus on the growth of our vet and grooming Simplify processes, product management and shopping services businesses, which deliver premium behaviours to maintain an optimal cost base.
A truly Private brands Grow the participation of private brands to amazing place increase the mix of premium margin products within the business.
Read more page 25 to work Friendly experts The best vets and groomers CSR strategy At the heart Put responsibility at the heart of our business of every Our Pets People Sourcing with Integrity community Be a great place to work.
Ensure we maintain our number one Always new value, putting Pets Before Profit.
Heart of the Community and exciting At the heart of every local community.
Our Pets Environment Efficiently use and respect resources.
Read more page 44 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 21
