Directors Report This section of the Annual Report includes additional information required to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act, the UK Corporate Governance Code Code, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs and the Listing Rules LRs.
Pets at Home Group Plc Registered Number: 8885072 Registered Office: Epsom Avenue, Stanley Green Trading Estate, Handforth, Cheshire, SK9 3RN Telephone Number: 44 161 486 6688 Date of Incorporation: 10 February 2014 Country of Incorporation: England and Wales Type: Public Limited Company Statutory information The Company has chosen in accordance with Section 414C 11 of the Companies Act to provide disclosures and information in relation to a number of additional matters which are covered elsewhere in this Annual Report.
These matters and cross-references to the relevant sections of this Annual Report are shown in the following table.
Page Page Statutory information Section heading number Statutory information Section heading number Amendment of the Articles Directors Report Independent Auditors Audit & Risk Committee 78 85 Report Appointment and Removal of Directors Directors Report 76 Internal Controls and Risk Management Governance Report 6869 Board of Directors Directors Report 76 Political Donations Directors Report Board of Directors 79 7071 Profits and Dividend Directors Report 78 Branches outside of the UK Directors Report 80 Post Balance Sheet Events Directors Report Change of Control Directors Report 79 78 Powers for the Company Directors Report 76 Colleague Involvement Exceptional Engagement to issue or buy back its shares Corporate Social Responsibility 48 Powers of the Directors Directors Report 76 Directors Report 75 Principal Activities Directors Report 75 Colleague Diversity and Disabilities Directors Report 75 Relationship Agreement Directors Report 78 Colleague Share Ownership and Plans Remuneration Report 92 Research and Development Directors Report 75 Community Strategic Report Strategic Report Corporate Social Merchandise 34 Responsibility 5053 Restrictions on transfer of securities Directors Report 77 Compensation for loss of office Directors Report 78 Share capital Directors Report 77 Compliance with the terms of the Directors Report 78 Relationship Agreement including Note 21 to the the independence provisions consolidated statements 150151 Directors Biographies Board of Directors 7071 Significant related party transactions Directors Report 77 Directors Indemnities Directors Report Note 27 to the 77 consolidated statements 166167 Directors information to Auditors Directors Report 82 Significant Shareholders Directors Report 77 Directors Interests Directors Report 76 Subsidiary and Associated Note 29 to the Directors Responsibility Statement Directors Report 81 Undertakings consolidated statements 168178 Executive Share Plans Remuneration Report 96 Statement of Corporate Governance Governance Report 61 99101 The Audit & Risk Committee Report Governance Report 8285 Financial Instruments Note 22 to the 151161 The Governance Report Governance Report 6069 consolidated financial statements The Directors Remuneration Report Governance Report 90112 Future Developments of the Business Strategic Report 2025 The Nomination & Corporate Governance Report 8687 Governance Committee Report Financial position of the Group, Chief Financial Officers 3033 its cash flow, liquidity position review The Strategic Report Governance Report 159 and borrowing facilities Treasury and Risk Management Strategic Report 43 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Corporate Social 57 Viability Statement Directors Report 79 Responsibility Voting Rights Directors Report Going Concern Directors Report 79 77 Health and Safety Governance Report 67 Corporate Social Responsibility 49 Human Rights and Modern Directors Report 80 Slavery Statement Pets at Home Group Plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Colleague diversity and disabled persons The information required by LR 9.8.
4R is disclosed on the The Groups policy for colleagues and all applicants for following pages of this Annual Report: employment is to match the capabilities and talents of each individual to the appropriate job.
We are committed to ensuring Disclosure Page number equality of opportunity in all colleague relations.
We aim to Long term incentive schemes 96 ensure that no colleague, potential colleague, customer, visitor Significant contracts 78 or contractor will receive less favourable treatment on the Dividend waivers Note 9 to the consolidated grounds of: financial statements Sex Principal Activities Pregnancy and maternity The principal activity of the Group is that of a specialist retailer Disability ofpet food, pet related products and pet accessories.
The Group Religious beliefs is also the operator of a small animal veterinary business, Marital status specialist veterinary referral hospitals and pet grooming salons.
Race The Group operates a dog focused high street store called Ethnic origin Barkers, which offers premium products and services targeted Nationality athighly engaged dog owners.
The principal activity of the Age Company is that of a holding company.
The Companys registrar Sexual orientation or following gender reassignment is Computershare Investor Services Plc situated at The Pavilions, Colour Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZZ.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are given full Research and development and fair consideration for all vacancies, and are assessed in The Strategic Report sets out on page 34, the innovation carried accordance with their particular skills and abilities.
The Group out by the Group in relation to product development.
does all that is practicable to meet its responsibilities towards the training and employment of disabled people, and to ensure In addition, the Group also funds a number of research that training, career development and promotion opportunities projects and this year we have continued to co-fund a Doctor are available to all colleagues.
of Philosophy PhD at Exeter University which is looking at how toreduce the stress suffered by fish when they are transported.
The Group makes every effort to provide continuity of employment The PhD is being co-funded with an executive agency called where current employees become disabled.
Attempts are made CEFAS Centre for Environment Fisheries and Aquaculture in every circumstance to provide employment, whether this Science which is sponsored by DEFRA Department for involves adapting the current job role and remaining in the Environment, Food & Rural Affairs and advises DEFRA, as samejob, or moving to a more appropriate job role.
wellas other public and private sector customers, on issues connected to the aquatic environment.
The Group is also in partnership with Mars Fishcare and the University of West Scotland, looking at stress caused during transportation of fish from overseas breeders.
Colleague involvement The Group places significant emphasis on colleague engagement at all levels.
Colleagues are kept informed of issues affecting the Group through formal and informal meetings and through the Groups internal written communications.
Further information on colleague engagement is included in the CSR Report on page48.
Details of the Groups employee share plans are contained in the Remuneration Report.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75 Directors Report continued Directors Specific details relating to the Principal Shareholder, KKR My The names of the persons who, at any time during the financial Best Friend Limited, an affiliate of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. year, were Directors of the Company are: L. P and their right to appoint Directors are set out in the Governance Report on page 63.
Name Date of appointment Date of resignation Tony DeNunzio 18 February 2014 N A All Directors will stand for re-election on an annual basis, in line Nick Wood 11 February 2014 4 April 2016 with the recommendations of the Code.
Ian Kellett 11 February 2014 N A Dennis Millard 18 February 2014 N A Powers of the Directors Brian Carroll 18 February 2014 2 December 2016 Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by the Company by special resolution and any relevant Tessa Green 18 February 2014 N A statutes and regulations, the business of the Company will Paul Coby 18 February 2014 N A bemanaged by the Board who may exercise all the powers Amy Stirling 18 February 2014 N A oftheCompany.
Paul Moody 25 March 2014 N A Mike Iddon 17 October 2016 N A Specific powers relating to the allotment and issuance of Nicolas Gheysens 2 December 2016 N A ordinary shares and the ability of the Company to purchase itsown securities are also included within the Articles and such Nick Wood resigned from his position as Group Chief Executive authorities are submitted for approval by the shareholders at the Officer of the Group on 4 April 2016 although he remained as AGM each year.
The authorities conferred on the Directors at the anemployee of the Company until 1 July 2016.
Nick Wood was 2016 AGM, held on 14 September 2016, will expire on the date succeeded by Ian Kellett on 4 April 2016. of the 2017 AGM.
Mike Iddon was appointed as Group Chief Financial Officer Since the date of the 2016 AGM, the Directors have not on17December 2016, replacing Mark Adams who had been exercised any of their powers to issue, or purchase, ordinary actinginthe same role on an interim basis.
shares in the share capital of the Company.
Brian Carroll resigned from his position of Non-Executive Director Directors interests with effect from 2 December 2016 and was replaced by Nicolas The Directors interests in and options over ordinary shares in Gheysens from the same date.
the Company are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 109.
Amy Stirling and Paul Coby will step down from the Board with effect from the close of the Companys annual general meeting Since the end of the financial year and the date of this report, on 11 July 2017. there have been no changes to such interests.
Paul will be replaced by Stansilas Laurent and Amy will In line with the requirements of the Companies Act, each Director bereplaced by Sharon Flood who were both appointed has notified the Company of any situation in which he or she on11July2017.
has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, orpossibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company a Appointment and removal of a Director situational conflict.
These were considered and approved by the A Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of Board in accordance with the Articles and each Director informed shareholders in a general meeting following recommendation of the authorisation and any terms on which it was given.
The bythe Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee in Board has formal procedures to deal with Directors conflicts accordance with its terms of reference as approved by the ofinterest.
The Board reviews and, where appropriate, approves Boardor by a member or members entitled to vote at such certain situational conflicts of interest that were reported to ameeting, or following retirement by rotation if the Director itbyDirectors, and a register of those situational conflicts is chooses to seek re-election at a general meeting.
maintained and is reviewed by the Board on an ongoing basis.
In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director, provided that the individual retires atthe next AGM.
A Director may be removed by the Company incertain circumstances set out in the Companys Articles ofAssociation or by a special resolution of the Company.
Pets at Home Group Plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Directors indemnities shares carrying special rights relating to the control of the Each Director of the Company has the benefit of a qualifying Company and the Directors are not aware of any agreements indemnity, as defined by section 236 of the Companies Act, between holders of the Companys shares that may result andas permitted by the Articles, as well as prospectus liability inrestrictions on voting rights.
insurance which provides cover for liabilities incurred by Directors in the performance of their duties or powers in connection with Restrictions on transfer of ordinary shares the issue of the Companys prospectus dated 28 February 2014 The Articles do not contain any restrictions on the transfer of in relation to the Listing.
In addition, all directors and officers ordinary shares in the Company other than the usual restrictions ofGroup companies are covered by Directors & Officers applicable where any amount is unpaid on a share.
share capital of the Company at the date of this Annual Report isfully paid.
Certain restrictions are also imposed by laws and No amount was paid under any of these indemnities or regulations such as insider trading and marketing requirements insurances during the year other than the applicable relating to close periods and requirements of the LRs whereby insurancepremiums.
Directors and certain employees of the Company require Board approval to deal in the Companys securities.
Share capital The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2017 For a period of one year following the date of the Companys and 24 May 2017, being the latest practicable date prior to the Listing, each of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and the date of this Annual Report comprises 500,000,000 ordinary Senior Executives excluding the Group Company Secretary shares of 1 pence each.
Further information regarding the each, a Restricted Shareholder agreed, on the terms and Companys issued share capital can be found on page 150 subject to the conditions of the Underwriting Agreement, not to ofthe Groups financial statements.
dispose of any of the ordinary shares they hold in the Company the Initial Lock-Up Period.
Although the Initial Lock-Up Period There have been no movements in the Companys issued share expired on 16 March 2015, each Restricted Shareholder also capital in the 2016 reporting period.
entered into a lock-up deed dated 12 March 2014 with the Company.
On the terms of each lock-up deed, each Restricted Details of employee share schemes are provided in note 23 Shareholder undertook, for an additional period of 365 days tothe Groups financial statements.
commencing on the termination of the Initial Lock-Up Period, not to dispose of more than a specified number of ordinary Shareholders voting rights shares in the Company in each case, approximately 50% of the All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend and relevant Restricted Shareholders holding of ordinary shares.
On a show of hands at a general meeting every The additional lock-up periods expired on 16 March 2016. member present in person shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote All of the above arrangements are subject to certain customary for every ordinary share held.
No shareholder holds ordinary exceptions.
Significant shareholdings As at 31 March 2017 and 24 May 2017, being the latest practicable date prior to the date of this Annual Report, the Company has been notified pursuant to DTR5 of the following interests representing 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Number of Number of ordinary shares % of issued ordinary shares % of issued Nature of holding Name of shareholder as at 31.03.17 share capital as at 24.05.17 share capital direct indirect KKR My Best Friend Limited 99,372,190 19.9% 99,372,190 19.9% Direct MBF Co-Invest L. P. 23,640,896 4.7% 23,640,896 4.7% Direct Schroders Investment Management 35,584,330 7.12% 35,584,330 7.12 % Direct Old Mutual Plc 57,455,615 11.49% 60,073,194 12.01% Indirect Norges Bank 15,132,166 3.03% 19,479,847 3.9% Direct Canada Pension Plan Investment Board 50,095,670 10.02% 50,095,670 10.02% Direct an affiliate of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L. P. Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 77 Directors Report continued Transactions with related parties Amendment of the Articles The only subsisting material transactions which the Company The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution of the has entered into with related parties are: Companys shareholders in a general meeting, in accordance with the Companies Act.
Relationship Agreement: The Relationship Agreement wasentered into on 28 February 2014 and regulates the Profits and dividend relationship between KKR My Best Friend Limited the The consolidated profit for the year after taxation and excluding Principal Shareholder and the Company following Listing.
The Subject to a certain minimum shareholding, the Relationship results are discussed in greater detail in the financial review Agreement details the rights the Principal Shareholder has onpages 30 to 33. torepresentation on the Board and Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee: appoint observers to the A final dividend of 5.0 pence per share FY16: 5.5p per share Remuneration, Audit & Risk and the Pets Before Profit CSR willbe recommended to the Companys shareholders in respect of Committees and certain anti-dilution rights.
The Company has the 2017 financial year.
The final dividend will be proposed by the also undertaken to cooperate with the Principal Shareholder Directors at the AGM on 11 July 2017 in respect of the year ended in the event of a sale of the ordinary shares by the Principal 30 March 2017 to add to an interim dividend of 2.5 pence per Shareholder at any time.
share paid on the 6 January 2017 FY16: 2.0 pence per share.
The Relationship Agreement complies with the requirements The Directors proposed final dividend of 5.0 pence per share of the LRs, including LR 9.2.
2AR 2 a, which came into effect takes the total dividend payable in respect of the 2017 financial on 16 May 2014, and LR 6.1.
The ex-dividend date will be 15 June 2017 and, subject to shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM, the In accordance with the requirements of LR 9.8.
4 14, the Board final dividend of 5.0 pence per share will be paid to shareholders confirms that the Company has complied with its obligations on the register at the close of business on 16 June 2017. under the Relationship Agreement, including in respect of the independence provisions set out therein, at all times since it Compensation for loss of office and change of control was entered into, including throughout the period under review, There are no agreements between the Company and its and, so far as the Company is aware, KKR My Best Friend Directors or colleagues providing for additional compensation Limited and its associates have complied with the provisions for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, of the Relationship Agreement including the independence redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
provisions set out therein, at all times since it was entered into, including throughout the period under review.
The only significant agreements to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of Senior Facilities Agreement: KKR Capital Markets Limited the Company following a takeover bid, and the effect thereof, KCM, an affiliate of the Principal Shareholder, was entitled areas follows: to receive a syndication agent fee equal to 0.50% of the total commitments under the terms of a senior facilities agreement The Relationship Agreement with the Principal Shareholder dated 18 February 2014 Senior Facilities Agreement contains a provision allowing the Principal Shareholder to entered into in connection with the Listing.
terminate the agreement with immediate effect if any person acquires control of the Company namely holding and or Amendment to the Senior Facilities Agreement: On 14 April ownership of the beneficial interest in and or the ability to 2015, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries entered exercise the voting rights applicable to ordinary shares or other intoan amendment agreement the Amendment Agreement securities in the Company which confer, in aggregate on the to the Senior Facilities Agreement.
KCM received fees holders, whether directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the of500,000 period to 26 March 2015 nil, relating to voting rights exercisable at general meetings of the Company professional services associated with debt financing following or the Company ceases to be Listed.
the refinancing of the Pets at Home Group in April 2015.
The Senior Facilities Agreement and the Amendment Further details of the Groups banking facilities are shown in Agreement contain customary prepayment, cancellation and note 18 on page 148 of the financial statements.
Certain of the default provisions including, if required by a lender, mandatory payments made under the Amendment to the Senior Facilities prepayment of all utilisations provided by that lender upon the Agreement have been made this financial year.
sale of all or substantially all of the business and assets of the Group or a change of control.
Pets at Home Group Plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Political donations On appointment Stan will also become a member of the Audit The Group made no political donations and incurred no political Committee, Nominations & Governance Committee, CSR expenditure during the year FY16: nil.
It remains the Companys Committee and Pets Before Profit Committee and Sharon will policy not to make political donations or to incur political also become a member of the Remuneration Committee and expenditure, however the application of the relevant provisions theNominations & Governance Committee.
ofthe Companies Act 2006 is potentially very broad in nature and, as last year, the Board is seeking shareholder authority Going concern toensure that the Group does not inadvertently breach these On the basis of current financial projections and facilities provisions as a result of the breadth of its business activities, available, the Directors are satisfied that the Group is well although the Board has no intention of using this authority.
placed to manage its business risks successfully and therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Group have adequate Suppliers resources to continue in operational existence for a period The Group understands the importance of maintaining good oftwelve months from the date of approval of the financial relationships with suppliers and it is Group policy to agree statements.
Accordingly, the financial statements continue appropriate terms and conditions for its transactions with tobeprepared on a going concern basis.
suppliers ranging from standard written terms to individually negotiated contracts and for payment to be made in accordance Viability statement with these terms, provided the supplier has complied with its The Group has developed a detailed strategic and business obligations.
Average trade creditors of the Groups UK operations planning SBP process, which comprises a strategic plan for FY17 were 47 days FY16: 46 days.
Plan containing financial projections for a number of future years and a business plan which forms a detailed near term Post balance sheet events oneyear plan for the upcoming financial year.
The SBP process On 24 May 2017, Paul Coby, Independent Non-Executive Director produces standard outputs in respect of the key financial confirmed that he will step down from the Board with effect from performance metrics of the Group which deliver consolidated the close of the Companys annual general meeting AGM which financial plans at both Group level and at a number of levels will be held on 11 July 2017.
Paul will be succeeded by Stansilas within the Group.
The Plan is reviewed each year by the Board as Laurent who was appointed on 25 May 2017.
Stan was formerly part of the strategy review process.
Once approved by the Board, President and CEOof Photobox and COO of AOL Europe and the Plan is cascaded across the Group and provides the basis iscurrently entrepreneur in residence with Highland Capital for setting all detailed financial budgets and strategic actions Partners Europe.
that are subsequently used by the Board to monitor performance.
In addition Amy Stirling, Independent Non-Executive Director, also confirmed that she will step down from the Board with The SBP process covers a three year period.
The three year effectfrom the close of the AGM.
Amy has been a Director of planprovides a robust planning tool against which strategic Pets at Home and Chairman of the Audit Committee since 2014. decisions can be made.
In making their viability assessment, Amy will be succeeded by Sharon Flood who was appointed on theBoard has taken into consideration that financing facilities 25 May 2017.
Sharon is Chairman of ST Du Pont S. A, the Paris are maintained for the duration of the Plan.
The Directors have based luxury goods company and Audit Chair at Crest Nicholson considered a combination of risks and uncertainties and the plc and Network Rail.
Sharon will take on the Chairmanship of mitigating controls operated by the Group as detailed on pages the Audit and Risk Committee with effect from the close of the 38 to 43 that may impact on the Groups reputation and AGM on 11 July 2017. itsability to trade.
These risks include issues on pet welfare, competitor activity and broader macro-economic risks and their Both Paul and Amy are standing down from the Board in order impact on the strategic plan on an individual and combined level.
tofulfil commitments in their full time roles.
On this basis and in conjunction with other matters considered Stan and Sharon bring a wealth of experience to the Board.
and reviewed by the Board during the year, the Board has Stans entrepreneurial background and understanding of the reasonable expectations that the Group will be able to continue digital online space in consumer facing businesses will add in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the significant value as we expand our omnichannel capabilities threefinancial years used for their assessment.
In making this atPets at Home.
Sharon has impeccable retail credentials assessment, the Board has assumed that there is no material having worked with Kingfisher, John Lewis and more recently change in the legislative environment in relation to the sale asChairman of French luxury goods company ST Du Pont.
ofsmall animals and the practice of veterinary medicine.
It is Herplc experience and understanding of the retail market recognised that such future assessments are subject to a level willcontribute greatly to the growth of the business.
of uncertainty that increases with time and therefore future outcomes cannot be guaranteed or predicted with certainty.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 79 Directors Report continued Human rights and modern slavery statement agreater potential risk of modern slavery being prevalent.
Pets at Home is the UKs leading specialist retailer of pets, Wehave also delivered training to colleagues in our UK petrelated products and services.
We run the UKs largest supportoffice where relevant.
smallanimal veterinary and grooming businesses through ourvets and services brands.
To ensure we continue to drive compliance with the Act, during this financial year we intend to review the previously undertaken Our mission is to be the best pet shop in the world.
We therefore risk assessment to ensure it remains up to date and will assess take great care in operating our business and in selecting our any new risk areas or actions.
We will continue to train business partners and suppliers.
The products we sell are colleagues and suppliers as appropriate.
sourced from a broad range of suppliers, both national and international.
We are the only UK pet retailer to have a dedicated Should any instances of non-compliance with the Act arise sourcing office in the Far East.
From our regional base in inrelation to any of our suppliers then this will be reviewed HongKong, which opened in 2012, we have a team of product andappropriate action taken.
technologists who support our buyers, oversee our suppliers andmonitor production.
Branches outside of the UK The Company has no branches outside of the UK.
Our suppliers are required to comply with our Ethical Trading Policy and we undertake ethical audits which cover: hours Auditor ofwork, labour practices, working conditions, onsite So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit accommodation, health & safety, environment, supply chain information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware.
We also require compliance with the Director has taken all the steps which they ought to have taken Pets at Home Groups Code of Business Ethics and Conduct.
as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information being information that is needed by the Companys In FY17, we highlighted a number of areas where we wished to Auditor in connection with preparing its report and to establish strengthen our processes to protect against the risk of modern that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
slavery, following a group wide risk assessment.
These areas included: reviewing supplier due diligence and audit processes This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance toensure compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 Act, with the provisions of section 418 2 of the Companies Act.
updating supplier trading terms and the Code of Business Ethics and Conduct in relation to the Act.
At the AGM on 14 September 2016, KPMG LLP was appointed asthe Companys Auditor.
During the 2016 financial year, a During last financial year, we reviewed our procurement competitive tender process of audit services was completed in processes in respect of modern slavery and have included accordance with the requirements of The Statutory Audit Services appropriate questions in our tender documentation in relation for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of tosupplier compliance with the Act.
In addition, we reviewed our Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities audit processes and looked in detail at the questions asked Order 2014, made by the Competition & Markets Authority.
during audits and the checks carried out.
On review, our audits already include checks on working conditions, pay and other A resolution is to be proposed at the 2017 AGM for the appropriate areas in sufficient detail to highlight any instances reappointment of KPMG LLP as the Auditor of the Group.
Approval of Annual Report We have updated our supplier general terms and conditions to The Strategic Report, Corporate Governance Statement and further drive compliance with the Act.
We have included a warranty theCorporate Governance Report were approved by the Board from suppliers requiring compliance with the Act, the right to on 24 May 2017. auditin respect of the Act and also the right for Pets at Home toterminate in the event of supplier non-compliance with the Act.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by In addition, we updated our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct to specifically cover the Act.
We consider that training is also key to raising awareness on Louise Stonier modern slavery and will assist our colleagues and suppliers Group Company Secretary gaina better understanding on the issue of modern slavery and 24 May 2017 requirements set out in the Act.
In November 2016, we delivered a workshop on this subject to all 45 suppliers attending our Asia supplier conference being an area where we considered Pets at Home Group Plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
