Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Report Tony DeNunzio Chairman of the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Introduction Who is on the Nomination & Corporate The Committee is a key committee of the Board whose role is to keep the composition and structure of the Board and its Governance Committee?
committees under review and has responsibility for nominating candidates for appointment as Directors to the Board having Member No.
of meetings regards to its structure, size and composition including the Tony DeNunzio Chairman 2 2 skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of its members.
Dennis Millard 2 2 Paul Coby 1 2 We are also tasked with ensuring that succession plans are in Tessa Green 2 2 place for the Directors, the Executive Management Team and the Groups Operating Board taking into consideration the current Amy Stirling 2 2 Board structure, the leadership requirements of the Group and Nicolas Gheysens 1 1 the wider commercial and market environment within which the Paul Moody 2 2 Group operates.
The Code recommends that a majority of the members of a What we did in 2017 nomination committee should be Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Concluded the search for a Group Chief is chaired by myself, Tony DeNunzio, and its other members are Financial Officer.
Dennis Millard, Paul Coby, Tessa Green, Amy Stirling each of Reviewed the talent and succession plans for the whom is an Independent Non-Executive Director, and Nicolas Executive Management Team and the Operating Board.
The Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee meets not less than once a year.
Assessed the Board Composition and how it may enhanced.
How the Committee discharged its responsibilities in FY17 Board appointments Reviewed the time commitment and length of service The search for a Group Chief Financial Officer was concluded of the non-executive directors.
with the appointment of Mike Iddon in October 2016.
Kornferry Recommended the appointment of Sharon Flood was appointed as advisor to the Committee in the search for andStansilas Laurent as non-executive directors on external candidates and the process was led by myself together 25 May 2017. with the Committee, Amy Stirling, the chair of the Audit & Risk Committee, and Ian Kellett, the Group Chief Executive Officer.
Recommended to the board the re-appointments of Following the search and selection process, Mike Iddon was the Tony DeNunzio, Dennis Millard and Tessa Green for standout candidate and was appointed as Chief Financial Officer afurther three year term commencing 17 February on 17 October 2016.
2017 and Paul Moody for a further three year term commencing 25 April 2017.
In December, I accepted Brian Carrolls resignation from the Board.
Brian was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Conducted and reviewed the board evaluation Petsat Home in 2011 and had continued as the principal and effectiveness survey.
shareholders appointed Director pursuant to the terms of the Reviewed the independence of the Relationship Agreement entered into with KKR My Best Friend Non-Executive Directors.
Limited as part of the IPO process in 2014.
Brian was replaced by Nicolas Gheysens who is a director at Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Considered Directors conflicts of interest.
Nicolas has also been a key member of the Board since KKR acquired Pets at Home in 2010.
Amy Stirling and Paul Coby will also step down from the Board What we will do in 2018 with effect from the close of the annual general meeting on 11th July 2017 in order to fulfil commitments in their full time roles.
Continue to assess the Board composition and how it may be enhanced.
Paul has been a Director of Pets at Home since 2014 and will bereplaced by Stanislas Laurent who was appointed on 25 May Implement further reviews and assessment of succession 2017.
Stan was formerly President and CEO of Photobox and planning and development plans.
He is currently entrepreneur in residence with Highland Capital Partners Europe.
Amy has been a Director Widen the succession planning review to further levels of Pets at Home and Chairman of the Audit Committee since in the organisation.
Amy will be succeeded by Sharon Flood, Chairman of ST Du Pont S. A, the Paris based luxury goods company and Audit Chairman at Crest Nicholson plc and Network Rail.
Pets at Home Group Plc 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Sharon was appointed on 25 May 2017, will take on the These appointments provide organisational strength and Chairmanship of the Audit and Risk Committee with effect from supportour succession planning objectives.
the close of the AGM on 11 July 2017.
Despite the progress that has been made on succession planning, the Board recognises that more work is required Stan and Sharon bring a wealth of experience to the Board.
Stans inorder to ensure that a clear development framework is in entrepreneurial background and understanding of the digital online placefor identified successors and this will be a focus of the space in consumer facing businesses will add significant value as Committee for the next financial year.
we expand our omnichannel capabilities at Pets at Home.
Sharon has impeccable retail credentials having worked with Kingfisher, Board evaluation and effectiveness John Lewis and more recently as Chairman of French luxury goods During 2015 and 2016, we appointed Linstock Limited to carry company ST Du Pont.
Her plc experience and understanding of the outexternal evaluations on the performance of the Board and its retail market will contribute greatly to the growth of the business.
This year, we carried out an internal evaluation that included the completion of a short form online questionnaire that On appointment Stan will also become a member of the Audit considered the priority areas highlighted in the 2016 external Committee, Nominations & Governance Committee, CSR evaluation.
The Company Secretary also held discussions with Committee and Pets Before Profit Committee and Sharon will each of the Board members.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive alsobecome a member of the Remuneration Committee and Directors also met in the absence of the Executive Directors.
theNominations & Governance Committee as well as Chairman oftheAudit and Risk Committee.
The Board considered the output from the review in May 2017and concluded that the performance of the Board, its The Committee considered and recommended to the Board the committees and individual Directors was effective.
Any areas terms of appointment for Dennis Millard, Tessa Green and Paul forimprovement have been agreed by the Board and are Moody for a second three-year term subject to annual shareholder detailedon page 68 of the Governance Report.
It also recommended my re-appointment, again for athree-year term subject to annual shareholder re-election.
Diversity We take into account a variety of factors before recommending any Succession planning new appointment to the Board, including relevant skills to perform A principal risk to the business is the inability to attract, retain the role, experience, knowledge, ethnicity and gender.
The most and incentivise talented individuals to deliver our strategy.
important priority of the Committee, however, is ensuring that the TheCommittee is responsible for reviewing talent, capability best candidate is selected to join the Board.
However, we will andsuccession at the most senior levels of the business, monitor the Groups approach to people development to ensure that however, the Board evaluation carried out in 2016 highlighted the it continues to enable talented individuals, both male and female, Boards view that there was a lack of time devoted to succession toenjoy career progression with the Group.
Further details on Board planning below the Executive Management Team level and that diversity can be found on pages 64 to 65 of the Governance Report.
itwas important to spend more time focusing on talent development and retention.
Conflicts of interest and independence of the Non-Executive Directors As a result, there has been an increased focus on the succession The Board has delegated authority to the Committee to consider, plans across the wider Group operating team with the Board and where necessary authorise, any actual or potential conflicts of andthe Committee considering skills and capability gaps along interest arising in respect of the Directors.
We considered potential with succession planning immediately below the Executive conflicts of interest as they arose during the course of the year.
Considerable progress has beenmade in identifying gaps in the talent pool in addition to mitigating the risks We also support the Board in its annual consideration of the associated with unforeseen events such as key individuals leaving Conflicts of Interest Register, which is carried out prior to the the business.
Following this review, the Board appointed Louise publication of the Annual Report, and consider the independence Stonier to the role of Chief People and Legal Officer with effect of the Non-Executive Directors, in the context of the criteria set from the new financial year.
Louise has been in the business for outin the Code.
The Boards view on independence is contained 13 years as Group Legal Director and Company Secretary and has on page 62 of the Governance report.
been a member of the Executive Management Team since 2015.
I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions on the The role of operations director has also been created with work of the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee.
responsibility for the retail, logistics and pet operations.
Following an extensive search, Stuart Livingstone has been appointed to the role reporting directly to the Chief Executive Officer of Retail, Peter Pritchard.
Stuart joined the business in Tony DeNunzio April from Screwfix where he was Director of Retail and Trade Chairman Plus for six years.
We also strengthened our Vet Group with the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee appointment of a new Chief Financial Officer Harvey Ainley, 24 May 2017 whobrings a wealth of health services and retail experience.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 87
