3 Our market Economic uncertainty Wider uncertainty has affected the ability of Six big drivers many customers to plan and take decisions.
For consumers, increased economic uncertainty of opportunities may lead to lower spending.
For businesses and challenges that have to take new space, theres generally a combination of good choice and attractive incentives available.
Others are opting to sit 6 market drivers tight, extending leases and taking additional space if required.
The impact of this has not yet been seen in investment values.
Brexit brings potential for economic and financial benefits as 1 well as challenges, not least for exporters and businesses looking to move into or expand in Evolving customer needs the UK.
For many London office occupiers, location is no 5 longer the only consideration.
Flexibility of layout and lease terms: efficient, attractive space: Product innovation technical resilience: and physical and digital Technology and design innovation have the connectivity are now just as important.
And cost potential to change the face and functionality per head is more important than per sq ft.
In of buildings in exciting ways.
They will also retail, successful operators are generally looking impact the construction process.
While markets for fewer but larger spaces where they can evolve at remarkable speed, the design, showcase their entire online range and provide a construction, leasing and operational processes brand experience.
People are shopping less often for commercial property remain relatively slow but will travel further for and stay longer in and inflexible.
Our industry must do more to the most successful destination centres.
reduce time-to-market, cut cost and increase flexibility, resilience, efficiency and sustainability.
2 And we will have to continue designing buildings today that will appeal to and work well for a 4 new generation tomorrow.
Balance of supply and demand We anticipated that the balance between UK competitiveness occupational supply and demand in the London In the short term, ongoing Brexit negotiations office market would shift during 2017.
Since are likely to fuel uncertainty and commercial Brexit, we have seen lower levels of demand.
Looking further out, we see the As a result, the vacancy rate is rising, headline potential for the UK to emerge from this period rents have stalled and net effective rents have in good shape.
We fully expect London to weakened.
If investment values fall further, this continue as one of the worlds most successful may present opportunities for companies with financial and cultural centres.
In retail, the market is over-supplied with space but assets providing a great experience or convenience will do better than those caught between the two.
As catchments evolve, shopping destinations must ensure they can compete against others further afield.
6 Sustainability as an advantage Businesses, government and the public increasingly recognise the need for long-term thinking on social and environmental issues.
The best companies in our industry are expected to take a lead on diversity, local employment, community, responsible supply chains, the wellbeing of occupiers and visitors, climate risks, energy and biodiversity.
Smart, progressive thinking can help to support the people and resources companies rely on to prosper and grow and bring all sorts of business benefits.
See how were responding to these opportunities and challenges on page 21 18 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report London Londons strengths attract a large and diverse Market during the year mix of property investors, many from overseas.
Portfolios This helps us when selling assets but increases competition when buying.
market in 2017 11.7m sq ft Take-up of office space Challenges We buy, develop, manage in central London Challenges for London include: 2016: 14.7 million sq ft and sell office, retail, leisure Uncertainty over the outcome of the Brexit and residential space in negotiations Limitations on economic growth due to central London.
restrictions on immigration 4.7% Lack of housing at affordable or Dynamics Vacancy rate attractive prices This year we moved from supply-constrained 2016: 2.7% Pressure on an ageing infrastructure conditions into a market with more supply and Continued lack of clarity around airport weaker occupational demand.
The UKs vote to expansion leave the EU triggered a weakening in demand High levels of stamp duty for London office space, stalling growth in rental 8.3% Demand for better faster digital connectivity values and asset prices.
The market is also driven Decline of the prime headline by the evolving needs and expectations of Outlook officerents in the West End customers and communities.
We expect current uncertainty will continue to impact demand for space.
Headline rents Prime headline office rents Enduring appeal have started to fall and we expect incentives intheCity were flat Central London has enduring appeal for to increase and average lease terms to shorten Source: CBRE investors and occupiers offering: further.
London is an increasingly polycentric city Capabilities and opportunities of a global and location is no longer the only consideration financial centre for occupiers.
This may result in buying Deep and liquid property investment market opportunities outside traditional core areas.
International gateway Reasonable and relatively stable tax rates Strong business and transport infrastructure Diverse community and English-speaking population Access to top universities Opportunities Retail Market during the year The best destinations continue to drive above Portfolios average performance for retailers and attract the greatest demand for space from the market in 2017 -1.9% broadest range of retailers.
A retreat from the 1 Physical retail store sales UK by some international retailers has been We buy, develop, manage balanced by the expansion plans of others.
and sell retail and leisure Successful shopping destinations deliver higher dwell time and average spend per visit by space in the best locations.
0.3% providing consumers with a great experience All retail sales and an appropriate mix of retail, food and Dynamics 1 including online beverage and leisure.
Were continuing to see the market polarised between destination centres and convenience.
Challenges The growth of online shopping is driving the An uncertain economic environment is putting rationalisation of store estates, with only the pressure on discretionary spending.
At the same -2.5% strongest locations holding ground.
Some time, retailer confidence is muted as they deal 2 UK footfall online brands are moving into physical stores with the challenges of increased business rates, as convergence drives efficiency and they see Source: increases to the living wage and the requirement 1.
British Retail Consortium opportunities to create great brand experiences.
to continue investment in multi-channel offers 2.
ShopperTrak Stores are the best place to see, touch, feel and fulfilment.
and buy and they remain at the heart of most transactions.
Outlook We expect to see consumer caution led by concern about higher cost of living combined with lower wage growth.
Destination and convenience centres will continue to outperform compared with those centres that fail to meet consumers needs and respond to online retailing: and the gap in performance is likely to widen further.
