Results and dividends Nicholas Cadbury was appointed an The results for the year are set out in the independent Non-executive Director of the Directors financial statements on pages 103-154.
Board on 1 January 2017 and joined the Audit The Company has paid three quarterly Committee with effect from that same Report interim dividends to shareholders for the year date.
Hewill become Chairman of the Audit under review, each of 8.95p per ordinary share.
Committee in succession to Kevin OByrne These comprised two payments totalling who is expected to step down from the 17.90p as a Property Income Distribution PID Board at some point during 2017.
The Directors present their report and audited and one payment 8.95p as a normal dividend The Service Agreements of the Executive accounts for the year ended 31 March 2017. i. e. non-PID.
The Board has recommended Directors and the Letters of Appointment a final dividend for the year of 11.7p per ofthe Non-executive Directors are available Additional disclosures ordinary share, payable wholly as a PID net of forinspection at the Companys registered Other information that is relevant to this report, withholding tax, where appropriate, making a office.
Brief details of these are also included and which is also incorporated by reference, total dividend for the year of 38.55p per share, in the Directors Remuneration Report on including information required in accordance representing an increase of 10.1% compared pages 76-91. with the UK Companies Act 2006 and Listing with the prior year.
4R, can be located as follows: Appointment and removal of Directors approval, the final dividend will be paid on The appointment and replacement of Directors 27July 2017 to shareholders on the register Table 71 is governed by the Companys Articles of atthe close of business on 23 June 2017.
Likely future developments in Association Articles, the UK Corporate The Board has also declared a first quarterly the business Pages 16-17 Governance Code Code, the Companies dividend in respect of the 2017 18 financial year Employee engagement Page 40 Act 2006 Act and related legislation.
The of 9.85p per ordinary share, payable wholly as a Board may appoint a Director either to fill a Going Concern and PID net of withholding tax, where appropriate, casual vacancy or as an addition to the Board Viability Statement Page 54 to be paid on 6 October 2017 to shareholders so long as the total number of Directors does onthe register at the close of business on Governance Pages 55-94 notexceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
Capitalised interest Page 116 An appointed Director must retire and seek A Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP Financial instruments Page 138 election to office at the next AGM of the election is currently available in respect of Company.
In addition to any power of removal Credit, market and liquidity risks Pages 139-142 alldividends paid by the Company.
conferred by the Act, the Company may by Related party transactions Page 153 Events since the balance sheet date ordinary resolution remove any Director before Greenhouse gas emissions Page 166 Since 31 March 2017, the Group has redeemed the expiry of their period of office and may, the 273m Queen Annes Gate bond in its subject to the Articles, by ordinary resolution Company status entirety at a premium of 63m.
The redemption appoint another person who is willing to act as Land Securities Group PLC is a public limited was financed through existing Group facilities.
In line with the Code liability company incorporated under the laws On 13 April 2017, the Groups joint and the Boards policy, all Directors are required of England and Wales.
It has a premium listing arrangement, the Metro Shopping Fund Limited to stand for re-election at each AGM.
on the London Stock Exchange main market Partnership Metro, completed the sale of Directors powers for listed securities LON:LAND and is a ShopStop Clapham Junction LLP to DV4 The Board manages the business of the constituent member of the FTSE 100 Index.
afund owned by Delancey Real Estate Asset Company under the powers set out in the The Company is a Real Estate Investment Management Limited Delancey.
These powers include the Directors Trust REIT.
It is expected that the Company, date, Delancey sold its stake in Metro to Invesco ability to issue or buy back shares.
Shareholders which has no branches, will continue to operate Real Estate European Fund.
The partnership was authority to empower the Directors to make as the holding company of the Group.
subsequently renamed The Southside Limited market purchases of up to 10% of its own Partnership and the 85m third-party debt in Disclaimer ordinary shares is sought at the AGM each year the fund was repaid in full.
The purpose of this Annual Report is to provide see below.
The Articles can only be amended, On 15 May 2017, the Group acquired three information to the members of the Company or new Articles adopted, by a resolution passed retail outlet centres from Britel Fund Trustees and it has been prepared for, and only for, the by shareholders in general meeting by at least Limited as trustee of the BT Pension Scheme.
members of the Company as a body, and no three quarters of the votes cast.
The three assets, Freeport, Braintree, Clarks other persons.
The Company, its Directors and Village, Street and Junction 32, were acquired Directors interests employees, agents and advisers do not accept for a total consideration of 333m.
Save as disclosed in the Directors Remuneration or assume responsibility to any other person to Report, none of the Directors, nor any person whom this document is shown or into whose Directors connected with them, has any interest in the hands it may come and any such responsibility The names and biographical details of the share or loan capital of the Company or any of or liability is expressly disclaimed.
current Directors all of whom held office its subsidiaries.
At no time during the year ended A cautionary statement in respect of throughout the year except for Nicholas Cadbury 31 March 2017 did any Director hold a material forward-looking statements contained in see below, and the Board Committees of interest, directly or indirectly, in any contract of thisAnnual Report appears on the inside which they are members, are set out on pages significance with the Company or any subsidiary backcover of this document.
Kevin OByrne ceased to act as undertaking other than the Executive Directors theCompanys Senior Independent Director in relation to their Service Agreements.
following the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 21 July 2016.
Edward Bonham Carter was appointed to that position as his immediate successor.
92 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Governance Directors indemnities and insurance ACS HR Solutions Share Plan Services The Company has agreed to indemnify each Guernsey Limited is a shareholder who acts as Director against any liability incurred in relation the trustee Trustee of the Companys offshore to acts or omissions arising in the ordinary discretionary Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
It course of their duties.
The indemnity applies is used to purchase Land Securities Group PLC only to the extent permitted by law.
A copy of ordinary shares in the market from time to the deed of indemnity is available for inspection time for the benefit of employees, including at the Companys registered office and will be for satisfying outstanding awards under the available at the 2017 AGM.
The Company has in Companys various employee share plans.
The place appropriate Directors & Officers Liability EBT purchased a total of 500,000 shares in insurance cover in respect of potential legal the market during the year for an aggregate action against its Directors.
consideration of 4.92m including all dealing costs and released 851,336 shares to satisfy Share capital vested share plan awards.
At 31 March 2017, the The Company has a single class of share capital EBT held 792,556 Land Securities Group PLC which is divided into ordinary shares of nominal shares in trust.
A dividend waiver is in place from value 10p each all ranking pari passu.
No other the Trustee in respect of all dividends payable by securities have been issued by the Company.
At the Company on shares which it holds in trust.
31 March 2017, there were 801,244,628 ordinary Further details regarding the EBT, and of shares shares in issue and fully paid.
Further details issued pursuant to the Companys various relating to share capital, including movements employee share plans during the year, are set during the year, are set out in note 34 to the out in note 35 to the financial statements.
Save as disclosed above, the Company At the Companys AGM held on 21 July did not purchase any of its own shares during 2016, shareholders authorised the Company the year under review and no treasury shares to make market purchases of ordinary shares were cancelled.
Accordingly, the 10,495,131 representing up to 10% of its issued share ordinary shares held in Treasury at 31 March 2017 capital at that time and to allot shares within remained unchanged from those held at the certain limits approved by shareholders.
These beginning of the year.
authorities will expire at the 2017 AGM see below and a renewal of that authority will Substantial shareholders be sought.
As at 31 March 2017, the Company had been notified under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5 of the following holdings of voting rights in its issued share capital: Shareholders holding 3% or more of the Companys Issued Share Capital Table 72 Percentage of total voting rights Number of attaching to issued 1 Shareholder name ordinary shares share capital BlackRock, Inc. 70,396,617 8.91 Norges Bank Investment Management 50,911,003 6.44 State Street Global Advisors Ltd 34,475,813 4.37 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 26,891,758 3.40 The Vanguard Group, Inc. 26,387,704 3.33 1.
The total number of voting rights attaching to the issued share capital of the Company on 31 March 2017 is 790,749,497.
The Company received no further DTR offer is made to all shareholders to acquire their notifications, by way of change to the above shares in the Company the Trustee will not be information or otherwise, during the period from obliged to accept or reject the offer in respect 1 April to 17 May 2017, being the period from of any shares which are at the time subject to the year end through to the date on which this subsisting awards, but will have regard to the report has been signed.
Information provided to interests of the award holders and will have the Company under the DTR is publicly available power to consult them to obtain their views to view via the regulatory information service on on the offer.
Subject to the above, the Trustee the Companys website.
may take such action with respect to the offer as it thinks fit.
Shareholder voting rights and restrictions The Company is not aware of any on transfer of shares agreements or control rights between existing All the issued and outstanding ordinary shares shareholders that may result in restrictions on of the Company have equal voting rights with the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
There are no special control The rights, including full details relating to voting rights attaching to them save that the control of shareholders and any restrictions on transfer rights of ordinary shares held in the EBT can relating to the Companys ordinary shares, are be directed by the Company to satisfy the set out in the Articles and in the explanatory vesting of outstanding awards under its various notes that accompany the Notice of the 2017 employee share plans.
In relation to the EBT, AGM.
These documents are available on the the Trustee has agreed not to vote any shares Companys website at: www.
held in the EBT at any general meeting.
If any Landsec Annual Report 2017 93 Change of control are afforded equal opportunities to enter There are a number of agreements that take employment and progress.
The Company has effect, alter or terminate upon a change of therefore established procedures designed control of the Company following a takeover.
to provide fair consideration and selection of None of these are considered significant.
The disabled applicants and to satisfy their training Companys share plans contain provisions that and career development needs.
If an employee take effect in such an event but do not entitle becomes disabled, wherever possible Landsec participants to a greater interest in the shares takes steps to accommodate the disability of the Company than created by the initial by making adjustments to their existing grant or award under the relevant plan.
There employment arrangements, or by redeployment are no agreements between the Company and providing appropriate retraining to enable and its Directors or employees providing for continued employment in the Group.
compensation for loss of office or employment Further information regarding the or otherwise that occurs specifically because of Companys practical safeguarding of human a takeover.
rights and promotion of equal opportunities is included as part of the Social review in the Human rights and equal opportunities Strategic Report on page 38.
The Company operates a Human Rights Policy which aims to recognise and safeguard the Political donations human rights of all citizens in the business No political donations were made in the year areasin which we operate.
principles set out within both the UN Universal Auditor and disclosure of information to Declaration of Human Rights UDHR and the the auditor International Labour Organizations Declaration So far as the Directors are aware, there is no on Fundamental Principles and Rights at relevant audit information that has not been Work.
Our Policy is built on these foundations brought to the attention of the Companys including, without limitation, the principles auditor.
Each Director has taken all reasonable of equal opportunities, collective bargaining, steps to make himself or herself aware of any freedom of association and protection from relevant audit information and to establish that forced or child labour.
The Policy has been such information was provided to the auditor.
extended to take account of the new Modern A resolution to confirm the reappointment Slavery Act that came into force in October of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the 2015and requires the Company to report Company will be proposed at the 2017 AGM.
annually on its workforce and supply chain, The confirmation has been recommended to specifically to confirm that workers are not the Board by the Audit Committee and EY has enslaved or trafficked.
The Companys first indicated its willingness to remain in office.
slavery and human trafficking statement, relating to the financial year ended 31March 2017 Annual General Meeting 2016, was approved by the Board on This years AGM will be held at the earlier 29September 2016 and posted on the time of 10.00 am on Thursday, 13 July 2017, Companys website on 30 September 2016. at 80 Victoria Street, London SW1E 5JL.
A Landsec is an equal opportunities employer separate circular, comprising a letter from the and our range of employment policies and Chairman, Notice of Meeting and explanatory guidelines reflects legal and employment notes in respect of the resolutions proposed, requirements in the UK and safeguards the accompanies this Annual Report.
interests of employees, potential employees and other workers.
We do not condone The Directors Report was approved by the unfair treatment of any kind and offer equal Board on 17 May 2017. opportunities in all aspects of employment and advancement regardless of race, nationality, By Order of the Board gender, age, marital status, sexual orientation, disability, religious or political beliefs.
The Tim Ashby Company recognises that it has clear obligations Group General Counsel and Company Secretary towards all its employees and the community at large to ensure that people with disabilities Land Securities Group PLC Company number 436904 94 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Governance Contents Financial statements 96 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 97 Independent Auditors Report 103 Income statement 103 Statement of comprehensive income 104 Balance sheets 105 Statement of changes in equity 106 Statement of cash flows 107 Notes to the financial statements Landsec Annual Report 2017 95
