Going Viability Concern Statement The Directors have assessed the viability of the The viability scenario assesses the impact of The Directors confirm they have a reasonable Group over a five year period to March 2022, considerably worse macro-economic conditions expectation that the Company has adequate taking account of the Groups current position than are currently expected.
In London, it is resources to continue in operational existence for and the potential impact of our principal risks.
assumed that rental values are impacted by an at least 12 months from the date of signing these The Directors have determined five years excess of available space in the market, while, financial statements.
This confirmation is made to be the most appropriate period for the in Retail, inflationary pressure on consumer after having reviewed assumptions about future viability assessment as it fits well with the spending, together with a faster migration to trading performance, valuation projections, capital Groups development and leasing cycles, and is on-line sales, maintain downward pressure expenditure, asset sales and debt requirements broadly aligned to the maturity of the Groups on rental values.
In London, rental values are contained within the Groups current five year floating rate debt facilities.
Our financial assumed to fall for three financial years before plan.
The Directors also considered potential risks planning process comprises a budget for the starting to recover in the final two years of the and uncertainties in the business, credit, market next financial year, together with a forecast for plan.
In Retail, rental values are assumed to fall and liquidity risks, including the availability and the following four financial years.
Achievement for the next four financial years, and only start repayment profile of bank facilities, as well as of the one year budget has a greater level of to recover slowly in the final year.
Where voids forecast covenant compliance.
Based on the certainty and is used to set near-term targets occur, these are expected to take longer to fill above, together with available market information across the Group.
Achievement of the five year across the portfolio.
The fall in rental values, and the Directors knowledge and experience of plan is less certain than the budget, but provides together with an outward movement on yields, the Groups property portfolio and markets, the a longer-term outlook against which strategic results in lower rental income and a significant Directors continue to adopt the going concern decisions can be made.
The financial planning fall in capital values over the next two financial basis in preparing the accounts for the year ended 31 March 2017. process considers the Groups profitability, years.
In this viability scenario, we assume capital values, gearing, cash flows and other that any uncommitted forecast acquisitions, key financial metrics over the plan period.
disposals or developments do not take place.
These metrics are subject to sensitivity analysis, Similarly, we assume no uncommitted debt in which a number of the main underlying refinancing takes place, and no new debt or assumptions are flexed to consider alternative bank facilities are raised.
Additionally, We have assessed the impact of these the Group also considers the impact of potential assumptions on the Groups key financial structural changes to the business in light of metrics over the period, including profitability, varying economic conditions, such as significant net debt, loan-to-value ratios and available additional sales and acquisitions or refinancing.
The scenario represents a The Directors consider the key principal significant contraction in the size of the business risks that could impact the viability of the over the five year period considered, with net Group to be Customers, Market cyclicality, asset value falling by around 35% at the lowest Development, Liability structure and point.
However, our assessment is that such a Financing.
We have considered the potential scenario would not threaten the viability of the impact of these on the Groups ability to remain Group.
The Group would be required to renew in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall a minimum of 1bn of its debt facilities at the due through a viability scenario.
end of the period considered, but the Directors consider this would be possible considering the Groups expected loan-to-value ratio, and the range of alternative financing options if bank facilities were not available.
Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period to March 2022.
This Strategic Report was approved by the Boardof Directors on 17 May 2017 and signed onits behalf by: Robert Noel Chief Executive 54 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Contents Governance 56 Letter from the Chairman 58 Board of Directors 60 Executive Committee 61 Leadership 64 Letter from the Chairman of theNomination Committee 66 Effectiveness 68 Letter from the Chairman of theAudit Committee 70 Accountability 75 Investor relations 76 Directors Remuneration Report Chairmans Annual Statement 78 Remuneration at a glance 80 Annual Report on Remuneration 90 Summary of Directors Remuneration Policy 92 Directors Report
