Executive Directors Table 123 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Discretion Base salary To aid the recruitment, Reviewed annually, with effect from For 2017 18, the annual base The Committee has the discretion retention and motivation of 1 June, and reflects: salaries of the Executive to determine the precise amount high performing executives Directors are 784,041 Chief of base salary within the Policy, Increases throughout the rest of Executive, and 510,367 Chief including approving the salary for To reflect the value of the business Financial Officer, representing a newly-appointed Director.
It will their experience, skills and Market benchmarking exercise a 2% increase also determine whether there are knowledge, and importance undertaken periodically to ensure specific reasons to award salary to the business.
The maximum annual salary salaries are set at around the increases greater than those for increase will not normally median of the market competitive the wider workforce.
exceed the average increase level for people in comparable roles across the rest of the workforce with similar levels of experience, 2017 18: 2%.
Higher increases performance and contribution will be exceptional, and made Changes in the scope of a Directors in specific circumstances, role may also require a further including: adjustment to salary.
Increase in responsibilities or scope of the role To apply salary progression for a newly appointed Director Where the Directors salary has fallen below the market positioning.
Benefits To provide protection and Directors receive a combination of: The value of benefits may vary The Policy will always apply as market competitive benefits from year to year depending on stated, unless there are specific Car allowance to aid recruitment and the cost to the Company.
individual circumstances why it Private medical insurance retention of high performing should not.
Ill health income protection Holiday and sick pay Professional advice in connection with their directorship Travel, subsistence and accommodation as necessary Occasional gifts, for example appropriate long service or leaving gifts.
Pension To help recruit and retain Participation into a defined contribution Directors receive a pension The Policy will apply as stated.
high performing executives pension scheme or cash equivalent.
contribution or cash allowance of 25% of salary.
To reward continued contribution to the business by enabling Executive Directors to build retirement benefits.
Landsec Annual Report 2017 175 Remuneration policy continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Discretion Annual bonus To incentivise the delivery All measures and targets are reviewed and Minimum bonus payable is The Committee has the discretion of stretching, near-term set by the Board at the beginning of the 0% of salary to set targets and measures business targets and year and payments are determined by the each year Maximum bonus potential is personal performance Committee after the year end, based on 150% of salary.
The outturns for the Group element objectives performance against the targets set of the bonus plan are calculated To reward near-term Specific measures and targets will be set formulaically and therefore the outperformance relative to each year, but will always include a measure Committee has no discretion to industry benchmarks of Total Property Return versus that of adjust these, unless it feels it is the market necessary to adjust them down Specific measures and targets, for example Other measures and targets will reflect The Committee does have the successful planning the most critical business performance discretion to award appropriate applications and asset indicators for the year ahead, and will be bonus payments under the management initiatives, will both specific and measurable.
Revenue individual element maximum provide future opportunity Profit performance will always feature as 20% of base salary to reflect the for the business and will a key measure performance and contribution of increase the value of our an individual Director The achievement of on-target performance properties in the short term should result in a payment of 50% of the Within the Policy, the Committee Other KPIs, such as maximum opportunity i. e. 75% of salary will retain flexibility including: development lettings targets, A small proportion no more than 20% When to make awards are likely to have a significant of base salary of a Directors bonus is and payments impact on capital growth based on the Committees assessment How to determine the size of and long-term revenue of the achievement of pre-set personal an award, a payment, or when profit performance performance objectives and how much of an award The ability to recognise The structure of the plan incentivises should be payable performance through outperformance by ensuring that the Who receives an award variable remuneration threshold targets are stretching or payment enables the Group to control Bonuses up to 50% of salary are paid Whether a departing Director its cost base flexibly and in cash react to events and should receive a bonus and Any amounts in excess of 50% of salary are whether and what proportion market circumstances deferred into shares for one year of awards should be paid at Deferral of a portion of the time of leaving or at a Any amounts in excess of 100% of salary are annual bonuses into shares subsequent date deferred into shares for two years encourages a longerWhether a departing Director term focus aligned to Deferred shares are potentially forfeitable shareholders interests should be treated as a good if the executive leaves prior to the share leaver in respect of deferred and discourages excessive release date risk taking.
bonus shares Bonus payments are not pensionable How to deal with a change of Withholding and recovery provisions control or any other corporate malus and clawback apply where any event which may require overpayment was made as a result of a adjustments to awards material misstatement of the Companys To determine that no bonus or a results or a performance condition, or reduced bonus is payable where where there has been fraud or gross the performance of the business misconduct, whether or not this caused has been poor, notwithstanding the overpayment.
176 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Additional information Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Discretion Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Incentivises value creation The Committee may make an annual award Normal and current award The outturns of the LTIP are over the long-term in excess of shares under the LTIP limit 300% of salary.
calculated formulaically and of that created by general therefore the Committee has Vesting is determined on the basis of the market increases no discretion to adjust these, Groups achievements against stretching unless it determines they should Rewards execution of performance targets over a fixed three year be adjusted down our strategy and the longfinancial period and continued employment.
term outperformance of There is no re-testing Within the Policy, the Committee our competitors will retain flexibility including: The Committee reviews the measures, their Aligns the long-term interests relative weightings and targets prior to When to make awards of Directors and shareholders each award and payments Promotes retention.
The measures selected are relative and directly How to determine the size aligned to the interests of shareholders.
of an award, a payment, or 50% of an award is weighted to a measure when and how much of an of Total Property Return versus the industry award should vest benchmark over a three year period and 50% Who receives an award to Total Shareholder Return versus our listed or payment comparator group over a three year period Whether a departing Director For each measure, no awards vest for is treated as a good leaver performance below that of the benchmark.
for the purposes of the LTIP and Only a proportion 20% will vest for matching whether and what proportion of the performance of the benchmark and awards vest at the time of leaving significant outperformance is required for the or at a subsequent vesting date maximum award to vest How to deal with a change of Awards will be satisfied by either newly issued control or any other corporate shares or shares purchased in the market and event which may require any use of newly issued shares will be subject adjustments to awards.
to the dilution limits contained in the scheme rules or approved by shareholders Executive Directors are required to hold vested shares for a further two years including postemployment following the three year vesting period expiry Withholding and recovery provisions malus and clawback apply where any overpayment was made as a result of a material misstatement of the Companys results or a performance condition or where there has been fraud or gross misconduct, whether or not this caused the overpayment.
Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE Scheme To encourage all employees All employees, including Executive Directors, The maximum participation The Policy will apply as stated.
to make a long-term are entitled to participate in the SAYE Scheme levels may vary in line with HMRC Within the Policy, the Committee investment in the Companys operated by the Company in line with UK limits.
For 2017 18, participants will retain the flexibility to determine shares, through a savingsHMRC guidelines currently prevailing.
may save up to 500 per whether a departing Executive related arrangement.
month for either three or five Director should be treated as a years, using their accumulated good leaver.
savings at the end of the period to purchase shares at a 20% discount to the market price at the date of grant.
Share ownership guidelines To provide close alignment Executive Directors are expected to build up In exceptional circumstances, the between the longer-term and maintain shareholdings with a value set Committee may extend the period interests of Directors and at a percentage of base salary: by which share ownership levels are shareholders in terms of the required to be achieved by up to Chief Executive 250% of salary Companys growth two years.
Other Executive Directors 200% of salary and performance.
These levels are normally required to be achieved within five years of appointment in order to qualify for future long-term incentive awards.
Deferred or unvested share awards not subject to performance conditions may count towards the ownership levels on a net of tax basis.
Landsec Annual Report 2017 177 Remuneration policy continued 2.
Non-executive Directors Table 124 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Base fee To aid the recruitment, retention and motivation The Chairman is paid a single fee for all Board The current fees for Non-executive Directors are of high performing Non-executive Directors duties and the other Non-executive Directors shown in the Annual Report on Remuneration in receive a basic Board fee, with supplementary section 3.2 To reflect the time commitment given by fees payable for additional responsibilities Non-executive Directors to the business.
Non-executive Director fees are typically Reviewed but not necessarily changed reviewed annually but increased every two to annually by the Board, having regard to three years independent advice and published surveys Any increases reflect relevant benchmark data The Chairmans fee is also reviewed for Non-executive Directors in companies of by the Board rather than the a similar size and complexity, and the time Remuneration Committee.
Additional fees To reflect the additional time commitment Reviewed but not necessarily changed The opportunity depends on which, if any, required from Non-executive Directors in chairing annually by the Board, having regard to additional roles are assumed by an individual various Board sub-committees or becoming the independent advice and published surveys.
Director over the course of their tenure Boards Senior Independent Director.
Any increases reflect relevant benchmark data for Non-executive Directors in companies of a similar size and complexity, and the time commitment required.
Other incentives and benefits Non-executive Directors do not receive any n a other remuneration or benefits beyond the fees noted above.
Expenses in relation to Company business will be reimbursed If deemed necessary, and in the performance of their duties, Non-executive Directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Share ownership To provide close alignment between the The current share ownership guidelines require longer-term interests of Directors and Non-executive Directors to own shares with a shareholders in terms of the Companys value of 100% of annual fees within three years growth and performance.
178 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Additional information 3.
Directors Service Agreements and Letters of Appointment 3.1 Service Agreements Executive Directors leaver provisions.
However, if an executive basis or ongoing when it considers these The Executive Directors have Service Agreements has resigned for a similar role in a competitor to be in the best interests of the Company.
with the Company which normally continue organisation then such provisions are extremely Any such payments would be based solely on until the Directors agreed retirement date or unlikely to apply.
Where good leaver provisions remuneration lost when leaving the former such other date as the parties agree.
In line in respect of share awards are deemed to be employer and would take into account the with Group policy, the Executive Directors appropriate, a participants awards should existing delivery mechanism i. e. cash, shares, employment can be terminated at any time vest on a time pro-rata basis and subject to options, time horizons and performance by either party on giving 12 months prior the satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions.
criteria with the balance of the awards lapsing.
In the case of an internally appointed The Company allows Executive Directors The Committee retains discretion to decide Executive Director, any variable pay element to hold external non-executive directorships, not to pro-rate if it is inappropriate to do so in awarded in respect of the prior role would be subject to the prior approval of the Board, and particular circumstances.
For the avoidance paid out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
to retain fees from these roles.
of doubt, if the termination of employment is In addition, any other ongoing remuneration not for one of the specified reasons, and the 3.2 Termination Provisions obligations existing prior to appointment Committee does not exercise its discretion to Executive Directors would continue, provided that they are allow an award to vest, all outstanding awards An Executive Directors Service Agreement may put to shareholders for approval at the automatically lapse.
be terminated without notice and without earliest opportunity.
further payment or compensation, except for 3.3 Remuneration of newly appointed For external and internal appointments, sums earned up to the date of termination, Executive Directors the Committee may agree that the Company on the occurrence of certain events such as The remuneration package for a new externally will meet certain relocation expenses, on a one gross misconduct.
The circumstances of the appointed Executive Director would be set in time basis, as appropriate.
Where a Director is termination taking into account the individuals accordance with the terms of the Companys recruited from overseas, flexibility is retained performance and an individuals opportunity approved remuneration policy in force at the to provide benefits that take account of to mitigate losses are taken into account by time of appointment.
At present, the Policy on market practice in their country of residence.
the Committee when determining amounts base salary will apply, but the Committee has The Company may offer a cash amount payable on termination, including pay in lieu the flexibility to set the salary of a new hire at on recruitment, payment of which may be of notice.
The Groups normal approach is to a discount to the market level initially, with staggered over a period of up to two years, to stop or reduce compensatory payments to a series of planned increases implemented reflect the value of benefits a new recruit may former Executive Directors when they receive over the following few years subject to have received from a former employer.
remuneration from other employment during performance in the role to bring the salary to Shareholders will be informed of the the compensation period.
The Company does the desired positioning.
Only in very exceptional remuneration package and all additional not make any arrangements that guarantee circumstances will the salary of a newly payments to newly appointed Executive pensions with limited or no abatement on appointed Director exceed the market median Directors at the time of their appointment.
There are no benchmark for the role.
special provisions for Executive Directors with The annual bonus would operate in 3.4 Chairman and Non-executive Directors regard to compensation in the event of accordance with the terms of the approved Letters of Appointment loss of office.
policy, albeit with the opportunity pro-rated The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors Any share-based entitlements granted for the period of employment in the first year.
do not have Service Agreements with the under the Companys share plans will be Depending on the timing and responsibilities Company.
Instead, each of them has a Letter of determined on the basis of the relevant of the appointment, it may be necessary Appointment which sets out the terms of their plan rules.
The default position is that any to set different performance measures and appointment, including the three months prior outstanding unvested awards automatically targets initially.
The LTIP would also operate in written notice on which their appointment can lapse on cessation of employment.
However, accordance with the Policy.
The maximum level be terminated by either party at any time.
The under the rules of the LTIP, in certain prescribed of variable pay that may be offered to a new dates of the current Letters of Appointment are circumstances, such as redundancy, disability, Executive Director is therefore at an aggregate shown in the Annual Report on Remuneration retirement or other circumstances at the maximum of 450% of salary.
This limit does not and these, together with the Executive Directors discretion of the Committee taking into include the value of any buy-out arrangements Service Agreements, are available for inspection account the individuals performance and the deemed appropriate see below.
at the Companys registered office.
reasons for their departure, good leaver In addition to the elements of the On appointment, the fee arrangements for status can be applied.
For example, if an remuneration package covered by the Policy, a new Non-executive Director would be set in executives role has effectively been made the Committee may buy out certain existing accordance with the approved remuneration redundant, and there are no significant remuneration of an incoming Executive Director policy in force at that time.
performance issues, the Committee is likely to through the offer of either additional cash look favourably on the granting of some good and or share-based elements on a one-time Landsec Annual Report 2017 179
