Executive Committee Responsibilities Miles broad 1.
Diana Breeze responsibilities cover sustainability, public Chief Executive Managing Director, Retail Portfolio Group Human Resources Director relations both financial and business-tobusiness, internal communications, public Full biography on page 58 Scott re-joined Landsec in 2010 and was Diana joined Landsec in June 2013 as affairs, investor relations and corporate Head of Property, London Portfolio, before Group Human Resources Director.
marketing including brand and being appointed as Managing Director, reputational management.
Career Diana has over 20 years HR and Retail Portfolio, in April 2014.
Martin Greenslade Miles is a board director of the Foreign organisational consulting experience, and Chief Financial Officer Policy Centre and the Westminster Forum.
Career Scotts career to date includes she has previously held a number of senior three years as Managing Partner of HR roles at J Sainsbury plc, where she led Full biography on page 58 Committees A member of the Groups Brookfield Asset Management, where he many people focused change initiatives.
led their European business, more than ten Prior to that, she was a senior manager in Attends Investment Committee meetings.
years at GE Capital Real Estate including the Human Capital practice of Accenture.
Colette OShea as Head of Business Development, and Responsibilities In her current role, Diana Managing Director, London Portfolio three years as Business Development has end-to-end responsibility for the 7.
Tim Ashby Director at Landsec in his first position Colette joined Landsec in 2003 and was articulation and delivery of a clear people Group General Counsel and with the Company.
Head of Development, London Portfolio, strategy for Landsec, including talent, Company Secretary before being appointed its Managing Responsibilities In his current role, Scott reward, organisational design and Director in April 2014.
Tim joined Landsec in September 2015 has responsibility for Landsecs 6.1bn engagement.
Since joining the Company, asGroup General Counsel and Retail Portfolio of shopping centres, retail Diana has focused upon the key areas of Career Colette has over 20 years Company Secretary.
parks and leisure properties throughout talent and leadership, and has property experience in London, operating the UK comprising some 16.7 million sq ft implemented a number of initiatives to in investment, asset management and Career Tim is a solicitor and has more of accommodation.
Previously, as Head of evolve the culture of the business.
Prior to joining Landsec, than 20 years of significant legal, Property for Landsecs London Portfolio, Diana is a member of the shewas Head of Estates at the Mercers compliance and commercial experience he led the investment, asset and property International Advisory Board for Executive Company where she led the property gained across a number of different management teams for the Groups office Education at the Sad Business School, team whilst also gaining extensive office, sectors and businesses both in the UK and retail space in central London.
She also advises the retail and residential experience.
He joined Landsec after Scott was previously a member of the Board of Trustees, and is a member of the fiveyears as Group General Counsel and Strategic Board of the New West End Personnel and Nominations Committees Responsibilities In her current role, Company Secretary of Mothercare plc.
Company and was previously Vice of the UK Green Building Council.
Colette has responsibility for Landsecs Before that, he worked at Yum Brands President of the City Property Association.
8.3bn London Portfolio comprising some KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell as Region Committees A member of the Groups He was appointed a Property Committee 6.5 million sq ft of London offices, leisure, Counsel for Europe and Africa, and as a Executive and Sustainability Committees.
member of the RNLI in April 2016. retail and residential property both in Senior International Counsel at PepsiCo Attends Investment Committee meetings development and asset management.
working in various businesses in the UK, Committees A member of the Groups and both the Remuneration and Shehas led the London business through Eastern Europe and Africa.
Tim started his Executive, Asset and Liability and Nomination Committee meetings at the its 2010 three million sq ft speculative career in private practice at Dentons, Investment Committees.
Chairman of invitation of the Committee Chairmen.
development programme in the City and where he specialised in commercial law.
West End, including the transformation ofVictoria.
Responsibilities Tim leads the Legal, Colette was appointed as a Business 6.
Miles Webber Company Secretarial and Real Estate Director of Corporate Affairs Board Member of the Mayor of Londons Information Management teams and is London Local Enterprise Partnership for and Sustainability responsible for legal, compliance and London LEAP in 2016. governance activity across the Group.
He Miles joined Landsec in May 2015 as provides advice and support to the Board Committees A member of the Groups Director of Corporate Affairs and and its Committees and holds the Groups Sustainability.
Executive, Asset and Liability and relationships with its external law firms, Investment Committees.
Chairman of and investor and shareholder bodies.
Career Before joining Landsec, Miles was theLondon Executive Committee.
Head of External Affairs, UK & Ireland, for Committees A member of the Groups General Electric, having previously held Executive Committee.
Attends all Board other senior external affairs and relations and Audit, Nomination and Remuneration positions with them since he joined in Committee meetings in his capacity as 2005.
Prior to that, he spent six years with Company Secretary.
He also attends Merrill Lynch, his first two years as Vice meetings of the Investment Committee President, Corporate Communications, and the Asset and Liability Committee.
followed by four years as Director of Public Affairs, EMEA.
