Strategy in action Grow like-for-like sales Highlights of 2017 Future plans Deliver even better value for customers: through the repositioning Value of more price points, enhancing our pet services offer and delivering Evolved our offer to provide even better product pricing excellent customer advice.
Alongside moving to a simpler and consistent pricing approach, away from promotional offers and vouchers Repositioned private label dog Advanced Nutrition pricing so it is now the best value in the UK Continue investing to ensure our customer facing developments Omnichannel and internal systems are sector leading.
Maximised the convenience of Click & Collect store pickup for online product orders Launched major initiatives: a subscription service for flea prevention products, and order in-store where colleagues can place a customer order for the extended online range from their PetPads Develop a more personalised approach when marketing VIP toandengagingwith our VIPs.
Launched the VIP App which removes the need for customers to physically carry their VIP card Encouraged more VIPs to shop across multiple brands, bringing the number who purchase product and using pet services to nearly 500,000 Revitalise our colleague Steps programme to ensure more colleagues Engagement can train to a higher level, in more areas of pet expertise.
Maintained our overall rates of colleague engagement and retention Continuing investing in and developing our veterinary business Services to grow faster and ahead of the overall market.
Maintained growth in mature first opinion vet practices ahead of the market Encouraged strong growth in all vet practices through increased TV marketing, extended opening hours and space expansions Relevant KPIs Key risks associated Brand and reputation Supply chain sourcing 1.5% 0.8% 7.9% Competition Regulatory and compliance Our people Extreme weather Group like-for-like Merchandise Services like-for-like Business systems and growth like-for-like growth growth information security Read more on KPIs page 26 Read more on risk management page 38 F Y16 comparative information presented on a 52 week basis.
For reconciliation to a 53week statutory basis see page 179.
A lternative Performance Measures APMs are defined and reconciled to IFRS information, where possible, on page 179.
Pets at Home Group Plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Strategy Best value Advanced Nutrition with our Switch & Save campaign The Switch & Save campaign encourages customers to purchase our private label foods, Wainwrights and AVA, by highlighting how much customers can save.
This could be up to 260 per year when switching from an equivalent branded food.
The prices on our large bag private label dog foods are now 15-25% lower and represent the best value Advanced Nutrition in the UK market.
Growing our veterinary business even faster Our first opinion business has the highest average revenue per practice in the UK vet market.
This has been achieved by giving our vet partners multiple routes to growth, driven by the convenience of practice locations and opening hours, our national TV campaigns, and practice space extensions, which are all driving new client growth.
24.6% growth in total Joint Venture vetpractice income Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 23 Strategy in action Grow retail and services space Growing our family of specialists We expanded our presence further this year in the veterinary referrals market, through the acquisitions of Dick White Referrals in Cambridgeshire and the Eye Vet in Cheshire.
Specialist referrals represents the premier tier of veterinary medicine, and by acquiring such centres, we gain access toanadditional area of the vet market.
Our future growth inthis area will come through a combination of acquisition, and greenfield development, as we seek to establish aUK network of between 10-15 referral centres.
Highlights of 2017 Future plans Work towards our UK target of around 500 superstores through carefully Optimised store rollout selected openings in locations that will deliver against our stringent Opened 15 new Pets at Home superstores in optimal locations investment criteria.
Total portfolio of 434 superstores Work towards our UK targets of 700 veterinary practices and 350 Services rollout grooming salons through opening in new stores and standalone Opened 50 new first opinion veterinary practices bringing locations, and also through retrofits into existing stores.
thetotalportfolio to 289 practices within stores and 149 Continue to look for bolt-on acquisitions that are complementary instandalone locations toourexisting business, particularly in the veterinary market.
Acquired two specialist veterinary referral centres, bringing our total portfolio to four centres Opened 50 new grooming salons, bringing the total portfolio to 290 grooming salons of which almost all are located within stores Relevant KPIs Key risks associated Brand and reputation Store and services expansion 15 50 2 Competition Liquidity and credit risk new Pets at Home new vet practices new veterinary Our people superstores referral centres 50 new grooming salons Read more on KPIs page 26 Read more on risk management page 38 Pets at Home Group Plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Strategy Grow margins Supporting margins through our high margin veterinary business Whilst we absorb cost challenges such as a weaker Sterling, National Living Wage increases and the Apprenticeship levy, the growing maturity of our higher margin veterinary business will continue to provide underlying mitigation to these headwinds and will deliver Group operating margin expansionin the medium term.
Highlights of 2017 Future plans Continue to rollout new vet practices and grooming salons, Services which generate higher operating margins when mature.
Services revenue grew to represent 14.1% of the overall Group, up from 10.5% in the prior year Demonstrated the profit per square foot generated in mature store units with pet services is 24% higher than in a store with no services 15 mature store units with pet services within the estate, upfrom12in the prior year Work to increase the participation of private brands in our business, Private brands through active marketing to customers and widening our ranges.
Maintained our participation of private brands at broadly the same level as in the prior year Relevant KPIs Key risks associated Brand and reputation Treasury and financial risk 54.2% 33.3% Competition Store and services expansion Group gross margin, -35bps Services gross margin, 34bps Supply chain sourcing Regulatory and compliance 57.6% 15.6% Merchandise gross pre-exceptional EBITDA margin, 56bps margin, -38bps Read more on KPIs page 26 Read more on risk management page 38 F Y16 comparative information presented on a 52 week basis.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 25
