B Bo oa ar rd o d of D f Diir re ec ct to or rs s Current roles Past roles Brings to the Board Tony DeNunzio CBE Deputy Chairman Non-Executive Chairman Vast retail and financial Non-Executive Chairman and Senior Independent Director of Maxeda experience.
Tony was at Dixons Carphone plc also awarded a CBE Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board for services to retail Non Executive Director of Alliance Boots 2014 in 2005. of PrimaPrix SL.
President and Chief Executive Committees Non Executive Director Officer of Asda from Nomination & Governance, of DeNunzio Associates Ltd 20022005 Pets Before Profit, CSR Senior Advisor to Kohlberg, Deputy Chairman of Galiform Meetings attended Kravis, Roberts & Co. L. P. Plc now Howdens Plc 9 9 Chairman of the advisory board of Manchester Business School Current roles Past roles Brings to the Board Dennis Millard Chairman of Halfords Group Plc Chairman of Connect Wide ranging public Deputy Chairman Group Plc company experience Chairman of Trustees of the charity and Senior Independent and retail and financial The Holy Cross Childrens Trust Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director expertise.
Dennis is also at Debenhams plc a Chartered Accountant.
Senior Independent Director Appointment to the Board Pets at Premier Farnell Plc 2014 Nandi Senior Independent Director Committees of Xchanging Plc from Boris Nomination & Governance, 20052012 Audit & Risk, Remuneration, and four chickens.
Pets Before Profit, CSR Meetings attended 9 9 Current roles Past roles Brings to the Board Ian Kellett Group Chief Executive Officer Finance Director of Staples Significant strategic and Group Chief Executive Officer since April 2016 retail business from operational expertise 20042006 through time spent Joined Pets at Home as Appointment to the Board atPets at Home.
Chief Financial Officer in 2006 Deputy Finance Director 2014 of JD Wetherspoon from Pets Appointed as Chief Executive Officer Committees 19992004 of the Retail Division in 2015 Zico Stanley Oscar Flynn Meetings attended 9 9 Ted Current roles Past roles Brings to the Board Mike Iddon Chief Financial Officer since 2016 Chief Financial Officer of Financial knowledge Group Chief Financial Officer NewLook from 2014-2016 and retail industry expertise A number of finance roles at Appointment to the Board Tesco plc over 13 years, with 2016 his final role as Group Committees Planning, Treasury and Tax Director Meetings attended J oined the Group partway through the year.
4 4 Current roles Past roles Brings to the Board Amy Stirling Chief Financial Officer, Non-Executive member Financial, accounting Independent The Virgin Group of the Cabinet Office board and public company Non-Executive Director experience.
Amy is also Chair of Audit and Risk Committee Chief Financial Officer and a Chartered Accountant.
for the Cabinet Office Trustee of the Princes Trust Appointment to the Board Pets Non-Executive Director at Chief Financial Officer of 2014 Winston RIT Capital Partners Plc TalkTalk Telecom Group Plc Committees from 20102013 Nomination & Governance, Chief Financial Officer Audit & Risk, Remuneration Telecoms Division Carphone Meetings attended Warehouse Group Plc from 9 9 20072010 Pets at Home Group Plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Governance Current roles Past roles Brings to the Board Paul Coby Chief Information Officer of the Board member of P&O Ferries Significant ecommerce, Independent John Lewis Partnership international and CIO at British Airways Non-Executive Director systems technology Board member of Clydesdale from 20012011 experience.
and Yorkshire Banking Group Civil Servant in the Appointment to the Board Pets Departments of Transport 2014 and Environment George Committees Director of Elsa Nomination & Governance, Randalls Cottages Ltd Audit & Risk, Pets Before Profit, Leo CSR Meetings attended 6 9 Current roles Past roles Brings to the Board Tessa Green CBE Trustee of the Royal Foundation Non-Executive Director Considerable Independent of the Duke and Duchess of of Barts Health NHS Trust background in Non-Executive Director Cambridge and Prince Harry healthcare and Chairman of The Royal not-for-profit charitable Chairman of Moorfields Eye Hospital Marsden NHS Foundation Appointment to the Board sectors.
NHS Foundation Trust Trust from 19982010 2014 Pets Member of Advisory Board Chairman of The Royal Committees of Healthcare U. K. Marsden Cancer Campaign Flash Remuneration, Nomination Member of Bupa Medical Head of Corporate Affairs at Easton & Governance, Pets Before Advisory Panel Carlton Communications Plc Profit, CSR Strider Member of Bupa Association Trustee of the Royal Botanical Meetings attended Gardens, Kew 9 9 Director of UCL Partners Current roles Past roles Brings to the Board Paul Moody Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Deep consumer goods Independent of Johnson Service Group of Food Freshness Technology and public company Non-Executive Director experience.
Non-Executive Chairman Over 17 years at Britvic Plc, of 4imprint Group Plc with the last eight years Appointment to the Board as Chief Executive Officer 2014 until 2013 Committees Audit & Risk, Remuneration, Nomination & Governance Meetings attended 9 9 Current roles Past roles Brings to the Board Nicolas Gheysens Non-Executive Director of Pets Investment executive at Strategic business, Non-Executive Director at Home since 2011 Sagard Private Equity financial and corporate 2002-2004 finance expertise.
Director of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts Appointment to the Board & Co. Partners LLP and responsible Investment banking analyst at Pets 2016 for retail industry coverage in Europe Goldman Sachs International Noix Committees 2000-2002 Member of the Boards of Directors Nomination & Governance of Flowstream, SMCP, Webhelp, Meetings attended Winoa, and The Hut observer 2 2 Current roles Past roles Brings to the Board Louise Stonier Chief People and Legal Officer and Associate in the corporate Legal knowledge Chief People and Legal Officer Company Secretary of Pets at Home team at DLA Piper LLP from and expertise.
Group since 2017 20002004 Pets Committees Joined Pets at Home as Legal Solicitor at CMS Cameron Skye Director and Company Secretary McKenna from 19972000 Meetings attended in 2004 9 9 Chair and Trustee of the charity Support Adoption For Pets Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71
