Retail Portfolio review Our results Actions and outcomes Focus for 2016 17 Progress in 2016 17 Focus for 2017 18 1 Outperform IPD The total return Outperforming IPD 0.8% sector benchmark of the Retail sector benchmark Valuation deficit Portfolio was 4.7% Growing like-for-like outperforming net rental income its IPD sector Progressing lettings benchmark at 1.1% at Westgate Oxford: 4.7% Selly Oak, Ungeared total property Progress lettings at Westgate Oxford Birmingham: returnoutperformed its Westgate Oxford: 68% pre-let: Selly and the Plaza IPD Quarterly Universe sector Selly Oak, Oak 73% pre-let: reconfiguration benchmark at 1.1% Birmingham: and and White Rose at Bluewater the White Rose, leisure extension Progressing Leeds leisure 100% let the Plaza extension reconfiguration at 15m Bluewater to time Investment lettings and budget Resolution to grant Planning consent Successfully planning consent at at Worcester launching Westgate Worcester Woods Woods rejected Oxford after achieving practical 4m Achieve planning Planning consent for completion on time Development lettings consent and Glow space at and on budget progress lettings for Bluewater achieved.
Integrating the three Glow space at Space 69% pre-let newly acquired Bluewater, Kent outlet centres 2.8% Further developing Progress to time and Westgate Oxford on Like-for-like voids the Community budget at our time and budget 31 March 2016: 2.0% Employment committed Programme beyond developments its current focus on construction with Expand the Expanded the 75 people being 0.4% Community Community supported into jobs Units in administration: Employment Employment in retail 31 March 2016: 0.5% Programme to other Programme to Improving energy retail sites StDavids, Cardiff: management in 1.
White Rose: and support of 2030 Gunwharf Quays, corporate Portsmouth and commitments secured employment for 49 candidates 50 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Its been a productive year in our Retail business.
Inachallenging retail and economic environment, weve delivered a good set ofresults.
Scott Parsons Managing Director, Retail Portfolio Landsec Annual Report 2017 51 Despite uncertainty in the wider market, retail Develop We went into the destinations that provide consumers with a Our Westgate Oxford development with great experience held up well.
The Crown Estate is on time and on budget year with a portfolio Retailers and consumers use of online for opening in October 2017.
Weve made well matched to the retailing continues to influence demand for good progress on lettings with 80% of the physical space, and inflation is now putting scheme now pre-let or in solicitors hands.
evolving needs and pressure on consumer spending.
However, weve The latest brands to sign up include Uniqlo, expectations of our continued to see good demand for the best Cath Kidston, Levis and Molton Brown.
Weve space in the right locations.
also invested to ensure the sustainability of customers.
the development, including extending our Buy Community Employment Programme so local Our acquisitions during the year were limited to a disadvantaged people will continue to benefit small number of properties adjacent to space we from job opportunities after the centre opens.
Since the year end, weve acquired a At Selly Oak, Birmingham, 91% of the portfolio of three outlet centres for 333m, which, retail is either pre-let or in solicitors hands, alongside our existing outlet centres at Gunwharf demonstrating occupier support for this Quays, Portsmouth, and The Galleria, Hatfield, potential retail and student housing scheme.
establishes our position as the leading ownermanager of outlets in the UK.
Manage This year weve secured 15m of investment lettings.
Our like-for-like portfolio is virtually full, with voids of just 2.8% and a weighted average lease term of 8.2 years.
We have strong relationships with vibrant customers, from groundbreaking start-ups to global brands.
Trinity Leeds continues to be the beating heart of the city and weve brought new brands to the centre including Lindt, Cte Brasserie and Indian street food operator Mowgli.
Were also creating an upsized unit for New Look and expanding the centres vibrant leisure offer with two new operators.
At White Rose, Leeds, the demise of BHS enabled us to deliver a 55,000 sq ft Next store, doubling its previous space.
We also upsized space for JD Sports, Pandora, Schuh and Holland & Barrett.
Construction of our leisure extension is now complete and fully let, with the six new restaurants and IMAX cinema units being fitted out to open later this year.
At Gunwharf Quays, Portsmouth, we introduced Armani and Coach to build on the centres strong aspirational offer.
We also opened one of the first Under Armour athleisure outlet stores in the UK.
At Bluewater, Kent, we delivered a 40,000 sq ft flagship for H&M, who had outgrown their existing unit.
Weve continued to broaden the wide range of retail brands on offer, with eight new openings including Mint Velvet and Michael Kors, and upgraded stores for LK Bennett and Jigsaw.
Online retailer Missguided also committed to Bluewater.
We started construction of the Plaza leisure reconfiguration this year and expect to complete by December.
The project enables us to bring new leisure operators to Bluewater and the scheme is 80% pre-let or in solicitors hands, with Showcase taking a lease for a four screen extension.
Weve also continued to invest in the Learning Shop, which connects retailers and local unemployed people.
52 Landsec Annual Report 2017 Strategic Report Throughout the year, we developed new Outlook Key indicators relationships and ideas to keep the customer Current uncertainty and rising costs will experience fresh and exciting.
For example, we continue to affect consumer confidence and attracted on trend operators out of central retailers readiness to invest and expand.
As 1.6% London and into regional locations, including a result, we expect letting activity to larger Footfall in our shopping centres was Dirty Bones and SticksnSushi at Westgate.
occupiers of retail space and leisure operators down 1.6% national benchmark We brought Mercedes into St Davids, Cardiff, to slow in the year ahead.
However, we believe down 2.5% and Buchanan Galleries, Glasgow.
Cycle brand that the best physical stores will play a critical Ribbles pop-up at St Davids was so successful role for retailers, not least in enabling them to 1.7% theyre looking at more sites.
In total, we create memorable brand experiences and to Same centre non-food retail sales, brought 150 pop-up stores and kiosk operators engage with their customers.
Internet sales taking into account new lettings and into our assets this year.
provide competition to physical space, but were occupier changes, were up 1.7% Our retail parks are well matched to also seeing opportunities to help brands develop national benchmark for same customers needs and remain 100% let.
Well remain alert to centre physical store non-food retail sales down 1.9%: national leisure parks are 99% let and are all anchored buying opportunities over the next 12 months, benchmark for all retail sales, by the dominant cinema for their catchment, but our focus will be on enhancing the space including online, up 0.3% providing a broad, family-friendly entertainment and offer at our most successful destinations, and food offer.
launching Westgate Oxford in October and 1.1% successfully integrating the three new outlet Sell Same store non-food retail sales centres into the portfolio.
Disposals totalled 219m during the year.
We were down 1.1% national benchmark for same store sold the Ealing Filmworks development site to physical store non-food retail a residential developer, crystallising an element sales down 2.2% of the development profit up front, without risk.
As we continue our focus on family-orientated leisure assets, we sold our two drinks-led 10.3% city centre leisure schemes, The Printworks, Retailers rent to sales ratio in our Manchester, and The Cornerhouse, Nottingham.
portfolio was 10.3%, with total occupancy costs including rent, And since the year end, weve sold our 50% rates, service charges and insurance interest in Clapham Shopstop, SW11 to our representing 17.6% of sales former joint venture partner.
In February 2016, Accor exercised its right to break the leases on seven of their 29 hotels.
All seven hotels have since been sold at a premium to their investment values and the remaining Accor leases, where breaks werent exercised, now extend to 2031.
Net rental income Net rental income reduced by 14m from 329m to 315m.
This was largely due to disposals since 1 April 2015.
These include The Cornerhouse, Nottingham and The Printworks, Manchester both sold in the current year and retail parks in Gateshead, Dundee and Derby, a leisure park in Maidstone and a supermarket in Crawley, all sold in the second half of last year.
The increase in our like-for-like portfolio of 6m is due to a combination of new lettings, improved turnover performance and a reduction in bad debt provisions compared to last year.
1 Net rental income Table 27 31 March 31 March 2017 2016 Change m m m Like-for-like investment properties 295 289 6 Proposed developments Development programme 1 1 Completed developments Acquisitions since 1 April 2015 2 1 1 Sales since 1 April 2015 9 28 19 Non-property related income 9 10 1 Net rental income 315 329 14 1.
