A snapshot of our progress Service and convenience matters Products, veterinary care and grooming services all under one roof.
Stores with vet practice and grooming salon % 53% 24% profit increase in a maturestore with services, compared to a store alone c. 450,000 VIP members using vet or grooming services Pets at Home Group Plc 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Overview Going from strength to strength Growing the number of stores with both vetand grooming services is central toourstrategy By creating a store with A customer who shops online products, a vet practice or in our stores but does anda grooming salon, notuse any services spends alongside our website with around 140 a year.
Whilst additional products that acustomer who also uses canbe delivered to home ourvet and grooming services ortoour stores, we give pet will spend over 180 on owners access to everything products, plus an additional they need.
This reflects the increased loyalty and shopping frequency of services customers.
Read more strategy in action on pages 2225 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 7 A snapshot of our progress A better customer experience Offering our customers unmatched product range and seamless omnichannel convenience.
Online orders collected by customers in store c. 50% 53% increase in online revenues 3 omnichannel initiatives launched in the year F Y16 comparative information presented on a 52 week basis.
For reconciliation to a 53week statutory basis see page 179.
Pets at Home Group Plc 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Overview Online investment delivering results Major customer initiatives during the year Order online with Switch & Save calculator ourcolleagues Our online calculator allows Our colleagues can now place customers to see whether they an order for all the products are getting the best deal on in our extended online range their dog food.
In four simple from their PetPads.
This gives steps, customers can check store customers easy access how much they could save by to even more of our range, switching to our Wainwrights and AVA private label foods.
with assistance and advice from our expert colleagues.
First subscription service Exclusively for VIP members.
Subscribe & Save flea treatment allows customers to receive a single flea treatment through the post each month, which acts as aconvenient reminder to treat their dog or cat.
Read more strategy in action on pages 2225 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 9 A snapshot of our progress Expanding our specialist veterinary network Providing comprehensive veterinary services for our clients and their pets First opinion practices 149 289 438 In-store Standalone 4 Specialist referral centres Pets at Home Group Plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Overview Expanding our network of specialist referral centres Our aim is to achieve national coverage for specialist veterinary referrals The Group operates four First Opinion Division which specialist veterinary referral comprises the Vets4Pets and centres: Dick White Referrals, Companion Care Joint Venture Northwest Veterinary veterinary practices.
Specialists, Anderson Moores, and Eye Vet Although our entry into the Referrals.
Our aim is to market for specialist referrals create national coverage was by way of acquisition, byexpanding our presence we are now able to call inthis premium segment onthe experience of the ofthe veterinary market to founders of some of Europes upto 15specialist centres.
most respected veterinary referral clinics to advise To manage this growth we onour growth strategy.
We have implemented a divisional expect to achieve our goals structure within the Vet Group, through a combination of creating a new Specialist greenfield openings and Division alongside the existing further acquisitions.
Read more strategy in action on pages 2225 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11
