Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report for the 52 week period ended 24 March 2017.
The FCAs Listing Rules and Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules also require the Company to make certain disclosures, some of which have been included in other appropriate sections of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The following are incorporated into the Directors Report by reference: Future Developments in the Business 4-7 Corporate Governance Report 22-24 Employment policy and employee involvement 10 Directors responsibility statements 53 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 11 Financial instruments 78-80 The Strategic Report can be found on pages 1 to 17 and is Directors incorporated by reference and deemed to form part of this Biographies of the serving Directors of the Company are report.
The Strategic Report includes information on the provided on pages 20 and 21 of this Report.
They all served on principal risks and uncertainties facing the business.
the Board throughout the year.
In addition, Lord Bilimoria served on the Board during the year until his retirement on 6 July 2016 Ordinary Dividends and Bryn Satherley served on the Board until his resignation on An interim ordinary dividend of 0.63 pence per share was paid 1 April 2016. on 25 November 2016.
The Directors have recommended a final ordinary dividend of 4.97 pence per ordinary share, being payable Appointment and Retirement of Directors on 7 July 2017 to shareholders on the register of members at the Subject to applicable law, from time to time the Board may close of business on 9 June 2017, giving a total ordinary dividend appoint any person to be a Director.
Under the Articles, any for the year of 5.60 pence per ordinary share 2016: 4.60 pence.
such Director shall hold office only until the next AGM and shall then be eligible for election.
The Articles require that at each Special Dividend AGM at least one-third of the Board should retire as Directors Since 2014, the Company has annually returned capital to by rotation, however, in accordance with the recommendations shareholders by way of a B Share Scheme.
This year the of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will retire Company will not be proposing a return of capital by way of a and offer themselves for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
B Share Scheme but instead is proposing a return of value to shareholders by way of a special dividend.
The Directors have Directors and Officers Liability Insurance recommended a special dividend of 3.02 pence per ordinary The Company maintains appropriate directors and officers share, being payable on 7 July 2017 to shareholders on the liability insurance in respect of itself and its Directors and register of members at the close of business on 9 June 2017, Officers.
The Directors may also be indemnified in accordance at a cost of approximately 54m based on the issued share with the Companys Articles of Association and to the maximum capital of the Company at the date of this report.
extent permitted by law, although no such indemnities are currently in place.
The insurance does not, and any indemnities Interests of Directors in Contracts if granted would not, provide cover where the relevant Director During the period, no Director had any material interest in any or Officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
significant contract to which the Company or any subsidiary was a party.
Share Capital As at 24 March 2017, the Companys share capital consisted of Changes of Control 1,781,960,633 issued and fully paid Ordinary Shares with a nominal All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating value of 1 pence per share and 4,135,800 Redeemable Preference to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards normally Shares with a nominal value of 3.2 pence per share.
The rights vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to and obligations attaching to these shares are contained in the the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
The Companys Articles of Association.
Each Ordinary Share carries Company is not a party to any other significant agreements that the right to one vote on a poll, and to attend and speak at a general take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following meeting of the Company, to appoint proxies to exercise full voting a takeover bid other than its bank facility agreement, which rights and to participate in any distribution of income or capital.
provides that on a change of control the lender shall not be There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding obliged to fund a utilisation except for a rollover loan and, if it so of the Ordinary Shares or the Redeemable Preference Shares, nor requires, may cancel its commitment and declare its participation are there any requirements for prior approval for their transfer.
The in all outstanding utilisations immediately due and payable.
Redeemable Preference Shares carry no rights save for the right of Furthermore, the Company is not party to any agreement with redemption in accordance with the Articles of Association.
the Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported The Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of relevant legislation, the Articles of redundancy or otherwise that occurs as a result of a takeover bid other than with Charles Wilson, in that in the event of a change of Association and any directions given by the Company in general meeting, including those in relation to the issue and buy-back of control of the Company, Charles Wilson has the right to terminate his employment on 30 days notice and to receive a payment equal shares.
At each Annual General Meeting, the shareholders are requested to renew the Directors powers to allot securities in to his gross salary for his contractual notice period.
On completion of the proposed merger with Tesco and change of control of the the Company up to the value specified in the notice of meeting and to renew the Directors powers to allot securities without the Company, Charles Wilson has agreed to waive his right to terminate his employment.
application of pre-emption rights up to the value specified in the notice of meeting in accordance with the Articles of Association.
18 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance At the Annual General Meeting held in 2016, the Company was granted authority by shareholders to purchase up to 177.3 million Ordinary Shares, representing less than 10%, of the Companys ordinary share capital as at 26 May 2016.
No Ordinary Shares were purchased pursuant to this authority during the year.
In accordance with current best practice, the Company will seek to renew this authority at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
1 Substantial Share Interests As at 24 March 2017, the Company had been notified, in accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, of the following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights in the issued share capital of the Company: Number of % of ordinary voting Nature of 2 Shares rights holding Ameriprise Financial Inc 133,470,168 7.49 Direct Indirect Charles Wilson 108,241,986 6.07 Direct Schroders plc 85,864,499 4.82 Direct Indirect AXA Investment Managers S. A.
84,887,406 4.76 Indirect Artemis Investment Management LLP 76,526,351 4.29 Direct Norges Bank 73,061,050 4.10 Direct Aviva plc 53,566,047 3.01 Direct Indirect Notes: 1.
W here the Company has been informed that the threshold for notification is 5 per cent in accordance with DTR 5.1.
5, interests below this threshold are not included in this table.
Correct at date of notification to the Company.
S ubsequent to year end, J. P. Morgan Securities Plc have disclosed information in accordance with DTR 5 on seven occasions.
The most recent being 10 May 2017, disclosing their holding to be below their minimum notification threshold.
Ethical Code External Auditor Details of the Groups Ethical Code can be found at www.
As more fully described in the Audit Committee report, following bookergroup.
the announcement on 27 January 2017 that we were intending to merge with Tesco to create the UKs leading food business, Political Donations the Board has concluded that the Companys best interests would be served by maintaining the status quo and ensuring The Company did not make any political donations or incur any stability until completion of the merger.
Accordingly, we have political expenditure during the year.
agreed to, subject to shareholder approval, retain KPMG LLP Disability KPMG as the Companys External Auditor until completion of the merger with Tesco.
Should the merger not complete, The Group is an equal opportunities employer.
Applications the Company would then look to re-tender the external audit for employment and promotion of disabled persons are engagement.
treated on the same basis as those from other applicants.
The Groups policy is to provide opportunities for the training, This report was approved by the Board of Directors on career development and promotion of disabled persons and 17 May 2017. to seek to continue the employment of, and to arrange training for, employees who have become disabled during the period when they were employed by the Group.
Mark Chilton Amendment of Articles of Association Company Secretary The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Disclosure of Information to External Auditor Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys External Auditor is unaware and that he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys External Auditor is aware of that information.
