24 Strategic Report Our values make us different In a highly competitive industry, where price can often dominate the conversation, our values differentiate us from our competitors, strengthen our relationships with suppliers, colleagues and other stakeholders, and provide guiding principles that enable our teams to do their best work.
To achieve our vision to be the most trusted affecting our global supply chain.
We know retailer, where people love to work and that our commitment to sustainable business shop, at a time when trust in business and and our values helps us to attract and retain institutions is generally low, our values are top talent too according to our 2016 17 Our values are the thread more important than ever.
We must live up Talkback survey, 80 per cent of colleagues running through every part to them through the choices we make across trust us to do the right thing for the world of our business.
Whether its our business, so that we can play a leading we live in.
role in tackling some of the challenges facing making it easier to choose Our Sustainability Plan publicly sets out our households and society.
healthier products, orsaving ambitions across our values, and provides For example, we are transparent about our the measurement framework to track money and reducing food economic contribution to the UK, such as our progress.
Also, by supporting the UN waste at home were how much tax we pay, as well as how much Sustainable Development Goals, we aim to we pay our colleagues.
In 2016 17, we paid contribute to the creation of a fairer, more always looking for ways 1 1.9 billion in tax and were ranked 7th for sustainable and prosperous society in the to make life better for our taxes borne in the PwC 2016 Total Taxes UK and internationally in places where our customers while also doing Contribution survey of the 100 Group.
We business can make a positive difference.
also want to help our customers to live well the right thing for our Following the acquisition of Home Retail for less whether that is through providing colleagues, shareholders, Group plc owner of Argos and Habitat solutions for how to live a healthier life, in September 2016, we have begun work to theplanet and society.
and waste less food, or by playing our part develop an integrated Sustainability Plan in helping the UK become a better place to Mike Coupe Chief Executive Officer, for the new Sainsburys Group.
As this work work and live.
JSainsbury plc is still underway, the information on the As well as building trust among our following pages focuses on the progress customers, our Sustainability Plan drives Sainsburys has made against our existing efficiencies and helps us reduce our Sustainability Plan.
We are working to operating costs, for example, by using less review targets and programmes across electricity and natural resources.
It is also our business and will share further details one of the ways that we manage risk across in the coming year.
For example, elements of our 1 D uring the year ended March 2017 the Sainsburys Group Sourcing with integrity commitments help including HRG companies post acquisition paid 1.9 billion 2015 16: 1.7 billion to the UK Government, of which 927 million us to protect security of supply of key raw 2015 16: 890 million was borne by Sainsburys and the remaining materials at risk due to climate change 1 billion 2015 16: 822 million was collected on behalf of our colleagues, customers and suppliers.
50 Our key suppliers, producers and more than 80% 50 independent organisations have been involved in the peer review of sustainability standards for 80% of our colleagues trust our key raw materials.
us to do the right thing for the world we live in Read more on page 30 Strategic Report 25 Find out more about our values Sourcing with integrity page 30 Making a positive Respect for our difference to our environment community page 34 page 28 Living healthier A great place lives to work page 26 page 38 26 Strategic Report Living healthier lives We want to help our customers to live well and Our commitments living well starts with eating well.
Our customers can trust that they can always choose nutritious and healthy food when they More than half of adults in the UK are overweight or obese, increasing shop with us.
their risk of a range of health problems, including heart disease, diabetes and stroke.
What well do How we measure 2015 16 2016 17 2020 target our progress As one of the UKs leading food retailers, we have an important role to Well improve the Healthy products 41% 42% 45% play in providing customers with healthy, accessible food options that healthy balance of sold as a fit in with their lifestyles and their budgets.
our customers food proportion oftotal 1 baskets sales volume We offer a wide range of healthy and nutritious food products, 1 W e measure this through the proportion of products in our customers baskets that are defined as created by a team of dedicated product developers, product healthy based on the products multiple traffic light MTL ratings around salt, sugar, fat and saturates.
We continually reformulate our own-brand products to make them healthier and we aim to We reformulate our products to reduce salt, sugar, fat and saturated make it easy for our customers to make the right choices for them by fats.
This year, we removed more than three tonnes over 700,000 offering a varied range of products, including many appealing options teaspoons of salt from our canned corned beef products to meet for those with allergies and intolerances.
We also make it easier for the Governments 2017 salt targets without impacting taste or customers to add more fruit and vegetables in their diets through flavour.
Our own-brand breakfast cereal range was reformulated to product innovation and inspire kids to get active and lead healthier meet the 2017 Public Health England guidelines on sugar and salt lives through our Active Kids scheme.
reduction: they now meet the average 2017 salt targets, with 100 per cent below the maximum target.
We have reduced sugar across We engage our suppliers in our approach on health, for example the range by an average of 13 per cent, exceeding the Governments through training and articles in our Working Together magazine.
2017 targets of a five per cent reduction.
We have also removed all illustrated characters from our breakfast cereal range as part of our We have always led the way in helping our customers make informed commitment to responsibly market products to children.
We were the first UK food retailer to introduce front of pack traffic light labelling in 2005 and one of the first retailers to set In addition to the 37 tonnes of sugar we removed from our own-brand stretching targets for salt reduction in our own-brand products.
Our fruit yogurts range in 2015, we removed 36 tonnes of sugar from our allergen-free range is clearly colour coded to highlight the allergens Taste the Difference yogurts and other own-brand yogurt products, that they are free from.
In 2014, we became the first UK retailer to representing a reduction of up to nearly 20 per cent across these include calorie labelling on our own-brand alcohol products, along products.
with clear and consistent front of pack alcohol by volume ABV on our own-brand wine.
We changed the recipe for our in-store doughnuts and cookies, removing 75 tonnes of sugar and 204 tonnes of fat, including 70 tonnes of saturated fat, and a potential 1.5 billion calories from customer baskets.
Our cafs now use semi-skimmed milk in our hot and cold beverages, unless the customer specifically requests whole milk, potentially saving a further 58.5 tonnes of fat and 0.5 billion calories annually from customer diets.
Many of our customers suffer from food allergies, but do not want to miss out on healthy and tasty food choices.
In 2016 17, based on customer feedback, we improved and doubled our allergen-free range, re-branding it as Deliciously FreeFrom.
The new product range uses market-leading product innovation to offer 97 allergen-free options, from everyday staples like bread to treats such as cakes and cookies.
We also launched white and seeded gluten free bread batons, farmhouse loaves and rolls baked fresh in our stores a result of a long and intense product development process.
We offer prepared vegetable products that not only make it easier for customers to eat more vegetables, but also help them save on cooking time.
We have introduced courgetti, butternut squash boodles, cauliflower rice as well as butternut squash and courgette lasagne sheets.
We added new product lines in 2017, including 173m butternut squash waffles and sweet potato tagliatelle.
Our broccoli rice and boodles not only taste great but help us reduce food waste invested in activities for kids of all abilities by using up more of every vegetable and making use of wonky veg since 2005 too see page 33.
Strategic Report 27 We will encourage kids to live a healthy, balanced lifestyle.
What well do How we measure 2015 16 2016 17 2020 target our progress Well continue to Total investment 161m 173m 200m develop our Active in our Active Kids 36 Kids scheme, scheme investing 200 We removed 36 tonnes of sugar from 1 million in activities our Taste the Difference yogurts and other for kids of all abilities own-brand yogurt products 1 Target to invest 200m between 2005 and 2020.
At the heart of the UKs obesity crisis lies the concerning statistic that in the UK, by the time children leave primary school, one in three is overweight and one in five is obese.
Our commitment to helping children to lead healthy, active lives is well known we have been encouraging children, regardless of ability or impairment, to get active and lead healthier lives for the last 11 years with our Active Kids scheme.
The initiative emphasises We have doubled our allergen-free Deliciously both calories in and calories out, helping children to understand FreeFrom range.
the importance of diet and exercise.
We use cooking competitions, teacher training, ambassador endorsements and education campaigns to inspire kids to eat and live well.
Through Active Kids, schools and community clubs can redeem Sainsburys Active Kids vouchers in return for sports and cooking equipment and experiences.
In 2016 17, we introduced the Active Kids Paralympic Challenge, which offered specialist sports equipment to more than 8,000 schools to get kids to try four Paralympic sports.
We also published research into the barriers faced by 11-14 year olds that prevent them from leading healthier lifestyles.
Our prepared vegetable range, including butternut squash waffles, sweet potato tagliatelle and broccoli rice, helps customers to eat more vegetables and save on cooking time, while also enabling us to make the most of products that might otherwise have gone to waste.
boodles made from butternut squashes that we would otherwise not be able to sell.
broccoli rice uses 20 per cent stalk and 80 per cent floret saving 42 tonnes of product that would have gone to waste.
28 Strategic Report Making a positive difference to our community Our commitments Our stores are at the centre of local communities, We will support our local communities in relevant helping customers live well for less.
But our support 2 and impactful ways and donate over 400m to goes beyond what we sell.
Our colleagues help us charitable causes by 2020. build meaningful relationships with our customers What well do How we measure 2015 16 2016 17 2020 target and communities, positively impacting those in our progress need through fundraising, volunteering, donations We will continue to Number of stores 1,240 1,286 All stores and by building awareness.
develop our Local supporting their 90% of 92% of 3 Charity of the Year LocalCharity stores stores programme.
ofthe Year In 2016 17, we generated over 53 million for charities, communities partner through 1 and good causes.
Our longstanding national partnerships with Comic awareness-raising, Relief and The Royal British Legion helped us engage our customers fundraising and volunteering to give to good causes.
We improved the way customers vote as part of our Local Charity of the Year programme, and saw a dramatic 1 I ncludes corporate donations to national charities such as Comic Relief Sport Relief and The Royal British increase in participation.
Our award-winning Payroll Giving systems Legion, funds raised by customers and colleagues in our stores for local charity partners, and investment in community programmes such as Active Kids.
made it easy for our colleagues to donate to causes they support.
2 We aim to donate 400m between 2011 and 2020.
We also became an official partner of Oxfams Emergency Response 3 A s we continue to grow our estate we have moved to include the percentage of stores participating in these schemes, for ease of comparison year-on-year.
These numbers reflect local charity partners across Network which provides an effective channel through which we can our supermarket and convenience stores.
respond to disasters and humanitarian crises around the world.
In 2016 17, we generated over 53 million for charities, communities and good causes, through the efforts of our customers and colleagues, taking our total to 265 million since 2011.
The efforts of our customers and colleagues allowed us to support over 3,400 charity partnerships, across Comic Relief, The Royal British Legion and Oxfam, Local Charity of the Year programme and our front and back of store food donation partnerships, delivering muchneeded services on a local, national and international level.
Our partnership with Comic Relief raised nearly 12 million for the charitys Red Nose Day campaign this year, supporting their work to help those in need in the UK, Africa and India.
We also celebrated 22 years of our partnership with The Royal British Legion RBL to Fundraising and support current members and veterans of the forces, raising over 3.1 million.
We are the exclusive retailer of RBL poppy seeds to volunteering at Argos increase the number of wild poppy fields to commemorate the centenary of the end of the First World War in 2018.
During 2016 17, Argos colleagues and customers raised more than 900,000 for Macmillan Cancer Support Our annual Christmas advertising campaign raised more than and the Irish Cancer Society.
The funds are being used 500,000 for the Great Ormond Street Hospital through merchandise to help the charities ensure that no one faces cancer sales and customer donations.
We engaged 8,000 schools as part of alone.
As part of our colleagues contribution, they ran our support for Paralympics GB, donating kits to encourage children collections in stores and participated in Macmillans to understand and participate in inclusive sports.
We also supported flagship event, the Worlds Biggest Coffee Morning.
Oxfams disaster relief and humanitarian efforts and were named as an official partner to their Emergency Response Network.
In addition to our national partnerships, we continued to deliver great impact at a local level.
Since 2009, we have donated more than 11 million for good causes through our Local Charity of the Year programme.
Not only is this hugely beneficial for local communities this year we expect to raise 2 million for more than 1,200 local charity partnerships but it is a great engagement tool for customers and colleagues alike.
Charities are initially shortlisted by our in-store teams, before the vote opens to customers, colleagues and the wider community.
Thanks to refreshed and focused communications, we received an unprecedented 1.9 million votes, an increase of 440 per cent from last year.
Strategic Report 29 To better understand our impact through this programme, we sent 4 a survey to our 2015 16 local charity partners.
Every Sainsburys local charity partnership offers a different mix of money, volunteering time, food donations and support as needed.
We have carried out research Each year, a large number of our into the social return on our charitable activities and early results poppy collectors are welcomed suggest that the programme delivered an equivalent of 11 worth of into Sainsburys stores across social impact for every 1 of investment.
From these initial findings we also know we impacted over 360,000 people, across a variety of the country, raising money and causes, including community and neighbourhood and health.
awareness for our Poppy Appeal We saw an increase in our colleague volunteering through our Local and the Legions work to help the Heroes programme, which sees us donate 5 for every hour that British Armed Forces, younger and colleagues volunteer in their own time.
This resulted in nearly 76,500 older veterans and their families being donated across a broad spectrum of charities and community groups throughout 2016 17.
Our colleagues also donated over half a to live on to a more hopeful future.
million pounds through the Payroll Giving scheme to support causes Were thrilled with the high level of they care about.
We are delighted that our scheme was externally support from Sainsburys and are recognised, with two wins from Payroll Giving Awards, including one for the Most Successful Sustained Scheme, which recognised our extremely grateful for our growing 27 years of support.
Our colleagues were also recognised for their relationship.
continued support of Community Alcohol Partnerships to encourage responsible drinking.
Claire Rowcliffe, Director of Fundraising, 4 W e surveyed 2015 16 Local Charity of the Year partners rather than those taking part in the 2016 17 The Royal British Legion programme to gather data from those who had completed a full years partnership.
3,400 53m Supporting more than 3,400 over 53 million generated for charities charity partnerships and good causes 12m nearly 12 million raised for Comic Reliefs Red Nose Day campaign 30 Strategic Report Sourcing with integrity Our vision is to be the most trusted retailer where Our commitments people love to work and shop.
That means staying We will source our key raw materials sustainably to an independent standard.
true to our values and aligning our strategy with the UN Sustainable Development Goals to ensure we What well do How we measure 2015 16 2016 17 2020 target our progress build a business that plays its part for the long term.
Each of our key Number of key 20 standards 35 standards Independent Customers care about where products they buy come from and they raw materials raw materials in development developed sustainability is sourced with sustainability standards for put their trust in us to make the right decisions on their behalf.
This is sustainably to standards all key raw why sourcing with integrity is key to our work with farmers, growers an independent materials standard and suppliers in the UK and around the world.
From our Research & Quantity of raw To date 13 This is in Sustainability Development and Ethical Trade conferences with almost 300 and over materials sourced have been pilot stage.
standards 120 attendees respectively, our Farmer Development Groups with from supply chains peer reviewed Standards in operation working within by external for 31raw in all of the almost 2,000 members, our technical directors forum of our 36 top our independent organisations materials value chains suppliers through to our quarterly digital Working Together magazine sustainability and one is have been of our key raw 1 going out to over 3,500 recipients, we collaborate specifically and standards currently peer reviewed materials being piloted and one is engage broadly with a wide network of stakeholders.
currently being piloted in In 2016 17, we continued to build on the number of key raw materials Thailand and that are sourced according to an independent sustainability standard.
Palm oil and timber are We were named the Best Sustainable Seafood Supermarket in independently the world by the Marine Stewardship Council MSC.
We sold more certified Fairtrade products than any other retailer around the world and we 1 O ur focus has been on authoring, securing independent peer reviews and developing self-assessment continued to strengthen our measures to prevent the exploitation tools for our standards.
We will share our progress as we pilot and roll out across our value chains.
of vulnerable workers in our extended value chains.
We are committed to sourcing our key raw materials according We know much work lies ahead.
But we are on track to help our to independently peer reviewed sustainability standards by 2020. customers, suppliers, farmers and growers live better today, These raw materials are key to our business, have significant social tomorrow and in the future.
and environmental impacts and matter to our customers and wider stakeholders.
Our approach is to develop our own standards that build upon and give credit to existing independent third-party standards.
Standards for 15 raw materials are ready to pilot, in addition to one already ISEALs assessment of the Sainsburys being piloted in Thailand and Belize.
The remainder are in final Sustainability Standards programme stages of development and peer review with our chosen subject matter experts.
Our key suppliers, producers and more than 50 of work shows positive progress independent organisations such as UNICEF, Care International, Ethical to date, with recommendations Tea Partnership and Solidaridad Network have been involved in the peer review.
We are also working with ISEAL, the global Sustainability for improvement.
The Sainsburys Standards membership body, to evaluate our standards.
Sustainability Standards programme is now taking steps to achieve We are working to ensure that our own-brand products do not contribute to deforestation: 98 per cent of the palm oil in our ownfull ISEAL membership, with the brand products is independently certified sustainable, and we associated compliance requirements.
are continuing work to certify the final two per cent.
In addition, 93 per cent of the wood we use comes from recycled, Forest ISEAL Alliance 2017 Stewardship Council FSC or Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification PEFC certified sources with full chain of custody.
For palm oil and timber, our goal is to maintain our current performance, address pockets of opportunity and contribute to improving standards.
We are also working with our suppliers and external partners to measure and map our soy usage part of our process to source deforestation-free soy.
Strategic Report 31 Our own-brand fish will be independently We are committed to selling products that are certified as sustainable.
fairly traded, investing in the sustainability of our suppliers, farmers, growers and workers What well do How we measure 2015 16 2016 17 2020 target within our supply chains internationally.
our progress All the wild Proportion of wild 70% 79% 100% What well do How we measure 2015 16 2016 17 2020 target caught fish caught seafood our progress 14 15 15 16 we sell will be sales which is 1 1 figures figures independently independently certified as certified as Well continue to Sales of fairly 290m 280m No target sustainable sustainable grow the sales traded products of fairly traded All farmed Proportion of 100% 100% 100% products in line fish will be farmed seafood with the business independently sales which is certified as independently 1 2016 17 Fairtrade sales will be available after Fairtrades external verification later this year.
sustainable certified as sustainable Fairtrade products ensure farmers and workers are paid a fair price and receive an additional sum of money paid on top of the According to the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation, 31 per cent Fairtrade minimum price to invest in social, environmental and of the worlds fish stocks have been fished beyond sustainable limits economic development projects to improve their businesses and SOFIA report, 2016.
We want to ensure that customers can enjoy the their communities.
products we carry with the confidence that they were sourced from sustainable fisheries.
In 2015 16, we sold over 280 million worth of Fairtrade products, in line with business sales, making us the worlds largest retailer Our goal is to have 100 per cent of our wild caught seafood sales of Fairtrade products.
Our 100 per cent Fairtrade bananas generate from certified sustainable sources by 2020.
We carry over 200 Marine a premium of 4 million per year for farming communities in the Stewardship Council MSC certified seafood products, comprising Dominican Republic, Colombia, St. Lucia and Ghana.
79 per cent of our sales currently.
In 2017 we were recognised by MSC for being the Best Sustainable Seafood Supermarket in the world, In addition to Fairtrade, just one of the projects that we are working having held the number one spot in the UK since records began in 2010. on with our partners is to improve the livelihoods of small-scale cashew nut farmers in Madagascar.
Through our work, farmers have We are investing in fisheries improvement projects for wild caught more than doubled the price they receive for their cashew crop.
In species that are currently outside the MSC programme such as tuna, the factory, the breakage rate has reduced by 36 per cent, resulting in squid and crayfish.
Our farmed salmon and trout are 100 per cent improved quality and better worker bonuses.
The first 30 small scale British and 100 per cent assured to RSPCAs welfare standards.
farmers have begun the process to secure land tenure, and we aim to support all associated farmer groups through the life of the project.
In December 2016, as part of our work to tackle modern slavery, we launched new training for our British farmers and growers to identify vulnerable or exploited workers.
It follows a successful pilot with our egg farmers to identify and address criminal or exploitative activities.
We also hosted our third annual Ethical Trade conference for over 120 of our key suppliers and stakeholders, which included a focus on the Modern Slavery Act and its reporting requirements.
For more information, read our 2016 17 Modern Slavery Statement.
1 We were recognised by MSC for being the Best Sustainable Seafood Supermarket in the world in 2017, having held the number one spot in the UK since 2010.
98% of the palm oil in our own-brand products is certified sustainable.
32 Strategic Report We will invest in the future of British farming Our meat, poultry, eggs and dairy products and be the leading retailer for British produce.
will be sourced from suppliers who adhere to independently verified higher animal health What well do How we measure 2015 16 2016 17 2020 target and welfare outcomes.
our progress 2 Well continue Number of 48 28 A fully What well do How we measure 2015 16 2016 17 2020 target to work with R&D projects developed our progress our farmer participation portfolio of and grower eitheras a project British farming Our meat, Proportion of sales Poultry 13% Poultry 12% Poultry 100% development lead or partner R&D which poultry, eggs and from independently Egg 100% Egg 100% Egg 100% groups to help delivers against dairy products verified higher Veal 100% Veal 100% Veal 100% them increase strategic Value of 10m 9m will be sourced animal health and productivity, priorities, investment for from suppliers welfare outcome whilst informed by the projects involving who adhere to sources reducing their Food & Farming Sainsburys in independently 3 environmental Strategy, and British farming verified higher impact fully integrated animal health and into the total welfare outcomes supply chain Animal welfare is important to our customers and it is important to 2 The value of investment over the lifetime of multi-year projects.
3 D ue to the multi-year nature of R&D projects and funding cycles we would expect the number our business.
High standards of animal welfare are good for animals of projects to fluctuate year-on-year.
and farm productivity and what is expected in our products.
Our own research has shown that supporting local, British producers We work hard to raise health and welfare standards in partnership is important to UK consumers.
We work to offer consumers a wide with leading experts across our supply chains and offer the widest selection of British products and partner with British farmers range of higher welfare food and cosmetics products of any retailer.
and growers to improve their productivity, while reducing their In 2016 17, we sold over 490 million worth of RSPCA assured environmental impacts.
products, and in 2016 we had more RSPCA assured products on shelf than any other UK retailer.
We were the first major supermarket to For example, we have worked closely with our farmers to make the only sell cage-free fresh eggs in 2009.
This winter, some of our freemost of the lambing season, and source 100 per cent British lamb range poultry, which includes chicken and turkey, were temporarily in the British season.
We are also the UKs largest retailer of English housed in barns to protect them from avian flu following guidance apples and pears.
from Government and industry bodies.
Our farmers and growers are our partners: investing in their business We monitor health and welfare measures at abattoirs across all meat benefits us too.
We have invested in 28 Research & Development species and we are working to further measure on-farm health and projects with a value of more than 9 million, focused on improving welfare outcomes through our sustainability standards.
Our Dairy agricultural productivity and reducing the environmental impacts and Cheese Development Groups are independently audited for of British farmers.
Through the year, we facilitated several farmer compliance with our Higher Herd Health standard.
Our chickens and workshops, including 27 regional workshops for our Beef and Dairy turkeys have health and welfare outcomes recorded during their Development Groups focused on soil health.
Our annual farming life on-farm and up to and including the point of slaughter.
We are conference focused on how farmers could use data to improve working closely with our farmers processing partners and steering productivity and support animal welfare.
group members to deliver our Sustainability Plan commitment of sourcing birds from 100% independently verified higher health and We also continued working with our Sainsburys Dairy Development welfare outcome flocks by 2020.
We are already starting to see the Group SDDG, which was set up in 2007 with the more than 270 benefits of expecting a high level of health and welfare at all stages farmers who supply 97% of our by Sainsburys own-brand milk, to of production and collaborating to create a continuous improvement improve herd health and efficiency, and reduce costs in our milk culture related to outcome measures.
The SDDG operates under a cost of production model, which was voted for by the majority of our farmers.
It sets the price We hosted 54 members of our Cheese Development Group for two Sainsburys pays for milk independently.
The model was introduced practical, on-farm workshops to help them address and measure in 2012 and ensures that our SDDG farmers receive a fair price for lameness in their herds, a key welfare outcome and challenge for their milk.
The overall goal of the group is to work in partnership with dairy cattle.
We worked with our Dairy Development Group to reduce our dairy farmers to deliver a sustainable sourcing model that drives the need for certain priority classes of antibiotics, leading to a production efficiencies through improved animal welfare and reduced voluntary withdrawal of these antibiotics part of our commitment environmental impact.
to ensure responsible medicine use within our supply chains.
We want to support the next generation of farmers.
Our Farm Tech We are continuing to progress our two industry leading Research and scholarship, delivered in partnership with Imperial College, is one Development projects to improve pig health and welfare outcomes of the first of its kind for a retailer.
It helps our farmers and growers in indoor production systems.
learn from experts and share best practice with each other.
Twelve new apprentices joined Sainsburys Agriculture and Horticulture Following this years Business Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare apprenticeship scheme this year.
The apprentices will gain practical results, we are assessing how we communicate our work to improve experience at Reaseheath College before they seek opportunities within animal health and welfare so we can bring our communications in line our grower and farmer base.
We also sponsored Open Farm Sunday, with the extensive industry-leading work that we carry out in this area.
which is managed by Linking Environment and Farming LEAF, an organisation that promotes sustainable agriculture, food and farming.
We worked with nine key farms to invite members of the public to learn about our good agricultural practices and sourcing criteria.
Strategic Report 33 As part of our broader commitment on reducing food waste, we work We will reduce and optimise our own-brand with suppliers to reduce food surplus and food waste in our supply packaging.
We source directly from farmers and growers which speeds What well do How we measure 2015 16 2016 17 2020 target up the journey from farm to shelf, giving food extra shelf life.
We use our progress 14 15 15 16 cutting-edge technology to forecast demand and have invested in figures figures Research & Development to help our farmers plan their crop cycles Reduce ownReduction in own- 31.5% 33% 50% more accurately.
This avoids having more product than we can sell.
brand packaging brand packaging by 50% compared since 2005 We aim to use as much of every product as possible for example, to 2005 we have developed boodles, noodles made from butternut squashes that we would otherwise not be able to sell, and our broccoli rice uses 2016 17 figures will be available in Q2 in line with subsequent external reporting commitments.
20 per cent stalk and 80 per cent floret saving 42 tonnes of product Since 2005, we have reduced our own-brand packaging across all of that would have gone to waste.
our ranges by almost 33 per cent, and we continue to work towards our target of a 50 per cent reduction by 2020.
For example, recently, In our General Merchandise and Clothing business, cotton is our we reduced the weight of our own-brand sherry bottles by 10 per cent, most important natural resource and forms the basis of many of saving us 79 tonnes of glass packaging.
Our cotton strategy will ensure that all of the cotton fibre used in our products originates from independently verifiable We are also working hard to make recycling easier for our customers.
Our membership of the Better We have changed the spray bottles we use within our cleaning Cotton Initiative underpins our cotton strategy and affirms our strong products so that the whole bottle including the trigger can now be commitment to promoting and supporting positive environmental, recycled.
Last year we sold over five million of these bottles and the social and economic change across the cotton value chain.
changes mean over 130 tonnes of additional plastic can now be easily The leather tanning process is water and chemically intensive, which recycled at the kerbside.
is why we are fully committed to strict environmental stewardship Packaging plays an important role in protecting food and ensuring it across our leather supply chain.
We are working to ensure that all the stays fresh and tasty.
We continue to introduce packaging that helps leather used in our own-brand products is certified to a recognised customers waste less food in their homes.
For example, our resealable international environmental standard by 2020, verified through large family packs of ham and our snap-pack Taste the Difference independent audit.
sausages allow customers to keep one half of the pack fresh in the fridge or even to store in the freezer and use at a later date.
We will For more information on how we are managing our environmental continue to innovate in this way to reduce waste from packaging and impact, see page 34. food in the home.
We will work with our key own-brand suppliers, farmers and growers to address the impact of our products.
12 What well do How we measure 2015 16 2016 17 2020 target our progress new apprentices joined Sainsburys Agriculture and Horticulture apprenticeship scheme this year Well work with Participation in Signatory at Involved No target and support our Courtland 2025 launch in 5 major key suppliers, workstreams, farmers and and supporting growers to help the WRAP them reduce supply chain waste and put it project to positive use road map development By 2050, the food supply chain could contribute two degrees to global warming.
We know that the majority of our environmental impacts occur in our supply chains.
As well as reducing our own environmental impacts, we want to work with our suppliers, farmers and growers to reduce the impacts associated with our products.
We were a founder signatory to the Courtauld Commitment in 2004 and have remained involved ever since.
Courtauld 2025, among other commitments, seeks to reduce the greenhouse gas emissions associated with food and drink consumed in the UK by 20 per cent and improve water stewardship in food and drink supply chains.
We work to protect critical water sources, and ensure that we maintain water quality and availability in our supply chains.
We work with partners such as Cranfield University to understand water vulnerability in our global supply chains, including the risk of water scarcity for fresh produce.
We are also part of multi-stakeholder activities in the Doana National Park in Spain and the East Anglian Water Stewardship Business Board and we fund and play an active role in the UK Water Partnership.
34 Strategic Report Respect for our environment We are committed to operating a sustainable Our commitments business, working closely with colleagues and We will work with our colleagues to reduce waste and put it to positive use.
suppliers to reduce our impact on the environment.
At the same time, we are also helping our customers What well do How we measure 2015 16 2016 17 2020 target our progress live more sustainably, most notably with our efforts We will work with Number of 638 45% of 970 68% of All stores to help them cut food waste at home.
1 our colleagues stores with Food stores stores to reduce waste DonationPartners Through our investment in sustainable operations and technologies, andput it to for surplus food positive use we have reduced emissions by 8.2 per cent this year, compared to 2015 16.
We are now using 11.6 per cent less electricity than we did in 1 T his figure is based on our total estate of convenience stores, supermarkets, depots and online fulfilment 2005 despite growing our store space by 54.2 per cent.
We are now reporting the percentage and total number of partnered stores.
of just three retailers worldwide to achieve an A rating in the 2016 17 FTSE 350 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index.
This year marked a significant milestone as we moved to transparent reporting of our operational food waste.
As one of only two major We have continued our work to keep food waste at a minimum retailers to do this, we are leading the way and have set a clear by ensuring supply chain efficiency, while growing our network of benchmark against which we can measure progress.
Our reporting charity partners to redistribute unsold food.
We also released our also acts as a shared goal for colleagues across the business to ensure inaugural food waste report, setting a public benchmark against that we are all working together to make a difference, while helping which we can measure future performance.
build trust and engage customers through projects such as Waste less, Save more.
Because we want to help make our customers lives better and easier, we look for ways to support them too.
We are investing in a five Our latest figures 2015 16 highlighted a 9.4 per cent reduction in year, 10 million Waste less, Save more initiative which is helping operational food waste driven in part by improved efficiencies customers to cut food waste and save money.
We are currently working to verify figures for 2016 17, which will be released later this year.
We are also working to As the UKs second largest grocery retailer, even small actions by refine our measurement process to further improve accuracy.
our 162,000 Sainsburys store colleagues can have a big collective impact.
We continue our work to be the Greenest Grocer by educating We were the first UK retailer to remove multi-buys on food products colleagues on how to grow our business while reducing our operational from our shelves helping customers avoid waste at home and carbon emissions.
We have also achieved our 2020 targets to reduce enabling us to forecast demand more accurately.
Our new strategy water use, driven largely by the introduction of waterless urinals of everyday low prices ensures we are well placed to give our across the business.
customers what they want, when they want it, so they can enjoy increased choice and flexibility while cutting down on waste.
These actions help us progress towards our vision of being the most trusted retailer, while improving the efficiency of our operations and We are also using data to make smarter predictions on the weekly minimising risks and disruption to our business.
requirements of seasonal products so we can stock up with the right amount.
This reduces surplus from seasonal items like burgers, sausages, salads and soft fruit, and helps suppliers better manage their production.
See page 33 for more information.
To minimise food waste, we are donating more unsold food to good causes than ever before by rapidly growing our charity network.
We now have 1,114 back of store food donation partnerships across 970 stores, which enable us to redistribute surplus food to those in need.
Eight out of ten of our supermarkets which tend to generate more surplus food than other store formats now have at least one charitable partner.
We partner with recycling companies to manage customer-recycling and donation facilities at our stores, and now have 271 stores with Sainsburys recycling containers.
Customers can also donate their mobile phones, clothing and books at Oxfam collection points in our car parks and our stores.
In 2016 17, we collected 5,461 tonnes of clothing over 16 million items and 527 tonnes of books, making us the biggest single supplier of items to Oxfam shops.
1,114 We now have 1,114 back of store food donation partnerships across 970 stores Strategic Report 35 We will invest 10 million to help our customers reduce their waste through our Waste less, Save more initiative.
We were the first UK retailer to What well do How we measure 2015 16 2016 17 2020 target remove multi-buys on food our progress products from our shelves We will invest 10 Investment Launch 1.7m 10m million to help our in Waste less, helping customers avoid waste at customers reduce Savemore home and enabling us to forecast their waste through our demand better.
Waste less, Save more initiative Paul Mills-Hicks, Food Commercial Director UK households throw away 7.3 million tonnes of food each year, accounting for 70 per cent of the UKs post-farm-gate total food waste.
So it is no surprise that in 2015, our customers told us that they wanted help cutting their own food waste.
Waste less, Save more our 10 million, five-year initiative to bring about behaviour change and help our customers tackle food waste 8.2% has gone from strength to strength.
This year, we completed our 12 month trial in Swadlincote, Derbyshire, where we initiated over We have reduced total operational carbon 20 trials, ranging from apps that weigh and report on food waste emissions by 8.2 per cent this year, to pioneering school programmes designed to engage young compared to 2015 16 people on the issue.
Our aim was to identify which tactics had the biggest impact on reducing food waste, and learn how they could be rolled out in more households.
We know that behaviour change programmes take time, but by trialling tools early on in the initiative, we can focus our efforts on the solutions that really work.
Our work in Swadlincote is being carried out in partnership with WRAP, which we are working with to evaluate the trial.
As part of our ongoing efforts to expand the impact of the programme, we have recruited eight Waste Warriors from our in-store colleague network to champion the project across the UK.
They have participated in some of the trials and are sharing what they have learned in their communities.
As promised, we are now delivering the next phase of the programme, rolling out successful solutions to some 130 Discovery Communities towns and cities across the UK that have signed up to tackle food waste.
To get them started, we have provided a handbook featuring lessons from Swadlincote and will also be making 1 million in grants available to support the roll-out of individual projects.
We will test and learn through our work in the Discovery Communities and ensure that the campaign reaches people outside these areas.
We will also publish our findings so that customers, communities and competitors can join the fight against food waste.
1m fridge thermometers given away to help customers cut food waste Many people still think that their unwanted clothes wont make a difference to charities, but at Oxfam we can reuse or recycle almost anything.
The items donated through Sainsburys raise millions, helping us continue our vital work to end extreme poverty around theworld.
Fee Gilfeather, Head of Retail Brand for Oxfam 36 Strategic Report In 2016 17, we increased the number of stores that use CO e in their We will reduce our operational carbon emissions 2 refrigeration to 246.
This transition helps reduce our use of ozoneby 30 per cent absolute and 65 per cent relative depleting refrigerant gases, such as  HCFC to 2005. or hydrofluorocarbons HFC, which can have a global warming potential that is 3,000 times higher than CO e. The new fridges are 2 What well do How we measure 2015 16 2016 17 2020 target our progress also more energy efficient.
Well continue Change in carbon Absolute Absolute 30% absolute We also became the first company in the world to trial a refrigerated to introduce emissions reduction: reduction: reduction delivery truck cooled by a liquid nitrogen powered engine, which proven and versus 2005 06 3.4% since 11.4% since next generation 2005 06 and 2005 06 and 65% relative will eliminate all emissions associated with refrigeration.
During the renewable 3.1% since 8.2% since reduction initial trial, the vehicle saved up to 1.6 tonnes of CO : the equivalent of 2 technologies 2014 15 2015 16 versus 2005 06 in our new and driving over 14,500 km in a modern family car that is, ten trips from Relative Relative existing stores reduction: Lands End to John OGroats.
We are now continuing to work with our reduction: to reduce our 42.5% since 6.9% since technology partner to get this innovative truck ready to market.
operational 2005 06 and 2005 06 and carbon emissions 8.9% since 4.7% since Through robust water stewardship we will 2015 16 2014 15 ensure that our business addresses and manages We have continued to make progress this year, with relative CO 2 all areas of water vulnerability.
emissions down by 8.9 per cent and absolute emissions falling by What well do How we measure 2015 16 2016 17 2020 target 8.2 per cent.
We are now using 11.6 per cent less electricity than we our progress did in 2005 despite growing our operations by 54.2 per cent.
Well improve % change in 29% 31% 30% We have achieved these reductions through several initiatives.
the efficiency of water use in water use in our our operations In 2016 17, we launched our Greenest Grocer Energy Matters 1 operations absolute vs programme, which has helped our colleagues in-store to reduce our 2005 06 baseline energy use and it has already saved us around three per cent on % change in 54% 55% 55% our electricity costs compared to 2015 16.
As well as encouraging water use in our colleagues to close fridge doors, turn down ovens and avoid overfilling operations relative freezers, we have asked them for their own suggestions to help reduce vs 2005 06 baseline energy use.
The best ideas will be adopted into the programme for 1 Water use based on data for convenience stores, supermarkets and petrol filling stations.
Engaging colleagues in this collaborative way, and making the most of their expertise, will help to achieve even better Our ongoing work to improve water stewardship reached a significant results.
Since the campaign launched we have saved 1.8 million from milestone with the introduction of waterless urinals across our store budgets.
We achieved our 2020 target, reducing our absolute water usage by 30 per cent, and our relative usage by 55 per cent, relative We installed LED lighting in 676 stores, depots and store support to 2005 06.
Since 2014 15, absolute water use has decreased by two centres, which means around 49 per cent of our estate is using less per cent and relative water use has decreased by one per cent.
We are energy on lighting.
We will continue to roll out more LED lighting also working with our farmers, suppliers and growers to improve their across our estate in 2017 18. water efficiency see page 33.
We work with anaerobic digestion suppliers to create carbon-neutral green gas from organic waste including from our stores, which is fed into the grid.
Around 20 per cent of our total gas use is this green gas.
Our use of combined heat and power engines also reduces our impact on the National Grid, protects us from any potential outages and Were proud of the progress in creates renewable heat to supply all our heating and hot water needs.
cutting our water use this year.
Going forward well continue to set stretching targets and will test some significant innovations to further reduce consumption.
Paul Crewe, Head of Sustainability Energy, Engineering & Environment 676 We now have LED lights in 676 stores, depots and store support centres.
This means 49 per cent of our estate is using less energy on lighting.
Strategic Report 37 Ive learned that little things, like shopping with specific meals in mind and thinking about what youve already got in the fridge and cupboards, can all add up to make a big difference.
We still enjoy an impromptu takeaway, but were just better at remembering to use ingredients up the next day.
Paula Chapman, Waste less, Save more pilot participant, Swadlincote 7.3m 20 10m 130 Designed to curb the 7.3 million Over 20 waste-saving investment over five years More than 130 Discovery tonnes of food thrown away by programmes trialled Communities UK households each year in Swadlincote 38 Strategic Report A great place to work it measures employee affection and loyalty to our brand over the long We want to be a place where people love to work term and whether colleagues feel they have the support to be the and shop.
That means harnessing the talent, best they can be in their role.
We will be rolling out the new survey to creativity and diversity of our colleagues to ensure the rest of the business in 2017 18. that customers receive great service every time To support making Sainsburys a great place to work, the insights they shop at Sainsburys.
we gather through our colleague voice channels are shared with the Operating Board, as well as senior leaders across the business.
Our colleagues are our foundation.
We engage them in the long-term From May 2017 our Non-Executive Directors will meet with a subset success of our business and invest in their training and development.
of our National Great Place To Work Group representatives from We want to be the most inclusive retailer, where we celebrate the supermarkets, convenience and store support centres, so that they diversity of our colleagues and value the different perspectives they can hear the issues raised by our colleagues first hand.
bring to help us meet the diverse needs of our customers.
We listen to our colleagues views so we can continue making Sainsburys a place We always welcome having our approach externally validated.
We where everyone feels motivated, energised and enabled to offer the were delighted to receive a Gold accreditation by Investors in People best value and service for our customers.
we are the largest employer to have reached the Gold standard a nd the only retailer to achieve three consecutive Gold awards.
As part We offer a competitive rewards package, above the National Living of the review, Investors in People considers how we listen and act on Wage, we pay colleagues for breaks and we provide them with a colleague feedback, how we develop and support our colleagues to range of benefits including a colleague discount and pension.
It is learn and how we attract and retain talent.
important we remain a strong and competitive business for both current and past colleagues: we pay pension contributions for over We will continue to invest in the training and 120,000 current colleagues, and look after defined benefit pensions development of our colleagues.
Investors in People, the international standard for people management, awarded us a Gold accreditation What well do How we measure 2015 16 2016 17 2020 target our progress for the third time making us the largest UK employer to receive this distinction.
We have grown our investment in apprenticeships Well offer Number of 413 colleagues 493 colleagues 2,500 that give people the chance to receive on the job training while colleagues apprentices enrolled in or enrolled in or apprentices externally trained completed completed earning a professional qualification.
accredited apprenticeship apprenticeship training to schemes schemes support our covering: fish covering: fish Our commitments business strategy preparation & preparation & service, bakery service, bakery We will be an employer where colleagues love skills, business skills, caf to work.
administration, hospitality, management business skills and administration, What well do How we measure 2015 16 2016 17 2020 target leading teams management our progress skills, leading teams and We are Colleague reward 7.36 hour 7.66 hour Standard software committed 2.2% above 2.1% above colleague rate development to exceed the the National the National above the National Living Living Wage Living Wage National Living Wage Wage Apprenticeships give colleagues on-the-job skills and training and they enable us to secure a talent pipeline to help Sainsburys thrive Our colleagues work hard to make a difference to our customers every in the future.
day and we are committed to rewarding them fairly.
We also support the Governments commitment to address the gender pay gap.
We have been exploring a range of new apprenticeships this year.
In 2016 17, we introduced a caf hospitality apprenticeship In August 2016, we announced a four per cent increase to our programme that builds hospitality and customer service skills: standard base rates for our retail colleagues, bringing our rate of pay 59 colleagues are currently enrolled or have completed the pilot.
to 7.66 per hour, ahead of the current National Living Wage of 7.50 We also piloted team leader and management apprenticeships: per hour.
We pay our colleagues for breaks.
112 retail and logistics colleagues will complete the programme in 2017.
And in our store support centres, we recruited ten apprentices, To make Sainsburys a great place to work, it is important that we including three women, for a new two-year structured software listen to our colleagues.
We use several tools to help us understand development apprenticeship programme.
how our colleagues feel about working here.
In 2016 17, more than 116,000 of our colleagues participated in our Talkback surveys.
While We continued to run our industry-leading Diploma Level 2 craft we continue to look for ways to improve colleague engagement, we apprenticeships in bakery and fish.
In 2016 17, 304 colleagues were are pleased that 77 per cent of our colleagues feel Sainsburys is a enrolled in or completed these apprenticeships, which last for a year great place to work and over 78 per cent trust us to do the right thing and are awarded by City and Guilds.
As part of the programmes, for them.
colleagues develop their Maths and English functional skills, and are awarded a full apprenticeship framework certificate.
We continue to In 2016 17, we piloted a new online engagement survey Were research new apprenticeships in preparation for the Apprenticeship Listening across selected retail regions and store support centre Levy that will be introduced in 2017, to support colleague development.
Our new survey builds on traditional engagement: Strategic Report 39 We are working to increase the diversity of our retail managers.
We will have an inclusive workforce that offers The assessment for You Can Be, the programme retail colleagues employment opportunities to all members of the complete to progress to the next grade, now aims for gender balance community.
and to better reflect regional ethnicity.
Our female mentoring programme, which was launched by Mike Coupe in November 2015, What well do How we measure 2015 16 2016 17 2020 target our progress reached 2,000 colleagues, and our subscription to the Everywoman Network has risen to over 750.
We are also beginning to see a positive Well provide work Number of 25,000 25,700 30,000 impact, having added 41 female store managers in 2016 17.
Our opportunities and colleagues access to jobs for employed Operating Board hosted a series of womens dinners and insights from those who face throughour these events helped us simplify our maternity policy and create our barriers to the YouCan scheme workplace since 2008 new Our Family Matters team.
For a full breakdown of the gender diversity of our colleagues, see page 65.
We value diversity not just because it is the right thing to do: research Our Race, Religion and Belief reference group is helping us to tackle has shown that diverse teams perform better.
In addition, we want our some of the challenges faced by our Black, Asian, and Ethnic Minority workforce to reflect and meet the needs of our diverse customer base.
We used findings from one of the largest ever race at work surveys in the UK through Business in the Community Supported by our Chief Executive Officer Mike Coupe, Board sponsors to shape our first BAME colleague development event, which resulted including our Director of Human Resources, Angie Risley, Company in additional events being held at a local level.
Diverse role models Secretary and Corporate Services Director, Tim Fallowfield, and Chief were leveraged to great effect at these events and the feedback was Executive of Sainsburys Bank, Peter Griffiths, together with Deborah overwhelmingly positive.
Dorman, Director of Corporate HR, Iain Macmillan, Sainsburys Argos Chief Finance Officer and Helen Paxton, Head of HR Sainsburys Argos, We aspire to be a leader in creating disability-friendly workplaces.
form our Diversity Steering Group.
The Group meets regularly to We were delighted to win a Business Disability Forum Disabilitygovern progress and updates the Board and Operating Board.
We also smart Award for the second year in a row.
In June 2016, we celebrated have around 100 Diversity Champions who support diversity in every our fifth year of partnership with Carers UK.
Together we developed part of our business.
a policy specifically for carers, and we were one of the first FTSE During 2016 17 we have continued to put strong emphasis on 100 companies to do so.
As part of our non-visible disabilities inclusion, and have identified it as a priority for our people and awareness week, we created a video to teach all our colleagues our business.
During our first annual Inclusion Week in 2016, we basic sign language to enable them to better communicate with launched the Embrace the Difference campaign.
Companies leading deaf customers, which won gold at the EVCOM Clarion Awards.
In on inclusion have found that using visible symbols that represent December, Tim Fallowfield was announced as Chair of the Disability inclusion, such as badges, helps colleagues to be themselves at work.
The Group will engage with the As part of the campaign, managers held inclusion-themed huddles, business community, enabling employers to provide opportunities for gave colleagues the opportunity to wear badges to show their visible disabled people and supporting the government in its aspiration to commitment to inclusion, and used scenario-based exercises to help halve the disability employment gap.
colleagues make positive and inclusive decisions.
We also profiled a We are members of Stonewalls Diversity Champions programme range of stories on topics related to diversity and inclusion, such as and were featured in this years Stonewall Workplace Equality Index.
International Womens Day, Chinese New Year and Passover through Our LGBTA lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and allies network, our internal communications channels.
Since 2008, we have employed Proud@Sainsburys, hosted networking events throughout the year.
25,700 people through You Can, our scheme to provide jobs for people In 2016 17, we also attended Pride events across the UK and Jemma who might otherwise struggle to find employment.
Kameen, one of our Co-Chairs of Proud@Sainsburys, won Leeds Pride Partner of the Year for garnering the support of circa 400 colleagues.
Ive been at Sainsburys for 35 years and I came out when I was 50.
For me, it was about being open and visible I chose to do this so that people could see that its okay to begay, to be a Store Manager, and bring all of yourself to work.
Richard Easton, Store Manager, New Cross Gate 2,000 Our female mentoring programme reached 2,000 colleagues
