54 Governance Report J Sainsbury plc: Board of Directors 1 2 1 David Tyler 64 Chairman Date of appointment: 1 October 2009 David has served as a Non-Executive Director since 1 October 2009 and as Chairman since 1 November 2009.
Skills and experience: David has broad and extensive experience in both executive and non-executive roles across the consumer, retail, business services and the financial services sectors.
He is also an experienced chairman 3 4 having served in that role previously at Logica plc and 3i Quoted Private Equity plc and currently at Hammerson plc and Domestic and General Group Limited.
His last executive position was as Finance Director of GUS plc, and previously he held senior financial and general management roles with Christies International Plc, County NatWest Limited and Unilever PLC.
He has also been a Non-Executive Director of Experian plc, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and Burberry Group Plc.
Other roles: Chairman of Hammerson plc 5 6 Chairman of Domestic and General Group Limited 2 Mike Coupe 56 Chief Executive Officer Date of appointment: 1 August 2007 Mike has served as an Executive Director since 1 August 2007 and as Chief Executive Officer since 9 July 2014 Skills and experience: Appointed Chief Executive Officer on 9 July 2014, Mike has been 7 8 a member of the Operating Board since October 2004.
Mike has vast retail industry experience in trading, strategy, marketing, digital and online as well as multi-site store experience.
He joined Sainsburys from Big Food Group where he was a board director of Big Food Group plc and Managing Director of Iceland Food Stores.
He previously worked for both ASDA and Tesco, where he served in a variety of senior management roles.
Other roles: Non-Executive Director of Greene King plc 9 10 Governance Report 55 3 Kevin OByrne 52 6 Brian Cassin 49 9 Susan Rice 71 Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Date of appointment: 9 January 2017 Date of appointment: 1 April 2016 Date of appointment: 1 June 2013 Susan has served as a Non-Executive Director since Skills and experience: Kevin joined the Board Skills and experience: Brian brings present 1 June 2013 and has been the Senior Independent on 9 January 2017 and brings a wealth of retail day experience of running a FTSE40 company Director since 6 July 2016. and finance experience.
Kevin was previously and of big data and analytics topics of key Chief Executive Officer of Poundland Group importance to Sainsbury's.
Brian joined Experian Skills and experience: Susan has extensive until December 2016 and held executive roles at as Chief Financial Officer in April 2012, a post he experience as a Non-Executive Director, as well Kingfisher plc from 2008 to 2015, including Chief held until his appointment as Chief Executive as in retail banking, financial services, leadership Executive Officer of B&Q UK & Ireland and Group Officer in July 2014.
Prior to this, Brian spent his and sustainability.
Her career in retail banking Finance Director.
Prior to this, Kevin was Group career in investment banking at Baring Brothers is particularly relevant to our ownership of Finance Director of Dixons Retail plc.
International, Greenhill & Co where he was Sainsbury's Bank.
Susan is Chairman of Scottish Managing Director and Partner and the London Water and Business Stream.
Previously, Susan Other roles: Non-Executive Director and Stock Exchange where he held senior roles.
was a member of the First Ministers Council of Chairman of the Audit Committee of Land Economic Advisors, Managing Director of Lloyds Securities Group PLC Other roles: Chief Executive Officer of Banking Group Scotland and was previously Experian plc Chief Executive and then Chairman of Lloyds TSB 4 John Rogers 48 Scotland plc.
She has also held a range of other Chief Executive Officer of Sainsburys Argos 7 Mary Harris 51 non-executive directorships including at the Bank Non-Executive Director Date of appointment: 19 July 2010 of England and SSE plc.
John served as Chief Financial Officer of Date of appointment: 1 August 2007 Other roles: Chairman of Scottish Water, J Sainsbury plc from 19 July 2010 until Mary is due to step down from the Board on Chairman of Business Stream, Chairman of the 5 September 2016 when he was appointed as 5 July 2017.
Scottish Fiscal Commission and a Non-Executive Chief Executive Officer of Sainsburys Argos.
Skills and experience: Mary has extensive Director of the North American Income Trust.
Skills and experience: John has extensive strategic experience in consumer goods and experience in finance, strategy, digital, online, brings a strong understanding of a customer led 10 Jean Tomlin 62 property and financial services.
John became retail environment to the Board.
Mary is a NonNon-Executive Director Chief Executive Officer of Sainsburys Argos on Executive Director of ITV plc and Reckitt Benckiser Date of appointment: 1 January 2013 5 September 2016 following the acquisition of Group plc and a Member of the supervisory board Home Retail Group.
Prior to this appointment, Skills and experience: Jean has extensive of Unibail-Rodamco S. E. She is former member John was Chief Financial Officer of J Sainsbury experience and breadth of skills in human of the Supervisory Board of TNT Express NV plc for six years and had responsibility for resources and corporate responsibility.
Jean and spent much of her career with McKinsey & finance, group strategy, Sainsburys online, was formerly Director of HR, Workforce and Company, most recently as a partner, where business development, property, procurement Accreditation for The London Organising she worked primarily with retail consumer and operational efficiency.
He was also Director Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games, clients in China, South East Asia and Europe.
of Corporate Finance from 2005 to 2007, Director where she oversaw the creation and execution of Her previous work experience includes working of Group Finance from 2007 to 2008 and in July the hugely successful Games Maker volunteering for PepsiCo in Greece and the UK, as a sales and 2008, he was appointed to the Operating Board as programme.
She was previously Group HR Director marketing executive.
John is also a member of the at Marks and Spencer Group Plc, HR Director and Other roles: Non-Executive Director of ITV plc Sainsburys Bank plc Board.
Prior to Sainsburys, founder member of Egg plc and Sales & Operations and Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and a member of John was Group Finance Director for Hanover Director of Prudential Direct.
the supervisory board of Unibail-Rodamco S. E. Acceptances, a diversified corporation with whollyOther roles: Independent Board member owned subsidiaries in the food manufacturing, of Michael Kors Holdings Limited, a Trustee 8 David Keens 63 real estate and agri-business sectors.
of Step Up To Serve, and a Council Member at Non-Executive Director Other roles: Non-Executive Director of Travis Loughborough University.
Date of appointment: 29 April 2015 Perkins plc Skills and experience: David has extensive Retirements in 2016 17: In line with best retail experience and knowledge of consumer 5 Matt Brittin 48 practice, John McAdam retired from the Board facing businesses, together with his core skills in Non-Executive Director on 6 July 2016. finance.
David is also a Non-Executive Director and Date of appointment: 27 January 2011 the Senior Independent Director of Auto Trader Life President Skills and experience: As Googles President Group plc, and chairs its Audit Committee.
David Lord Sainsbury of Preston Candover KG Europe, Middle East and Africa, Matt has extensive was formerly Group Finance Director of NEXT plc experience of running a high profile, fast moving, from 1991 to 2015 and their Group Treasurer from innovative, digital business.
Previous management experience to run its UK operations at the start of 2007, Matt includes nine years in the UK and overseas spent much of his career in media and marketing, operations of multinational food manufacturer with particular interests in strategy, commercial Nabisco and, prior to that, seven years in the development and sales performance.
included commercial and digital leadership roles Other roles: Non-Executive Director, the Senior in UK media.
He is also a Director of charitable Independent Director and Chair of the Audit organisation, The Media Trust.
Committee of Auto Trader Group plc Other roles: Googles President Europe, Middle East and Africa Key to Committee members Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Committee Denotes Chairman of Committee
