04 Strategic Report How we create value and build customer loyalty We achieve this by listening to our customers and anticipating their Our business needs.
We deliver quality products and great value through multiple channels and are there for our customers whenever and wherever they want to shop.
model Our values make us different and underpin everything we do, from sourcing with integrity to helping our customers lead healthier lives and providing a great place to work.
Our colleagues make the Our business model is designed to create difference, anchoring us in our communities and connecting us to the lives of our customers, day in, day out.
value for our shareholders, customers and colleagues, both now and in the future.
Power of the Sainsburys Group We are one of the largest retailers of quality food, general merchandise, clothing and financial services in the UK and we believe people trust the Sainsburys brand.
Customers can shop with us whenever and wherever they want and we have a logistics network that gives us market-leading product availability in-store and online.
Our values key A great place to work Respect for our environment Sourcing with integrity Living healthier lives Making a positive difference to our community Supply chain What makes us different Our business is built on excellent, often long-standing relationships with our We are a multi-product, multi-channel suppliers.
We source Sainsburys branded products from the UK and over 70 business with a strong, differentiated other countries, according to the ability of suppliers to meet our regularly audited quality, safety and ethical standards.
The investment we make in our farmer food proposition and respected brands and grower Development Groups, R&D programme and Apprenticeship Scheme in Sainsburys, Sainsburys Bank, Argos supports the British agricultural sector and encourages young talent into British farming.
We are also the worlds largest retailer of fairly traded products.
Logistics We benefit from a structurally We have invested in our logistics capability and capacity to ensure we can meet advantaged store estate, world-class our customers requirements for flexible, convenient shopping now and in the property assets, an efficient supply future.
Across Sainsburys and Argos we operate 34 distribution centres.
They cover our store and online businesses, across food, general merchandise and chain and a market-leading digital clothing, making home and store deliveries seven days per week.
Argoss unique presence with fast delivery networks.
Hub and Spoke logistics network enables us to fulfil Fast Track same day deliveries to a customers home or to a store for collection.
All this is underpinned by customer Channels insights that enable us to adapt our Customer shopping habits are changing and our multi-channel proposition business to customers changing lives.
gives people the flexibility to shop with us whenever and wherever they want.
We have over 2,200 supermarkets, convenience stores and Argos stores across the UK and Ireland and we have made it easy and convenient to shop on the go using our mobile apps.
In fact, almost 20 per cent of Sainsburys Group sales now originate online.
We have General Merchandise & Clothing businesses of scale and Sainsburys Bank is a growing, strategic part of our business.
s l G e e n n n C a e a h r o h i a n C e c l u e d l a M C V l e o r t c h h i n a g n d L s i o e s d g u e l o i a Strategic Report 05 Brand Trust Customer Loyalty Quality Value Service Choice Selling great quality food has Offering great quality products In shops, depots and store We are one of the UKs been at the heart of our business and services at fair prices is support centres, our colleagues largest retailers, with over since 1869.
Customers value part of our commitment to provide award-winning service 90,000 products to choose the wide range of products and help our customers live well day in, day out, offering from across food, general services on offer when they for less.
Quality and price are customers choice, flexibility merchandise, clothing and shop with Sainsburys and this both important in the value and convenience whenever and financial services.
Most of our proposition and our regular wherever they want to shop an evening meal, party dress, customers buy Sainsburys lower prices reassure customers with us.
We employ around cookware or car insurance branded products, which account that they can always get good 195,000 colleagues who are has never been easier at for around half of our food value at Sainsburys.
We will the foundation of our business Sainsburys.
We recently invested in always be competitive on price and make a real difference in choose between well-known the quality of 3,000 Sainsburys and will continue to invest in the communities they serve.
food brands and our extensive branded food lines and have lowering prices and improving We take pride in the service we own-brand differentiated food moved on to the next stage of our quality to ensure that we are offer and our well-run shops offer.
In homeware, cookware quality improvement programme.
well-positioned to meet the and committed, well-trained and electrical products, Our passion for quality extends to challenges of an increasingly colleagues have helped us win customers now have an even everything we sell food, general competitive marketplace.
the Grocer Gold Awards for both wider choice of products, merchandise, clothing and Customer Service and Availability across Sainsburys, Argos financial services.
Sainsburys business model is supported Cost management Governance through a structured approach to managing Read more on page 22 Read more on page 58 the business: Risk management Read more on page 42 s v o t r F i c u F s O i n a n c i a y l t i l S a n u i e Q S a r e r h v v i i c c c e y e l s p p u S
