20 Strategic Report Launch of mortgages and new insurance broker model Strong growth in cards, loans and travel money Sainsburys Bank has seen a four per cent increase in customer numbers taking the total to 1.8 million active customer accounts 70 per cent growth year-on-year in new card accounts and a six per cent year-on-year increase in cards being used in Sainsburys Strategic Report 21 Priority #3 Diversify and grow Sainsburys Bank The acquisition of Argos Financial Services In line with our strong lending performance, Sainsburys Bank is a presents significant operational synergies.
savings accounts grew by almost 60 per Argos Financial Services manages an existing growing and profitable part cent year-on-year with a strong performance store card estate which we will leverage across fixed term, easy access and ISA of our business and a key by moving our credit cards onto the same products.
This will take place during the strategic asset.
Our growth in customer lending and summer of 2018. continued investment in the transition Our vision is to be the destination bank for Sainsburys Bank is committed to delivering programme saw our Tier 1 capital ratio Sainsburys customers, listening to what they customer service that is convenient, reliable decrease to 13.3 per cent which remains want and designing products, offers and and helpful.
Our website receives over 1.9 comfortably above regulatory requirements.
services that meet their needs.
We recently million visits every month, up 50 per cent yearCapital and liquidity plans are robust and launched an innovative mortgage product, on-year.
We continue to report industry-low support future growth in secured and which introduced a money off reward on levels of customer complaints, consistently unsecured lending.
shopping, and is a strong channel to grow our recording fewer than 1.3 complaints per assets and customer base in both mortgages In the last quarter, we launched new home 1,000 customer accounts over the last two and savings.
We have won industry awards for products provide quotes from a bespoke customer service and quality of our products Offering our customers complementary panel of specially selected insurers, giving including Best Balance Transfer Credit Card financial services products encourages loyalty a greater number of Sainsburys customers The Personal Finance Awards, Best Online across all our businesses when customers more competitive pricing.
In addition, we Personal Loan Provider Your Money and take out a Bank product we see that they are rewarding Nectar card customers with Trusted Personal Loan and Pet Insurance go on to spend more with us.
Since taking a guaranteed discount on their insurance provider Moneywise Customer Services.
full ownership of Sainsburys Bank, we have premium.
embarked on a programme to transition our We continue to invest in Sainsburys Bank banking services on to our own infrastructure.
We saw strong growth in travel money with and will inject further capital for lending We successfully migrated savings customers transactions up 25 per cent year-on-year, growth, increased regulatory requirements and ATMs to our new banking platforms despite market volatility and the impact of and to complete the Banks ongoing during the year.
We continue to make good the vote to leave the European Union.
progress and will introduce our new loans opened a further 26 Travel Money bureaux platform by the end of 2017.
Sales growth across the UK, taking our estate to 232 Food is our core business but growing bureaux.
We have also successfully launched Sainsburys Bank, including Argos Financial our General Merchandising, Clothing and our new pre-paid travel money card which Services, achieved 62 million underlying Financial Services businesses is an important offers contactless functionality and no profit.
Sainsburys Bank profits declined part of our strategy.
nearly five per cent due to the impact of customers value greater choice and that reduced interchange fees and investment Our free-to-use ATM estate grew by five there is a firm correlation between increased required to enter the mortgage market.
per cent to 1,728 in the year and ATM loyalty and spend across our whole offer transactions grew by almost one per cent when customers buy into these categories.
Sainsburys Bank has 1.8 million active year-on-year to nearly 240 million.
This customers, up nearly four per cent.
Definition: Year-on-year growth of total sales, represents a significant UK market share with Additionally, Argos Financial Services including VAT.
1 for every 11 dispensed from a LINK ATM has 1.8 million customers.
We take our transaction coming from Sainsburys Bank.
responsibilities as a lender of consumer credit Bank % very seriously and saw strong growth in In September 2016 the Bank played a key personal lending, with ten per cent year-on- 2014 15 13.5 role in the acquisition of Home Retail Group year growth in the number of advances to plc, successfully detailing full UK Regulatory 2015 16 5.4 new personal loan customers.
permission and expanding the Banks 2016 17 4.4 savings portfolio which provided around 500 We offered Sainsburys customers a strong million of funding for the transaction.
The range of credit cards throughout the year integration of Sainsburys Bank with Argos with the incentive of additional Nectar points.
Financial Services will be phased, initially This resulted in a 70 per cent growth yearintegrating certain reporting and governance on-year in new card accounts and a six per capabilities.
The planned nature, depth and cent year-on-year increase in our credit cards pace of integration is expected to evolve being used in Sainsburys stores.
We are within the Banks strategy during the 2017 18 regularly featured as a best buy credit card financial year.
