18 Strategic Report Priority #2 Grow General Merchandise & Clothing and deliver synergies Argos is the UKs number one retailer for General Merchandise Synergies toys and a market leader in homeware and Sainsburys General Merchandise sales The opportunity to deliver 160 million of electrical products.
With around one billion grew by over two per cent.
We increased EBITDA synergies over three years was a hits a year, Argos is the third most visited our market share by both volume and value key factor in our decision to acquire Home retail website in the UK and over half of all driven by seasonal events such as Christmas Retail Group plc.
The synergies identified at Argoss sales originate online.
The first UK and Halloween by offering design-led, the time of the deal included the integration retailer to achieve 1 billion annual sales ethically-sourced homeware products that of central and store support functions online, Argos was also the first to achieve are accessible to everyone.
The ranges are across the two businesses, as well as cost 1 billion sales through mobile devices.
The updated every eight to ten weeks, at prices savings from opening Argos Digital stores unique Hub and Spoke supply chain network that are significantly better value than high in Sainsburys supermarkets.
This year offers customers a wide choice of quick, street stores and homeware specialists.
we have achieved 7 million of synergies.
efficient delivery options Fast Tracked to On-trend, in-house designed ranges and The integration of Argos and Sainsburys is their home the same day, or for collection at classic designs such as Harvest, Shore happening at pace.
Our retail expertise and Argos and participating Sainsburys stores.
and Blue Daisy, displayed in an attractive experience of delivering change programmes department store-style setting, have proved in our stores has enabled us to accelerate Argos is performing well both commercially to be very popular with our customers.
the roll-out of 250 Argos Digital stores in and operationally, with strong results during Sainsburys supermarkets.
We now expect the Black Friday and Christmas periods.
With Clothing this roll-out, together with our 160 million 10 million webpage visits on the day, 65 per Shopping for clothing in supermarkets has synergy target, to be achieved by March 2019, cent of Black Friday sales were initiated become firmly established and our strategy six months ahead of schedule.
Nearly 100,000 Fast Track deliveries of offering customers high street style at were made over that weekend alone.
There Sales growth supermarket prices has helped to increase were over 120 million visits to the Argos Food is our core business but growing our sales by over four per cent in the year website in the run up to Christmas, an our General Merchandising, Clothing and and to outperform a challenging market.
increase of over nine per cent.
Financial Services businesses is an important Eight million customers buy our Tu clothing.
We know that our Our market share by volume increased by There are now 59 Argos Digital stores in our customers value greater choice and that 20 basis points and we are the sixth largest supermarkets and they are performing well.
5 there is a firm correlation between increased clothing retailer by volume in the UK, with Sales at stores that have been open for over loyalty and spend across our whole offer a strong position in the womenswear and ayear are delivering like-for-like sales growth when customers buy into these categories.
childrenswear markets and opportunities for of between 20 to 30 per cent.
There is also a future growth in menswear.
clear sales uplift of between one to two per Definition: Year-on-year growth of total sales, cent in Sainsburys stores where there is an including VAT.
We launched our Tu Premium womenswear Argos Digital store.
collection in September, offering our General merchandise excluding Argos % customers quality styling and fabrics Customer satisfaction scores at our Argos that rival high street fashion brands, at 2014 15 7.3 stores are at their highest levels ever and significantly lower prices.
The range has been digital remains a key differentiator.
In 2017 18 2015 16 3.5 well received by our customers with standout we plan to transform 60 existing Argos high performers such as our womens leather biker 2016 17 2.4 street stores to a new digital format, meaning jacket at 95 and a silk blouse at 30. that over a third of the Argos store estate will 5 Kantar Worldpanel.
be digital in a years time.
Clothing excluding Argos % Acquisition of Home Retail We also have 207 digital collection points Group plc 2014 15 1111.9.
9 where customers can collect their Tu clothing, Our acquisition of Home Retail Group plc eBay and DPD orders conveniently.
Over 2015 16 8.5 in September 2016 created a 6 billion 700,000 parcels have been collected to date.
General Merchandise and Clothing business.
2016 17 4.3 Argos orders can be collected at 90 of these This made us one of the UKs largest food, collection points.
general merchandise, clothing and financial services retailers, with over 90,000 products We now have seven Mini Habitat stores to EBITDA Synergies m across 2,200 stores.
The deal was financially date in Sainsburys supermarkets, to support compelling and makes clear strategic sense.
2014 15 N A 2015 16 N A 2016 17 7 Strategic Report 19 #1 for toys and a market leader in homeware and electrical products We are now a multi-product Clothing business retailer, offering customers continues to grow over 90,000 products across and we launched a diverse range of categories Tu Premium Digital is a key differentiator Admiral menswear and 18 per cent of Group performed well reflecting sales are now online during the strong trend for wearing peak periods casual sports clothing
