Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS Stewart Gilliland Jonathan Prentis Charles Wilson Non-Executive Chairman and Group Finance Director Chief Executive Chairman of the Nomination First appointed: June 2007 First appointed: June 2007 Committee Jonathan qualified as a Chartered Charles started his career in 1986 with First appointed: December 2010 Accountant with Deloitte.
He was Procter & Gamble following which he appointed as Group Finance Director of Stewart is currently Senior Independent was a consultant with OC&C Strategy Booker in 2005.
Prior to this appointment, Director of Mitchells & Butlers plc and a Consultants and a Director of Abberton Jonathan was Finance Director of Group Non-Executive Director of C&C Group Associates.
In 1998 he became an Logistics within The Big Food Group plc.
plc and Curious Drinks Ltd.
He is also Executive Director of Booker Group plc Prior to 2003, he was with TDG plc.
a Director of Natures Way Foods Ltd. which merged with Iceland plc in 2000.
In Stewart was formerly Chief Executive of 2001 he became an Executive Director of Muller Dairies UK and Ireland and has Arcadia Group plc and in 2004 he became held senior roles with leading consumer an Executive Director of Marks and facing companies, including Whitbread Spencer Plc.
In 2005 he was appointed and Interbrew.
as Chief Executive of Booker.
Guy Farrant Helena Andreas Andrew Cripps Chief Operating Officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director First appointed: October 2010 First appointed: November 2012 First appointed: December 2007 Guy is the Groups Chief Operating Officer.
Helena was appointed as Head of Group Andrew is currently Non-Executive Deputy Guy has a wealth of food experience Marketing and Communications for Chairman of Swedish Match AB.
He is having worked in the food industry for 30 Nordea Bank in 2014.
Formerly she was also Chairman of the Audit Committee of years rising to be Director of Food and Group Head of Retail & Distribution at Howden Joinery Group plc and of Boparan latterly, Operations and Retail Director at Vodafone Group.
Holdings Limited, where he is also Senior Marks and Spencer Plc.
Prior to joining Vodafone Helena held senior positions in marketing and operations at Andrew has been Non-Executive Director Tesco and previously was a business and Audit Committee Chairman of a consultant at Accenture.
Helena holds number of UK public companies for over 12 an MBA from INSEAD.
Prior to this he held senior executive roles with Rothmans International and British American Tobacco plc.
He read Economics at the University of Cambridge and qualified as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG.
20 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Governance Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Gary Hughes Karen Jones CBE Non-Executive Director and Non-Executive Director, Chairman Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director First appointed: December 2015 First appointed: March 2009 Gary is a senior member of the Operational Excellence team at Apax Partners, the global Karen is a founder and Chairman of Food private equity firm, where he also sits on the and Fuel Ltd, a hospitality company.
She board of General Healthcare Group Limited, is also a Non-Executive Director of Cofra a portfolio company.
In addition to this, AG, Corbin and King Ltd, Firmenich Gary is a Non-Executive Director of Majid International and Chairman of Hawksmoor Al Futtaim Retail LLP, Scottish Event Ltd. She is also on the Board of RNTE Campus Limited and the Scottish Football Royal National Theatre Enterprises Board.
Karen was formerly CEO of Spirit Group Garys previous roles include Chief Ltd, a private equity-backed 2,000 strong Financial Officer of Gala Coral Group, pub and restaurant group.
Prior to Spirit, Chief Executive Officer of the largest Karen founded, grew and floated The operating division of United Business Pelican Group plc, owner of a number of Media plc and Group Finance Director restaurant chains including Caf Rouge.
Gary was formerly Chairman Karen was awarded a CBE in 2006 for of the Audit Committee at J Sainsbury services to hospitality, and an honorary plc and a Non-Executive Director of Premier doctorate from the University of East Anglia Farnell plc.
Gary qualified as a Chartered in July 2013.
Accountant with Ernst & Whinney, now Ernst & Young.
Mark Chilton Company Secretary and General Counsel First appointed: June 2007 Mark acts as Company Secretary and General Counsel to the Group and was appointed to his present role in June 2007.
Mark qualified as a Solicitor in 1987.
Mark was appointed as Company Secretary of Booker in 2006.
Previously, he was Head of Legal at the Big Food Group plc.
Prior to that, he was at The Greenalls Group Plc.
