Strategic report Strategic report Operating review Winning Teams Across the Group we employ over 50,000 people.
It is our Our approach Winning Teams that make We recruit, reward, train and develop our team members to everyday experiences special for build highly engaged teams who deliver a great experience our customers so they come back to our customers.
time and time again and thats We offer jobs and an industry-leading apprenticeship programme whyinvesting in our people is to grow talented leaders and we provide exciting international soimportant to us.
Our promise to our Winning Teams Across our brands we have embedded promises to our people that underpin the Whitbread vision.
This helps us Costa attract and retain our employees and highlights what we stand for as an organisation.
Over We know our team members make the single biggest difference by helping 75% our guests have a great nights sleep 14,500 in Premier Inn: by serving up great employees engagement score memories in our restaurants and by being passionate about making people smile and determined to impact the world in Costa.
We want to make sure that all of our Premier Inn team members feel valued, recognised and have the opportunity and support to reach their full potential.
That is why, Over in our restaurants, we are committed to making sure our teams feel they are 80% 18,500 the main ingredient in our recipe for success: why we strongly believe that engagement score employees our hotel teams make Premier Inn a place made by them: and why we encourage our Costa teams to bring their unique blend to all that they do.
Shaping your future and ours is our Restaurants commitment to our hotel teams at hub by Premier Inn and reflects the innovation and tech savvy experience Over these hotels offer.
Our promise to our Winning Teams was 14,000 77% highlighted through Whitbread being employees engagement score recognised as a Top Employer for the seventh year running by the Top Employers Institute and as one of the Best Big Companies to work for, ranking eighth in the prestigious annual Sunday Times listing of best companies.
We are very proud of these achievements as not only do they strengthen our promise to our Winning Teams, but they help us attract and retain our employees and showcase our values to our customers.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 24 Strategic report Listening to our Winning Teams Examples of our We understand that giving our people employer brand a voice is critical to ensuring that we are giving them the support they propositions need and desire.
Our 2016 Your Say survey which used a tested measure of engagement and enablement was completed by over 39,000 people, which is 83% of eligible employees.
In Costa we have seen a small decrease Costa in engagement from last year, which we Passionate about making believe is due to organisational changes people smile and determined and a tougher trading environment.
to impact the world around To drive higher levels of engagement you.
Together well craft over the next 12 months, we will be your talent with the perfect focusing on our communications blend of opportunity strategy to ensure we build our teams and inspiration understanding of our five year plan and the progress achieved against Premier Inn this.
In addition, we will be focusing Premier Inn is a place on our store managers capability made by you with through a store manager development opportunities to grow, develop programme.
Overall Whitbread Shaping your future and ours and achieve your dreams too.
maintained its engagement score Connected and always on the pulse A place where you your passion for interaction will give of 78% which, despite positioning our guests a new kind of hotel belong, where your us favourably against external experience future will unfold comparisons, did not quite meet our 79% target and highlights further opportunities to improve.
The results hub by Premier Inn still pay fantastic testament to Shaping your future and our commitment to improve overall ours.
Connected and always working conditions and create on the pulse, your passion Winning Teams, but we recognise for interaction will give that there is more todo.
our guests a new kind of hotel experience Following feedback from our 2016 survey, we know that we need to focus on enablement across our support centre.
As a result we have built robust action plans to improve working environments, technology and explore more collaborative ways of working both within the support centre and across our brands.
81% of team members said that they feel enabled and are in the right roles for their skill set 8th in the Sunday Times Best Big Companies to work for 78% of our employees feel engaged, are proud to say they work for Whitbread and are motivated to go above and beyond Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 25 Strategic report Strategic report Operating review continued We have also focused on skill-based Winning Teams training for kitchen managers and chefs at one of our three food and continued beverage academies.
Training and development snapshots E-Learning courses completed Over 763,000 Classroom based training courses delivered Nearly 9,000 Total course completions Over 772,000 Rewarding and recognising our Winning Teams Rewarding and recognising our Winning Teams continued to be a key focus throughout 2016 17.
In addition to running central incentives, we have worked hard to implement specific initiatives that are tailored to suit and engage our different brands and teams to create relevant and meaningful total reward packages.
Throughout Premier Inn & Restaurants Retaining our Winning Teams In Costa, a number of training and continued emphasis was placed on We recognise and understand the development programmes were encouraging our managers to recognise importance of retaining our teams developed with the aim of enhancing their teams through our My Rewards and team retention has replaced team line manager capability across the platform and local recognition.
To turnover as a key performance indicator globe.
We continued to develop and support this, over 1 million was for 2017 18.
We are delighted to say roll out Talent Camp which focused uploaded to the My Rewards platform our efforts to challenge ourselves to on enhancing support centre line to be awarded to our Premier Inn & outperform relative to our industry in managers understanding of recruitment Restaurants team members.
During improving retention have continued.
Over 100 2016 17, over 70% of team members of Costas line managers successfully registered on the platform received an We have continued to build on the completed Talent Camp.
However, we need to work even positive momentum from last year and harder to ensure that a greater number introduced further initiatives to engage, Costa also focused on maintaining of our team members are recognised, motivate and retain our teams.
We are essential coffee and core skills training as the local recognition of our Winning proud that each of our brands operates to ensure we continue to meet our Teams is at the heart of our robust and tailored Pay for Progression customers expectations and remain engagement strategy.
schemes that give team members the UKs favourite coffee shop chain.
the chance to develop their skills and Across Premier Inn we also continued In Premier Inn we have launched a new, progress through fair and transparent to celebrate teams who achieved cross-functional senior management pay rates.
We strongly believe that an All Green WINcard by rewarding leadership programme targeted at such initiatives are encouraging team an additional weeks salary when all strengthening our pipeline to senior members to stay and develop their key performance indicators are met.
This programme is careers with Whitbread and, as a result, In Restaurants we have built on the enabling us to attract, retain and we have seen increases in the number momentum of last years Kitchens develop exceptional talent across of our employees who have more than of Excellence event and continued our commercial functions.
to provide kitchen teams with a In Premier Inn operations we have dedicated scorecard to help them It is important however, that we remain updated a suite of leadership achieve excellence in their sites.
The proactive in our approach in order development programmes and have number of kitchens meeting this to maintain our momentum.
continued to build a coaching culture standard improved significantly this Developing our Winning Teams through up-skilling multi-site managers year and these were rewarded on a We know that our teams are more and providing one to one coaching and quarterly basis through My Rewards.
engaged when they have access to peer to peer learning.
The very best kitchen teams were also career opportunities and they feel more selected to compete to represent their In our Restaurants, we are continuing enabled when they are given the chance brand at the highly regarded Kitchens core development activity by giving to learn and develop.
At Whitbread of Excellence final.
teams the opportunity to progress we are committed to developing our their careers using an online skills In Costa, the existing team member employees and actively seek to create matrix and through our Progressing reward platform was broadened to opportunities to strengthen our teams.
Into management development create an employee benefits portal Over the last year we have launched programmes.
exciting development programmes across the Group.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 26 Strategic report to provide access to information I love the job I do and winning on all employee benefits.
UK based employees can now benefit from this competition has really discounted gym membership across a number of the UKs leading made me strive to do gym companies.
Costa celebrated its 11th Barista of the Year competition culminating in Giorgio Ventisei a two-day global final, which was an Costa Barista of the Year 2016 opportunity to celebrate and recognise the pride, passion and personality 2016 of those at the very heart of our business, as individuals competed to be crowned the global Costa Barista of the Year Champion of Champions.
Barista of the Year is integral to Costa: coffee is at the heart of our business and baristas are at the heart of our operations inspiring our customers to love great coffee every day of the year.
The search for our 11th Costa Barista of the Year began in June through a series of store heats all around the Work placements and apprenticeships world.
After months of heats that for our Winning Teams grew in difficulty at each stage, nine Whitbread created WISE Whitbread finalists were crowned business unit Investing in Skills & Employment champions and invited to our annual in 2012 to create employment final designed to crown the very opportunities and support peoples best barista in the Costa world.
entry into employment and onto Giorgio Ventisei claimed our revered apprenticeships, by connecting with trophy and was crowned Champion the education system.
WISE is a structured and quality assured programme with bold targets that educates, engages and employs people who are often from difficult backgrounds, committed to the ongoing support and a Level 1 Introduction into Hospitality supporting them into the world of development of our WISE programme qualification, credible work experience work through: to improve the well-being, self-esteem, with Costa, a reference and interview confidence and employability of experience.
W ork experience placements and people not previously in education, impact of this programme, almost school visits for 11-18 year olds.
100 graduates of the scheme were 2.
E mployment placements for recruited into the business during the During 2016 17 across Whitbread WISE people of all ages who are not in year representing a 46% conversion successfully achieved: education, employment or training.
Apprenticeships and functional 2016 17 was a great year for the Over 800 skills for team members who WISE team in Costa and they are want to gain nationally recognised proud to have attracted almost 200 Apprentices in learning qualifications.
apprentices nationally with many more in the pipeline to graduate.
Whitbreads commitment to The apprenticeship provides a credible Over 400 apprenticeships was recognised alternative to education as well as an through being Highly Commended Work placements attractive career with Costa.
at the 2016 National Apprenticeship Awards.
In addition to the suite of apprenticeships offered in Premier Inn, work has been Almost 300 The achievements of our WISE completed for Costa to launch its programme have helped create Work experiences advanced level apprenticeship next accessible local community work year.
This has been designed to nurture routes through community partnerships Building on the success of WISE in all the necessary skills to become an that support young people.
17% of Premier Inn, during 2016 17, Costa assistant manager.
Plans are also in WISE apprentices have progressed launched its own WISE programme.
place to introduce the higher level to management and we are proud to Since launch over 200 adult work apprenticeship, geared at developing say that 25% of our hotel managers placements have been completed the skills required to grow into a Costa were previous apprentices.
We are with each graduate receiving store manager.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 27 Strategic report Strategic report Operating review continued Winning Teams The WISE programme continued Diversity and inclusion in our Winning Teams Across all of Whitbread we promote, respect and value differences to create an inclusive environment.
There are no barriers to entry and no limits to ambition.
Our ability to grow as an organisation depends on our ability to attract, develop and retain diverse teams as we believe that a diverse organisation encourages better innovation and decision making.
As an equal opportunities employer, not only do we value, grow and celebrate Paige Flynn left school anxious about her future, with low self esteem and people who have diverse perspectives confidence: fast forward to today and Paige stars in the Governments Get in, whatever their age, gender, sexuality, Go far apprenticeship campaign with the ambition to one day run her own ethnicity, disability or religious belief, hotel.
The WISE programme enabled Paige to experience Premier Inn before we believe it gives us greater enrolling on our Advanced Apprenticeship in Hospitality Management, connectivity with our customers earning while learning at work.
Paige valued the structured programme, and a commercial advantage.
support system of regular reviews and feedback about her performance at Across Whitbread, promoting diversity, Leeds Premier Inn.
Paige demonstrates the opportunities to develop and respect and inclusion is a local, line progress within Whitbread and she is also now a great ambassador for the management accountability as well as Governments Get in, Go far apprenticeship campaign, helping others to a corporate activity.
Over 2016 17 we understand how integral apprenticeships are to business and personal growth.
have been successful not only through Group-led activity but also through local initiatives and through employees GLOW opportunity to reach their full potential.
Momentum of the GLOW Gay & We want to create an inclusive culture Flexible working Lesbian Out at Whitbread network where everyone feels that they can We have explored ways to increase has been further leveraged through bring their whole self to work, as the flexible working to allow roles to be internal social channels to boost energy and desire of our teams play accessible to a broader range of team engagement and enhance a key role in our future success.
In Costa, part-time working community activity.
We are proud to Graduate schemes was integrated into the role of the area have celebrated a member of our Costa We have continued to operate our manager to suit flexible working needs.
leadership team being recognised in the award winning graduate schemes, OUTstanding & Financial Times Leading Gender balance across both operations and support LGBT Ally Executives list.
In further Focus has continued on the promotion centre, attracting over 2,000 support of the LGBT community, we of gender balance, particularly at applications to our schemes that invited world-class barista Mason senior levels and in functions where commence in autumn 2017.
Salisbury to train UK Costa baristas to there has been a gender imbalance.
make Rainbow Flat Whites in selected Our operational graduate schemes Efforts have been made to ensure we stores.
The Rainbow Flat Whites were are designed for commercially focused provide gender balanced shortlists in a huge success and were served in four graduates, offering exposure to various recruitment and that our succession cities over the summer aligned with roles and operational areas.
Not only pools include a strong mix, ensuring we Pride events.
have these schemes helped develop our provide quality stretching opportunities internal talent pipeline, but the training for individuals to grow their careers.
Ethnicity on offer equips our graduates with We have focused on improving the Learning difficulties and disabilities a deep understanding of how our level of data capture on ethnicity within In early 2017 we opened the Premier Inn businesses work from the ground up.
our recruitment processes in order to training centre within Derwen College These schemes have also provided our strengthen insight on our workforce for young people with learning graduates with the skills and attributes demographics.
We need to place difficulties and disabilities.
The training needed to successfully lead a Winning further focus on ethnic diversity in centre is fitted out to the specifications Team within one of our Costa stores order to ensure that we are a truly of a Premier Inn hotel and allows or Premier Inn hotels.
students to develop their skills in Our functional programmes cover housekeeping and reception.
The Over the course of the next 12 months HR, finance, IS, marketing, property training centre aims to build students and beyond, we will continue our and procurement.
The experience confidence and self-esteem, providing commitment to create and develop has helped our graduates to develop opportunity to gain work experience a diverse and inclusive working their skills, build a network of contacts and move into paid employment with environment where everyone has the and gain exposure in a range of areas Premier Inn.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 28 Strategic report 92bpm and roles, across all of our brands.
Costa China continued to grow Our graduates have acquired capability within stores and over function-specific experience, technical 500 store employees graduated from training and support for the professional Learning Journey programmes.
These qualifications they wish to work towards.
employees now form the internal talent pipeline for future leadership roles Our international Winning Teams within our store teams.
Costa China Our Costa International markets have also invested in advanced level coffee continued to focus on acting upon knowledge training for the Hot feedback from our employees through House team members to build their our annual Your Say survey, specifically knowledge, skills and confidence paying attention to growing capability around coffee.
The new and exciting and creating attractive reward packages Hot House store format enabled for team members.
formulisation and trial of a new In Costa Poland, focus is centred on incentive scheme that allows store developing internal talent pipelines, team members to share in extra profit introducing efficiency driven pay, that the store generates.
500 benefits for baristas and development Costa China grew capability Following the successful opening of of leadership skills.
within stores and over 500 our first Premier Inn site in Germany, our store employees graduated Costa has continued to invest in team is still new but growing.
Increasing from Learning Journey building international experience occupancy and sales have allowed us to programmes through moving talent and has created increase the number of team members a dedicated business development and we have proactively sought to team located in South East Asia.
recruit a diverse workforce through Significant focus has also been placed supporting the organisation Joblinge on working with our partners on which helps to bring young refugees in social initiatives that are important to the workplace.
Since September, we for our customers as well as building have offered internships and permanent capability within barista and store employment through this partnership.
We are focused on ensuring our teams A successful year are happy and engaged and we are 2016 17 has been a successful year proud to have already achieved positive with continued focus on creating an feedback in our annual Your Say environment where our Winning engagement and enablement survey.
There is still further Our graduate schemes across both opportunity and we have strong plans operations and support centre, in place to continue this momentum attracted over 2,000 applications through 2017 18 and beyond.
to our schemes commencing in autumn 2017 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 29 98bpm Strategic report Strategic report When we get together to shop, we want to escape to a central city location.
We need a cost effective solution that we can rely on to be clean and ensure us a good nights sleep.
Shaping your future and ours Connected and always on the pulse your passion for interaction will give our guests a new kind of hotel experience Wh Whiit tb br rea ead d A An nnu nua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 16 6 1 17 7 3 30 0 Strategic report hub by Premier Inn is our exciting new hotel brand specially designed to fit perfectly into cosmopolitan city centres and appeal to savvy travellers looking Shaping your future and ours Connected and always on the pulse for great value, stylish your passion for interaction will give our guests a new kind of hotel design and the latest experience technology from a hotel at the heart of the action.
With four hotels in London, one in Edinburgh and a further 11 in the pipeline hub takes the stress out of travel.
Guests can book, check-in online and personalise their room before arrival all via the hub app, leaving them free to relax and unwind or hit the shops... 5 11 83% 4.5 5 89% Total hub by Hotels in the Occupancy TripAdvisor score Guests rate Premier Inn hotels pipeline hub excellent or very good Bringing customers brands they love... when only retail therapy will do Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 31
