Strategic report Strategic report Group HR Directors report As detailed in the Winning Teams Whitbread has had Section pages 24 to 29 of this report throughout 2016 17 we have continued to invest in building another strong year and developing our people, from our customer-facing teams to our building Winning most senior executives.
Aligned to Whitbreads strategic Teams across all of our goal to build a bigger and better Whitbread, significant ongoing focus has been placed on building our businesses and markets leadership capability to support future growth.
Over the course of the year we have made progress against our Our success is delivered every day through key performance measures, which underpin our business plan through: our people, so ensuring our teams are inspiring Winning Teams: engaged, supported and have the means developing leadership: and to develop their careers is at the core of creating a no limits to ambition environment.
Our culture remains strong and our people consistently report that they enjoy working at Whitbread, which was highlighted by an engagement score of 78% in our annual Your Say engagement and enablement survey.
In testament to these results, we have been recognised as the eighth Best Big Company to work for in the prestigious Sunday Times listing of best companies and as a Top Employer by the Top Employers Institute for the seventh year running.
Developing leadership Over the last year we have strengthened our leadership teams at every level and increased the quality of support behind our business strategies.
Focus has been placed on bringing the leadership team Louise Smalley closer to the customer and enabling Group HR Director a leaner and more agile business with faster decision making.
To further evolve our portfolios, significant effort has been made to promote talent Over Over moves that broaden our leadership perspectives and capability and provide stretching career moves.
We continue to recruit and develop our leaders to 50,000 800 achieve the best talent for a strong future pipeline.
employees apprentices in learning In our operations we hired over 20,000 employees, and offered over 500 of our team members the opportunity to become a site manager and run their own business with full accountability for profit and loss.
78% 8th Team engagement in the Sunday Times Best Big Companies to work for Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 22 Strategic report In our support centre we have focused In addition, our focus on creating a on developing very specific capabilities no limits to ambition environment has including change and transformation, seen us continue to drive leadership Directors and we have enhanced the programme awareness on the importance of Male and project management teams diversity and promoting respect and Female who will deliver significant change inclusion in teams where everyone programmes to support our business can achieve their potential.
Focus has also been placed A breakdown of the directors of on strengthening our commercial Whitbread, senior managers and all capability, from category management Whitbread employees, split by gender through to specialised procurement.
as of 2 March 2017, is set out We have also taken steps to develop on this page.
our IS and digital teams, establishing digital firmly as a core shared service Reinforcing our values across Whitbread.
Our culture and leadership hold at the core that our people are treated fairly, Creating a no limits to ambition empowered to develop their talent and environment listened to when they are concerned.
In 2016 17 we have increased our focus Our Code of Conduct is a critical on diversity and inclusion and made reinforcement of how we think and talk Senior managers further progress towards our internal about ethical considerations, and every Male targets for nationality mix, gender employee is required to read and Female and minority ethnic representation.
acknowledge the code every year.
At senior levels, gender representation continues to be a key priority across We have recently published our first the Group and we know we need modern slavery report in compliance to continue to work hard to ensure with the Modern Slavery Act.
The full that women and men are more report outlines what we are doing to equally balanced across our senior mitigate the risk of modern slavery leadership teams.
taking place in our global supply chain and across our sites.
With regard to We have undertaken analysis into our team members, we have a number equal pay and gender pay and we of policies in place, including our are confident that we offer equal right to work in the UK policy, which pay for equal work across the Group.
is supported by a comprehensive Our early analysis indicates that we compliance programme.
We also have operate with gender imbalances at a human trafficking policy which is senior levels, with more men than All Whitbread employees available to all employees as well as women in senior roles.
We are actively Male Speaking Out and grievance policies committed to addressing this and Female enabling our team members to report we continue to use every available any concerns they may have.
opportunity to improve our gender balance at senior levels, including working with other organisations that have similar challenges to share best practice.
We are proud that over 50% of all our senior hires have been Louise Smalley women, and we have worked with Group HR Director teams throughout the Company to 24 April 2017 sponsor and celebrate women coming through the business.
In the finance function we have launched a sponsorship scheme, listening groups and increased part-time and job sharing opportunities with the focus of addressing gender imbalance.
We also proactively sponsor initiatives Lifetime such as the Women in Construction agenda, where we are extremely proud Achievement to say that our very own Alison Lindsay, Head of Architecture, was awarded the We are delighted that our very Lifetime Achievement award.
own Alison Lindsay, Head of Architecture, was awarded the Lifetime Achievement award at the Women in Construction awards, recognising the fantastic work Alison has done and continues to do in her 30-year career with Whitbread.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 23
