Strategic report Strategic report Force for Good Working together to make a better future Highlights Team and community Over 2.8m 1.8m raised for Great Ormond Street raised for the Costa Foundation Hospital Charity Over 800 12,000 apprentices in learning community hours volunteered by Costa team members Chris Vaughan General Counsel Customer wellbeing At Whitbread, we are building a long term sustainable business.
How we 15% 100% do things is just as important as what we do.
People are at the heart of our less added sugar in our of our whole shell eggs business, whether it be the way we look Costa Ice range willbecage free by 2020 after our colleagues, how we protect the environment or how we support the communities in which we operate.
We 659 100% have a responsibility to act as a Force for Good for all our stakeholders, and restaurants the largest chain in the of Costa coffee is Rainforest we take this responsibility seriously.
UK to serve MSC certified fish Alliance certified We break our sustainability programme into three pillars: Energy and environment Team and community: Customer wellbeing: and 15,000 3,300 Energy and environment.
new LED lights installed across tonnes of CO e per annum saved 2 Each pillar has its own individual goals 100 Premier Inn sites through energy efficiency and targets set.
projects installed in 2016 17 Whitbread is a great place to work, and we are committed to ensuring 2,000 800 that our 50,000 employees have the Costa stores participating in a Costa stores nationwide recycling opportunities they need to succeed nationwide cup recycling scheme coffee grounds in whatever they do.
We have over 800 apprentices in learning.
Our WISE programme focuses on getting young people into training, whether or not they are in education, training or employment, and we invest significant sums each year in our various schemes.
Further information is provided in our operating review found on pages 24 to 29.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 48 Strategic report With 28 million customers welcomed every month, we must ensure that Our pillars they are buying products and services they can trust and that we provide a great choice of food and drink, which 1 Team and includes healthier options.
Animal welfare is important to us, which is why we recently committed to achieving community cage free status on all whole shell eggs by 2020 and all ingredient eggs by 2025.
We also announced a target in Costa to reduce added sugar in drinks Great Ormond Street Hospital Charity by 25% by 2020.
But we know there During 2016 17, the partnership is more to do.
between Premier Inn & Restaurants and Great Ormond Street Hospital During the year, our teams have Charity has continued to achieve continued to passionately support outstanding results.
Through building charitable and local causes.
To date 72 on the momentum of the last four years, we have raised over 8 million for school projects completed we have raised over 2.8 million for Great Ormond Street Hospital Charity in nine countries the charity in 2016 17. and over 11 million for the Costa Foundation.
This includes over Premier Inn & Restaurants had 250,000 raised from the annual committed to raising 7.5 million in The Costa Foundation has inspired Three Peaks Challenge and I was five years towards a new Premier Inn thousands of Costa employees to make delighted to take part in the 2016 Clinical Building.
We were delighted a difference through their daily work.
in November 2016 to announce that 2016 saw the tenth Costa Foundation the fundraising total had been achieved Our innovative work to build sustainable Three Peaks Challenge fundraising one year earlier than anticipated.
The buildings continues and, as a result, event.
Since 2007 hundreds of the fundraising targets set have been we won the prestigious Asda wider Costa team have risen to the embraced by our team members, Environmental Leadership Award at gruelling challenge of climbing the customers and suppliers across the BITC Responsible Business Awards.
highest mountains in Scotland, Wales the country.
This year we also participated in the and England in one continuous journey Dow Jones Sustainability Index Costa Foundation to raise money for the Foundation.
for the first time, scoring best in During the year, the Costa Foundation We also ran our first collaborative class in Governance, Philanthropy has completed 11 new school projects.
partnership with Allegras Project and Eco-efficiency.
We have been It has also funded projects to expand Waterfall as part of the UK Coffee identified in their Sustainability six established Costa Foundation Week.
Costa raised over 81,000, which Yearbook as leaders in our sector.
schools in Guatemala and Uganda.
was used to support water projects The total amount raised in 2016 17 delivered by the Costa Foundation was 1.8 million.
on behalf of Project Waterfall.
This The Costa Foundation has been included new water harvesting tanks active since 2007.
During the last supporting the increased growth ten years, 72 different school in student enrolment at ten Costa Chris Vaughan projects have been completed in nine Foundation high schools in Uganda.
General Counsel coffee-producing countries around 24 April 2017 Costa community programme the world and provided over 30,000 The Costa community programme has places for children to access a safe gone from strength to strength with the and quality education.
aim of empowering our team members to make an active contribution to their local communities.
In 2016 over 12,000 hours were volunteered by team members across Costa to good causes where they live and work.
2.8m We have raised 2.8 million for Great Ormond Street HospitalCharity in 2016 17 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 49 Strategic report Strategic report Force for Good continued Our reformulation programme to Team and reduce salt, sugar and saturated fat Our pillars without compromising the quality community and taste of our food has progressed well during the year and we have made continued 2 Customer significant reductions in the amount ofsugar in our starters, desserts and sauce accompaniments.
wellbeing Sugar reduction has also been a key priority for Costa and we are committed to reducing added sugar across our We have continued to recognise beverage range by 25% by 2020. the ongoing concern that childhood Significant reductions have been made obesity presents to our society.
We are in many of our drinks range.
These committed to working in partnership include 15% less added sugar in our with the UK Government and industry This year we established a partnership Costa Ice and 41% in a medio Chai Latte.
partners to ensure progress continues with the Police Community Clubs of Our Costa food range also includes on this important issue.
Great Britain to run our first Costa products which are less than 250 kcals Reading Week, whereby hundreds of per portion including healthier options We are actively working to reformulate our store teams donated educational such as fruit pots and whole and dried dishes where possible, review our books on environmental issues to local fruit.
In addition, we have been working portion sizes and provide choice and schools.
Book club events were hosted to a target of reducing salt in our transparency.
We have a strategy in in store to encourage parents and sandwiches by 5% by the end of 2017. place to do this, but recognise there carers to spend one to one time reading is more to do.
Responsible sourcing with their children.
We have published our first modern With over 600 restaurants and over Costa also supported Keep Britain slavery report this year.
The full 2,200 coffee shops in the UK, we Tidys KBT Clean for the Queen report can be found at www.
believe that our scale enables us Campaign, Britains largest ever litter co. uk  and to make a significant and positive pick event, as part of our commitment provides details of our modern slavery contribution in driving change through to work towards tackling the issue of risk assessment and due diligence our work on: litter.
This was the second year that strategy, which we are implementing the reformulation of the food and Costa has acted as a principal retail across our global supply chain.
drink that we serve: sponsor for KBTs national anti-litter With a vast and varied supply chain, campaigns.
Over 600 of our stores introducing credible healthier we understood the first step to tackling took part in the event.
choices: and these issues was to understand where In recognition of the hard work and our most significant risks lie.
Working providing clear, meaningful and commitment that our teams have in partnership with leading UK human easily accessible information for delivered to their communities, the trafficking charity, Stop The Traffik, our customers.
Costa Community Programme received weundertook a heat mapping exercise We have already taken action and Gold in the Corporate Engagement to identify which suppliers and which during the year have continued to Awards and a Highly Commended parts of our global supply chain are make good progress.
in the Corporate Comms Awards.
most at risk of modern slavery taking place.
The process we followed involved To date, the majority of dishes on our We continue to work on enabling our restaurants childrens menus provide teams to make an active contribution children with one of their five a day to their communities across Whitbread.
requirement and we offer more fruit options in desserts.
A review was undertaken of the drinks offered to children and this has led to the removal of all added sugar drinks.
Our childrens food and drink offering has been positively received by the Soil Association in its Out to Lunch survey where Beefeater and Brewers Fayre were recognised for improvements to the quality and nutrition of the food offered.
We continue to work with the Soil Association so that we can build on this achievement.
50 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 50 Strategic report an analysis of supplier tiers down to voltaic generation capacity on over commodity level, based on a risk rating 90 hotels.
In addition as of April 2017, Our pillars at source and chain geographies.
We all of the electricity we buy for our are now working through the results to UK operations will be 100% renewable.
develop a response for each supplier On 13 March 2017, Costa opened its 3 Energy and identified as a higher risk, following the new 38 million Roastery in Basildon.
Ethical Trading Initiatives human rights As well as quadrupling Costas roasting due diligence framework.
capacity and being one of the largest environment Product roasteries in Europe, it is also one of We have made good progress towards the worlds most sustainable.
On-site ensuring the products that we buy are renewable energy generation reduces Targets sustainable.
In relation to our critical the buildings carbon footprint, with This year we are pleased to have commodities: the roof hosting a 249kW solar PV achieved our 2020 carbon reduction system, which will provide power Coffee 100% of our coffee is target.
We will be working to reset our for the Roastery.
In tandem with Rainforest Alliance certified: environmental targets early in 2017 18, the rainwater harvesting system, continuing our commitment to reduce Fish All of the fish that we now this will also generate hot water for our environmental impact.
buy directly is sustainably sourced.
Already achieving a This year, we are very proud to have BREEAM Outstanding to latest UK electricity generation has become achieved the Chain of Custody Marine standards during its design stage more efficient in 2016 17, reducing Stewardship Council MSC certification.
assessment, the Roastery was emissions per kWh generated.
This This makes us the largest restaurant shortlisted for the 2017 BREEAM improvement and our continued chain in the UK to serve MSC certified Awards and is aiming to receive a investment in efficiency has enabled fish, demonstrating to our customers further Outstanding certification us to reduce our emissions beyond that the fish they are served has at the final stage assessment.
beencaught in a sustainable and Recycling and resource management During the year we continued responsibleway.
We are committed to minimising our programme of annual capital Eggs In September 2016, we our environmental footprint from bean investment to reduce our energy announced our commitment to go cage to cup, and in February 2017 Costa consumption.
free on whole shell eggs across Costa launched a nationwide recycling We opened a further hub by Premier and Premier Inn & Restaurants by 2020 scheme across over 2,000 stores in Inn site in 2016 17 as part of our strategy and ingredient eggs by 2025.
We are order to recover and guarantee the for sustainable development in urban already taking significant steps in recycling of its iconic takeaway cups.
These developments meeting that target.
Inaddition to this, Costa is funding have incorporated the environmental research with the University of Sheffield We also have plans and targets in initiatives and lessons from the success to further understand the barriers to place in relation to cotton, meat, palm of our first hub by Premier Inn site cup recycling.
We are also supporting oil and timber.
in 2015, which achieved a BREEAM consumer-facing campaigns to raise Outstanding rating, and we will continue awareness of cup recyclability.
this work as we accelerate the roll out Moving from recycling cups to coffee of the format in 2017 18. grounds, Costa has also partnered Investing in efficiency and with award-winning clean technology renewable energy company bio-bean to recycle coffee We have continued to invest in grounds into low carbon fuel sources.
renewable energy generation in our new Over 800 stores nationwide are now Premier Inns.
We now have solar photo recycling an estimated 3,000 tonnes of coffee grounds a year.
Awards During the year, we won the 249kW Environmental Leadership Award from Business in the Community.
The award A 249kW solar PV system recognises the pioneering sustainability will provide power for efforts of both Premier Inn and Costa the Roastery for tackling climate change and saving energy through two trail-blazing environmental projects the Costa Eco-Pod in Telford and the hub by Premier Inn, St. Martins Lane hotel.
Both projects demonstrate that sustainable buildings and efficient new space are at the core of our environmental strategy.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 51 Strategic report Strategic report Bringing customers brands they love... when they need to break up the journey 6,061 740 9 250 Number of UK Costa Number of Number of Number of drink Express machines international Costa countries with combinations available Express machines Costa Express from a machine With over 6,000 Costa Express machines in garages and motorway service stations up and down the UKs roads, motorists never have to drive too far before they get to the next stop to pick up a cup of quality coffee on the go.
Made with fresh milk and Costas Mocha Italia blend, a cup of coffee from a Costa Express machine is the next best thing to a hand-crafted barista made coffee.
Its the perfect pick me up if youve got a long drive ahead or just want to break up the journey.
Wh Whiit tb br rea ead d A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 16 6 1 17 7 5 52 2 Strategic report When I have to make a long journey and need a good quality coffee to look forward to when I stop.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 53
