Strategic report Strategic report Strategy Our strategy for long-term growth Both of our core brands, Premier Inn and Costa, have a structural growth opportunity.
Our brands are market-leading, our customers are loyal, and our financial approach is disciplined and prudent.
On 29 November 2016 we held a Capital As a result of our strong fundamentals, Our strategy builds on the Market Day, in which we reported the we have the flexibility to continue to Companys core strengths and following highlights: make progress despite evolving political its proven brands and business and economic uncertainties.
We have for Premier Inn, we have clear line of models.
It also adds a number done extensive scenario modelling, are sight to our 2020 milestone of 85,000 of new elements to enhance our confident in our baseline plan and in our UK rooms and have identified an ability to make decisions with pace and capability.
These come in the form extended growth runway beyond agility if and when required.
of increased pace and agility, a 100,000 UK rooms: Financially we are in a strong position, focus on innovation, technology for Costa, we again have clear line with strong cash generation, a secure and efficiency and a clear strategy of sight to our 2020 milestone of balance sheet and a pattern of for our property portfolio.
2.5 billion of system sales and have reinvestment in organic growth, identified an extended runway in the We will continue to invest, to at good returns.
UK to at least 3,000 UK stores: capture the growth opportunities On the following pages you will see available in both coffee and budget we continue to see great potential in more detail of our structural growth branded hotels.
Germany opportunity, together with further has strong market fundamentals We will improve and innovate information on the three strategic and is a fabulous fit for the Premier ourcustomer offers to retain our priorities introduced this time Inn brand.
We see a tremendous market-leading brand positions.
last year: long-term opportunity for Costa We will focus on our strengths China and, at Costa Express, we are 1 G row and innovate to grow internationally and across constantly challenging ourselves to the whole business.
accelerate and double-up: in our core UK We will create an efficient to help us offset cost headwinds, businesses and productive infrastructure, from factors such as increases in building capability to support business rates and the National Living 2 Focus on our strengths our long-term growth.
Wage as well as FX-related price to grow internationally inflation, we have established a Our leasehold and freehold property Group-wide efficiency programme portfolio provides the core long-term and are targeting 150 million of 3 Build the capability infrastructure and competitively gross savings over five years: and advantaged access to the best sites and platform to and provides operational and cost we operate a unique property model support future growth advantages for our business.
We will which is balanced and creates unique continue to proactively manage this competitive advantage.
Our property key asset to ensure we have the best strategy directly supports our locations and to capture freehold structural growth ambitions and we development profit.
have recently valued our freehold property portfolio in the range of We take a long-term view of our 4.2 billion to 5.1 billion.
Whitbread has a 275-year history and, with that, comes a responsibility to protect the long-term interests of all our stakeholders: our shareholders, our employees and pensioners and our customers.
We will continue to focus on growing earnings and dividends, whilst maintaining a good return on capital.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 08 Strategic report the budget branded sector is Meanwhile, we are tremendously Structural growth capturing the growth, reflecting fortunate to operate in the coffee opportunity customers increasing desire for industry.
There arent many consumer Premier Inn today has 762 UK quality and value for money and product categories that can point the structural shift to value brands to a global consumer lifestyle tailwind, sites and a 9.5% share of the total looks set to continue: and habitual purchase behaviour and a UK hotel market.
Premier Inn has 6% global growth forecast.
Coffee opened around 4,000 UK rooms Premier Inn is the UKs Number 1 has recently overtaken tea as the hotel company.
The business model per year for the past four years.
UKs beverage of choice and is clearly advantaged and well-placed Meanwhile Costa has 3,532 international comparisons show to capture the shift to value brands a lot more headroom for growth.
stores and 6,801 Costa Express as location and value for money are machines globally.
We have the The strength of the category has largest network, the most compelling attracted a plethora of brands, At Premier Inn, our growth continues to value for money proposition and loyal independents and non-specialists to be at high returns, and can be described guests who give us the highest the sector.
Our UK business is stepping as structural for three reasons: customer ratings.
Our distribution forward to meet this challenge head the significant independent hotel model is direct, and our operating on.
We start from a position of great segment is in structural decline.
We strength, as customers choice is still Running a hotel is becoming more also have a joint site and property dominated by convenience and coffee complex and costly.
Proprietors must strategy that gives us a unique quality, where we are a clear winner manage to ever higher customer competitive advantage, to be able in the UK.
We are by far the UKs standards and increasingly must also to access the best sites at good value.
Number 1 coffee chain, with the be digital entrepreneurs, competing strongest network and the best with online travel agents and brand perception in the market.
disrupters as well as traditional local competition: Structural growth opportunities remain strong Total UK hotel market rooms 678,000 686,000 692,000 709,000 729,000 752,000 Budget branded Other branded Independents 762 UK sites Premier Inn rooms 43,000 52,000 59,000 c. 68,000 c. 77,000 c. 86,000 share % 6% 8% 9% 10% 11% 11% 9.5% share of UK hotel market Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 09 Strategic report Strategic report Strategy continued Strategic Priority Premier Inn UK runway for growth beyond 100,000 rooms 1 Grow and innovate in Digital direct Network destination strength our core UK Over businesses High Continued 13% occupancy growth return on We are confident in our 2020 capital milestones, but we also have considerable growth potential Value for Consistent beyond 2020 and our advantaged money quality delivery business models leave us best able to capture this market opportunity.
However, we have decided not to create further milestones from these opportunities.
How and when we take our opportunities will be a matter for The chart above represents why Premier Inn is such a unique and us, based on sustaining good returns, differentiated model.
delivering earnings growth and managing the business with flexibility UK Network strength Continued growth and agility.
40% more sites than closest On track for 85,000 rooms by 2020 competitor and growth runway beyond 100,000 Our Premier Inn network is formidable.
9 10 sites have TripAdvisor rooms identified, with strong network We have 40% more sites than Certificate of Excellence planning disciplines our nearest competitor and our consistency of customer satisfaction Strong return on capital Digital direct is a core strength.
Our market-leading Above hurdle returns for 94% of bookings made direct via our occupancy and direct distribution both freehold and leasehold digital channels translate to good profit generation and providing a substantial Value for money a strong return on capital.
We achieve premium to cost of capital Premier Inn is rated No.
1 by YouGov over 13% returns across the Premier Inn for value for money & Restaurants portfolio, which is substantially above our cost of capital.
Occupancy Above 80% Our ability to deliver growth is proven.
We open around 4,000 UK rooms per year, which roughly translates to three Costa is a proposition for the whole Our plans are to enhance the UK offer, new hotels every month.
Our network of the country.
We operate in all types through improvement of the customer plan is based on quantitative analysis, of location from high streets to retail proposition, including building on our and has been subject to continuous parks and Drive Thrus, and through coffee credentials and delivering finer scrutiny and refinement, taking account both equity and franchised models.
food, and smarter thinking about how of the long-term UK growth in GDP Across this diverse estate Costa is the we segment and optimise the estate.
and the effect we think disrupters will clear Number 1 preferred coffee shop, Delivering this programme will provide have on the market.
We remain on reflecting our exceptional coffee, our us with long-term, sustainable like for track for our 2020 milestone and have loved brand, our formidable network, like growth.
identified a growth runway beyond and our Winning Teams.
The structural growth of coffee is Coffee in the UK is a hive of innovation.
expanding the scope of operations for During the year we conducted an Branded coffee shops, new coffee shops.
In addition to traditional extensive strategic review of Costa UK, independents, non-specialists and high street and retail locations, we see and there remains considerable product innovators all want to extensive opportunity for Drive Thru headroom for growth.
coffee and believe we can access more participate in the category growth, of the best transport locations and but we plan to maintain our position retail parks.
Our network plan shows of leadership.
opportunity for at least 3,000 stores in the UK compared to just over 2,200 today.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 10 Strategic report Im Here unlock the potential in China and to Germany is a structurally attractive establish a Number 2 position in the Strategic Priority market for Premier Inn.
We recognise that we have The German customer appreciates more work to do to get the proposition a high quality sleep experience at a right in China and to re-invigorate 2 Focus on great price and, crucially, can pay an the brand.
However, we are given economic rate to enjoy it.
The market is confidence by the fact that, outside in steady growth, currently dominated a tail of underperforming stores, site our strengths by independents and with the largest performance is credible.
We have brands at a fraction of our UK scale.
learned valuable lessons from our experience to date and we have now Our first hotel in Frankfurt is enjoying to grow developed a clear plan to succeed excellent customer feedback.
one of the top Frankfurt hotels on internationally TripAdvisor is a great endorsement of Costa has a growing international our potential and we are maturing the footprint and we intend to make it hotel without using online travel agents.
We will focus on the We have secured five additional sites markets with the highest potential, with in outstanding locations in key cities a lean regional infrastructure to support to roll out on this template.
Over the local market growth.
We will leverage long-term, we believe that Premier Inn our capital light franchise model and can replicate its UK success in Germany, skill in successful partner selection to and create long-term shareholder replicate and build on our success.
As part of this focus, we have taken In order to focus on Germany and the the decision to withdraw from our Middle East we took the decision to equity business in France and to focus withdraw Premier Inn from India and on a franchise model.
South East Asia and our exit plans are Costa Express represents a significant progressing well.
For Costa, China is a large market with Costa bought Coffee Nation in 2011 and, a growing consumer middle class and since then, performance has exceeded coffee culture and has the potential our expectations.
Costa Express is a to provide a significant future growth technologically advantaged business, engine.
We believe that our current both at the front-end in the coffee, operations represent a platform to and at the back-end through its infrastructure.
It succeeds in the UK, and is starting to succeed overseas too.
We are excited by the prospects of Costa Express internationally and Costa Express constantly looking to accelerate our growth and double-up.
represents a significant international growth opportunity China Costa has the potential to establish a Number 2 position in the Chinese market Germany The Premier Inn in Frankfurt is enjoying excellent customer feedback Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 11 Strategic report Strategic report Strategy continued Strategic Priority Outlined in the previous pages 3 Build the is a multi-faceted growth plan, with multiple brands operating in multiple territories and capability ambitious plans to develop our key propositions.
and platform It is essential that we build the capability to support our long-term growth.
to support We have identified four themes under this heading: future growth Technology Efficiency We must take a proactive approach We have an opportunity and a need to to our technology and our platform.
drive efficiency through our business.
Technology touches all stages of the The UK consumer sector is facing a mixture of customer journey, online, at site and across macroeconomic uncertainty and mandated cost our support centre and supplier network.
Strong returns are a non-negotiable part We will develop scalable platforms, create of the Whitbread story, so we have commenced a centre of digital excellence and embed an overarching efficiency programme.
We plan data insight across the business.
to deliver significant efficiency savings, worth 150 million, over a five year period, to help mitigate sector cost pressure.
Organisation Property To grow as a business and succeed on To grow at around 4,000 or more rooms more fronts we must enhance our and continue the significant growth in our organisation and culture.
Culturally speaking, coffee shop estate, it is essential that we can we need dynamic leadership with efficiently access both freehold and leasehold clear executive accountability, site opportunities at a good return on capital.
and relentless customer focus Property is a key part of the story.
Over 60% of supported by agile decision making.
Premier Inn rooms today are freehold, and we have spent considerable time understanding the nuances of both our property portfolio and strategy.
We have a unique model, which creates a competitive advantage.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 12 Strategic report Property The rationale for property ownership Competitive advantage in property is balanced and interconnected, so to understand one element you need the bigger picture.
This is captured in the virtuous circle on this page and described below.
Access to Our property strategy is centred on Strong a balanced portfolio with Costa as best sites, both covenant an asset-light leasehold model and freehold and Premier Inn a majority freehold estate.
leasehold We are focused on achieving good returns under all models.
This provides us with a strong covenant.
Balanced portfolio Our strong covenant gives us preferential access to freehold and Majority freehold Freehold leasehold sites, at lower cost and at value Good returns lower rents than would be available creation to competitors.
We are agile in local Operating markets and can manage planning cash flow risks with confidence.
We are the preferred partner for many vendors, developers and landlords.
Our balanced portfolio creates strong Growth operating cash flows and protection funding in the downturn via lower fixed costs.
Our cash flows fund our growth, and our portfolio also provides an alternative funding source that adds flexibility.
Our covenant, underpinned by freehold, lowers our borrowing costs.
The yields quoted are strong and We have already shown tremendous represent a robust business with a value creation through hotel extensions, Finally, we continuously achieve good trading outlook.
Importantly, and aim to broaden this through more freehold value creation through these yields reflect our covenant active management of our property development profits, extensions strength, so that moving away from portfolio.
We will pursue small scale sale and other asset opportunities.
a majority freehold estate would and leaseback transactions to reinvest Maintaining this majority freehold weaken our covenant, which would capital and demonstrate our covenant to base continually supports our push up both our rental yields and prospective landlords, but Premier Inns covenant, which is the critical costs of capital substantially.
This objective is to remain a majority element to ensure our access in turn would reduce the value of freehold business.
to the best sites both freehold the property.
Currently 64% of our Premier Inn The good yield assumes we optimise estate is freehold, but this will reduce We have reviewed our portfolio, and the rate of supply of Premier Inn to around 60% as the pipeline is built estimate our freehold interests to be freeholds placed into the market.
Retaining a majority freehold estate worth 4.2 billion to 5.1 billion.
The greater the supply into the market is important to maintain Premier Inns Valuations are dependent on a number at a given time, the higher the yield structural growth story.
of factors, including the location type, and the lower the value we would be trading outlook, rent cover and lease able to achieve.
This value has been based on a rent cover of 2.25x which we believe to be a suitable ratio in a cyclical sector to maintain our market-leading strengths through the cycle.
We have 4.2bn also used an initial net yield of 4.5% to 5.5% based on individual sale and to 5.1bn leaseback transactions.
We estimate our freehold To reach these assumptions, we worked interests to be worth with a large property consultancy 4.2 billion to 5.1 billion who conducted a desktop valuation, sampling 37% of sites and extrapolating across the estate.
Sites were assessed individually based on available local benchmarks for rental values and their trading performance.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 13
