Strategic report Strategic report Operating review continued Customer Heartbeat Another award winning year In the past year our leading brands, Our approach Premier Inn and Costa, have cemented their positions as the UKs favourite Our 50,000 team members provide outstanding experiences to our hotel chain and coffee shop chain millions of customers.
We make sure we listen to what our customers respectively.
For the seventh year in want and use this insight to enhance our customer propositions a row Costa was voted the Nations to build satisfaction and loyalty.
Favourite Coffee Shop Brand by Allegra.
Premier Inn was named the UKs We offer customers the greatest choice of locations Top Rated Hotel Chain for a second We invest in our sites to maintain their quality consecutive year in the Which?
Hotel We design our coffee shops, restaurants and hotels to create Chain Survey, and for the first time, a warm and welcoming experience for our customers picked up the award for Travel Brand We innovate to meet customer needs and expectations of the Year in the 2016 Which?
These accolades are especially We offer customers a great choice of high quality food significant as they are voted for by and drink Which?
members and the general We use digital technology to enhance the customer experience public and Premier Inn was recognised for providing a first class experience at very competitive prices.
Premier Inn & Restaurants 5.5 million 2 years customers voted UKs top rated hotel chain by Which?
Premier Inn also featured heavily in the TripAdvisor Travellers Choice Awards and the Premier Inn London 9 63% Bank took the No.
1 slot for Best out of ten Premier Inn guests say they of customers in our restaurants Family Hotel in the UK.
621 hotels will definitely consider staying again score us nine or ten out of ten received a TripAdvisor Certificate of Excellence Award.
Our individual brand guest satisfaction 90% surveys provide us with a valuable tool of all hotels received a TripAdvisor to find out what is important to our Certificate of Excellence customers and how we can improve upon their experience.
These surveys show that our teams are already doing a great job serving our customers, Costa with nine out of ten Premier Inn guests saying they will definitely consider staying again and 87% of Costa customers saying they are likely to 23 million 7 years revisit but, of course, we recognise customers voted the Nations Favourite there is always more we can do to Coffee Shop Brand deliver even better experiences for our customers, as evidenced by the targets that we set ourselves.
87% 50% We use YouGov Brand Index and of customers say they are likely net recommend Brand Preference trackers to monitor to revisit our progress against competitors and you can see on the next page how Premier Inn and Costa continue to hold the leading position in their 56% respective markets.
drink quality scores Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 32 Strategic report The only brand to deliver on quality and value UKs favourite coffee shop 7th year in a row YouGov BrandIndex Brand Preference: Costa is the UKs favourite Hilton Marriott Holiday Inn Costa Holiday Inn Express Starbucks Travelodge Ibis Nero AirBnb - Value score Source: 2008 2014: YouGov Q.
If there were a Costa Coffee, Starbucks and Caff Nero next door to each other, which one would Premier Inn is the only brand to deliver on both be your FIRST choice to visit?
20152017: TNS One CostaTracker, quality and value, securing wider market appeal Market Monitor, 2,000 Nat Rep respondents perquarter N ote: Scores are net i. e. positive % minus negative %.
YouGov Source: Allegra Project Cafe 2017 BrandIndex 52-week rolling average 28th February 2017 With over 3,500 Costa stores around China is an important market for Costa, As shown on TV the world and 762 Premier Inns in the where we currently have over 400 2016 17 has been an exciting year for UK alone, we are able to be everywhere stores.
We are trialling an innovative Premier Inn and Costa as they both our customers need and want us to be.
new store format in five Shanghai launched brand new TV advertising To ensure our products and services stores, involving a completely new store campaigns.
Costas biggest ever meet customers increasingly high design and food and drink offer.
The campaign went live in October during expectations, we invest significantly stylish new interior gives more focus the first X Factor Live show and in maintaining the quality of our stores, to the counter and food display, which celebrated the promise of never a dull hotels and restaurants.
includes freshly made sandwiches, cup, showcasing Costas reputation and the use of natural woods and soft for delivering quality handcrafted In 2016 17 we refurbished 4,450 fabrics and lighting help to create a barista-made coffee.
170 baristas got Premier Inn rooms, whilst in our warm, welcoming environment.
The the opportunity to take part in the Restaurants business we converted new food range includes freshly made humorous advert as members of an three Table Table sites to Beefeater, sandwiches and premium desserts enthusiastic audience watching a highly and all our Taybarns sites to Brewers whilst Costas coffee credentials are unorthodox motivational speaker.
In Costa we have been rolling brought to the fore with new brewing out a re-imaging programme with 169 September 2016 saw the launch of methods such as single origin hand stores getting a new look in the year.
Premier Inns bold new multi-channel pouring coffee and Old Paradise Street advertising campaign, A Great Place blends.
Initial customer feedback has Our Drive Thru stores are proving to Start, with the first in a series of been promising with over 80% saying very popular with customers and we four TV commercials.
The campaign they would be likely to return and we opened 16 sites in the year and now featured different storylines showing plan to roll the design out to more have 52 around the UK.
Following how Premier Inn provided a great start stores in the year ahead.
a successful 13 store trial, the Costa to the day for their guests, whether Pronto format will be rolled out more thats a family celebrating Great Aunt widely in 2017 18.
Costa Pronto stores Mabels birthday or a group of ladies are specially designed to meet the getting ready for a night out.
increasing demand for on the go coffee, with specially designed counters to enable our baristas to improve the speed of service and avoid lengthy customer queues.
Great Aunt Mabel Premier Inns new TV advertising campaign Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 33 Quality score Strategic report Strategic report Operating review continued Customer Heartbeat continued Innovating our coffee Since being founded by brothers Bruno and Sergio Costa in 1971, Costa has been at the forefront of Britains growing love affair with coffee, and we are on a mission to inspire the world to love great coffee.
Britain is now undoubtedly a nation of coffee lovers, but at Costa we believe there is much more to do to bring new premium coffee experiences to customers.
As part of Costas commitment to create exciting coffee experiences for customers, our never a dull cup campaign promoted the delights of a Cortado and Flat White and was supported by nationwide coffee masterclasses.
1 of your In October, we opened a new concept store in Wandsworth in 5 a day London, promising to deliver new Costa launched its new coffee and food experiences in a Super Day Smoothie last summer stylish environment.
The concept store responds to evolving appetite for fresh ways to enjoy coffee and a flavoursome new range of coffee beans and brews is on offer including three Innovating our food offer in Costa customer selects from the chiller slow drip, single origin blends from Increasing customer demand for cabinet, which is then lovingly blended Sumatra, Kenya and Colombia, all 100% an enhanced food offer with greater and prepared in front of them by their Arabica beans.
Also available is a cold choice of lighter, fresher and healthier barista.
They come in three refreshing brew coffee, which is steeped for 20 options is driving our food development.
flavours from a mix of pineapple, melon, hours and served over ice to create We are doing this through a mix of passionfruit, apple, kiwi, strawberries a delicious and refreshing drink.
An reformulating existing products and and grapes and contain one of your enhanced food menu is also available the introduction of new items including five a day.
at the Wandsworth store featuring healthy wraps and salads, as well as a Our stores in White City London and delicious additions such as avocado trial of Costas Its All Good range in Milton Keynes are exploring how to on toast, macarons and an antipasti selected stores.
deliver an enhanced food offer to sharing plate.
Costa celebrated a taste of summer customers displaying products in a new in its new cold drinks range, with the counter display with some products launch of SuperDay Smoothies, made prepared fresh on site.
Costa Poland from 100% real fresh fruit that the is also addressing consumer trends for healthy fresh food with the opening of its new concept store at the Chopin Airport in Warsaw.
The store has a number of dishes suitable for vegetarians and vegans and serves a wide range of savoury food including freshly made baguettes, French pastries and cookies that are all baked in the store.
24 A Ar ra ab biic ca b a be ea an ns s: s : siin ng glle e o or riig giin b n blle en nd ds f s fr ro om S m Su um ma at tr ra a, K Ke en nya a ya an nd C d Co ollo om mb biia a Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 34 Strategic report Innovating in Premier Inn & Restaurants hub by Premier Inn is a new generation of smartly designed hotels, perfect for people who want to be in the heart of the city at an affordable price.
With five hub hotels now open across London and Edinburgh, technology features heavily throughout the hotels cleverly crafted compact rooms.
To celebrate the opening of the Brick Lane hub in June and to showcase its connectivity credentials, the launch event featured rapper, Tinchy Stryder, who challenged himself to create a track using inspiration from the digital surroundings of the hotel and the vibrant areas of Brick Lane, all produced from his hotel room.
In March 2016, Whitbread launched its first ever Bar Block steakhouse restaurant in the centre of Birmingham, followed by two more openings in Londons Kings Cross and Whiteley shopping centre in Fareham.
Like Beefeater, Bar Block has quality steak at its core and offers a distinctive Butchers Block which offers a range of rotating unique special cuts, all hand cut to order.
An informal all-day dining destination, Bar Block has been specifically designed to thrive in high street and city centre locations alongside a Premier Inn.
The stylish and contemporary interiors make a feature of the large open kitchen and central bar, serving innovative cocktails and a specially curated wine list.
For our Beefeater guests we have Butchers introduced some exciting new dishes and drinks that complement the stylish new interiors with great dishes like Block Smokehouse style Duo of Beef, our Steak is the hero at our new Craft Guild of Chefs award winning all-day dining restaurant Crispy Tabasco Chicken Burger and brand Bar Block a new range of premium milkshakes and cocktails.
In Brewers Fayre we have launched new menu categories and dishes in partnership with beverage informed choice: to reformulate those brands, such as the Jack Daniels dishes that are high in saturated fats, category which offers a special salt and added sugar: and to ensure that Jack Daniels burger, ribs and Beef & our advertising, especially to children, DoomBar pie.
A new range of cask ales is responsible and that we are promoting is also proving popular with customers.
Examples of this We are encouraging new guests to strategy in action include greater choice experience our restaurants with of healthier foods in our spring 2017 promotional partnerships and new menus, better access to nutritional communication channels.
information and enhanced childrens To address consumer trends for menus with more healthy dishes to healthier, fresher food as well as choose from and reformulation of top 5 hubs supporting Government goals to selling favourites, such as spaghetti a new generation of smartly improve the nations health we have bolognese, with reduced levels of salt designed hotels, perfect for people developed a nutrition strategy, focused and sugar.
We are committed to doing who want to be in the heart of the on four key pillars.
These are to provide more to improve the nutritional content city at an affordable price customers with greater choice of of our menus and playing our role in healthier, lighter dishes: to ensure improving the nations health.
transparency of nutritional information to enable customers to make an Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 35 Strategic report Strategic report Operating review continued Customer Heartbeat continued Delighting customers with digital services Our products and services are Record direct distribution through premierinn.
Whether Volume of reservations by channel that is searching for the hotel closest to where you need to be, booking a Indirect channels hotel room from your mobile phone or Premier Inn pre-ordering your cup of coffee so it is other ready to collect.
Customers have high Premier Inn expectations of how digital technology digital will make their day to day lives easier and at Whitbread we are investing significantly in building core expertise in our in-house digital teams to ensure we continually delight customers with innovative new products and services.
At Premier Inn over 80% of all bookings are made online at premierinn.
com and in 2016 17 we made some exciting new developments to our digital and Including reservations from GDS and agents of 7% mobile offer including the launch of a new mobile site.
The new site has been designed to make the customer search and booking journey as easy and enjoyable as possible to boost conversion rates.
In the year, we also launched a new German website www.
fide on a platform that is scalable to support our international expansion and we relaunched the Beefeater website in line with the new Beefeater brand proposition.
New German website We launched a new German website www.
fide on a platform that is scalable to support our international expansion 36 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 36 Strategic report Building customer love through loyalty Our customers enjoy added value through being a member of our brand loyalty programmes.
Costa Coffee Club now has over five million active members and enjoyed significant increase in usage in the year, driven primarily by a new data-driven retention programme.
Over 20% of registered Costa Coffee Club customers now transact using the Costa Coffee Club app and over the year the digital team 40% has made a number of improvements, including simplification of the registration of sales involve a Costa process, which has led to a 15% increase Coffee Club card year on year in people actively using the app.
The team is also working on lots of new and exciting features to deliver an even more engaging app experience to Costa Coffee Club holders in the year ahead.
Across our restaurant brands loyalty programmes we now have 1.9 million card holders, up 12% in the year.
Loyalty card members spend around 7 11% more with us than non-card holders and 41% of active members have redeemed their vouchers over the course of the year, enjoying the benefits that membership provides.
For Premier Inn corporate customers who want to book directly, we have The Costa digital team has been Social media presence developed our Business Booker tool.
working on an exciting new app feature It has its own website, where customers that allows customers to preorder their can manage their account and enjoy coffee and come to collect it in store.
added value services, including When a customer arrives in store their preferential commercial terms and coffee is ready and waiting for them on smart reporting.
Current corporate sales the Costa Collect counter with no need customers have been moved onto this to queue.
Costa Pay & Collect has been platform and it will be made widely 1.5 million trialled in ten London stores and has available to the UK SME market in 2017.
Costa Facebook fans received positive customer feedback along with key learnings that we will use to enhance the app and create a great in-store experience for customers and 202,000 baristas.
The new enhanced service will be piloted in 2017 18 with plans to roll Premier Inn likes on Facebook out more widely across the estate up 21% in the year towards the end of the year.
Across our brands we continue to grow our social media presence and enjoy high levels of engagement in the content that we post.
Costa has 1.5 million Facebook fans and 224,000 c. 224,000 Twitter followers and 211,000 Costa Twitter followers Instagram followers, whilst Premier Inn has 202,000 likes on Facebook up 21% in the year and 68,000 Twitter fans.
Our Restaurants brands are also increasing 68,000 their social media channels with over 680,000 fans across its Facebook, Premier Inn Twitter followers Twitter and Instagram channels.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 37 Strategic report Strategic report Bringing customers brands they love... when they want to enjoy a family meal together 394 1.9m 680,000 3 Restaurants Members in Fans across our New Bar Block located next to loyalty schemes restaurants social restaurants open Premier Inns media channels With over 400 restaurants up and down the UK our Brewers Fayre, Beefeater and Table Table brands are a popular choice for families.
With almost all of our restaurants located next door to a Premier Inn, families can make the most of the famous Premier Inn breakfast as children under 16 get to eat for free!
For lunch and dinner we offer a great childrens menu, with a wide range of delicious and healthy options for children to enjoy along with fun-filled activity packs to keep them entertained whilst the variety of great food and drink to choose from on our main menus means we can keep the parents happy too!
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 38 Strategic report We rarely have dinner out as a family.
Its hectic and everyone has different tastes.
Ineed somewhere that makes everyone happy, sothat I can sit back and enjoy ittoo.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 39
