Strategic report Strategic report Operating review continued P Pro rof fiit ta ab blle e G Gro row wt th h During 2016 17 Premier Inn and Our approach Costa delivered organic expansion combined with like for like sales We invest in high returning, profitable sites growth resulting in a Group total We innovate with new formats to provide further growth sales increase of 8.2% to 3.1 billion.
opportunities Group underlying profit before tax We are growing in selected international markets which rose by 6.2% to 565.2 Our Premier Inn & Restaurants joint site model provides efficiency million and profit for the year and creates incremental returns increased 7.4% to 415.9 million.
Costa uses a number of ownership models, including equity stores, Whitbread is highly cash franchise and joint venture generative with cash generated from operations of 860.1 million which supports our dividend and Premier Inn & Restaurants capital investment programme.
Our total cash capital investment for 2016 17 was 609.8 million as we maintained our market leading 468.0m 9.0% position through re-investment Underlying operating profit Premier Inn grew total sales was up 7.4% to 468.0 million by 9.0% and like for like sales in our estate and by delivering by 2.3% organic growth.
Our continual focus on returns and disciplined financial management enabled us 7.2% 80.2% to deliver a good return on capital Number of rooms available Total occupancy remained of 15.2% 2015 16: 15.3%.
increased by 7.2%, with 3,816 new high as we finished the year UK rooms opened in the year at 80.2% Operational review and progress on strategic priorities In April 2016, we outlined our three 8 strategic priorities to deliver long-term sustainable growth and shareholder Restaurants grew total sales value.
Since then, we have made by 1.2% and opened eight positive progress across all three areas.
G row and innovate in our core UK businesses: Costa 2.
Focus on our strengths to grow internationally: and 3.
Build capability and infrastructure to support long-term growth.
158m 255 Details on our progress are provided Underlying operating profit was net new stores worldwide on the following pages.
up 5.3% to 158.0 million 10.7% 1,585 Total sales growth of 10.7% net new Costa Express machines installed 248 internationally 2.0% UK like for like sales growth of 2.0% Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 40 Strategic report In 2016 17, we opened 25 net new hotels Direct distribution taking our total number of hotels in the Our focus on providing our guests Strategic Priority UK to 762, over 200 more than our with the best digital booking platform nearest competitor.
During this period has been vital to our success.
We have Premier Inn UK has grown total sales by grown our direct digital distribution 1 Grow and 8.9% and total rooms available by 9.3%, from 77% in 2013 14 to 88% in 2016 17, whilst retaining high occupancy.
Our driving incremental revenue and unrivalled network coverage means reducing our reliance on third party innovate in we bring our customers closer to their distribution.
Not only does direct destination, a key consideration for distribution provide our lowest cost our core UK both leisure and business guests.
booking channel, it also enables a direct relationship with our customers, helping Quality and value for money to build loyalty over time.
Our total businesses We focus on delivering a consistent, direct distribution now stands at quality product across our network a record 94%.
through our systematic refurbishment programme and, by the end of the year, The London Opportunity The UK is our largest market and we over 80% of our estate were our most Our share of the London hotel market will continue to invest in our people, recent designs, c. 14% more than two remains relatively low at c. 8% providing our brands and our systems to capture years ago.
We prioritise high occupancy a substantial growth opportunity.
the significant growth opportunities and value for money to build long-term Over the last three years we have available in both coffee and branded customer loyalty and this approach increased our rooms available by 49.4%, budget hotels.
has resulted in Premier Inn growing its compared with 12.5% for the Midscale In the UK hotel market, the independent occupancy to 80.2% and enabled us and Economy market, and grown sector which accounts for c. 50% of the to achieve consistently high scores for accommodation sales by 43.7% market is in decline, while the budget both quality and value from YouGov.
compared with 21.4% respectively as branded sector is benefitting from we continue to win market share.
Our Automated Trading Engine continued growth, reflecting customers London sites mature rapidly with new In June this year we launched our desire for quality and value for money.
hotels reaching occupancy of c. 80% in new Automatic Trading Engine ATE The coffee sector has a high growth their first year whilst at the same time to build on our value for money forecast benefitting from a global maintaining the total London estates credentials, as well as optimising consumer lifestyle trend, demand for occupancy at over 85%.
our rate, occupancy and new hotel quality coffee and habitual purchase maturity going forward.
Our compact city centre hotel concept behaviours.
hub by Premier Inn has been a great We are very much in the 12-18 month Premier Inn UK success giving us access to profitable test and learn phase.
However, we As the UKs number one hotel company city centre locations with high property expect ATE to drive our total sales our business model is clearly well placed costs, delivering a good return on growth as we focus on further to capture the shift to value brands with capital, whilst offering customers occupancy growth, optimising rate our compelling proposition, loyal guests, great value, high quality rooms in to match the demand and accelerating direct distribution model and focus on great locations.
the maturity of our new rooms.
Our network strength gives customers the greatest choice of locations and we offer the best value for money which results in our high occupancy across the estate, and 94% of our guest bookings direct with Premier Inn.
Our market leading occupancy and direct distribution means our growth continues to be at high returns with our committed UK pipeline expected to achieve similar returns to the c. 13% achieved today.
Network strength Premier Inn is the leading hotel brand in the UK with 68,081 UK hotel rooms and some 9,000 rooms opened during the last two years.
Our committed hotel room pipeline is strong and stands at c. 14,500 rooms, and we are well on track to achieve our 2020 milestone of c. 85,000 UK rooms, with line of sight to 100,000 rooms.
89% of guests rate hub an excellent or very good experience Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 41 Strategic report Strategic report Operating review continued Profitable Growth continued We now have four hub hotels open in Further growth with good returns We continue to make good progress London and one in Edinburgh, with a Our UK committed pipeline has grown in rejuvenating our restaurant brands, committed pipeline of 11 hotels over the to 14,500 rooms, of which c. 5,900 are in converting a further 53 restaurants next three years.
Customer feedback London and c. 8,600 are in the regions.
to our modern Orange Cow Beefeater on the proposition has been excellent, Moreover, our extension programme concept and are on track to complete with 4.5 5 TripAdvisor score across all has been driving incremental like for like the remaining conversions in the sites and 89% of guests rating hub an sales growth and good returns and first half of 2017 18.
Our new excellent or very good experience.
constitutes c. 20% of our committed contemporary city centre restaurant Furthermore, occupancy has been pipeline outside of London.
format, Bar Block, is trading well c. 85% for our hub sites in London, and receiving very high customer Food and beverage offering for which are expected to deliver returns satisfaction scores.
We now have one Premier Inn customers in line with our existing Premier Inn open in London, one in Birmingham Our joint site restaurants continue estate at maturity.
and one in Fareham, with five planned to play an important role in serving to open during 2017 18.
UK Regions Premier Inn guests and delivering higher Over the last three years we have RevPAR and returns.
Restaurants grew Costa increased our rooms available by 22.0% total sales by 1.2%, with a marginal In Costa we offer the largest network and grown accommodation sales by reduction in like for like sales of 0.3%, of coffee shops in the UK and, with our 38.3%, compared with growth in the albeit we continued to perform ahead strong brand, we are in a great position Midscale and Economy sector of 6.7% of our competitor set.
We continue to to capitalise on future market growth and 30.5% respectively, as we continue focus on our guests and our teams, with opportunities, growing from 2,218 stores to win market share.
high customer satisfaction scores and today to over 3,000 stores in the a significant reduction in team turnover, medium-term.
Our new hotels continue to perform achieved with the help of investment well, maturing fast and becoming Costa has been named as the UKs initiatives such as our new labour profitable with occupancy of c. 75% favourite coffee shop chain for the scheduling tool.
in the first year, reaching full maturity seventh year in a row, underpinned by in 3-4 years.
We continued to achieve our relentless focus on quality coffee high occupancy in the total regional and on achieving high customer estate of c. 80%.
Costa Investing for future growth Innovate coffee and food, invest in store proposition, UK A giant step forward amplify the brand and improve digital capability Focus on major cities, step change brand awareness Unlock potential China and develop a compelling proposition Rest of Scale successful franchise model by focusing Deeper, more profitable on quality markets, with the right partners world Continue to innovate and differentiate offer Express Double up to stay ahead of competition Purpose Vision Inspiring the world to love great coffee The worlds most loved coffee brand Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 42 Strategic report UK Retail the platform for further Pay & Collect customer requirements differ by Costa UK Retail continues its track trials towards the end of this year and location.
For example, our Pronto record of delivery, with UK retail system a wider roll-out thereafter.
format is optimised to sell our handsales growing by 10.5%, 169 net new crafted coffee quickly in high footfall To increase our engagement with our stores and like for like sales in UK equity locations, such as travel hubs at peak c. 5.2 million active Costa Coffee Club stores increasing by 2.0%.
times, taking advantage of the volume members we are enhancing our app opportunity presented.
Drive Thrus are Investing to drive like for like growth to enable a better customer experience also delivering very high sales volumes The market and competitive landscape and more targeted offers, as well and returns and, together with travel continue to evolve with more food-led as gaining a much richer source of channels, are our fastest growing operators now offering coffee and, customer data, habits and insight.
category and will become a greater while convenience and coffee quality The new-look app will be released proportion of our estate going forward.
remain the top decision criteria, in the first half of 2017 18. customers are becoming more Pipeline weighted towards high demanding in the way their priorities performing channels are met.
Future growth will also be underpinned At Costa we are focused on meeting through diversification of our channels this challenge and serving the best and formats as we recognise that quality coffee and fresher food via High sales more tailored store designs, with a complementary digital experience.
volumes During the year we invested in new Drive Thrus are delivering MerryChef ovens and microwaves very high sales volumes across the estate, which will facilitate and returns the roll-out of new hot food ranges during 2017 18, starting with the launch of our new better breakfast offering during the first half.
We also recently extended our coffee range through new initiatives in the Cortado family and will build on this innovation with the launch of cold brew and new single origin blends during this year.
Investing in the brand and digital capability We continue to invest in our digital capability and our new till system will be installed during 2017 18, enabling faster service and new functionality to provide 3,000 We now see a future growth potential of over 3,000 UK stores Wh Whiit tb br rea ead d A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 16 6 1 17 7 4 43 3 Strategic report Strategic report Operating review continued using successful initiatives including P Pro rof fiit ta ab blle e G Gro row wt th h fresher food, innovative drink ranges Strategic Priority and new store formats.
We reached c co on nt tiinu nue ed d profitability in 2016 17 and see potential to significantly increase the number 2 Focus on of stores in this market.
We also have 259 Costa Express machines in Poland, which are performing well.
our strengths We continue to see strong growth in our profitable franchise business with to grow a total of 731 stores across 23 countries.
Our franchise business has grown rapidly over a number of years through internationally our successful business model of great partnerships, efficient logistics and a focus on localisation and customer Premier Inn Germany demographics.
Going forward we will Our first German hotel opened in select target markets with the highest Frankfurt in February 2016 and the potential for us to grow profitably feedback has been excellent, with and win market share.
the hotel constantly ranked between first and third on TripAdvisor out of In France we have decided to pursue a c. 270 hotels in Frankfurt.
We have a franchise only strategy resulting in the committed pipeline of five more hotels recent closure of our five equity stores.
and will have opened six to eight by Costa Asia 2020 with a capital commitment of China is a large market with a 60-100 million per annum over the burgeoning middle class and the next few years.
The aim is to accelerate propensity to drink coffee is on our roll-out and we continue to look the rise.
This presents an exciting for further opportunities to grow opportunity for Costa to become more quickly.
the clear number two in the market.
Premier Inn International We have built a solid foundation from Our six hotels in the Middle East which to grow, but will take a more continue to perform well in a strategic approach as we narrow our challenging market and we will maintain focus across ten top tier cities to build our profitable joint venture here with scale and a brand presence.
We will two further hotels in the pipeline.
Our also exit or turnaround poor performing withdrawal from India and South East stores to improve the overall profitability Asia is on plan with a view to exiting the of our estate.
We will enhance our market over the next twelve months.
brand awareness through digital media, build our coffee credentials and create Costa EMEI the meeting place of choice for our Internationally we continue to build on target customer through improved our strengths and look to broaden our store formats.
footprint in quality markets that have the opportunity for scale.
In Poland we During the year we opened 63 gross have 131 stores, achieving strong single new stores and exited 37 stores in digit like for like sales growth, driven China.
In addition, we have introduced five new-look concept stores with an improved customer proposition and, although early days, results have been promising, and we aim to add additional new concept stores over the course of 2017 18.
The success of these stores so far gives us greater confidence in our ability to build scale successfully in this growing market and look for opportunities to accelerate our strategy.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 44 Strategic report Costa Express In November we announced c. 150 Costa Express is an exciting global million of cost efficiencies over five Strategic Priority growth engine for Costa and we see years to help offset investment and potential to double the size of this cost pressures facing our sector, such part of the business.
This year we as National Living Wage and business 3 Build installed 1,585 net new machines rates.
Through this we will become bringing our total to 6,801, including a leaner and more agile business, 740 internationally.
As well as renewing sustaining good margins as we grow.
capability and our key UK customer contract, we During the year we have made good also embarked on our entry into progress against these initiatives with infrastructure a number of new markets with the renegotiation and consolidation plans to roll out in 2017 18. of key supplier contracts and the We are upgrading our machines with to support implementation of new labour new management systems, which will management tools across Costa enhance our scalability and allow us and Restaurants, to facilitate better long-term to monitor and control the machines scheduling and communications and their content remotely.
This will with team members.
We have also be important to the success of our completed the in-sourcing of our digital growth international roll-out.
teams and will shortly commence the roll-out of new tills across Costa.
We are upgrading the customer screens to bring the best quality experience and As part of our plan to build a better During the year we continued to benefit our partners by enabling options infrastructure, in March we opened strengthen our capabilities to support such as site specific advertising.
our new state of the art Roastery long-term growth.
In the senior to drive innovation and efficiency, executive team this included the facilitating Costas global growth for promotion of Simon Jones to Managing the next 20 years.
This 38 million Director of Premier Inn & Restaurants, investment will increase roasting and the appointment of Dominic Paul capacity from 11,000 tonnes to 45,000 to Managing Director of Costa.
tonnes a year and use fully automated Mark Anderson, Managing Director of systems to achieve increased Property and Premier Inn International, productivity and sustainability.
has been promoted to the Executive Committee reflecting the importance 6,801 of his new role.
We have created a new This year we installed 1,585 Group Transformation Director role to net new machines bringing our total support our journey to become a more to 6,801, including international efficient company and we recently announced that we have hired Nigel Jones to take up this role later this year.
With our focus on our winning teams we were also proud to be voted eighth in the Sunday Times Best Big Companies to work for.
38m invested in our state of the art Roastery to achieve a 25% increase in productivity Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 45 Strategic report Strategic report My job can take me all over the UK and given the choice, Ill always stay in a Premier Inn because you know the room will be clean, the bed will be comfortable and they put on a great breakfast.
Wh Whiit tb br rea ead d A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 16 6 1 17 7 4 46 6 Strategic report Premier Inn holds a place in the nations heart as the UKs favourite hotel chain, and its easy to understand why.
With a network of over 750 hotels around the country there is always a Premier Inn close by to where you need or want to be and our brilliant team members will always welcome you with a smile and make sure youre well looked after.
Ensuring our guests get a good nights sleep is our number one priority and our famous Premier Inn breakfast will set you up for the day ahead, whether youre off to work or off on hols... 1.9bn 762 c. 14,500 80.2% 94% Total Premier Inn & Number of UK Committed pipeline Total occupancy Bookings direct Restaurants sales in Premier Inns rooms with Premier Inn 2016 17 up 6.6% Bringing customers brands they love... when they need to be ready for action Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 47
