Governance Governance Board of Directors A strong leadership team Richard Baker Alison Brittain Chairman Chief Executive Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: September 2009 September 2015 Date of appointment as Chairman: Age: 52 September 2014 Experience: Age: 54 Alison joined Whitbread from Lloyds Banking Group, where she was Group Director of the Experience: Retail Division, with responsibility for the Lloyds, Richard previously served as Chairman of Virgin Halifax and Bank of Scotland retail branch Active Group, Chief Executive of Alliance Boots networks, remote and intermediary channels Group plc and Chief Operating Officer of Asda and products, along with the Retail Business Group plc.
Banking and the wealth businesses.
Prior to External appointments: joining Lloyds Bank, Alison was Executive Director Aimia Inc. Adviser for Retail Distribution and Board Director at DFS Furniture plc Chairman Santander UK PLC.
She previously held senior British Retail Consortium Chairman roles at Barclays Bank.
Advent International Plc Operating Partner External appointments: Lawn Tennis Association Marks and Spencer Group plc Nonexecutive director Nonexecutive director AELTC Grounds plc Nonexecutive director Princes Trust Council Trustee Committee membership: Nomination Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Nicholas Cadbury Louise Smalley Sir Ian Cheshire Group Finance Director Group HR Director Senior Independent Director Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: November 2012 November 2012 February 2011 Age: 51 Age: 49 Age: 57 Experience: Experience: Experience: Nicholas joined Whitbread in November 2012 as Louise joined Whitbread in 1995 and has held Sir Ian was Group Chief Executive of Kingfisher Group Finance Director.
He previously worked at the position of Group HR Director since 2007. plc until the end of January 2015, and was also Dixons Retail PLC, in a variety of management During her time at Whitbread, Louise has held a former Chair of the British Retail Consortium.
roles, including Chief Financial Officer from 2008 a variety of HR roles across the Whitbread External appointments: to 2011.
Nicholas also held the position of Chief businesses, including HR Director of David Lloyd Debenhams plc Chairman Financial Officer of Premier Farnell PLC, which he Leisure and Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants.
Government lead nonexecutive director joined in 2011.
Nicholas originally qualified as an She previously worked in the oil industry, with Business in the Community Trustee Director accountant with Price Waterhouse.
Menhaden Capital PLC Chairman External appointments: External appointments: Cambridge Programme for Sustainability Land Securities Group PLC DS Smith Plc Nonexecutive director Leadership Chairman of Advisory Board Nonexecutive director The Prince of Wales Charitable Foundation Trustee Maisons du Monde Non-executive President Barclays UK Chairman-designate Committee membership: Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 64 Governance David Atkins Adam Crozier Chris Kennedy Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent nonexecutive director Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: January 2017 April 2017 March 2016 Age: 51 Age: 53 Age: 53 Experience: Experience: Experience: David is Chief Executive of Hammerson plc, Adam is Chief Executive of ITV plc, which he Chris is Chief Financial Officer of ARM Holdings former Chairman of the European Public Real joined in 2010.
Prior to that, Adam was former plc, which he joined in September 2015.
He will Estate Association EPRA and past president Joint Chief Executive of Saatchi & Saatchi, Chief step down from that position on 30 April 2017. of Revo formerly BCSC.
Executive of the Football Association and then Prior to that, Chris was Group Finance Director Royal Mail Group.
of easyJet plc for five years, having previously External appointments: spent 17 years in a variety of senior roles at EMI.
Hammerson plc Chief Executive External appointments: Revo Member of the advisory panel ITV plc Chief Executive External appointments: European Public Real Estate Association Creative Diversity Network Ltd Director ARM Holdings plc Chief Financial Officer Executive board member The EMI Group Archive Trust Trustee Committee membership: British Council of Shopping Centres Nomination Committee Committee membership: President Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Chairman British Property Federation Nomination Committee Committee Member Reading Real Estate Foundation Director and Trustee Committee membership: Audit Committee Nomination Committee Deanna Oppenheimer Stephen Williams Susan Taylor Martin Independent nonexecutive director Independent nonexecutive director Independent non-executive director Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: Date of appointment to the Board: January 2017 April 2008 January 2012 Age: 59 Age: 69 Age: 53 Experience: Experience: Experience: Deanna spent over 25 years in a number of senior Stephen retired as General Counsel and Chief Susan has held a number of roles at Thomson roles in banking at both Barclays Bank PLC and Legal Officer of Unilever during 2010, having Reuters, including President, Thomson Reuters Washington Mutal Inc. originally joined in that position in 1986.
Prior to Media, President of Global Investment Focus that, Stephen spent 11 years at Imperial Chemical Accounts and Managing Director of Legal in the External appointments: Industries plc.
From 1995 to 2004 he was a UK and Ireland.
Prior to this she was Global Head, CameoWorks Founder and Chief Executive nonexecutive director of Bunzl plc and from Corporate Strategy for Reuters, which she joined WorldPay Group PLC Non-executive 2004 to 2010 he was Senior Independent in 1993. director Director of Arriva plc.
Tesco PLC Senior Independent Director External appointments: AXA SA Non-executive director External appointments: Thomson Reuters President, Legal Joshua Green Corp. Non-executive director Croda International Plc Nonexecutive Thomson Reuters Foundation Trustee University of Puget Sound Trustee director Committee membership: Eversheds LLP Nonexecutive director Audit Committee Committee membership: Spencer Stuart LLP Senior Adviser Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Trust Remuneration Committee Chair ViceChairman of the Trust Board fide La Warr Pavilion Trust Chairman Amicus Curiae Limited Director Leverhulme Trust Board member Committee membership: Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 65 Governance Governance Senior management These executives, together with the Whitbread PLC executive directors whose biographies can be found on pages 64 and 65 form the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee meets on a monthly basis and is chaired by Alison Brittain.
It has authority to manage the day-to-day operations of the Groups businesses, with the exception of those matters reserved for the Board, within the financial limits set by the Board.
The Committees responsibilities include: formulation of strategy for recommendation to the Board: management of performance in Mark Anderson Simon Jones accordance with strategy and Managing Director, Property and Managing Director, Premier Inn budgets: Premier Inn International & Restaurants talent and succession: risk management: capital investment decisions where Board approval is not required : cost efficiency, procurement and organisational design: and reputation and stakeholder management.
As explained on page 7 the Company undertook a management restructure during the year.
Mark Anderson and Simon Jones joined the Executive Dominic Paul Chris Vaughan Committee in September 2016.
Mark Managing Director, Costa Coffee General Counsel has been with the Company for ten years, has led the property function since 2008 and is now Managing Director of Property and Premier Inn International.
Simon Jones joined Whitbread in 2011, and has led on key initiatives such as network planning, pricing and marketing.
Simon is Managing Director of Premier Inn &Restaurants.
Dominic Paul joined Whitbread in June 2016 as Managing Director, Costa Coffee and Chris Vaughan has been General Counsel since joining the Company in2015.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 66 Governance Corporate governance continued updated and is circulated as part of The Chairman meets with the Board activities during the General Counsels report before nonexecutive directors without the year each meeting.
the executives present after Board meetings.
The agenda for each Board meeting is In advance of each Board meeting, agreed with the Chairman and the Chief There is a schedule of matters a set of Board papers, including monthly Executive on a monthly basis so that reserved exclusively to the Board: financial and trading report, is circulated current events and potential future all other decisions are delegated to so that directors have sufficient time to issues can be discussed alongside the management.
Those matters reserved review them and arrive at the meeting regular reports.
Standard items for each exclusively to the Board include: fully prepared.
meeting are a review of progress on approval of Group financial statements The Board has a rolling forward agenda action points, reports from the Chief and the preliminary announcement which sets matters to be considered Executive, the Group Finance Director, of half and fullyear results: throughout the year ahead.
Two the Managing Directors of Premier Inn strategy days are held each year.
In &Restaurants and Costa together with changes relating to the Groups capital 2016 17, one considered the longterm General Counsels report.
The General structure: the annual budget and the strategy and the other considered Counsel keeps minutes of the meetings Groups business plan: the five-year strategy.
Following and produces a list of agreed actions approving capital projects, these sessions, the Board agreed the foreach meeting.
acquisitions and disposals valued at significant topics to be discussed at its over the limit set out in the matters At the meetings during the year, the meetings during the year.
The rolling reserved to the Board: Board discharged its responsibilities and agenda is then updated to ensure that considered a range of matters as shown there is a structured approach to the approval of interim dividends and in the table at the bottom of this page.
consideration of topics and that recommendation of final dividends: and recurring issues are evenly spread Board processes and topics to be establishment of Board committees.
The Board gives its discussed are continually reviewed to attention to each area of the business in The schedule of matters reserved ensure that the correct focus is given turn so that a strong understanding of was reviewed at the February 2017 to the key issues highlighted at the the entire Company is maintained.
The Board meeting and again in April 2017, strategy days.
rolling agenda is regularly reviewed and and is available on our website www.
Board agenda 2016 17 Standing agenda items Chief Executive's report Health and safety report quarterly Group Finance Director's report General Counsels report Q1 Q2 Acquisition of 49% of Healthy Retail Limited Pure Information technology update Approval of year-end documentation and final Leadership and talent dividend Pensions update Corporate responsibility activity Sale and leaseback of properties Information technology update Premier Inn withdrawal from India and Long-term strategy South East Asia Q4 Q3 Appointment of David Atkins to the Board 2017 18 budget Appointment of Adam Crozier to the Board Appointment of Deanna Oppenheimer to the Board Capital Market Day Costa China update 2016 17 Interim results and approval of interim dividend Premier Inn Germany update Risk management Talent and succession planning Strategy day and five-year plan Update on Premier Inn withdrawal from India and South East Asia Risk management Corporate governance review Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 67 Governance Governance Corporate governance continued Board meetings and attendance Insurance cover Board and Committee The Board generally holds meetings at The Company has appropriate It is believed that the Board and its monthly intervals during the year and on directors and officers liability committees have the appropriate an ad hoc basis as and when required.
In addition to this, balance of skills, experience, diversity, Ten meetings were held during the year the Company provides an indemnity independence and knowledge of the and attendance at meetings by the for directors against the costs of Company to enable them to discharge directors is set out below.
defending certain legal proceedings their responsibilities effectively.
The and generating claims over and above Board has a majority of independent Members of the executive team those covered by insurance.
After assessing attended Board and committee are reviewed periodically.
independence against the Code, the meetings as appropriate.
Board considers all nonexecutive directors to be independent in judgement and character, and also Board meetings and attendance considered the Chairman to be Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee independent on appointment.
10 4 3 7 Number of scheduled meetings During the year, there has been a number of changes to the Board.
Richard Baker 10 10 3 3 7 7 David Atkins and Deanna Oppenheimer were appointed as non-executive Alison Brittain 10 10 directors of the Company on 1 January 10 10 Nicholas Cadbury 2017, with Adam Crozier being 2 2 2 Christopher Rogers appointed as a non-executive director Louise Smalley 10 10 since the year-end, on 1 April 2017.
5 David Atkins 2 2 Following the completion of her nine 4 8 8 4 4 3 3 5 5 Wendy Becker year term as a non-executive director, 10 10 3 3 7 7 Sir Ian Cheshire Wendy Becker resigned from the 1 Chris Kennedy 9 10 3 4 3 3 Board on 31 December 2016.
Finally, as 3 Simon Melliss 5 5 3 3 2 2 previously announced, Stephen Williams 5 will step down from the Board following 2 2 2 2 Deanna Oppenheimer the completion of the 2017 AGM on 10 10 4 4 3 3 Susan Taylor Martin 21 June 2017.
Stephen Williams 10 10 3 3 7 7 Details of the appointment procedures 1 Chris Kennedy missed one Board meeting and one Audit Committee meeting, both of which were held can be found in the report of the in the same week, due to a commitment made prior to his appointment as a director.
Nomination Committee on pages 75 2 Christopher Rogers stepped down from the Board on 19 April 2016. to 77.
3 Simon Melliss stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2016.
4 Wendy Becker stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2016.
5 David Atkins and Deanna Oppenheimer were appointed as directors on 1 January 2017.
Board Performance evaluation The 2015 16 evaluation identified Board and Committee Review Cycle An evaluation of the Board, its opportunities for improvement in the committees, individual directors and following areas: the Chairman is carried out each year.
Year 1 further clarity on the international Year ended 2015 16 An externally facilitated Board strategies of both Premier Inn and Externally facilitated review evaluation was carried out in 2015 16.
Costa: The next externally facilitated more structured and regular focus on Board evaluation will be conducted risk management and risk appetite: during the financial year ending and 28 February 2019.
Year 2 greater discussion on certain aspects Year ended 2016 17 of talent management and succession Internal review planning, at middle management level as well as at Board level.
The issues identified in 2015 16 in relation to strategy did not re-emerge, Year 3 suggesting that the actions taken to Year ended 2017 18 address those points were effective.
Internal review Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 68 Governance Commitment and the members of the Executive sufficient resources to enable them to During the year all directors including Committee.
We ensure that each undertake their duties effectively.
Each the non-executive directors, committed new member of the Board has the director has access to the General significant time to the Company in opportunity to visit Premier Inn & Counsel for advice on governance.
accordance with the requirements Restaurant together with Costa sites.
The General Counsel prepares a specified in their service contracts and Training and development monthly report that includes updates on letters of appointment.
On behalf of the Directors attend external training events secretariat and legal matters, along with Board, the Nomination Committee has to update their skills and knowledge.
reviewed the extent of other interests of Training was undertaken by Board This report is presented and discussed the non-executive directors.
The Board members during the year on a range at each Board meeting.
is satisfied the Chairman and each of of issues including: the non-executive directors commit Conflicts of interest sufficient time to their duties and fulfil anti-bribery: Directors are required to disclose any their obligations to the Company.
During conflicts of interest immediately as and data protection: the year, particular consideration was when they arise throughout the year.
In given by the Board to the appointment cyber security: and addition, a formal process is undertaken of Sir Ian Cheshire to the Board of in January each year when all directors travel security.
Barclays Bank PLC and it was agreed confirm to the Board details of their that Sir Ian continued to commit Investor relations and market updates external interests including any other significant and appropriate time to his were also presented to the Board directorships which they hold.
role as the Senior Independent director together with regular updates from These are assessed by the Board of the Company.
each of the brands are made to the to determine whether the directors Board.
In addition, Slaughter and May, No executive director has taken on more ability to act in the best interests of provided directors with training on the than one nonexecutive directorship the Company could be compromised.
If there are no such potential or dive sessions were also held on certain actual conflicts, the external interests issues, such as Costa China.
Some Board Induction process are authorised by the Board.
All meetings were held at Premier Inn hotels On appointment, all directors receive a authorisations are for a period of 12 and restaurants in order to give the full and formal induction that is tailored months.
No director is counted as Board the opportunity to gain a deeper to their specific needs.
David Atkins and part of a quorum in respect of the understanding of the business.
Deanna Oppenheimer joined the Board authorisation of his or her own conflict.
on 1 January 2017 as non-executive All directors have access to independent directors.
As part of their induction each It is recognised that all organisations are professional advice at the Companys nonexecutive director met with the potential customers of Whitbread and, expense.
Directors serving on the Board Chief Executive, Group Finance Director in view of this, the Board has authorised and committees confirmed that they all directors current external directorships.
were satisfied that they received 2016 17 Internal Evaluation to provide opportunities for the Individual directors In 2016 17, the Board conducted the non-executive directors to spend The Chairman has onetoone annual evaluation of its performance, more time in the business, outside meetings with all directors to discuss and that of its three main committees, of the formal Board meeting cycle: their performance and to identify by using an online evaluation tool.
whether they continue to contribute to increase the level of Board Each director completed a questionnaire effectively to the Board and awareness of customer perceptions and the General Counsel collated demonstrate commitment to the role.
and developments in the markets and presented the responses of the in which we operate, whilst ensuring Chairman evaluation for consideration by that the Companys performance The Senior Independent Director the Board.
is adequately monitored against its meets with the nonexecutive peers: and The outcome of the evaluation was directors, without the Chairman such that the directors considered that present, to discuss the performance to further increase focus on key risks the Board is operating effectively of the Chairman.
The Senior and mitigation plans.
and has been able to develop clear Independent Director also speaks Whilst progress has been made objectives of its future strategy.
with the executive directors to gain on risk management, the latest their views before discussing the Identified areas evaluation shows that further action results with the Chairman.
Although no significant concerns is required to address this point.
were raised, some opportunities for improvement were identified.
These included: Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 69 Governance Governance Corporate governance continued Shareholder relations In accordance with the Code, the Board recognises that it has responsibility for Capital Market Day ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue We hosted a Capital Market Day with shareholders takes place and any in November 2016 to address major shareholders issues and concerns the longer term outlook for the are communicated to the Board through business.
The Chief Executive, the Chairman.
Group Finance Director and In addition to the regular contact senior executives across the with shareholders, during the year, we Group presented to both undertook two shareholder consultations institutional shareholders and in respect of the proposed new analysts, followed by a question remuneration policy and proposed and answer session.
A live changes to LTIP targets.
The opportunity webcast, together with the to discuss the new policy with a number presentation materials, continues of our shareholders was appreciated to be accessible on the Companys and the feedback provided was website www.
co. uk constructive and helpful.
Further details of the new remuneration policy can be found in the remuneration report on pages 78 to 98.
Electronic communications with understandable and provides the shareholders including use of the information necessary for shareholders The Company communicates with both online share portal.
to assess the Companys position and the institutional and private shareholders performance, business model and through the following means: The Annual General Meeting strategy.
Further detail on how this The AGM provides all shareholders with Interaction with all shareholders conclusion was reached can be found the opportunity to communicate directly The Companys website inthe report of the Audit Committee with the Board which encourages their www.
co. uk, where onpage 74. participation at the meeting.
information and news is regularly updated.
Statements by the auditor in respect In accordance with the Code, the Notice of its reporting responsibilities of AGM and related papers are sent to The Annual Report, which sets out Statements by the auditor about its shareholders at least 20 working days details of the Companys strategy, reporting responsibilities can be found in before the meeting.
The Company business model and performance over the auditors report on pages 104 to 108. proposes a separate resolution on each the past financial year and plans for substantially separate issue including future growth.
Going concern a specific resolution to approve the The directors going concern statement The AGM, where all shareholders can Report and Accounts.
For each can be found in the directors report vote on the resolutions proposed and resolution, proxy appointment forms on page 102. to put questions to the Board and provide shareholders with the option to executive team.
Viability statement vote in advance of the AGM if they are The viability statement can be found Presentations of fullyear and interim unable to attend in person.
All valid on page 58. results to analysts and shareholders, proxy votes received for the AGM are that are also available on the properly recorded and counted by Business model and strategy Companys website.
Information on the Groups business Interaction with institutional model and the strategy for delivering As in previous years, all voting by shareholders the objectives of the Company can be shareholders at this years AGM will be The Chief Executive, Group Finance found on pages 4 to 61. by poll using electronic handsets.
The Director and Director of Investor voting results, including proxy votes Board committees Relations hold meetings with received, will be displayed on a screen at The Board is supported by three institutional investors following the the end of the meeting.
In addition, the committees: the Audit Committee, fullyear and interim results.
audited poll results will be disclosed on the Nomination Committee and the the Companys website following the The Chairman meets with institutional Remuneration Committee.
Their terms meeting, and announced through the shareholders on request.
of reference are reviewed regularly regulatory news service.
and updated in line with best practice.
The Board receives updates on They are available in full on the the views of major shareholders from Share capital Companys website.
The information that is required by DTR 7.2.
6 relating to the share capital of the A detailed report from the Chairman of Consultations were held with our Company can be found within the the Remuneration Committee is set out major shareholders on changes to the directors report on pages 99 to 102. on pages 75 to 78.
Reports for the Audit Companys remuneration policy and and Nomination Committees can be to LTIP targets.
Statement of the directors in respect found on pages 73 to 77.
Interaction with private shareholders of the Annual Report and Accounts Live webcast presentations of the As required by the Code, the directors fullyear and interim results.
confirm their responsibility for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 70 Governance Accountability and internal control Internal control and risk management The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of internal control and risk management, and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
They can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups principal risks.
This process was in place throughout the 2016 17 financial year and up to the date of this report.
The process is reviewed by the Board and accords with the internal control guidance for directors in the Code.
A report of the principal risks, together with the viability statement, can be found on pages 58 to 61.
Group financial policies, controls Assurance Risk analysis and procedures are in place and are The Audit Committee approves The Board identifies the principal regularly reviewed and updated.
the audit programme which risks of the Company on a regular ensures that the significant areas basis and throughout the year it The Whitbread Code of Conduct, of risk identified are independently reviews the actions in place to setting out required levels of ethics reviewed within at least a mitigate the risks together with and behaviour, is communicated to threeyear period.
employees and training is provided The analysis covers business and with a whistleblowing system made The programme and the results of operational risks, health and safety, available.
the audits are regularly assessed financial, market, operational during the year.
The Code of Conduct makes reference and reputational risks which the to specific policies and procedures The Audit Committee reviews the Company may face as well as which have to be followed.
major findings from both internal specific areas identified in the and external audits.
business plan and budget process.
Employees are required to undertake tailored training on risk areas including Internal audits are carried out Each of the businesses also carries IS security, data protection and under the control of the Director out its own risk analysis together anti-bribery.
The reports are with the Director of Internal Audit reviewed by the Audit Committee and this is reviewed regularly by Management is responsible for and, on a monthly basis, by the the Premier Inn & Restaurants and ensuring the appropriate maintenance Executive Committee to ensure Costa executive committees.
of financial records and processes that that the actions required to address ensure that financial information is All major capital and revenue issues identified are implemented.
relevant, reliable, in accordance with projects, together with significant applicable laws and regulations and The Director of Internal Audit change programmes, include the is distributed both internally and reports annually to the Audit consideration of the risks involved externally in a timely manner.
Committee on the effectiveness of and an appropriate action plan.
operational and financial controls A review of the financial statements is Controls across the Group.
completed by management to ensure The Company reviews and confirms that the financial position and results Deloitte LLP, the Companys its level of compliance with the of the Group are appropriately external auditor, reviews and Code on an annual basis.
reports on the significant issues The matters reserved to the Board identified in its audit report.
All financial information published by require that major projects and the Group is subject to the approval of An internal control evaluation programmes must have specific the Audit Committee and the Board.
process is overseen by the Board approval.
management team which assesses An annual review of internal controls Limits of delegation and authority the level of compliance with the is undertaken by the Board with the are prescribed to ensure that the controls, policies and processes and assistance of the Audit Committee.
appropriate approvals are obtained the results are reviewed and tested if Board authority is not required on a sample basis by the internal to ensure appropriate segregation audit team.
Post completion reviews of major projects and investments are carried out and reported on to the Board.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 71
