Overview Overview Business overview How our business works We have built two of the UKs most successful hospitality brands, Premier Inn and Costa, through consistent operational excellence and providing a great customer is the UKs leading experience.
Our 50,000 team members hospitality company deliver outstanding service to more than 28 million customers every month across our hotels, coffee shops and restaurants.
We serve our customers in the UK and beyond through our two businesses: Premier Inn & Restaurants Costa Premier Inn is the UKs leading hotel business, Costa is the UKs favourite coffee shop, with with over 760 hotels and more than 68,000 over 2,200 coffee shops in the UK, over rooms across the UK.
Our unique joint site model 1,300 stores in 29 international markets means that more than half of our hotels are and over 6,800 Costa Express self-serve units.
located alongside our own restaurant brands.
We have a multichannel strategy, with equity stores, franchise stores and stores operated We also have hotels in by joint ventures, as well as a wholesale operation.
the Middle East, and Germany, with more hotels in the pipeline.
We create value for all our stakeholders through our Customer Heartbeat model: We measure our progress through key performance targets included in our balanced scorecard or Whitbread In Numbers WINcard for Force for Good Everyday E ciency Winning Teams, Profitable Growth, Customer Heartbeat, Force for Good and Everyday Efficiency, which has recently been added to our model in order to reflect the importance of efficiency to our future success.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 02 Overview We are focused on three strategic themes: 1 2 3 Grow and innovate Focus on our strengths Build the capability in our core UK to grow internationally and platform to support businesses future growth 10 11 12 for more information for more information for more information Our focus on delivering high standards for We are proud of our ability to our customers through strong employee deliver great customer service engagement is at the heart of our strategy.
and create real job opportunities: We aim to create jobs for people of every background and help our people to reach their potential through training and mentoring in a supportive and inclusive environment.
22 for more information Through our Team and Community, Customer We are committed to doing business Wellbeing and Energy and Environment responsibly and sustainably: programmes we are delivering tangible improvements across the business and we have ambitious targets for 2020, covering job creation and work experience, supply chain, sugar reduction, carbon and water reduction and recycling.
48 for more information Maintaining high standards of corporate Supported by a strong risk governance is vital to supporting our management and governance financial performance.
framework and a disciplined By understanding and responding to risks we approach to capital management: can make informed decisions that strengthen our capacity to build value.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 03
