Governance Directors report The directors present their Report and Accounts for the year ended 2 March 2017 Certain information required for disclosure in this Report is provided in other appropriate sections of the Annual Report and Accounts.
These include the corporate governance and remuneration reports and the Group financial statements and Notes to those financial statements and accordingly these are incorporated into the report by reference.
Chris Vaughan General Counsel Details of the directors service contracts Directors automatically stop being Results and dividends are given in the remuneration report on directors if: Group underlying page 84.
None of the nonexecutive 1. they give the Company a written profit before tax 565.2m directors have a service contract.
notice of resignation at the date such Group profit Details of directors training are given in notice expires : before tax 515.4m the corporate governance report on 2. t hey give the Company a written Interim dividend page 69. notice in which they offer to resign paid on Powers of directors and the other directors decide to 16 December 2016 29.90p per share The business of the Company is accept the offer: Recommended managed by the directors who may 3. all of the other directors who must final dividend 65.90p per share exercise all the powers of the Company, comprise at least three people pass Total dividend for subject to the Companys Articles of a resolution or sign a written notice the year 95.80p per share Association, any relevant legislation and requiring the director to resign: any directions given by the Company by Details on the Groups dividend policy 4. t hey are or have been suffering from passing a special resolution at a general can be found on page 56 in the Group mental or physical ill health and the meeting.
In particular, the directors may Finance Directors review.
directors pass a resolution removing exercise all the powers of the Company the director from office: to borrow money, issue shares, appoint Subject to approval at the AGM, the final and remove directors and recommend dividend will be payable on 30 June 5. they have missed directors meetings and declare dividends.
2017 to the shareholders on the register whether or not an alternate director at the close of business on 26 May 2017. appointed attends those meetings Appointment and replacement for a continuous period of six months of directors Board of Directors without permission from the directors Directors shall be no less than two and The directors at the date of this Report and the directors pass a resolution no more than 20 in number.
Directors are listed on pages 64 and 65.
There removing the director from office: may be appointed by the Company, have been a number of director changes by ordinary resolution or by the Board throughout the year.
Wendy Becker 6. a bankruptcy order is made against of Directors.
stepped down from the Board on them or they make any arrangement 31 December 2016.
David Atkins and or composition with their creditors In accordance with the UK Corporate Deanna Oppenheimer were appointed generally: Governance Code all directors will stand to the Board on 1 January 2017.
Stephen for annual reelection at each AGM.
7. they are prohibited from being a Williams served throughout the year, but director under any applicable The Company may, by special resolution, it was announced that he will step down legislation: or remove any directors before the from the Board at the AGM on 21 June expiration of his her term of office.
Adam Crozier was appointed to 8. they cease to be a director under any the Board on 1 April 2017. applicable legislation or are removed from office under the Companys Articles of Association.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 99 Governance Governance Directors report continued Directors indemnity or ii 24 hours before a poll is taken, if B shares and C shares A qualifying thirdparty indemnity the poll is not taken on the same day as Holders of B shares and C shares provision as defined in Section 236 1 the meeting or adjourned meeting.
areentitled to receive an annual of the Companies Act 2006 is in force noncumulative preferential dividend Unless the directors decide otherwise, for the benefit of the directors.
calculated at a rate of 75% of six month a shareholder cannot attend or vote at LIBOR on a value of 155 pence per B Compensation for loss of office any general meeting of the Company or share and 159 pence per C share There are no agreements between the at any separate general meeting of the respectively, but are not entitled to any Company and its directors or employees holders of any class of shares in the further right of participation in the providing for compensation for loss of Company or upon a poll or exercise any profits of the Company.
They are also office or employment that occurs as other right conferred by membership in entitled to payment of 155 pence per B a result of a takeover bid.
relation to general meetings or polls if he share and 159 pence per C share or she has not paid all amounts relating respectively on a return of capital on Directors share interests to those shares which are due at the windingup excluding any intragroup Details regarding the share interests of time of the meeting.
the directors in the share capital of the Where a shareholder with at least a Company, including with respect to Except in limited circumstances, the 0.25% interest in a class of shares has options to acquire ordinary shares, are holders of the B shares and C shares are been served with a disclosure notice in set out in the remuneration report on not entitled in their capacity as holders relation to a particular holding of shares pages 78 to 98. of such shares, to receive notice of any and has failed to provide the Company general meeting of the Company nor Share capital with information concerning those to attend, speak or vote at any such Details of the issued share capital can shares, those sharews will no longer general meeting.
be found in Note 25 to the accounts.
give that shareholder any right to vote at a shareholders meeting.
Both B and C shares represent Holders of ordinary shares are entitled significantly less than 0.01% of the to attend and speak at general meetings Restrictions on transfer of shares total share capital.
of the Company, to appoint one or more There are the following restrictions on proxies and, if they are corporations, the transfer of shares in the Company: Purchase of own shares corporate representatives to attend The Company is authorised to purchase general meetings and to exercise voting certain restrictions which may from its own shares in the market.
Holders of ordinary shares may time to time be imposed by laws and renew this authority will be sought from receive a dividend and on a liquidation, regulations for example, insider the shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
may share in the assets of the Company.
trading laws : Holders of ordinary shares are entitled The Company did not purchase any pursuant to the Companys share to receive the Companys Annual Report of its own shares during the year.
dealing code, the directors and senior and Accounts.
Subject to meeting 12.1million shares are held as treasury executives of the Company require certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares 3 March 2016: 12.6 million.
approval to deal in the Companys shares may requisition a general During the course of the year, the shares: meeting of the Company or the proposal Company transferred 495,300 shares where a person with at least a 0.25% of resolutions at AGMs.
from treasury to the Employee Share interest in a class of shares has been Ownership Trust for the future Voting rights served with a disclosure notice and satisfaction of awards under the On a show of hands at a general has failed to provide the Company Companys share schemes.
meeting of the Company, every holder with information concerning interests Employee share schemes of ordinary shares present, in person or in those shares: Whitbread does not have any employee by proxy and entitled to vote, has one the subscriber ordinary shares may share schemes with shares which have vote unless the proxy is appointed by not be transferred without the prior rights with regard to the control of the more than one member in which case written consent of the directors: Company that are not exercisable the proxy has one vote for and one vote directly by the employees.
against if the proxy has been instructed the directors can, without giving any by one or more members to vote for the reason, refuse to register the transfer resolution and by one or more members of any shares which are not fully paid: to vote against the resolution and on transfers cannot be in favour of more a poll every member present in person than four joint holders: and or by proxy and entitled to vote has the directors can refuse to register one vote for every ordinary share held.
the transfer of an uncertificated share Voting rights for any ordinary shares in the circumstances set out in the held in treasury are suspended.
None uncertificated securities rules as of the ordinary shares carry any special defined in the Companys Articles rights with regard to control of the of Association.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions The Company is not aware of any must be received by the Companys agreements between shareholders that registrars not later than i 48 hours may result in restrictions on the transfer before a meeting or adjourned meeting of shares or on voting rights.
excluding nonworking days, Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 100 Governance Major interests Our employees are actively encouraged gas and liquid petroleum gas.
As at the end of the financial year, to take part in our Sharesave scheme, It also includes CO e from owned 2 the Company had received formal which is available to all employees vehicles which include company notification, under the Disclosure and and offers an option price discounted cars but excludes logistics as Transparency Rules, of the following by 20%.
this is an outsourced operation.
material holdings in its shares the Refrigerant gas, F-Gas, losses are Regular internal communications are percentages shown are the percentages captured for UK operations only made to all employees to ensure that at the time of the disclosure and have due to reporting capabilities.
they are kept well informed of the not been recalculated based on the performance of the Group and of Scope 2 relates to the indirect emissions issued share capital at the yearend : financial and economic factors that may associated with the generation of the affect the Companys performance.
electricity consumed in our sites.
Number of % of issued shares share capital Further information on employee When defining the scope of our data we BlackRock Inc. 9,422,457 5.15 involvement can be found in the do not report on operations under Joint Winning Teams section on pages 24 Venture agreements where we do not MFS Investment to 29. have operational control such as Costa Management 9,330,908 5.11 Beijing and Premier Inn UAE.
For Mandatory Green House Gas Reporting Longview reasons of materiality, small, one man, In order to comply with the Partners 9,240,506 5.04 offices in Australasia and the Far East requirements of the Companies Act have been excluded.
All other sites Aberdeen Asset 2006 Strategic and Directors Report throughout the world are included.
Management 9,155,869 4.99 Regulations 2013 we have amended our environmental reporting accordingly.
Where possible we have reported billed Employment policies or AMR data which now represents 88% Whitbread has a range of employment We have considered the six main of our total global emissions.
For those policies covering such issues as diversity, GHGs and report in CO e for our 2 operations which are currently beyond employee wellbeing and equal Scope 1 direct and Scope 2 indirect our reporting capabilities, such as Costa opportunities.
We have used the 2 Shanghai, we have used an estimation GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting The Company takes its responsibilities approach using known sales data and and Reporting Standard methodology to the disabled seriously and seeks not local conversion factors.
For further to calculate our emissions and to discriminate under any circumstances information about our estimation DEFRA GHG Conversion Factors including in relation to training, career techniques and the number and location for Company Reporting.
development and promotion against of Whitbread sites please view the current or prospective employees corporate responsibility pages on our Scope 1 includes emissions from the because of any disability or for any website www.
fuels we use in our hotels, restaurants, other reason.
Fair and full consideration offices and coffee shops such as natural is given to applications for employment made by disabled persons, having regard to their aptitudes and abilities.
Source of emissions 2015 16 2016 17 Change % Employees who become disabled Gas Scope 1 54,105 55,680 2.9 during their career at Whitbread will LPG 3,246 3,285 1.2 be retained in employment wherever Fuel oil 203 193 4.9 possible and given help with F-gas 4,109 2,749 33.1 rehabilitation and training.
Business travel 3,510 3,871 10.3 Employee involvement Electricity Scope 2 2,100 2,003 4.6 The importance of good relations and Gross emissions 275,123 266,074 3.3 communications with employees is Turnover millions 2,922 3,110 6.4 fundamental to the continued success Tonnes carbon per 1 million turnover 95 86 9.5 of our business.
Each of the Groups operating businesses maintains employee relations and consults employees as appropriate to its own particular needs.
In addition, our employee opinion survey, Your Say, is conducted twice a year to provide insight into the views of employees.
Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 101 Governance Governance Directors report continued Amendment of the Companys Articles proper consideration, the Audit Annual General Meeting of Association Committee is satisfied that Deloitte LLP The AGM will be held at 2pm on 21 June Any amendments to the Articles of continues to be objective and 2017 at Church House Conference Association of the Company may be independent of the Company.
In coming Centre, Deans Yard, Westminster, made in accordance with the provisions to this conclusion the Audit Committee London SW1P 3NZ.
The Notice of of the Companies Act 2006 by way of gave full consideration to any nonaudit Meeting is enclosed with this report special resolution.
work carried out by Deloitte LLP, and forshareholders receiving hard copy has concluded that certain services will documents, and is available at Significant agreements not be carried out by Deloitte LLP, as www.
co. uk for those who The Companys facility, bond and private outlined in the Committees terms of have elected to receive documents placement loan notes agreements, reference.
At the 2017 AGM, all details of which can be found in Note 19 voting will be by poll.
Electronic to the accounts, contain provisions Disclosure of information to auditor handsets will be utilised and results entitling the counterparties to exercise The directors have taken all reasonable will be displayed on the screen at termination or other rights in the event steps to make themselves aware of the meeting.
of a change of control of the Company.
relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that Approved by the Board on 24 April 2017 Contractual arrangements information.
The directors are not aware and signed.
The Group has contractual of any relevant audit information which arrangements with numerous third has not been disclosed to the auditor.
parties in support of its business activities, none of which are considered Going concern individually to be essential to its business The Groups business activities, together and, accordingly, it has not been with the factors likely to affect its future Chris Vaughan considered necessary for an development, performance and position General Counsel and Company understanding of the development, are set out in the strategic report on Secretary performance or position of the Groups pages 4 to 61.
The financial position of business to disclose information about the Company, its cash flows, net debt Registered Office: any of those thirdparties.
and borrowing facilities and the maturity Whitbread Court of those facilities are set out in the Houghton Hall Business Park Financial instruments Group Finance Directors review on Porz Avenue Information on the Companys use of pages 54 to 57.
In addition there are Dunstable financial instruments, financial risk further details in the financial statements Bedfordshire management objectives and policies on the Groups financial risk management, LU5 5XE and exposure is given in Note 22 and objectives and policies Note 22 and on Note 23 to the consolidated financial Registered company number: 04120344 financial instruments Note 23. statements.
A combination of the strong operating Political donations cash flows generated by the business The Company has not made any political and the significant headroom on its donations during the year and intends credit facilities supports the directors to continue its policy of not doing so view that the Group has sufficient funds for the foreseeable future.
available for it to meet its foreseeable working capital requirements.
The Auditor directors have concluded that the going Deloitte LLP has expressed its concern basis remains appropriate.
willingness to continue in office as auditor of the Company and a resolution The viability statement can be found proposing its reappointment will be put on page 58. to shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
After Whitbread Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 102
