Governance Relations with shareholders We plan a shareholder communication add presentations to our website to We recognise that our brokers play an strategy for the year, to ensure that we allow shareholders to gain an insight important part in communicating our maintain a relationship with our into how our trading performance links message to our shareholders.
During shareholders based on trust and to help to strategy: the year, we undertook a broker review them understand how we plan to grow hold investor road shows, investor and a result, the Board appointed the business and the effect of decisions days, briefings and ad hoc meetings J. P. Morgan Cazenove as joint made, for example, the introduction of on request, where calendar and Corporate Broker and joint Financial the quota share arrangement and regulatory requirements allow: Adviser.
Numis Securities Limited was increasing our dividend target range.
conduct tours of Sagas operations: appointed joint Corporate Broker and We understand the importance of notify our shareholders of key financial Goldman Sachs International was maintaining open and regular dialogue calendar information: appointed joint Financial Adviser.
with our shareholders many of whom publish details of live webcasting are our loyal customers.
We welcome services for key presentations: and The Board is kept fully up to date feedback at any time during the year and make past key presentations available on the views of shareholders and the AGM provides the opportunity for our via our corporate website.
analysts through: shareholders to meet the Board and senior management of the Group.
broker attendance at Board Wider communication meetings to provide honest In addition to the communication Lance Batchelor, Group Chief Executive feedback: mentioned above, we: Officer and Jonathan Hill, Group Chief composition of the shareholder Financial Officer lead communications arrange face-to-face presentations register: with our shareholders assisted by the of full year and half year results share price performance monitoring: shareholder relations team led by our where the Group Chief Executive feedback from investor meetings, Director of Corporate Affairs.
Officer and management team are including key questions and available for discussions: concerns: We set ourselves the target of providing hold telephone briefings for recommendations and information to our shareholders that is analysts in conjunction with key expectations of sell-side analysts: timely, clear and concise.
financial announcements: peer group news: and organise face-to-face and feedback from our professional and Saga has a diverse shareholder register telephone meetings for analysts other external advisers market which is formed of both institutional and with the management team: participants.
retail ownership, the latter numbering hold presentations with bank over 180,000.
Saga also has a number sales teams: and Annual General Meeting ofanalysts following the Company so conduct tours of Sagas operations The AGM will be held on 22 June 2017 at wearrange for a clear explanation of for analysts.
11am at Enbrook Park, Sandgate, keystrategic events and developments, Folkestone, Kent CT20 3SE.
including results and acquisitions The Director of Corporate Affairs reports The Chairman and Chairs of all announcements.
on all shareholder and wider market Committees will be available to answer We communicate in the following ways: matters and provides regular updates questions during the formal business to the Chairman and Non-Executive of the meeting.
Shareholder communication Directors by way of face-to-face In addition to the AGM, we: The notice of the AGM contains briefings, email updates and an Investor an explanation of business to be Relations Report, which is discussed have regular meetings with key considered at the meeting.
A copy at each Board meeting.
This includes shareholders: will be available on Sagas website, reference to the views of key arrange face-to-face presentations of http: corporate.
co. uk, in shareholders, including their concerns, full year and half year results by the due course.
along with any new analyst research.
Group Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief Financial Officer: hold telephone briefings in conjunction with key financial announcements: publish live and post-event webcasts of key presentations: ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 66
