S St tr ra at te egi gic c r re ep po or rt t Our business model How we do it We look to develop and enhance strong expertise isrequired or if a third party This is the most common approach relationships with our customers over the is better positioned to deliver: and the we take.
Selecting and managing course of many years.
By doing this optimal deployment of our capital.
our supplier base is a core skill of we gain a unique insight into the traits the Group.
We work with them to We work across a large number of of our target demographic, helping us to ensure that thecustomer gets what sectors, so if we do choose to use a third develop products and services that we they want, underpinned by excellent party, it is because we believe that their know willbe valuable to our customers, customer service.
ability to operate in that particular area and helping them do more after 50. is best in class.
When this is the case, When we produce products in-house, it We then either develop our offering we design and develop the product to is because we believe that we are best in-house, or use a third party supplier.
ourspecifications, and the third party placed to offer the value and levels of In order to choose the most effective provides it.
service that our customers expect.
method, weconsider several factors, Thisis especially apparent when including: the route that would benefit considering our cruise business.
the customer most: whether our internal Delivered through the Saga Model Whether produced in-house or by a third party, all of our products and services are delivered through the Saga Model, the defining aspects of which are: 1.
A g reat brand We have a truly unique brand that is highly trusted and recognised by over 97% of the UKs over 50s.
Thisallows us to provide products that offer exceptional levels of service, across multiple categories, atafair price.
Differentiated Our ability to listen to our customers, analyse their behaviour and tailor our offering accordingly, products means that we are able to offer products, services and added benefits that we know our customers want in order to help them enjoy life after 50.
Unique route As a data driven business, direct access to our existing and potential customers means we can analyse to market and access both current and new customers across multiple channels.
Outstanding We compete across multiple sectors, and after buying products for many decades, our customers service knowwhat good service looks like.
They expect this from us, and recognise it when they get it.
Underpinned by our flexible capital efficient model develop new products and enter new business with the most potential The nature of our multimarkets very quickly, often with very little for growth.
business model provides capital at risk.
This approach means we are highly uswith great flexibility, We operate two different core cash generative.
The majority of our andhas allowed us to businesses, travel and insurance, that profit after tax turns into cash, allowing buildastrong track record run eight different principal product lines, us the flexibility to continue to invest for and this breadth of offering helps to growth, whilst also paying down debt ofresilience andgrowth.
shield us against product specific risks.
and enhancing long-term returns to The strength of our brand and our ability This allows us tofocus management shareholders via a progressive to select the best providers, allow us to time and capital on the areas of the dividend policy.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 10
