Strategic report Divisional review Retail broking Our retail broking business provides tailored products and services, ranging from motor to pet insurance, tomillions of customers each year.
Retail broking profit Policy count 138.0m 3.0m 9.1% 3.2% Persistency rate Motor Profit per core policy 69.2% 46.0 5.7% Persistency rate Home 74.6% Retail broking conditions at any given time.
Overall the business without the need for holding Our retail broking business provides business performed strongly, with profit capital in our underwriter.
tailored products and services, ranging before tax increasing by 9.1% to 138.0m The enhancement of our customer from motor to pet insurance, to millions 2016: 126.5m.
understanding is assisting in focusing of customers each year.
Its role is to Motor broking retention and acquisition efforts on develop tailored products, price them We have delivered a strong improvement customers who are expected to add the to the customer and then source the in motor broking profitability, growing greatest value to the Group.
We have cheapest cost of risk.
This is achieved profit before tax by 58% to 45.2m focused a greater marketing effort during through our panels of third party 2016: 28.6m.
This was driven by the year on these core customers.
insurers, which operate across both our acombination of improved yield motor and home businesses, or through Home broking management, improved efficiencies solus arrangements, for example in travel The UK home insurance market inmarketing and operations and or private medical insurance.
Our continues to be highly competitive, thebenefit of the motor panel.
in-house underwriter, AICL, sits onboth withlimited evidence of premium inflation motor and home panels and competes The introduction of the motor panel inthe market.
Despite these difficult for the business on equal terms.
If in summer 2015 has driven 3m of conditions, we chose to maintain policy underwritten by a third party, the product additional profit in the year, with volumes with a small reduction in profits.
is manufactured as a Saga product, and around 30% of net premium for renewal Profit before tax decreased to 61.2m the customer interaction will always be policies being placed with third party 2016: 63.4m.
This approach to underwriters by the end of the year.
sourcing underwriting gives us the The combination of the panel, including These policies tend to be for younger, flexibility to operate a portfolio of our underwriter, participating on a no higher risk drivers, meaning we are able products that takes advantage of, or riskbasis through our co-insurance and to achieve a higher margin in our broking protects against, prevailing market ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 24 Strategic report Governance Financial statements reinsurance arrangements, enables us allowing us to reach high affinity Home has continued to be difficult, with toaccess a competitive cost of risk with customers with the resources and time limited sign of premium inflation against a no downside underwriting risk.
both to travel and invest in their health.
Therefore, We are applying our new customer we expect another tough year for this Other broking insight in a way that is already enhancing market, particularly given the benign Within other insurance primarily private cross-sell between our insurance and weather conditions over the winter period.
medical insurance PMI and travel travel businesses.
insurance, customer numbers have PMI is progressing well.
Concerns over been stable and profit before tax was Current trading in retail broking the NHS, and its ongoing funding, are 31.6m 2016: 34.5m.
Given our varied retail broking product leading to higher levels of interest and lines, we always experience varying quotes.
We expect this to continue, but PMI performed strongly with high levels market conditions in different with demand increasing on the private of persistency and robust demand.
Overall, we have seen a sector, we may see the emergence of part of our ongoing drive to enhance verypositive start to the year on motor increasing claims frequency and inflation.
the customer proposition, we have premiums, with strong upwards continued to improve the GP fast track Travel insurance demand is stable.
We movement on new business.
This is service and have extended the GP are starting to see the impact of sterling currently running in excess of claims helpline facility.
These popular initiatives depreciation, which is filtering through to inflation, and sets us on a strong footing are not widely available, and demonstrate higher prices and may suppress demand to improve motor broking profits during our knowledge of our customer base, going forward.
We have recently started to see andour expertise in delivering bespoke the effects of the Ogden rate change Overall, we remain positive on trading products that particularly appeal toour being reflected in premiums across the forour retail broking business for demographic.
market and affecting the net rates on the thecoming year.
However, this will take time to In travel insurance, we saw some work through.
weakening of demand in the latter part of the year, and some pressure on net rates, as the effects of the currency move worked through.
The differentiated aspects of our travel insurance product range have ensured that our offering Case study: Our insight leads What this means for our customers has remained popular with customers.
to development of our private With no limits on outpatient cancer This includes a recent add-on that medical insurance product care, our customers can be assured significantly reduces the cost of car Cancer treatment has significantly that were there to support them through insurance, and access to our travel hub.
advanced in recent years, and insight the most challenging times, and that from our customers and specialist access to treatments that provide them Both our travel insurance and PMI nurses told us that our cancer cover with the best chance of recovery will be products play an important role in the could be improved, given the rapid fully covered by their insurance.
Having Groups customer acquisition strategy, advances in modern treatment treatment at home, for example methods.
Our customers said they chemotherapy being administered by wanted the peace of mind that the specialist nurses in the home rather than right treatment for their circumstances in a hospital, can be less traumatic and would be covered if the worst were more convenient for some customers to happen.
We have therefore made at what is clearly a difficult time.
a number of changes to our cover to How this helps us deliver enable us to better support customers our strategy undergoing treatment: these include By seeing the world through our removing the limits from our outpatient customers eyes, weve created a cancer treatment cover and allowing new benefit that delivers on our goal customers to be treated at home if to develop products that are focused this better suits their needs.
on what our customers truly need, to ultimately exceed their expectations, particularly at the most important times of their life.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 25 Strategic report Divisional review continued Underwriting Our underwriting business remains a critical part of our business.
Its expertise in pricing older, lower risk drivers, means that its high quality book has a track record of generating consistent earnings.
Underwriting profit Solvency II coverage ratio 73.1m 143% -13.1% -27% Pure COR Reserve releases 94.7% 59.9m -4.7% -7.4% Insurance underwriting AICLs high quality book has a track We have seen a decrease in reserve releases from 68.0m to 63.0m AICL, our underwriter, retains its record of generating consistent earnings competitive advantage and high panel for the Group.
The implementation excluding the Ogden effect during the year, and we expect the importance of share of older, lower risk drivers: as ofthequota share arrangement with a result, it remains a vital part of the NewRe, covering 75% of the downside reserve releases in Group earnings to decline gradually over coming years.
Its rigorous focus on these risk of allmotor policies written from drivers, along with ongoing efficient 1August2015 for accidents occuring Ogden discount rate change management of claims, has led to an from1 February 2016, has decreased On 27 February 2017, the government excellent underwriting result.
AICL our ongoing capital requirements for this announced the reduction in the Ogden business, lowering both risk and volatility.
targets a 3% return on net premiums and discount rate, used to value longterm a strong return on equity, which it has This has given usfurther confidence that liabilities, from2.5% to minus 0.75%.
AICL can continue to provide a solid consistently delivered over many years.
Within theexisting reserve surplus, AICL The excellent management of claims contribution to our earnings in the future.
had already assumed a significant costs has also delivered a high level Reserve releases reduction in thisrate.
When combined of reserve releases.
Profit before tax With our clear targeted returns within with the relatively low and severity of was 73.1m 2016: 84.1m, with the AICL, the net pricing provided to the claims for our underwritten drivers, the reduction due to reducing reserve retail broking business provides flexibility net additional impact on theGroup was releases and the first year of cost in pricing to customers, and retains a limited to 4m.
associated with our new quota share large proportion of the Groups earnings arrangement.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 26 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Travel Our award winning travel business is at the heart of the Saga brand, taking passengers all over the world on package holidays, escorted tours and cruises.
Revenue Operating margin 432.0m 3.45% 2.1% 0.26% Passengers Holidays Profit before tax excludingderivatives 190k 14.9m 0.5% 10.4% Passenger days Cruising 301k -11.2% Travel Tour operating product segments that we can apply and This year, our multi award winning travel We have delivered excellent earnings then tailor to the majority of our customer business took over 211,000 customers growth within our tour operating base.
These are: Go For It, Discover, around the world, as well as taking home business, with profit before tax Unwind and Stay and Explore.
By 65 awards at UK travel awards and increasing by 32% to 11.5m 2016: broadening our offering within these continuing to receive exceptionally 8.7m.
We continue to see a shift in the categories, we are also succeeding highlevels of positive feedback from mix of sales to longer-haul, higher-value inattracting younger, first time buyers customers.
The business maintained products, as customers look beyond tothe brand.
its trajectory of profitable growth, and is some of the more traditional holiday The profile of these customers tends to expected to approach its stretch target destinations.
This demonstrates that our be higher value, making them a natural of doubling profits to 40m one year customers continue to value the security fitfor cross-selling and our membership early by the end of FY 2018.
Overall, that products such as our river cruising scheme.
Combined with the optimised profit before tax excluding derivatives and guided holidays offer highly digital approach the travel business is in travel increased by 10.4% to 14.9m differentiated and tailored for the taking with its online offering, this 2016: 13.5m.
Our new target is to grow needsof our demographic.
isproviding a quality customer profit before tax in the travel business by The customer focused approach is key acquisition route as part of the four to five times over the next five years.
here, and, based on deep customer Groupswider strategy.
insight, we have developed four thematic ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 27 Strategic report Divisional review continued Cruising Case study: New cruising capacity Cruising remains essential to Sagas brand The new ship investment has given the Cruise business and customer offering.
Our two cruise a once in a lifetime opportunity.
Not only are we ships, the Saga Sapphire and Saga Pearl II, designing and building a modern cruise ship with the had another good year with exceptionally obvious benefits of latest technology and expertise but high customer satisfaction levels.
We we also have the opportunity to take a close look at our havesignificantly improved the yield current customer proposition to ensure it meets the management of our ships.
While load needs of both existing customers and the needs and factors have reduced marginally to 82%, aspirations of future customers.
we have increased the per diem rates by As a result, from the very outset, customers have 8% through various value enhancements been central to our design and review process and tothe cruise product offering, including we continue to work with a panel of both current Saga freewine with lunch and dinner, a newly cruisers and non Saga cruisers to ensure we are on the established cruise services team and other right track.
This has made us fundamentally re-think enhancements to the customer experience.
certain design elements, for example bar concepts, We continued to invest in the resilience onboard and offshore services and indeed the variety of the cruise ships, with the scheduled of food and entertainment options required.
At a more maintenance of the Saga Sapphire detailed level our customers have identified numerous during the year impacting profitby small design details... some practical, some visual and c. 5m, as expected.
some just plain common sense.
Internally we refer to these as our 100 small design details, whilst We remain very excited about the individually not significant, altogether make a huge prospects for the new ship, with the design statement.
As part of the design project, we are undertaking significant Our belief is that this process of continuous customer customer research.
The results so input will create not only one of the most elegant and farhave proven hugely helpful and sophisticated cruise ships afloat but also one of the informative to both product and most practical and well thought out.
proposition design, and will ensure thatthe experience remains relevant forcustomers well into the future.
The first itineraries for the new ship will be going on sale later this year.
We have already had over 10,000 customers register their interest in our new ship with over 50% securing their place on the first set of itineraries with payment of a deposit.
Indeed, these 10,000 registered customers would equate to filling our first 12 cruises.
Current trading Our travel business has excellent visibility due to our customers propensity to book holidays far in advance.
In both tour operating and cruising, we have already secured the substantial majority of our FY 2018 sales targets.
Reservations for departures in FY 2018 as at 18 March Trading to week ending 18 March 2017 2017 are 8% ahead of the comparable reservation position one year ago.
As 2017 18 Growth 2016 17 previously noted in our post-Brexit poll, Tour operating revenue m 275.9 8.2% 254.9 less than 1% of our customers said that they were reconsidering their future holiday Tour operating passengers 142.6 1.1% 141.1 plans as a result of the referendum result.
Cruise revenue m 76.0 8.0% 70.4 Cruise passengers 22.1 15.7% 19.1 Cruise capacity is 5% higher year on year, with the 63 days of Sapphire wet dock in 2016 17 being followed by two dry docks in 2017 18, meaning that 41 days of trading will be given to further ship investment in 2017 18.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 28 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Emerging businesses Emerging businesses includes our personal finance, homecare, publishing and printing operations as well as new development areas for the long-term growth of the business.
Continuing to invest for future growth Saga is learning its way into three new categories, all of which have the capacity to contribute materially for us in future: money, health and retirement villages.
Money: this business is made up of a variety of products credit cards, equity release, savings, loans and wealth management.
The team is working on some exciting new products for test in 2017, based on our clear understanding of what our customers want.
Healthcare: Saga operates a number of brands in the homecare sector, where we look after you in your own home.
Fastest growing is Saga Healthcare, which operates in a trial area around Hertfordshire.
During 2017, we will be cautiously expanding the area covered and the number of Saga customers we serve.
Retirement villages: since 2015, we have worked closely with Wadswick Green in Wiltshire, helping them meet Saga customers and explain the benefits of dedicated village living to them.
Thisrelationship has been mutually successful, and we are now considering expansion deeper into the category.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 29
