G Gove over rn na an nc ce e Directors Report The Directors present their report together with the audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 January 2017 in accordance with section 415 of the Companies Act 2006 which were approved by the Board on 28 March 2017.
Management report The Directors Report, together with the Strategic Report set out on pages 01-39 form the Management Report for the purposes of Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR 4.1.
Statutory information contained elsewhere in the annual report Information required to be part of this Directors Report can be found elsewhere in the annual report as indicated in the table below and is incorporated into this report by reference.
Information Location in annual report Likely future developments in the business of the Company or its subsidiaries Pages 01-39 Corporate social responsibility Pages 16-18 Greenhouse gas emissions Pages 18-19 Employees employment of disabled persons, employee engagement and policies Pages 16-17 Corporate Governance Statement Pages 40-66 Directors details including changes made during the year Pages 45 and 48-51 Related party transactions Note 32 on page 163 Employee share schemes including long-term incentive schemes Note 29 on pages 159-160 Financial instruments: Information on the Groups financial instruments and risk Note 2.3 on pages 108-120 management objectives and policies, including our policy for hedging Additional information Pages 171-173 Results and dividends The Group made a profit after taxation of 157.3m for the financial year ended 31 January 2017.
The Board paid an interim dividend of 2.7p per share and proposes to pay, subject to shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM, a final dividend of 5.8p net per share in respect of the year ended 31 January 2017.
Going concern The going concern statement required by the Listing Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code is set out in the compliance statement on page 42.
Fair, balanced and understandable The Boards statement regarding whether the information contained within the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable is contained on page 42.
Viability statement The Directors viability statement is set out on page 42.
Political donations No political donations were made during the year.
Directors interests A list of the Directors, their interests in the long-term performance share plan, contracts and ordinary share capital of the Company are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 67-89.
Rules on appointment and replacement of Directors All Directors will seek re-election at the AGM in accordance with the Companys articles of association and the recommendations of the Code, with the exception of Philip Green, who has resigned from the Board with effect from 31 March 2017.
A Director may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the shareholders in a general meeting following nomination by the Board or a member or members entitled to vote at such a meeting.
In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director, provided that the individual retires at the next AGM.
A Director may be removed by the Company in certain circumstances set out in the Companys articles of association or by an ordinary resolution of the Company.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 90 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Pursuant to the Relationship Agreement Directors indemnities Share capital and interests entered into between the Company and and insurance in voting rights each of the Private Equity Investors As at the date of this report, indemnities The Companys share capital including as defined on page 92 each Private are in force under which the Company movements during the year is set out on Equity Investor was entitled to appoint has agreed to indemnify the Directors, page 157.
At the date of this report one Non-Executive Director to the Board to the extent permitted by law and the the Companys issued share capital for so long as it was entitled, either Companys articles of association, in comprised a single class of share capital directly or indirectly through its voting respect of all losses arising out of, or in which is divided into ordinary shares rights in Acromas Bid Co Limited connection with, the execution of their of 1p each.
As at 31 January 2017, ABCL, to exercise or to control the powers, duties and responsibilities, as 1,118,005,405 ordinary shares of 1p each exercise of the equivalent of 10% or Directors of the Company or any of its have been issued, are fully paid up and more of the votes able to be cast on subsidiaries.
No amount was paid under quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
all or substantially all matters at general any of these indemnities or insurances On 22 April 2016, the Company was meetings of the Company.
The Company during the year other than the applicable notified that ABCL had sold the was notified that ABCL had sold its last insurance premiums.
Directors and remaining 352,674,283 shares held tranche of shares on 22 April 2016. officers liability insurance is in place as by them, representing approximately Following the sale, James Arnell, at the date of this report, at an amount 31.54% of the Companys issued ordinary Non-Executive Director appointed by which the Board considers adequate.
Following the sale, ABCL Charterhouse, resigned from the Board This is subject to an annual review.
ceased to be shareholder of the Company.
of the Company with immediate effect and the Relationship Agreement ceased to exist.
In accordance with DTR5, the Company has been notified of the following interests in 3% or more of the Companys total voting rights as at 31 January 2017: Ordinary Percentage Nature Name shares of capital of holding HSBC Global Custody Nominees UK Limited 56,154,560 5.02% Direct Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch 81,953,949 7.33% 5.21% Direct and 2.12% SWAPs Artemis Investment Management LLP on behalf 121,840,916 10.9% Indirect of discretionary funds under management Subsequent to the year end, Henderson Group plc disclosed information in accordance with DTR5, on 28 February 2017, disclosing a holding of 59,285,367 5.30%, broken down as 4.97% Indirect and 0.32% CFD.
Deutsche Bank AG has disclosed information in accordance with DTR5 on three occasions.
The most recent one being 22 March 2017, disclosing a holding of 103,659,855 9.27%, broken down as 5.73% Direct and 3.54% SWAPs.
On 23 March 2017, Artemis Investment Management LLPdisclosed information in accordance with DTR5, disclosing a holding of 111,601,253 ordinary shares 9.98%, Indirect.
Information regarding other interests in voting rights provided to the Company pursuant to the FCA DTRs is published on the Companys website and a Regulatory Information Service.
Notification was also received by the Company during the year that Goldman Sachs and Legal & General Group plc had notifiable interests but these ceased to be notifiable interests and are not included in the table above.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 91 Governance Directors Report continued Relationship Agreement Change of control significant Authority to allot purchase The Company had entered into an agreements own shares agreement with ABCL as its controlling A number of agreements take effect, A shareholders resolution was passed shareholder as required under Listing alter or terminate upon a change of at the AGM on 21 June 2016 which Rule LR 9.2.
2A R 2 a, complied with control of the Company including authorised the Company to make market the independence provisions set out in following a takeover bid, for example purchases within the meaning of section LR 6.1.
4D R and had a constitution insurance, commercial contracts and 693 4 of the Companies Act 2006 the that allowed for the election and distribution agreements.
The Group has Act up to 1,118,005.41 representing re-election of independent Directors to a number of contracts and arrangements 10% of aggregate nominal share capital be conducted in accordance with the throughout the business where the legal of the share capital of the Company election provisions set out in LR 9.2.
2E R risk arising out of a change of control is following Admission.
2F R, whilst the agreement closely managed as part of the contractual a minimum price of 1p and a maximum was in force.
Inevitably, there price of the higher of 105% of the may be certain operational contracts that average mid-market quotations for As far as the Company is aware: could provide for a period of disruption five business days prior to purchase or or higher operational charges if a change price of last individual trade and highest the controlling shareholder and its of control clause was invoked.
However, current individual bid as derived from the associates also complied with the at the current time, we are not aware of London Stock Exchange trading system.
independence provisions referred any critical or material contracts that to: and The Company did not exercise this pose such a threat.
the controlling shareholder complied authority during the year ended with its agreement to procure The Senior Facilities Agreement and the 31 January 2017.
The above authority compliance with the independence financing agreements in relation to the will expire at the forthcoming AGM and provisions referred to above by new ship provide the Group with loan a special resolution to authorise the another controlling shareholder and revolving credit facilities for general Company to make market purchases and its associates.
In the event of a representing 10% of current nominal change of control the facilities would share capital will be proposed.
The The Relationship Agreement between either require repayment or re-negotiation.
authority to repurchase the Companys the Company, ABCL the Principal Further details on banking facilities are ordinary shares in the market will be Shareholder and certain funds shown in note 26 to the consolidated limited to 1,118,005.41 and will set managed or advised by Charterhouse financial statements.
outthe minimum and maximum Capital Partners, CVC Capital Partners pricewhich will be paid.
and Permira the Private Equity The rules of the Companys employee Investors remained in force until the share plans generally provide for the The Directors of the Company were also later of i each of the Private Equity accelerated vesting and or release of granted authority at the 2016 AGM to Investors together with its associates share awards in the event of a change allot relevant securities up to a nominal ceased to be entitled to exercise or of control of the Company.
This authority will control the exercise, directly or indirectly, apply until the conclusion of the 2017 of 10% or more of the votes able to be The Company does not have any AGM, where shareholders will be asked cast on all or substantially all matters at agreements with Directors or employees to grant the Directors authority for the general meetings of the Company: or which would pay compensation in the purposes of section 551 of the Act to ii the Principal Shareholder together event of a change of control.
allot relevant securities i up to an with its associates ceased to be aggregate nominal amount of 3,722,958: Conflict of interest entitledto exercise or control the and, ii comprising equity securities as Each Director is obliged to disclose any exercise, directly or indirectly, of 30% defined in the Act up to an aggregate potential or actual conflict of interest in ormore of the votes able to be cast nominal amount of 7,445,916 after accordance with the Companys conflict onall or substantially all matters at deducting from such limit any relevant of interest policy.
The policy and general meetings of the Company.
securities issued under i in connection declarations made are subject to annual with a rights issue.
These amounts will As a result of the share placing review and Directors are required to apply until the conclusion of the AGM to undertaken by ABCL on 21 April 2016, update any changes to declarations be held in 2018 or, if earlier, 31 July 2018.
ABCL held no shares in the Company, as they occur.
Internal controls are in Charterhouse ceased to have an interest place to ensure that any related party in the Company and the Private Equity transactions are conducted on an Investment Director nominated by them arms length basis.
resigned from the Board with effect from 22 April 2016.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 92 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Special resolutions will also be proposed Restrictions on the transfer Auditor to give the Directors authority to make of shares A resolution to appoint KPMG LLP who non-preemptive issues wholly for cash Other than where imposed by law have indicated their willingness to act in connection with rights issues and or regulation, or where the Listing after a formal audit tender process as otherwise up to an aggregate nominal Rules require certain persons to obtain our Auditor will be proposed at the 2017 amount of 559,002.70 and to make clearance before dealing, there are no AGM.
Ernst & Young LLP were appointed non-preemptive issues wholly for cash in restrictions regarding the transfer of as auditors of the principal trading connection with acquisitions or specified shares in the Company.
The Company is companies within the Acromas group capital investments up to an aggregate not aware of any agreement which would in September 2007 and as auditors of amount of 559,002.70. result in a restriction on the transfer of the Company on 24 September 2014. shares or voting rights.
following the Companys incorporation Rights attaching to shares and insertion within the Group prior to The rights attached to the shares are Articles of association listing.
The formal audit tender process governed by applicable law and the Any amendment to the Companys is explained in detail on page 61.
Companys articles of association articles of association may only be made which are available at http: corporate.
by passing a special resolution of the Disclosure of information saga.
co. uk assets downloads  of the Company.
to the Auditor governance  made the requisite enquiries, Branches outside the UK association.
so far as each of the Directors is aware, The Company does not have any there is no relevant audit information Ordinary shareholders have the right branches outside of the UK.
as defined by section 418 3 of the to receive notice, attend and vote at Companies Act 2006 of which the Post-balance sheet events general meetings: and receive a copy of Companys Auditor is unaware and the On 27 February 2017, the UK the Companys report and accounts and Directors have taken all the steps they Government announced its decision to a dividend when approved and paid.
ought to have taken as Directors to make move the Ogden rate to -0.75% from On a show of hands, each shareholder themselves aware of any relevant audit 2.5%.
The UK Government first present in person, or by proxy or an information and to ensure that the announced the decision to launch a authorised representative of a corporate Companys Auditor is aware of consultation process on a potential shareholder, shall have one vote.
downgrade to the Ogden rate in 2012. event of a poll, one vote is attached to In line with the prudent approach to each share held.
Annual General Meeting reserving, the Group has therefore The AGM will be held on 22 June 2017 The notice of the AGM the Notice held a specific amount within its reserve at 11am at Enbrook Park, Sandgate, states deadlines for exercising voting margin in anticipation of a reduction Folkestone, Kent CT20 3SE.
The Notice rights and for appointing a proxy proxies.
contains an explanation of special business to be considered at the meeting.
No shareholder owns shares with special This event has been treated as an rights as to control.
adjusting post-balance sheet event, A copy of the Notice will be available on and as such a one-off, pre-tax impact our website, http: corporate.
co. uk on profit of 4m has been reflected in in due course.
the Groups results for the year ended 31 January 2017.
Our older demographic provides the Group with a defensive advantage, with lower claims frequency generating less exposure to large and small bodily injury claims, and to periodic payment orders PPOs.
The Group does not expect the Ogden rate change to have a material impact on its financial outlook.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 93 Governance Directors Report continued Directors responsibilities present information, including applicable regulations, including the As required under the Financial Conduct accounting policies, in a manner that requirements of the Listing Rules and Authority FCA Disclosure Rules and provides relevant, reliable, comparable the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Transparency Rules DTRs, the and understandable information: Neither the Company nor the Directors following statements are made by the make judgements that are reasonable accept and hereby exclude any liability Board regarding the preparation of the and prudent: to any person in relation to the annual financial statements.
provide additional disclosures when report except to the extent that such compliance with the specific The process for producing the liability is imposed by law and may requirements in FRS 101 and IFRSs Companys annual report and accounts not be validly excluded.
Accordingly, asadopted by the European Union starts with clear direction for all those any liability to a person who has areinsufficient to enable users to involved, so that the final document demonstrated reliance on any untrue or understand the impact of particular represents a balanced picture of our misleading statement or omission shall transactions, other events and activities throughout the year and so that be determined in accordance with conditions on the Company and shareholders are given the information section 90A and schedule 10A of the Groups financial position and they need to assess the performance, Financial Services and Markets Act financialperformance: and business model and strategy.
state whether the Company and Group financial statements have been The Directors are responsible for Each of the Directors, who were in office prepared in accordance with FRS preparing the annual report and at the date of this report, whose names 101and IFRSs as adopted by accounts in accordance with applicable and responsibilities are listed on pages theEuropean Union.
Company law 45 and 48-49, confirm that, to the best requires the Directors to prepare of their knowledge: The Directors are responsible for keeping Company and Group financial statements adequate records that are sufficient to the Company and Group financial for each financial year.
Under that law, show and explain the Companys and statements, which have been prepared the Directors are required to prepare Groups transactions and disclose with in accordance with FRS 101 and Group financial statements under reasonable accuracy at any time the IFRSs as adopted by the European International Financial Reporting financial position of the Company and Union, give a true and fair view of the Standards IFRSs as adopted by the the Group and enable them to ensure assets, liabilities, financial position and European Union and applicable law that the Company and Group financial profit of the Company and Group: and andCompany financial statements statements comply with the Companies the Strategic Report contained on underUnited Kingdom Generally Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS pages 01-39 includes a fair review of Accepted Accounting Practice, including Regulation.
They are also responsible the development and performance of Financial Reporting Standard 101 for safeguarding the assets of the Group the business and the position of the Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS and hence for taking reasonable steps Company and Group, together with a 101.
Undercompany law the Directors for the prevention and detection of fraud description of the principal risks and mustnot approve the Company and and other irregularities.
Group financial statements unless they are satisfied that, to the best of their The Directors are responsible for the By order of the Board knowledge, they give a true and fair view maintenance and integrity of the By order of the Board of the state of affairs of the Company corporate and financial information and Group and of the profit or loss of included on the Companys website.
theCompany and Group for that period.
Legislation in the UK governing the In preparing the Company and Group preparation and dissemination of V Haynes financial statements the Directors financial statements may differ from Company Secretary arerequired to: legislation in other jurisdictions.
28 March 2017 present fairly the financial position, The Directors are also responsible Saga plc Company no.
08804263 financial performance and cash flows for preparing the Strategic Report, of the Company and Group: the Directors Report, the Directors select suitable accounting policies Remuneration Report and the corporate in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting governance statement in accordance Policies, Changes in Accounting with the Companies Act 2006 and Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently: ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 94
