Strategic report Delivering our priorities Everyday: To make the little things Utilising the customer work we will 1 Becoming in life more enjoyable, easier and create a platform through which to better value.
reward and incentivise our customers increasingly Enhanced Saga products: Every toboth stay with Saga and deepen their customer-centric product and service that Saga sells relationship with us, we will launch a will have extra enhancements for Saga membership programme in the our members.
The scheme is The customer work we have open to all existing Saga customers and completed has given us both We believe that the combination of will be named Saga Possibilities and enhanced insight into customer ourincreasing customer insight, data its mission statement is to Help you, behaviours, and the ability to utilise capability and membership will be our members, get more out of Saga and that knowledge to offer our customers extremely powerful, helping us to do more of the things that matter most more of the products they want, in the focus our efforts on rewarding, to you.
right way and at the right time.
retaining and growing our target customers and deepening our Saga Possibilities will be structured Membership relationship with them.
Our goal isto around four key components: Sagas brand is synonymous with grow the number ofproducts held by lifeafter 50 in the UK.
Thanks Experiences: provide members with a HACs by 20% overthe next 5 years.
to consistently delivering tailored constant stream of inspiring products products underpinned by exceptional and experiences they can try.
service over many decades, customers Expertise: the go-to place for the often refer to being Saga members over 50s for subject matter expertise, without us ever having run an official providing information, inspiration, and membership scheme.
expertise on topics that matter most.
competitive retail broking products to develop new propositions that 2 Growing toabroader section of our target appeal to them.
High standards of marketplace, while using enhanced customer satisfaction across the profits in our retail insight from our customer work to business will remain a priority, as insurance and improve our product offerings, will using our enhanced customer encourage loyalty and grow multiinsight to increase retention of our travel businesses product holdings.
valuable travel customers and their cross-sell ratios into other areas of We will continue the work to ensure that the business.
We will maintain our focus on retail Saga Holidays and Saga Cruises remain broking.
Our third party panel members relevant by working with our customers will continue to allow us to offer ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 14 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our drive to improve the customer 3 Investing for experience and efficiency of our insurance operations through the future growth modernisation of our insurance sales and administration platform continues.
In consultation with our customers, we The system will enable us to increase have made further changes to the design product differentiation within the of the new ship, which is on track for insurance business, as well as provide delivery in mid-2019, and the first cruises our broking service more efficiently.
will go on sale later this year.
We also expect to roll outour new claims platform this year.
We will target further growth in our portfolio of Saga Money products and continue to develop our existing pilots in Saga Healthcare and Retirement Villages.
4 Maintaining our efficient operating model We will continue to focus on running the business in the most efficient way possible by growing earnings organically and continuing to carefully assess capital allocation.
This will lead to a higher quality of earnings over time.
Additional efficiency savings will be delivered through investment in the new retail insurance system and a claims handling system, together with Group wide procurement projects.
5 Developing our people We are continuing to invest in the development of ourcurrent employees, and to hire new talent where needed.
We continue to instil the customer-centric culture that makes Sagadifferent.
The Leading the Saga Way Leadership Development Programme will be rolled out to the top 400 leaders across Saga.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 15
