Strategic report Governance Financial statements Strategic report Our target market overview We are well positioned to serve a growing demographic Saga is the UKs leading provider of with other market participants.
Also, Saga as a regulated business products and services tailored to the as Saga operates different businesses Saga operates across a number of needs of the over 50s.
This segment across different sectors, this helps regulated sectors, notably within our of the population is the fastest growing, provide against a downturn in a financial services and travel businesses.
most affluent and influential demographic particular sector.
If, for example, the Regulation in these sectors continues in the UK.
It accounts for 75% of the motor insurance market became to evolve constantly and we are experts UKs household wealth and 50% of the subdued, we would be able to focus on in maintaining good communication with UKs household expenditure.
Needs are our cruise and travel businesses as well our regulatory bodies in order to ensure increasingly changing as the demographic as other insurance lines, such as travel, that we are always in a position to adapt as a whole continues to work longer and home and PMI.
quickly to any changes that could lead more active lives.
Given our Our travel business also benefits from target demographic, we often work with As part of our in-depth work on enhancing comparatively strong resilience.
Our focus on our our customer knowledge and making following the EU referendum vote, fewer customers means that we are able to our database work more efficiently for than 1% of our customers said they recognise that some may need more us, our knowledge of whom the Saga would reconsider their future holiday attention than others and we run brand plays best with within our wider plans, and our new ship has generated dedicated teams throughout our target market is improving significantly.
nearly 10,000 pre-registrations for its business to ensure that vulnerable The target customer for the Saga initial cruises.
customers are identified and given brand is predominantly within four very a helping hand.
Regulatory and political change specific mosaic classifications whose The over 50s are the most politically characteristics are: over 60s: within The competition for customers engaged demographic in the UK, and ABC1 households: and having above As we operate across a number of are therefore highly politically influential.
Our ability to sectors, we compete with many providers For example, polling amongst our map digitally their interactions with us in those markets.
While our brand as the customer base gave us advanced and track what they do and dont like, over 50s specialist in the UK is particularly visibility of the likely success of the has led to a more efficient customer strong, we do not have a monopoly on Brexitvote when the professional polling acquisition strategy, allowing us to tailor our customers.
We do, however, have companies were still indicating a win for our approach in order to continue to the advantage of focusing on this the Remain vote.
Our insight into the delight our customer.
demographic, which means everything most important issues for our customers we do can be tailored to the specific Macro conditions is extremely valuable, and we aim to needs that are characteristic of our While macro events out of our control create products and services that either customer base.
This gives us a always have the potential to create a take advantage of, or protect against, competitive advantage against peers headwind, our target customers tend to regulatory change.
We also engage on who offer their products to all age ranges.
be more resilient during times of economic these issues on their behalf when uncertainty.
In many instances, they appropriate to do so.
live off pensions, savings and pools of acquired assets.
This reliable stream Projected growth of the UKs over 50s of unearned income is a notable characteristic of ABC1 households.
35% of the 40% of the population population Additional factors which enhance the 2013-2033 economic stability of this group include: 1993 2003 2013 2023 2033 Growth 40 low levels of debt: fewer fixed costs: and 30 29.1m members at the bottom end of the 26.7m demographic benefiting from 73% 12% 22.4m 10% inheritance from the top end.
20.0m 20 8% 18.1m 8% 11% 10% 39% 7% While the macroeconomic cycle will 9% 8% impact the underlying performance of 9% 10 our wider business, each of our core 77% 17% 19% 18% 18% 15% businesses of insurance and travel 0 have different sector specific cycles.
Age group There is potential for customer behavioural changes depending on 50-65 65-75 75 the stage of each cycle but, given the strengths of our demographic, we tend Source: Centre for Economic and Business Research.
to see this to a lesser extent compared ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 SAGA PLC 11 c. 7m increase
