BOARD OF DIRECTORS Delivering transformation LEFT TO RIGHT Rakhi Goss-Custard Pascal Cagni Karen Witts Anders Dahlvig Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Chief Financial Officer Non-executive Director Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 48 Vronique Laury Clare Chapman Andrew Bonfield Daniel Bernard Mark Seligman Chief Executive Officer Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Chairman Senior Independent Director www.
com 49 BOARD OF DIRECTORS ONE Kingfisher R N Daniel Bernard Vronique Laury Karen Witts Chairman, Chairman of the Nomination Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointed to the Board in December 2014.
Appointed to the Board in October 2012.
Committee Joined the Board as Deputy Chairman Expertise and experience: Vronique is a Expertise and experience:Karen is a in May 2006 before being appointed Chairman highly experienced international retailer who seasoned Chief Financial Officer and chartered on 3 June 2009. has worked in the home improvement sector accountant with a strong background in Expertise and experience:Daniel provides for 28 years in France and in the UK.
She joined finance and management across a variety of considerable retailing experience and expertise Kingfisher in 2003, after spending 15 years at sectors.
Prior to joining Kingfisher, she served as to the Kingfisher Board.
From 2010 to 2015 he Leroy Merlin in various commercial roles, and Chief Financial Officer, Africa, Middle East, Asia was Chairman of MAF Retail Group, Dubai.
He in her 14 years with the business she has held and Asia Pacific for Vodafone plc and before was Chairman and Chief Executive of Carrefour, several key roles including Chief Executive of that spent 11 years in Finance Director and the Paris-based retail group and worlds second Castorama France, Group Commercial Director, General Management roles at BT.
Karen has largest retailer, from 1992 to 2005.
Prior to and Commercial Director of B&Q UK &Ireland.
also worked in companies including Diageo Carrefour, he was Chief Operating Officer of She became Chief Executive Officer on and Mars.
She provides significant current METRO, Germanys leading international retailer.
8 December 2014. relevant finance expertise to the Board.
He was previously a non-executive director of Andrew Bonfield A R N Other directorships: Karen is a non-executive Compagnie fide Saint-Gobain until June 2006.
Non-executive Director, Chairman director of Imperial Brands PLC, andChairman Other directorships: Daniel is President of oftheAudit Committee of its Audit Committee.
Provestis, his own investment company.
He Appointed to the Board in February 2010. has been Senior Advisor of TowerBrook Capital Expertise and experience: Andrew brings Partners since October 2010.
He is the Lead significant current finance experience to the Independent Director of Capgemini and is Kingfisher Board.
He was previously Chief also Honorary Chairman of the HEC Business Financial Officer of Cadbury plc and prior to School Foundation in Paris and a member of that he was Chief Financial Officer of Bristolthe Board of HEC.
He was Finance Director of BG Group plc from 2001 to 2002 and Chief Financial Officer of SmithKline Beecham Plc from 1999 to 2000 during an 11-year period with the pharmaceuticals group.
Other directorships: Andrew is Finance Director of National Grid plc.
He is Chairman of the Hundred Group of Finance Directors.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 50 Governance R N A R N A N Clare Chapman Mark Seligman Rakhi Goss-Custard Non-executive Director, Chairman Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board in January 2012.
Appointed to the Board in February 2016. of the Remuneration Committee Appointed to the Board in December 2010.
Expertise and experience:Mark provides Expertise and experience: Rakhi is a highly Expertise and experience: Clare brings substantial expertise to the Kingfisher Board experienced director in digital retailing, having international perspective and expertise from in the field of finance.
He was a senior adviser spent 11 years at Amazon.
Most recently a series of high-profile human resource at Credit Suisse.
He began his career at Price she was Director, UK Media at Amazon, leadership roles.
She was previously Group Waterhouse and spent over 30 years in the responsible for ranges such as books, music People Director of BT Group and Director City, including senior roles at SG Warburg, BZW and DVDs.
She was previously Director, UK General of Workforce for the NHS and and Credit Suisse First Boston.
At Credit Suisse Hardlines, where she was responsible for home, Social Care.
She was also a non-executive he was Deputy Chairman Europe from 1999 garden and DIY product ranges.
Prior to joining director of TUI Travel plc and Chairman of to 2005 and later Chairman UK Investment Amazon, Rakhi held roles at TomTom and in its Remuneration Committee.
Her previous Banking from 2003 to 2005. management consultancy in the United States.
experience also includes Group HR Director Other directorships: Mark serves as an Other directorships: Rakhi is a non-executive of Tesco plc from 1999 to 2006 and HR Vice alternate member of the Panel on Takeovers director of Schroders plc, Rightmove plc, Intu President of Pepsi Colas West and Central and Mergers.
He joined Smiths Group plc as Properties plc and Be Heard Group plc.
European operations from 1994 to 1999. an independent non-executive director in May Other directorships: Clare joined the Board 2016.
Mark will join The Royal Bank of Scotland of Heidrick & Struggles International, Inc. in plc as a non-executive director in April 2017. early 2016, and serves as a Commissioner on Anders Dahlvig A N the Low Pay Commission.
Non-executive Director Appointed to the Board in December 2009.
Pascal Cagni N Non-executive Director Expertise and experience: Anders brings Appointed to the Board in November 2010. extensive commercial retailing expertise to Expertise and experience: Pascal provides the Board.
He was previously Chief Executive the Board with expertise in the field of digital and President of the IKEA Group from 1999 to and multi-channel retailing.
He was formerly 2009, having spent 26 years with the company.
the General Manager, Vice President of Apple Prior to becoming Chief Executive, he was Vice Europe, Middle-East, India and Africa.
His President of IKEA Europe from 1997 to 1999 previous experience includes roles at Packard and Managing Director of IKEA UK from 1993 Bell, NEC and Booz Allen Hamilton.
He held the to 1997. position of non-executive director on the board Other directorships: Anders is a director of of Egg Banking plc, the online banking arm of Oriflame Cosmetics AB, H&M Hennes & Mauritz Prudential plc.
He actively conducts strategy, AB and Axel Johnson AB, and is a member of consulting and venture capital activities the Advisory Board of Lund University Business through c4v.
He is also a director of Resurs Bank AB, Other directorships: Pascal is an Pret a Manger Limited and Chairman of the independent director of the supervisory Board of Inter Ikea Holding BV.
board of Vivendi SA and a member of the board of directors of the CondNast-owned e-commerce website Style.
He is also A Audit Committee a member of the board of directors of R Remuneration Committee Banque Transatlantique.
