Our ambition Our ambition is to become the leading home improvement company.
We believe everyone should have a home they feel good about, so our purpose is to make home improvement accessible for everyone.
The home is at the heart of peoples lives.
After their loved Lots of things are changing for customers: ones, there is nothing more important for people than their demographics: 30-45% of homes in Western Europe are home.
But many people dont have the home that they want single households: or they deserve.
That is why 170 million households across urbanisation: today, 54% of the worlds population lives in 1 Europe undertook home improvement projects last year.
3 urban areas, which is expected to increase to 66% by 2050 : The home improvement market is huge.
There are 320 million 4 the internet: there are more than 3 billion internet users homes in Europe, which are mostly old.
The average age of around the world today.
housing stock in Europe is between 50 and 60 years.
And the Their expectations are changing too.
They want great prices European home improvement market is worth 235 billion.
They want autonomy and help.
They want Out of household spending, housing including home inspiration and technical support.
They want to shop in stores equipment and maintenance is the top priority for people, and online.
2 above food, transport and leisure.
We have an opportunity to mobilise the desire that people Across Europe, people find that starting, completing and have to improve their homes and meet customers demands keeping up with improvements to their homes is more difficult in a way they didnt expect.
By embracing this challenge than it needs to be.
They dont have the skills, knowledge, and this opportunity, we will become the leading home resources, inspiration, support, time or muscles!
Despite all these challenges, people remain determined, 1 Source: Eurostat, National Statistical Office, Kingfisher Usage and Attitudes survey by because having a good home is a major source of happiness Harris interactive-2015.
2 Source: Eurostat Households statistics Europe 28 The EU in the World Report and pride.
Ask anyone who has ever swung a hammer, tiled a 2015 Russia.
floor, or painted a room, and theyll tell you that, once its done, 3 Source:www.
com There is an opportunity to help more people do more in their homes by solving what they call their home improvement nightmare.
We at Kingfisher want to unlock this opportunity.
We are going to really understand customers needs, their home improvement journeys, the way they live, and the way they shop.
