Strategic report Our transformation In January 2016 Kingfisher announced the ONE Kingfisher plan.
This plan will leverage the scale of the business by creating a unified company, wherecustomer needs always come first.
The focus, over thefive years of the plan, will be on three key pillars: creating a unified, unique and leading home improvement offer: driving our digital capability: and optimising our operational efficiency.
Overall, this five year transformation plan aims to deliver 500 million of sustainable annual profit uplift by Year 5, over and above business as usual.
By this we mean that without the transformation we would expect performance to be broadly inline with the macroeconomic backdrop in our respective markets.
Until we have unified our customer offer, we will have limited expansion, the focus of which, in the medium-term, will be Screwfix both in the UK and in Europe.
BUSINESS AS USUAL TRANSFORMATION Expansion Unified Operational EBIT & Unique Digital Efficiency uplift Offer Market 350m 50m 100m 500m We know that our customer This consists of The biggest opportunity is Expected to generate needs are already more two programmes: in unifying around 90% of 500 million of similar thandifferent across 1.2 billion Goods Not For sustainable annual investing in our all our markets.
This profit uplift by the core e-commerce will be achieved through end of Year 5.
Going forward, we will move platforms by leveraging acombination of cost to having a unified and ourScrewfix best-insavings and working in a unique offer.
This will deliver class capability Brilliant simpler, moreeffective way.
significant benefits for our Basics : and customers, such as newer building capability to Read more on page 20 products, higher quality and enable us to unlock better sustainability, all at more of our customers the best prices.
There will complex home also be significant benefits improvement journeys.
tothe business, including Read more on page 19 higher sales and improved sourcing efficiencies.
Read more on page 18 For a review of what we have identified as the principal risks to delivering our strategy see page 38. www.
com 15 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 16 ONE YEAR This is the first year of our five year transformation plan.
It has been a very productive and important year, which has delivered sales and profit growth.
This performance has been achieved alongside delivering our key first year strategic milestones.
