Strategic report Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Chairmans statement Building a business for all our stakeholders Our mission is a modest one, but we can contribute widely to society I am writing this statement with the business in It is no coincidence that Morrisons much Andrew Higginson good heart after a year of profit and dividend Chairman improved performance coincides with the growth, further debt reduction, and five appointment of David and his new senior quarters of positive like-for-like sales.
Morrisons skilled food makers and shopkeepers are loyal, passionate and Uncertain times are ahead.
Although the dedicated, and virtually all are unchanged since UK consumer remains resilient so far, the David started.
Whilst all have contributed to consequences of Brexit and significant currency the improved performance, it is the leadership movements are not yet clear.
Morrisons has that has changed.
planned and prepared for Brexit but, in truth, no one knows exactly what is to come.
This is pertinent to the discussions and AGM resolutions relating to our proposals for the By listening hard to customers something next three year Executive remuneration David Potts and his team do from shop floor policy.
In construct it is similar to our existing to Board room Morrisons will not allow policy that expires this year, however we have itself to become victims of that uncertainty.
tweaked the performance measures to reflect The Board and the senior team will work the challenges ahead enabling the Executive tirelessly whatever the trading conditions to team to earn up to the maximum bonus build a successful business for the millions of potential if outstanding long term performance customers that shop with us every week.
So, we face the uncertainties with a positive Our mission is a modest one to provide our mind-set, and there will be no excuses from us.
customers with good quality food, great service We strive to be a place Take scale as an example.
Morrisons is often and prices but our contribution to society where our colleagues accused of being structurally disadvantaged can be very wide.
We strive to be a place where and unable to compete with bigger rivals.
our colleagues can get on a meritocracy canget on That is nonsense.
Morrisons has always been where good, hard-working people can succeed relatively small, but for decades competed whatever their background, and everyone brilliantly and drove terrific returns for shares in success.
That is exactly what happened shareholders.
Scale rarely defines retail to David and many of the senior team at winners and losers.
Morrisons who have worked their way up from Dividend the shop floor.
Most often it is outstanding execution that results in a great shopping trip.
Customers have We provide training and apprenticeships for a vast choice of retailers and it is they who thousands of food makers and shopkeepers.
5.43p decide the winners and losers, quite literally, We pay the best we can, well above the by voting with their feet.
National Living Wage, and offer bonuses in line with policy to colleagues in all our stores, factories and Food retail is an ordinary business, touching depots.
Over a thousand colleagues participate most consumers lives almost every day.
It is in our Long Term Incentive Plan, including all our fiercely competitive.
To execute the ordinary store managers.
consistently well is far from easy and relies on outstanding leadership.
