Governance Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Directors report continued The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share which is not Additional shareholder information a fully paid share, although such discretion may not be exercised in a way Additional information for shareholders is required by the which the Financial Conduct Authority regards as preventing dealings in implementation of the EU Takeover Directive into UK law.
the shares of the relevant class or classes from taking place on an open or proper basis.
The Directors may likewise refuse to register any transfer Pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the Group of a share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Group is not is required to disclose certain additional information.
Such disclosures, aware of any other restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Group which are not covered elsewhere in this report, include the following other than certain restrictions that may from time-to-time be imposed paragraphs.
The disclosures set out below are in some cases a summary by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
of the relevant provisions of the Groups Articles of Association and the relevant full provisions can be found in the Articles which are available The Group is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that for inspection at the Groups registered office.
may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Appointment and powers of Directors Other disclosures Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting The Group is not party to any significant arrangements which take effect, of ordinary shareholders.
The Directors have the power to appoint alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Group following a a Director during the year, but any person so appointed must be put takeover bid.
up for appointment at the next AGM.
The Group does not have any employee share schemes where the shares Subject to its Articles of Association and relevant statutory law, and to to which the scheme relates have rights with regard to the control of the such direction as may be given by the Group in general meeting by special Group which are not exercisable by employees.
resolution, the business of the Group shall be managed by the Directors, Equal opportunities for all who may exercise all powers of the Group which are not required to be exercised by the Group in general meeting.
Integral to a high performing culture is the concept of equal opportunity for all colleagues, which we offer regardless of race, colour, nationality, Articles of Association ethnic origin, gender including gender reassignment, marital or civil The Groups Articles of Association may only be amended by a special partnership status, disability, religion or belief, sexual orientation, resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
age or trade union membership.
This includes applications for employment made by people with disabilities, Share capital which are given full and fair consideration.
Respect underpins our behaviour The authorised and called-up share capital of the Group, together towards all disabled candidates, as well as colleagues who have a disability with details of shares allotted and cancelled during the year, are shown or become disabled in any way during the course of their employment.
in note 6.5 of the Group financial statements.
A full assessment of the individuals needs is undertaken and we will make At the AGM of the Group held in June 2016, a special resolution was reasonable adjustments to the work environment or practices in order passed to renew the authority given at the AGM held in June 2015 for the to help people with disabilities.
purchase by the Group of up to 233,517,658 ordinary shares, representing All candidates and colleagues are treated equally in respect of recruitment, approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital at that time.
promotion, training, pay and other employment policies and conditions.
During the period, 381,043 2016: 70,480 ordinary shares were issued to The decisions we make are based on relevant merits and abilities.
employees exercising share options and 2,733,049 2016: 3,118,702 out of the Groups trust shares.
Health and safety policy It is the Groups intention, so far as is reasonably practicable, to ensure Share capital and rights attaching to the Groups shares the health, safety and welfare of all its employees, customers and visitors Under the Groups Articles of Association, any share in the Group may to its premises.
In order to achieve this, a comprehensive health and be issued with such rights or restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, safety manual is in place for each division of the Group and subsidiary voting, return of capital or otherwise as the Group may from time-tocompanies within the Group.
Each health and safety manual contains time by ordinary resolution determine or, in the absence of any such the policy and procedures for complying with the Health and Safety at determination, as the Directors may determine.
Work Act 1974, including the provision, based on risk assessment, of safe working practices for all work activities across the Group.
The Groups At a general meeting of the Group, every member has one vote on health and safety policy is approved by the Executive Committee.
a show of hands and, on a poll, one vote for each share held.
The notice The Group has adopted the national targets set by the Health and Safety of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either Commission for the reduction of workplace accidents and work-related by proxy or present in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at ill health, and is on course to meet or exceed these targets.
safety performance is monitored to ensure continuous improvement No member is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to attend in all areas.
or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting, or to exercise By order of the Board any other right conferred by being a shareholder if they or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of Jonathan Burke the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the Company Secretary power to require information with respect to interests in their voting 8 March 2017 shares and they or any interested person failed to supply the Group with the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
The Board may also decide that no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Group of a notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information required by the relevant section 793 notice, whichever is the earlier.
