Governance Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Board of Directors Andrew Higginson David Potts Chairman Chief Executive Always listening...
Appointment Appointment Andrew joined the Group as Deputy David joined the Group as Chief Executive Chairman and Chairman Elect in October on 16 March 2015.
2014 and became Chairman at the end Experience of January 2015.
David is a vastly experienced retailer who Experience joined Tesco PLC at the age of 16 and Andrew is currently the Chairman of worked there for 39 years.
He rose to N Brown Group PLC and a Non-Executive become CEO of its Ireland business, its Director of Woolworths Holdings Limited UK retail stores business and then CEO South Africa.
Andrew was previously the of Tesco Asia.
David was also on the Tesco Trevor Strain Rooney Anand Chairman of Poundland Group PLC, Senior PLC Board from 1998 until he left in 2011.
Chief Financial Senior Independent Independent Director of BSkyB PLC and Prior to his appointment as CEO of Officer Non-Executive a Non-Executive Director of the Rugby Morrisons, David held several advisory Director Football Union and McCurrach UK Limited.
positions with a number of private equity Andrew was an Executive Director at and consultancy firms and developed his Tesco PLC for 15 years.
own retail concept to sell general merchandise.
He also worked on two Committee membership extensive retail projects in the UK.
N R C Committee membership C Appointment Appointment Trevor joined the Group in June 2009 Rooney joined the Board as a as Commercial and Operations Finance Non-Executive Director and Senior Director.
In June 2011, he became Finance Independent Director on 1 January 2016.
Director Corporate and took responsibility Experience for the Groups productivity programmes.
Rooney is a highly experienced retail and Trevor joined the Board as Chief Financial Belinda Richards Neil Davidson fast moving consumer goods FMCG Officer on 10 April 2013.
Following a career with United Director Director Experience Biscuits and then Sara Lee, he joined Prior to joining Morrisons, Trevor worked Greene King PLC in 2001 as Managing for Tesco PLC in a number of roles until Director of its brewery company.
He was his appointment as UK Property Finance appointed CEO in 2005.
Rooney is credited Director in 2006 and subsequently UK with changing Greene King from a regional Planning and Reporting Finance Director.
brewery and pub business, to a brand-led Trevor began his career with Arthur Andersen pub, restaurant and hotel operator.
In 2015, and is a member of the Institute of Chartered he completed Greene Kings 770m Accountants in England and Wales.
takeover of the Spirit Pub Group, which Appointment Appointment made Greene King the largest managed Belinda joined the Board as a NonNeil joined the Board as a Non-Executive pub group in the UK.
He became She became Chair of the Audit Committee Chair of the Corporate Compliance Committee membership on 1 January 2016. and Responsibility Committee on N R C 1 January 2016.
Experience Belinda had a career in professional services Experience for over 25 years, where she operated as a Neil has had an extensive career in Jonathan Burke Paula Vennells senior adviser in corporate finance and manufacturing, starting with Northern Company Non-Executive strategy.
She was a corporate finance Foods PLC where he rose to become Secretary Director partner at Deloitte and Global Head of Managing Director of its milk division.
Merger and Separation Advisory Services He subsequently became CEO of Express until 2010.
Belinda is currently the Senior Dairies PLC and then Arla PLC.
He has Independent Director of Grainger PLC, also been a Non-Executive Director of where she also chairs the Remuneration Persimmon PLC and Northern Recruitment Committee, a Non-Executive Director Group PLC and the Chair of Leicestershire of Aviva UK Life & Pensions and a County Cricket Club.
He is currently the Non-Executive Director of the Monks Chairman of Produce Investments PLC.
Belinda serves on Appointment Appointment Committee membership the Advisory Group of Audit Committee Jonathan was appointed as the Groups Paula joined the Board as a Non-Executive Chairmen at the Financial Reporting Company Secretary on 15 February Director on 1 January 2016.
N R C A Council and is a member of the Governing 2017, replacing Mark Amsden.
Experience Council of the Centre for the Study of Experience Paula is currently Chief Executive of the Financial Innovation, a not for profit think As a qualified accountant and Post Office, a role she has held since April tank focused on research in Financial Company Secretary, Jonathan has 2012.
Paula joined the Post Office in 2007.
worked at Morrisons for the last Previously she was Group Commercial Committee membership 25 years holding various finance, Director of Whitbread PLC having started Committee key compliance and project roles.
He also her career with Unilever and LOral.
N R C A N Nomination Committee held the role of Company Secretary Paula has held directorships in sales and between 2001 and 2009. marketing with a number of major retailers R Remuneration Committee including Dixons Stores Group and Argos.
Corporate Compliance and She is Non-Executive Chair of First Rate C Responsibility Committee Exchange Services Limited.
A Audit Committee Committee membership Committee Chairman N R C A 24
