JPM Mercantile pp19 35 05 04 2017 11:07 Page 25 Governance continued the London Stock Exchange through a primary information Directors Report provider.
The Directors present their report and the audited financial JPMFs remuneration disclosures are set out on page 63. statements for the year ended 31st January 2017.
Management Fee Management of the Company With effect from 1st February 2017, the management fee is JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF is employed as Manager and charged at the rate of 0.475% of the value of the Companys Company Secretary to the Company under a contract terminable market capitalisation and is calculated and paid monthly in arrears.
on six months notice, without penalty.
If the Company wishes to On 1st February 2018 the rate will reduce further, to 0.45% of the terminate the contract on shorter notice, the balance of Companys market capitalisation.
If the Company invests in funds remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
managed or advised by JPMF, or any of its associated companies JPMF is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank which, that charge an underlying fee, they are excluded from the through other subsidiaries, also provides banking, dealing and calculation and therefore attract no fee.
Prior to 1st February 2017, custodian services to the Company.
the management fee was charged at the rate of 0.5% of the Companys market capitalisation.
The Board has thoroughly reviewed the performance of JPMF in the course of the year.
The review covered the performance of the Directors Manager, its management processes, investment style, resources The Directors of the Company during the year and subsequent to and risk controls and the quality of support that the Company the year end, are detailed on pages 23 and 24. receives from JPMF including the marketing support provided.
The Details of Directors beneficial shareholdings may be found in the Board is of the opinion that the continuing appointment of the Directors Remuneration Report on page 33.
Manager is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Such a review is carried out on an annual basis.
No Director reported an interest in the Companys debentures during the year.
The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the performance of, and contractual relationship with, the Manager on an annual basis.
In accordance with corporate governance best practice, all No separate Management Engagement Committee has been Directors with the exception of Hamish Leslie Melville will retire at established because all Directors are considered to be independent the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being of the Manager and, given the nature of the Companys business, it eligible, will offer themselves for reappointment by shareholders.
is felt that all Directors should take part in the review process.
The Nomination Committee, having considered their qualifications, The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive performance and contribution to the Board and its committees, AIFMD confirms that each Director proposed for reappointment continues JPMF is the Companys alternative investment fund manager to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role and the AIFM.
It is approved as an AIFM by the FCA.
For the purposes of Board recommends to shareholders that they be reappointed.
the AIFMD the Company is an alternative investment fund AIF.
Director Indemnification and Insurance JPMF has delegated responsibility for the day to day management As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the Directors of the Companys portfolio to JPMAM.
The Company has appointed have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party BNY Mellon Trust and Depositary UK Limited BNY as its indemnity, as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. depositary.
BNY has appointed JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. as the This was in place throughout the financial year and also as at the Companys custodian.
BNY is responsible for the oversight of the date of approval of these financial statements.
custody of the Companys assets and for monitoring its cash flows.
An insurance policy is maintained by the Company which The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available to indemnifies the Directors of the Company against certain liabilities investors in AIFs before they invest and requires that material arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no cover against changes to this information be disclosed in the annual report of fraudulent or dishonest actions.
Investor Disclosure Documents, which set out information on the Companys investment strategy and policies, leverage, risk, Disclosure of Information to Auditors liquidity, administration, management, fees, conflicts of interest In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the and other shareholder information are available on the Companys Company at the time when this report was approved: website at www.
There have been no material changes other than those reflected in these financial statements a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant to this information requiring disclosure.
Any information requiring audit information as defined in the Companies Act of which immediate disclosure pursuant to the AIFMD will be disclosed to the Companys Auditors are unaware: and The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 25 JPM Mercantile pp19 35 06 04 2017 11:24 Page 26 Governance continued b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he she ought to There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware Company: no special rights with regard to control attached to of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
their transfer known to the Company: no agreements which the Company is party to that affect its control following a takeover bid: The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in and no agreements between the Company and its directors accordance with the provisions of Section 418 2 of the concerning compensation for loss of office.
4R requires the Company to include certain  LLP have expressed their willingness to information in an identified section of the Annual Report or a cross continue in office as Auditors to the Company and resolutions reference table indicating where the information is set out.
The proposing their re-appointment and authorising the Directors to Directors confirm that there are no disclosures to be made in this determine their remuneration for the ensuing year will be proposed report.
to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting Capital Structure and Voting Rights Note: This section is important and requires your immediate Capital Structure attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take you The Companys capital structure is summarised on page1 of this should seek your own personal financial advice from your stock report.
broker, bank manager, solicitor, or other financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Voting Rights in the Companys shares Resolutions relating to the following item of special business will be Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the date proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM : of this report are given in note 16 to the Notice of AGM on page 66.
Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights Adoption of new Articles of Association Resolution 11 The Board proposes that the Company adopts new articles of At the year end, the following had declared a notifiable interest in association.
For a detailed explanation of the proposed the Companys voting rights: amendments to the Companys current Articles please refer to the Number of Appendix to the Notice of Meeting on pages67 and 68 of this 1 Shareholders voting rights % report.
Brewin Dolphin Ltd 9,587,481 10.0 Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory Rathbone Brothers Plc 9,416,994 10.0 pre-emption rights resolutions 12 and 13 Old Mutual Plc 6,765,884 7.1 The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the AGM to issue Investec Wealth & Investment Ltd 4,141,454 4.3 up to 4,258,177 Ordinary shares for cash up to an aggregate 1 The percentage stated reflects the percentage of the Companys total nominal amount of 1,064,544, such amount being equivalent to voting rights held by the shareholder at the time of the notification to 5% of the present issued ordinary share capital as at the last the Company.
practicable date before the publication of this document.
The full text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of Meeting on page The Company is also aware that approximately 6.1% of the 64.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Companys total voting rights are held by individuals through Company in 2018 unless renewed at a prior general meeting.
savings products managed by JPMAM, registered in the name of Chase Nominees Limited.
If those voting rights are not exercised It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new shares to by the beneficial holders, in accordance with the terms and participants purchasing shares through the JPMorgan savings conditions of those savings products, under certain circumstances products and also to other investors when the Directors consider the Manager has the right to exercise those voting rights.
That that it is in the best interests of shareholders to do so.
As such issues right is subject to certain limits and restrictions and falls away at are only made at prices greater than the net asset value the NAV, the conclusion of the relevant general meeting.
they increase the NAV per share and spread the Companys administrative expenses, other than the management fee which is Miscellaneous Information charged on the value of the Companys market capitalisation, over The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of a greater number of shares.
The issue proceeds are available for Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and powers to investment in line with the Companys investment policies.
issue or buy back the Companys shares are contained in the Articles of Association of the Company and the Companies Act.
