JPM Mercantile pp01 18 06 04 2017 11:23 Page 1 Features Objective Management Company and Company Secretary Long term capital growth from a portfolio of UK medium and The Company employs JPMorgan Funds Limited JPMF or the smaller companies.
Manager as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager and Company Secretary.
JPMF is approved by the Financial Conduct Investment Policy Authority and delegates the management of the Companys portfolio to JPMorgan Asset Management JPMAM.
- To emphasise capital growth from medium and smaller companies.
FCA regulation of non-mainstream pooled - Long term dividend growth at least in line with inflation.
investments - To use long term gearing to increase potential returns to The Company currently conducts its affairs so that the shares shareholders.
The Companys gearing policy is to operate within issued by the Company can be recommended by independent a range of 10% net cash to 20% geared.
financial advisers to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the FCAs rules in relation to non-mainstream investment products - To invest no more than 15% of gross assets in other listed and intends to do so for the foreseeable future.
closed-ended investment funds including investment trusts.
The shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply to Benchmark non-mainstream investment products because they are shares in an investment trust.
The FTSE All-Share Index, excluding constituents of the FTSE 100 Index and investment trusts, with net dividends reinvested.
AIC Capital Structure The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies.
At 31st January 2017 the Companys share capital comprised 94,449,218 ordinary shares of 25p each, including 7,468,799 Website shares held in Treasury.
The Companys website, which can be found at At 31st January 2017, the Company also had in issuea www.
co. uk, includes useful information on the 3.85 million 4.25% perpetual debenture and a 175 million Company, such as daily prices, factsheets and current and historic 6.125% debenture repayable on 25th February 2030. half year and annual reports.
THIS DOCUMENT IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you are recommended to seek your own independent financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 if you are in the United Kingdom or, if not, from another appropriately authorised financial adviser.
If you have sold or otherwise transferred all your ordinary shares in The Mercantile Investment Trust plc, please forward this document together with the accompanying documents immediately to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected for onward transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2017 1
