Progress against our Year 1 strategic milestones UNIFIED, UNIQUE We have delivered the key first AND LEADING OFFER Unified year strategic milestones of our We have started unifying our offer.
& Unique This will deliver significant customer ambitious five year transformation benefits newer products, higher Offer quality, better sustainability, lower plan.
The following pages provide prices, simpler ranges, clearer more detail behind each one.
merchandising and better packaging alongside significant business benefits higher sales, fewer Stock Keeping Units SKUs, fewer suppliers, cost price reduction CPR and improved processes.
Achieve 4% unified cost of goods sold We have unified 4% of COGS across the year with an exit Achieve 4% unified cost of goods Unified rate of 8%, including air treatment, light bulbs, kitchen sinks sold COGS & Unique and ladders.
Sales excluding clearance on those ranges Deliver new ONE Offer & Supply were slightly ahead of last year, with cost of change and CPR offer Chain Organisation delivering in line with expectations.
On these ranges we have reduced the total number of SKUs across the company from c. 28,000 to c. 7,000, without impacting the choice on offer to customers in each country.
The number of suppliers of these Complete unified IT platform rollranges has reduced from 840 to 130.
1 out in B&Q and start Castorama In addition, having undertaken in-depth studies of customer France roll-out Digital needs for outdoor and bathroom ranges, we are starting to Build Digital Brilliant Basics land our first unique ranges across Kingfisher.
These comprise platform for B&Q features such as slim bathroom storage solutions, that make the most of limited space: easy-to-store, space efficient 1 Substantially complete.
outdoor furniture and low maintenance, easy-to-install modular fencing.
Complete the closure of around 15% surplus space Deliver new ONE Offer & Supply Chain Organisation Operational at B&Q 65 stores We are moving away from an organisation structure Efficiency Deliver 20 million of benefits with nine buying and logistics teams, in nine Operating from unified GNFR programme Companies which source and merchandise their own ranges independently.
Instead, we are reorganising as ONE organisation, starting with our offer, with planning underway to develop an integrated supply chain network.
New unified global functions and roles started from June2016, mostly as a result of internal moves, leading to lower transformation exceptional costs than originally anticipated for this year.
New range teams, located across the UK and France are working closely with Operating Companies, who retain responsibility for activities such as trading, range implementation, local pricing and customer needs.
Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 18 Strategic report Launch of unique garden and outdoor ranges We talked to thousands of customers about how they use their gardens and outdoor space and watched them make improvements.
Ultimately, we discovered that customers across our markets want the same fundamental things.
They want comfort and great functionality, combined with modern design.
They want products that are easy to get home and assemble: products that are easy to move around, store and clean: and that are durable in the European weather!
And crucially, they want things that are affordable.
Thats why weve created an exciting range of outdoor products that are unique to Kingfisher.
This spring, we launched new, unique outdoor products that our customers will only find in our stores and online, and that are designed to reflect the realities of their lives.
INDUS SHED NEVA FENCE SYSTEM DENIA GARDEN FURNITURE Our Little House is the only metal shed of The easy-to-use and flexible Neva fence This contemporary range of wooden its kind on the market.
It is a hybrid between system has endless practical and design furniture features folding and extending a house, a shed and a greenhouse, in a possibilities, bringing indoor style to the solutions as well as an innovative cushion Scandinavian design.
Simple to build, it outdoors.
It is simple to build, with mixbox and easy-to-carry and store chairs should only take three hours for two novice and-match panels and posts for bespoke and benches.
combinations in a variety of materials.
DRIVING OUR DIGITAL CAPABILITY The implementation of a unified IT platform is a key enabler of our ONE Digital Kingfisher plan.
It will also provide a significant opportunity, with a seamless and stronger digital offer for our customers, to substantially increase sales and digital penetration.
Complete unified IT platform roll-out in B&Q and start Castorama France roll-out The B&Q store roll-out was completed in the first quarter, ahead of plan, with back office and supply chain now substantially complete.
Six Castorama pilot stores were launched successfully in the second half, with the wider roll-out now underway.
Build Digital Brilliant Basics platform for B&Q This involves investing in our core e-commerce platforms, enabled by the new unified IT platform, and leveraging our Screwfix best-in-class capability.
The UK has started to benefit from upweighted digital marketing, improved site search and new checkout at Screwfix.
All these areas are being further developed for both diy.
We are also developing a new company-wide mobile platform, due for launch during 2017.
Using new hand held devices at B&Q, supported by the unified IT platform www.
com 19 Progress against our Year 1 strategic milestones continued OPTIMISING OUR OPERATIONAL Like-for-like sales transference benefit of 2.6% during the year EFFICIENCY has supported the business case for the closures.
In the first quarter B&Q outsourced the remaining lease exits to a third The main driver will come from unifying Operational party via a lease liability transaction.
Of the 15 exits secured around 90% of the 1.2 billion of Efficiency in 2016 17, 11 were undertaken by this third party.
Of the 65 annual spend on Goods Not For Resale.
stores, we have now secured exits on a total of 55.
This programme is a combination of cost savings and an opportunity to Deliver 20 million of benefits from unified work in a simpler and more effective GNFR programme way across the business.
Alongside helping us to work in a simpler more effective way, we have achieved cost savings on categories reviewed Complete closure of around 15% surplus space at B&Q 65 stores so far.
During the year, we achieved 30 million of benefit, 10 million ahead of our target at the start of the year, The closure programme is now complete with 35 stores reflecting early delivery of the plan.
closed during 2016 17, taking the total to 65.
RETAIL OPERATIONS Alongside these three strategic pillars, which collectively drive the 500 million of sustainable profit uplift by the end of Year 5, we are also working on our Retail Operations.
In this area last year, we launched four Big Box best practice stores, in the UK, France, Poland and Russia in a first step towards convergence and early results are encouraging.
In addition, we opened 60 Screwfix outlets in the UK and 10 in Germany.
th Big Box best practice stores Screwfix 500 store th In the summer of 2016 we opened four Big Box best practice Screwfix reached a major landmark when it opened its 500 store in the stores in the UK, France, Poland and Russia.
They bring together UK, in Enfield, north London.
Screwfix has opened one store per week, on the best things we do across the company, marking a stepaverage, for the past six years.
change in how we work together to make our customers shopping experiences as easy and enjoyable as possible.
For example, lighting and decor displays take their inspiration from France, tools from Poland, and garden centres from the UK.
Similarly, bathroom displays have been reimagined to better reflect how they might look in our customers own homes.
Were constantly testing new formats for our customers, so this isnt the store of the future, but its a step in the right direction and were really proud of what weve achieved together.
Clockwise from top left: Russia, UK, Poland, France.
