Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 17 Executive Committee David Potts Trevor Strain Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer See Directors on See Directors page 24 on page 24 Darren Blackhurst Andy Atkinson Group Commercial Group Marketing and Director Customer Director The Executive Committee is driving a culture Appointment At the AGM the Board Appointment of listening within Darren joined Morrisons in June 2015 Andy joined Morrisons in 2011 and and Executive Committee as Group Commercial Director.
was appointed as Group Marketing and invite shareholders to ask the business to Customer Director in January 2016 Experience any questions they may having held the interim position for Darren started his career at Tesco in 1988, all of our key wish to raise.
holding a number of buying positions in fresh food and grocery.
In 1994, he was Experience stakeholders seconded to Tescos French business Andy previously held a number of senior Catteau before holding a number of Commercial and Trading roles within the category director positions.
Prior to joining Morrisons, Commercial Director for Tesco Lotus Andy held a variety of senior commercial The Your Say forums are The Executive Committee Thailand in 2002.
He joined Asda in 2006 as roles within Boots, progressing to Executive Trading Director for Food and in a way for the Executive regularly joins customers on Commercial Director.
Andy started at 2008 was appointed Chief Merchandising Committee to listen to Coca-Cola expanding his career with roles accompanied shopping trips Officer.
In 2011, he joined Matalan as Chief at Walt Disney and then LOral.
feedback and suggestions to get direct feedback on Executive before moving to B&Q as from colleagues to improve shopping experiences.
Morrisons for our colleagues Committee membership and customers.
C Clare Grainger Gary Mills Group People Group Retail Director Director Appointment Appointment Clare joined Morrisons in February 2009 Gary joined Morrisons in August 2015 and was appointed Group People Director as Group Retail Director.
Experience Experience Gary has more than 30 years retail Clare started her career at Asda and held experience, with Stewarts Supermarkets a number of roles both within Head Office in Northern Ireland and then with Tesco and the Retail division.
She progressed PLC where he held a variety of senior through a variety of senior human resources positions including Retail Director for HR roles including Head of HR at HBOS Convenience and Retail Director for the Lloyds Banking Group, where she led North and Northern Ireland.
Garys a number of programmes to drive experience covers all areas of retail and differentiation in both sales and services.
all formats, including supermarkets and She joined Morrisons in 2009 holding a convenience stores.
number of HR director roles.
Most recently, Clare was also Interim Group Retail Director.
