Our journey has begun Just over a year ago we announced our transformation plan, focused on putting customer needs first.
This report provides updates on our ambition, our plan, our progress in the first year and our journey to create ONE Kingfisher.
ONE ONE AMBITION PL AN Our ambition is to become the leading home The ONE Kingfisher five year plan, which improvement company.
At Kingfisher we started in 2016 17, will leverage the scale of believe everybody should be able to have a the business by creating a unified company, home they can feel good about, so our where customer needs always come first.
purpose is to make home improvement Our intention is that this five year accessible for everyone.
transformation plan will deliver a 500 million sustainable annual profit uplift by the end of Year 5, over and above business as usual.
Find out more: pages 5 to 9 Find out more: pages 11 to 15 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 2 Strategic report ONE ONE YEAR KINGFISHER This is the first year of our five year Through our ONE Kingfisher ambition, we transformation plan.
It has been avery are reorganising ourselves to operate as one productive and important year, which has company.
We are also developing a new delivered sales and profit growth.
This culture of curiosity, simplicity, humility, performance has been achieved alongside excellence and working together as one.
delivering the key first year Because our colleagues are the ones who strategic milestones.
are making our ambition a reality, we want them to feel good about working at Kingfisher.
We also aim to be a truly sustainable company, because we believe a good home is a sustainable one.
Find out more: pages 17 to 23 Find out more: pages 25 to 29 www.
com 3 Kingfisher plc | Annual Report 2016 17 4 ONE AMBITION Our ambition is to become the leading home improvement company.
At Kingfisher we believe everybody should be able to have a home they can feel good about, so our purpose is to make home improvement accessible for everyone.
