Our Four Pillar Strategy Like-for-like sales growth New store roll out The Group has a strong track record of consistently The Group intends to expand its store portfolio delivering like-for-like sales growth and growing organically from its existing store estate to up to average basket value ABV'.
The Boards strategy 1,200 stores in total a figure supported by external is to continue this track record, whilst maintaining analysis undertaken by OC&C, including up to the core value proposition, by: approximately 100 potential new stores in the Republic of Ireland.
The Board intends to continue continuing to improve overall product quality this future roll out at a similar rate to the Groups and range for both card and non-card products historical rate of organic store openings of c50 net developed by its established design team: new stores per annum.
further developing the Groups in-store merchandising and pricing architecture to increase the number of items sold per basket and or to encourage customers to trade up to higher priced items: and leveraging our electronic point of sale EPOS' system to provide more granular sales data for analysis of customer purchasing trends, thereby assisting in increasing items sold per basket, for example through identifying and stocking non-card products that are more likely to be purchased alongside greeting cards.
The Group also expects to benefit from ongoing revenue growth as recent store openings continue to grow their share of the local market in line with the typical maturity curve of four to six years.
At the point of maturity, annual sales in individual stores are typically 30% to 40% higher than in the first year post-opening.
Like-for-Iike sales definition The Group defines Card Factory store Iike-for-Iike Target locations for all of these new stores have LFL' sales as the year-on-year growth in sales for already been identified and these locations, Card Factory stores which have been opened for a together with other potential locations, are kept full year, calculated on a calendar week basis.
Although these new reported LFL sales figure excludes sales: opportunities are expected to have, on average, made via the Card Factory website, lower sales potential than the average of the www.
co. uk: Groups existing store locations, primarily due to made via the separately branded personalised the new stores typically being in lower footfall card and gift website, www.
co. uk: locations than the average of the Groups existing by Printcraft, the Groups printing division, to stores, the Directors believe these new stores will external third-party customers: and nevertheless enhance EBITDA and will continue the trend of delivering a strong return on capital.
from stores closed for all or part of the relevant period or the prior year comparable period.
Management undertakes a formalised appraisal Card Factory stores are included in the reported process for new location opportunities which LFL figures for each week of trading completed includes an assessment of potential store sales and after having been open for a full 52 weeks, as profitability, the results of which are stored in a compared to the same relevant week in the database of new store opportunities which is previous period.
Total Card Factory LFLs are reported including the impact of the Card Factory website.
The Group defines Getting Personal LFL sales as the year-on-year growth in sales for the Getting Personal website, calculated on a calendar week basis.
8 8 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 S St tr ra at tegi egic c R Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nci cia alls s Business efficiencies Online development Card Factory has a long-established culture of The Groups online operations are currently strong cost control and a consistent track record focused on Getting Personal, acquired in 2011. of delivering best-in-class margins.
The Board Sales of personalised gifts represent the vast will continue to pursue business efficiency majority of the revenue generated from its website initiatives to further improve the business and www.
The Group aims to maintain and, where possible, enhance its gross margins through continuous improvement in the supply chain process.
In particular, the Group intends to continue to diversify its range of suppliers to reduce reliance on key suppliers and further develop direct sourcing relationships with manufacturers.
Similarly, the Group aims to protect and, where possible, enhance operating margins through the continued strong control of operating costs, The Directors believe there are opportunities to including: the management of overall employee further grow the Groups sales in this complementary costs: negotiation of improved rental terms upon segment through further product development the expiry and renewal of existing leases: and tight eg changes to existing product ranges and control over other costs and expenses.
new product ranges, enhancements to the website including the mobile offering and As the Group continues to grow Iike-for-like sales improved marketing.
and proceed with its new store roll out, the business will continue to leverage the growing While the personalised online segment of the economies of scale when negotiating contracts greeting cards market remains small, according with suppliers and manufacturers.
to OC&C representing just 5.3% of the total single cards market, by value, and 2.0%, by volume, Since 2010, in anticipation of planned long-term in 2015, the Directors believe it provides an growth, the Group has invested heavily in its opportunity for growth.
infrastructure, including: During 2015 the Card Factory transactional website an EPOS system to provide more granular sales was relaunched on the responsive technology data: platform developed by the team at Getting expansion of Printcraft as part of a 10 year capital Personal.
We continue to enhance, test and evolve expenditure plan following its relocation to larger our online proposition and product offering on this premises in 2011: second site and have introduced a wider selection the relocation of Getting Personals personalised of personalised cards and gifts, including a small gift production facility to Printcraft in 2013: and range of photo upload products.
investment in the Central Distribution Centre and The Directors believe that the Group is well Group head office completed in 2013. placed to capture a greater share of this growing segment of the market.
The Group will continue to leverage the benefits of these recent significant investments over the medium term.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 9 9
