STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY our customers enjoy a welcoming and pleasurable shopping experience.
Each store boasts a fully bespoke Ted Baker has grown steadily from its origins as a design that is full of innovative and distinctive touches.
single shirt specialist store in Glasgow to the global E-commerce enables us to offer our customers lifestyle brand it is today.
In order to protect the ethos access to an extended product range and provides and persona for which we have gained an enviable us with a means to talk directly with our customers reputation, we always ask ourselves the question: and engage them with the brand in non-traditional Would Ted do it that way?
We focus on ensuring that we provide a userfriendly online brand and shopping experience across PRODUCT multiple devices.
Ted Baker is a quintessentially British brand with a quirky The wholesale business in the UK serves countries yet commercial fashion offering that prides itself in across the world, primarily in the UK and Europe, as always being able to satisfy the needs of our customer.
well as supplying products to stores operated by our Our approach is focused on unwavering attention to territorial licence partners.
In addition, we operate a detail and firm commitment to quality.
wholesale business in North America serving the US We offer a wide range of collections including: and Canada.
Our wholesale partners Trustees are Menswear: Womenswear: Global: Phormal: Endurance: custodians of our collections and uphold our brand Accessories: Bedding: Childrenswear: Crockery: integrity by ensuring that their retail environment Eyewear: Footwear: Fragrance and Skinwear: Gifting and brand adjacencies are in keeping with the profile and Stationery: Jewellery: Lingerie and Sleepwear: and positioning of the brand.
We have built up strong Luggage: Neckwear: Rugs: Suiting: Technical relationships with some of the best independent Accessories: Tiles: and Watches.
retailers and department stores around the world.
The menswear collection is a reflection of popular We operate both territorial and product licences.
contemporary culture, with a sense of style and humour Our licence partners are all experts in their field and mixed in.
It also includes our Phormalwear range, share our passion for unwavering attention to detail and offering a number of distinctive suiting collections firm commitment to quality.
that combine heritage British tailoring with a modern Territorial licences cover specific countries or regions outlook.
The womenswear collection is a fresh and in Asia, Australasia, Europe, the Middle East and North feminine mix of European elegance with London flair, America, where our partners operate licensed retail and is a celebration of beauty, individuality and exquisite stores and, in some territories, wholesale operations.
Product licences cover: Bedding: Childrenswear: Crockery: Eyewear: Footwear: Fragrance and DISTRIBUTION CHANNELS Skinwear: Gifting and Stationery: Jewellery: Lingerie The brand operates through three main distribution and Sleepwear: Luggage: Neckwear: Rugs: Suiting: channels: retail, which includes e-commerce: Technical Accessories: Tiles: and Watches.
wholesale: and licensing, which includes territorial and product licences.
We want our customer to enjoy a GEOGRAPHIC REACH seamless experience regardless of how they choose to Ted Baker is a truly global lifestyle brand with 490 stores shop and interact with the brand.
and concessions worldwide, comprising 192 in the UK, The retail channel comprises stores, concessions and 98 in Europe, 111 in the US and Canada, 80 in the e-commerce, which is now an integral part of our retail Middle East, Africa and Asia and 9 in Australasia.
We operate stores and concessions across The Group opened its first shop in the UK in Glasgow the UK, Europe, North America and Asia, and localised in 1988 and has since established itself in all the major e-commerce sites for the UK, Europe, US, Canada and fashion centres in the UK.
We have also built a growing Australia.
We also have e-commerce businesses with presence in Europe with stores and concessions in some of our concession partners.
Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, Stores and concessions are designed to showcase Portugal, and Spain.
Our e-commerce and wholesale the brands unique style of retail theatre and to ensure businesses complement our locations in Europe.
8 STRATEGIC REPORT In 1998, the Group opened its first store in North STRATEGY America in New York.
Since then, the Group has Our strategy is to enhance our position as a leading established a presence across the US from the East global lifestyle brand by the continuous development of to West Coasts and into Canada through both own three main elements of our business model: stores and concessions.
In addition, the Group has a standalone e-commerce site in North America that is considered extension of the Ted Baker collections localised to each of Canada and the US, and a rapidly to achieve our brand growth potential.
We review growing wholesale business.
our collections continually to ensure we anticipate As part of our strategy to invest for the longer-term and react to trends and meet our customers development of the brand, we have launched the brand expectations.
In addition, we look for opportunities in Asia with stores and concessions in China, Hong Kong, to extend the breadth of collections and enhance Japan and Korea.
We also understand the growing our offer: desire of our customers to buy our products online and controlled distribution through three main channels: trade on renowned local websites in this region.
We consider each Through our territorial licences we also trade in new opportunity to ensure it is right for the brand many other countries across Africa, Australasia and the and will deliver margin-led growth: and Middle East.
further international growth through carefully managed development of overseas markets.
We continue to manage growth in existing territories while considering new territories for expansion.
Underlying our strategy is an emphasis on design, product quality and attention to detail, delivered by the passion, commitment and skill of our teams, licence partners and wholesale customers.
9 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 M B U E N R S E H T O T N I G N I V I D M B U E N R S E H T STRATEGIC REPORT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS We review the ongoing performance of the business using key performance indicators.
The Key Performance Indicators KPIs that the Directors judge to be most effective in assessing progress against the Groups objectives and strategy have been detailed below and are considered throughout the Strategic Report.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR 52 WEEKS 52 WEEKS VARIANCE CONSTANT ENDED 28 ENDED 30 CURRENCY 1 JANUARY JANUARY VARIANCE 2017 2016 Group Revenue 531.0m 456.2m 16.4% 10.8% Gross margin 59.9% 110 bps 61.0% Profit before tax excluding exceptional items as a % of revenue 12.4% 12.9% 50 bps 2 Operating contribution excluding exceptional items % 12.6% 13.0% 40 bps 2 Operating contribution including exceptional items % 11.8% 13.0% 120 bps Retail Revenue 348.4m 15.0% 9.2% 400.7m E-commerce 72.3m 53.5m 35.1% 32.3% Gross margin 66.1% 64.8% 130 bps 3 Average square footage 357,096 8.5% 387,373 3 Closing square footage 395,088 377,830 4.6% Sales per square foot excluding e-commerce 848 826 2.7% 3.2% Wholesale Revenue 107.7m 20.9% 15.9% 130.3m Gross margin 45.1% 43.8% 130 bps Licence income Revenue 18.2m 14.4m 26.8% 4 Group Operating cashflow per share 118.4p 93.3p 26.9% 5 Working capital 113.5m 20.5% 136.8m 1 Constant currency variances are calculated by applying the previous financial period foreign exchange rates to current period results in overseas subsidiaries to remove the impact of exchange rate fluctuations.
2 Operating contribution is defined as operating profit as a percentage of revenue.
4 Operating cashflow per share is defined as net cash generated from operating activities divided by the weighted number of ordinary shares diluted.
5 Working capital comprises inventories, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables.
11 Ted Baker Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 17 O T N I G N I V I D
