Directors and Officers Geoff Cooper Non-Executive Chairman Geoff joined the Board and became Chairman of the Group in April 2014.
Geoff has over 20 years experience of serving on boards of UK public companies, in particular as Chief Executive of Travis Perkins plc from March 2005 until December 2013 and as a Director and Non-Executive Chairman of Dunelm Group plc between 2004 and 2015.
Geoff is also a Director and Non-Executive Chairman of AO World plc, Bourne Leisure and an adviser to Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP.
He is a chartered management accountant and had a career in management consultancy before joining Gateway subsequently Somerfield plc as Finance Director in 1990.
In 1994, he became Finance Director of UniChem plc, subsequently Alliance UniChem plc which later became part of Alliance Boots plc, where he was appointed Deputy Chief Executive in 2001.
Other current commitments: Non-Executive Chairman of AO World plc and Bourne Leisure Holdings Ltd. Adviser to Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP.
Karen Hubbard Chief Executive Officer Karen was appointed to the Board of Card Factory plc with effect from 22February 2016 and succeeded Richard Hayes as Chief Executive Officer of the Group in April 2016.
Before joining the Group, Karen served as Chief Operating Officer of B&M European Value Retail S. A. the fast growing multi-price value retailer, where she was responsible for retail operations, distribution and logistics, supply chain, IT, HR, marketing and store development.
From 2009 to 2014, she held a number of senior roles at ASDA, latterly Executive Director Property, Format Development and Multi-Channel.
Karen previously spent 14 years in BPs retail operations, initially in Australia before moving to the UK in 2004 where she became UK Convenience Retail Director, responsible for BPs own retail estate across all formats including Connect Simply Food, Motorway, Express and the franchise channel.
Darren Bryant Chief Financial Officer Darren was appointed Group Finance Director in June 2009 subsequently renamed Chief Financial Officer in 2010 having previously been a Partner at PwC LLP.
He was appointed to the Board of Card Factory plc on 30 April 2014.
Darren spent over 17 years at PwC, principally in the London Corporate Finance division, where he advised on a wide range of private company, private equity and public company transactions.
He also spent two years on secondment at The Panel on Takeovers & Mergers in the late 1990s where he regulated a large number of public company transactions.
Darren is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and holds a First Class MEng degree in Electrical & Electronic Engineering with Business Studies from Imperial College, London University.
As previously announced, Darren has informed the Board of his intention to retire from his position following the appointment of his successor and an appropriate handover period.
34 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financials Octavia Morley Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Octavia joined the Board as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director in April 2014.
Octavia has ten years experience of serving on boards of UK public companies.
She served on the board of John Menzies plc as a Non-Executive Director between 2006 and 2015.
Octavia was previously the Chief Executive of Oka Direct Limited and the Managing Director of Crew Clothing Co. Limited.
She also served as Chief Executive Officer, and latterly as Chairman of LighterLife UK Limited until December 2009, has held positions as Commercial Director of Woolworths plc between 2003 and 2005 and as Managing Director of e-commerce at Asda Stores Limited and Buying and Merchandising Director at Laura Ashley plc.
Other current commitments: Non-Executive Director of Ascensos Limited.
David Stead Independent Non-Executive Director David Stead joined the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director in April 2014.
He is an experienced Director of companies in the UK retail sector.
David was Chief Financial Officer of Dunelm Group plc from September 2003 until his retirement from that role at the end of 2015.
David is also the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of Joules Group plc.
Prior to his role at Dunelm, David served as Finance Director for Boots The Chemists and Boots Healthcare International between 1991 and 2003.
David is a chartered accountant, having spent the early part of his career with KPMG.
Other current commitments: Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of Joules Group plc and Honorary Member of Council, University of Birmingham.
Paul McCrudden Independent Non-Executive Director Paul joined the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director in December 2014.
Paul is currently Global Head of Live Marketing at Twitter and prior to that was Head of Social Media at advertising agency AMV BBDO.
In his earlier career Paul was Account Director at Imagination a creative brand agency and a Consultant in New Technologies at Accenture.
Paul also served as Chairman of the board of trustees at Hoipolloi, a film and theatre production company funded by the Arts Council England.
Other current commitments: Global Head of Live Marketing at Twitter.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 35 Directors and Officers continued Shiv Sibal Company Secretary and General Counsel Shiv joined the Company as General Counsel and Company Secretary in May 2014.
Shiv is an experienced corporate finance lawyer with more than 15 years experience in the legal sector.
Prior to joining the Company, Shiv was a corporate partner with national law firm Bond Dickinson LLP focused on supporting public companies with IPOs, equity fundraisings, mergers and acquisitions, governance and their continuing regulatory obligations.
Prior to joining, Shiv also spent more than eight years working for international law firm Pinsent Masons LLP in their corporate team.
Other current commitments: None Richard Hayes, was Chief Executive Officer until 25 April 2016 and an Executive Director of Card Factory plc during the financial period up until 30 June 2016.
Board committees Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee David Stead Chairman Octavia Morley Chairman Geoff Cooper Chairman Octavia Morley Geoff Cooper Octavia Morley Paul McCrudden David Stead David Stead Paul McCrudden Paul McCrudden 36 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
