S St tr ra at tegi egic c R Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nci cia alls s Directors Report The Directors present their report together with the This Directors Report should be read in conjunction audited financial statements for the year ended with the Strategic Report, which also contains details of 31January 2017. the principal activities of the Group during the year.
When taken together, the Strategic Report and this INTRODUCTION Directors Report constitute the management report for This section of the Annual Report and Accounts includes the purposes of DTR 4.1.
additional information required to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act, the UK RESULTS AND ORDINARY DIVIDENDS Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code or the UK The consolidated profit for the Group for the year after Corporate Governance Code, the Disclosure and taxation was 65.7m FY16: 66.4m.
The results are Transparency Rules the DTRs and the Listing Rules discussed in greater detail in the Chief Financial the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
Officers Review on pages 18 to 22.
Some of the information we are required to include in A final dividend of 6.3 pence per share FY16: 6.0 the Directors Report is included in other sections of this pence is proposed in respect of the period ended 31 Annual Report and Accounts and is referred to below.
January 2017 to add to an interim dividend of 2.8 pence Where reference is made to these other sections, they per share FY16: 2.5 pence paid on 25 November 2016. are incorporated into this report by reference.
The final dividend will, subject to shareholders approval at the AGM on 25 May 2017, be paid on 9 June 2017 to INCORPORATION, LISTING AND STRUCTURE shareholders on the register on 5 May 2017.
The Company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 17 April 2014 under the SPECIAL DIVIDEND Companies Act with registration number 9002747.
A special dividend of 15 pence per share was paid to shareholders on 25 November 2016.
The entire issued ordinary share capital of the Company is admitted to the premium listing segment of the POST YEAR END EVENTS Official List of the Financial Conduct Authority and to There have been no significant post year end events.
trading on the London Stock Exchange plcs main market for listed securities.
The liability of the members SHARE CAPITAL, SHAREHOLDERS AND of the Company is limited.
RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFERS OF SHARES The Company has only one class of shares, ordinary The Company is domiciled in the United Kingdom and shares of 1p each.
its registered office is at Century House, Brunel Road, Wakefield 41 Industrial Estate, Wakefield, West Further details of the Companys share capital, including Yorkshire WF2 0XG.
The telephone number of the changes in the issued share capital in the year under Companys registered office is 44 1924 839150. review, are set out in note 19 to the financial statements which form part of this report on page 105.
There have STRATEGIC REPORT been no further changes in the Companys share capital The Strategic Report, which was approved by the Board between the end of the financial year under review and on 27 March 2017 and is set out on pages 2 to 33, the date of the approval of this report.
contains a fair review of the Groups business, a Details of awards outstanding under share based description of the principal risks and uncertainties incentive schemes are given in note 25 to the financial facing the Group and an indication of the likely future statements which form part of this report on pages 111 developments in the business of the Group.
Details of the share based incentive schemes in place are provided in the Directors Remuneration The review is intended to be a balanced and Report on pages 53 to 71. comprehensive analysis of the development and performance of the Groups business during the The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary financial year and the position of the Groups business at share capital of the Company are contained within the the end of that year.
The report includes, to the extent Companys Articles of Association Articles which necessary for an understanding of the development, were adopted on 17 April 2014. performance or position of the Groups business, analysis using financial key performance indicators.
The Articles do not contain any restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than the usual The Strategic Report also includes the main trends and restrictions applicable where any amount is unpaid on a factors likely to affect the future development, share.
Certain restrictions are also imposed by laws and performance and position of the Groups business.
It also regulations such as insider trading and marketing includes information about environmental matters, the requirements relating to close periods and requirements Groups employees and social and community issues.
of the Listing Rules whereby Directors and certain employees of the Company require approval of the Company in order to deal in the Companys shares.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75 75 Directors Report continued SHAREHOLDER AND VOTING RIGHTS POWERS OF DIRECTORS All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to Specific powers of the Directors in relation to shares attend and vote at the AGM.
On a show of hands at a and the Companys Articles of Association are referred general meeting every member present in person shall to in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 44 have one vote and on a poll, every member present in and45.
person or by proxy shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
No shareholder holds ordinary DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES AND INSURANCE shares carrying special rights relating to the control of Information relating to Directors indemnities and the the Company.
Directors and Officers liability insurance the Company has purchased is set out in the Corporate Governance SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS Report on page 45.
At 27 March 2017 the following had notified the Company of a disclosable interest in 3% or more of the EMPLOYEES nominal value of the Companys ordinary shares: Information relating to employees of the Group is set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on Percentage pages 30 and 31.
Number of of share Shareholder ordinary shares capital Share incentive schemes in which employees participate Invesco Perpetual Asset Management Ltd 92,934,374 27.3 Artemis Investment Management LLP 33,832,285 9.9 are described in the Directors Remuneration Report on Majedie Asset Management 28,380,945 8.3 page 58 and in note 25 to the financial statements on Stuart Middleton 18,035,477 5.3 pages 111 and 112.
Old Mutual Global Investors 15,677,591 4.6 HEALTH AND SAFETY CHANGE OF CONTROL An overview of health and safety is provided in the There are no agreements between the Company and its Corporate Social Responsibility Report on page 30.
Directors or employees providing for additional compensation for loss of office or employment whether GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS through resignation, redundancy or otherwise that The Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 29 occurs because of a takeover bid.
and 30 sets out the greenhouse gas emissions disclosures required by the Companies Act 2006 The only significant agreement to which the Company is Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations a party that takes effect, alters or terminates upon a 2013. change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, and the effect thereof, is the Companys committed POLITICAL DONATIONS bank facility dated 17 April 2014 as amended and The Group has not made any political donations in the restated on 24 June 2015 which contains a provision past and does not intend to make any in the future.
such that, in the event of a change of control the facility may be cancelled and all outstanding amounts, together TREASURY AND RISK MANAGEMENT AND with accrued interest, will become repayable on the date FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS falling 30 days following written notice being given by The Groups approach to treasury and financial risk the lenders that the facility has been cancelled.
management is explained in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on page 25.
In that section, TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED PARTIES beginning on page 23, there is also a list of the principal The only material transactions with related parties risks and uncertainties that affect or are likely to affect during the year were those transactions detailed in note the Group.
The financial position of the Group, its cash 28 on page 112 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
flow, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Chief Financial Officers Review on DIRECTORS pages 18 to 22.
The Directors of the Company and their biographies are set out on pages 34 to 36.
Details of changes to the TAX Board during the period are set out in the Corporate The Group pays corporation tax on its operations in the Governance Report on pages 38 and 39.
Details of how United Kingdom and does not operate in any tax havens, Directors are appointed and or removed are set out in or use any tax avoidance schemes.
A copy of the Groups the Corporate Governance Report on page 44. tax strategy is available on Card Factorys investor website www.
GOING CONCERN Taking into account current and anticipated trading performance, current and anticipated levels of borrowings, and the availability of borrowing facilities and exposures to and management of the financial risks 76 76 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 S St tr ra at tegi egic c R Re ep po or rt t G Gove over rn na an nc ce e F Fiin na an nci cia alls s detailed in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 26, the projected leverage ratio and the ongoing capital Board is of the opinion that, at the time of approval of requirements of the business.
Such returns of surplus these financial statements, there is a reasonable cash are therefore discretionary and within the control expectation that the Group has adequate resources to of the Board.
continue in operational existence for the period outlined in the viability statement below.
Accordingly, the Based on this assessment, the Directors confirm that financial statements continue to be prepared on a going they have a reasonable expectation that the Company concern basis.
and the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due in the period to 31 LONGER-TERM VIABILITY January 2020.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the Group DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION AND APPOINTMENT over the three years to 31 January 2020.
This OF AUDITORS assessment has been made taking into account the So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Groups current position, plans and principal risks and information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware uncertainties described in the Strategic Report on and the Directors have taken all the steps which they pages 2 to 26. ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish The Directors have determined that a three year period that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
to 31 January 2020 is an appropriate period over which to provide its viability statement.
This is the period This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in reviewed by the Board in its strategic planning process.
accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit and In making this statement, the Board has carried out a Risk Committee has reviewed the effectiveness, robust assessment of the principal risks facing the performance, independence and objectivity of the Group, including those that would threaten its business existing external Auditor, KPMG LLP, for the year ended model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
31 January 2017 and concluded that the external Auditor was in all respects effective.
KPMG LLP has The Board has reviewed the Groups detailed three year expressed its willingness to continue in office as strategic plan, a process it undertakes on an annual Auditor.
Accordingly, and in accordance with Section basis, including an assessment of key operational and 489 of the Companies Act, resolutions to reappoint financial assumptions.
The output of this plan is also KPMG LLP as Auditor and to authorise the Directors to used to analyse forecast debt and covenant headroom determine its remuneration will be proposed at the and includes a review of sensitivities to business as forthcoming AGM of the Company.
These risks include the consideration of factors which could impact forecast sales levels for INFORMATION REGARDING example, like-for-like sales, new store openings and FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS online growth rates and factors which could impact The reports and financial statements contained in this profitability for example, foreign exchange rates, wage Annual Report and Accounts contain certain forwardcosts, property costs and the success of various looking statements with respect to the financial business efficiency initiatives.
The results take into condition, results of operations, and businesses of Card account the availability and likely effectiveness of Factory plc.
These statements and forecasts involve mitigating actions that could be taken to avoid or risk, uncertainty and assumptions because they relate reduce the impact or occurrence of the underlying risks.
to events and depend upon circumstances that will The scenarios modelled represent more extreme occur in the future.
There are a number of factors that circumstances than the Company has ever experienced.
could cause actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these Whilst this review does not consider all of the risks that forward-looking statements and forecasts.
Nothing in the Group might face, the Directors consider that this this Annual Report and Accounts should be construed stress-testing based assessment of the Groups as a profit forecast.
prospects is reasonable in the circumstances of the inherent uncertainty involved.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be The Board also considers cash flow forecasts, the held at 11.00am on 25 May 2017 at the offices of availability of financing and the Groups plans to return Linklaters LLP, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ.
The Group remains highly formal notice of meeting, explanatory circular and a cash generative and has significant headroom on all of form of proxy will accompany this Annual Report the covenants in its committed banking facility which andAccounts.
In assessing potential returns of surplus cash to shareholders, the Board will take into account, inter alia, expected cash generation, the actual and Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 77 77 Directors Report continued RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS This statement is set out on page 79.
APPROVAL OF THE ANNUAL REPORT The Strategic Report and the Corporate Governance Report were approved by the Board on 27 March 2017.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Shiv Sibal Company Secretary 27 March 2017 78 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
