Strategic Report Business Model NEXT is a UK based retailer offering exciting, beautifully designed, excellent quality clothing, footwear, accessories and home products.
NEXT is one of the largest clothing and home products retailers in the UK by sales, and a member of the FTSE 100 index.
In 1981, J Hepworth & Son, Gentlemans Tailors, bought a chain of shops with the aim of developing a womenswear brand called NEXT.
The first NEXT womenswear store opened in 1982 and over the following years menswear, home and childrenswear were added to the product ranges.
In 1991 the move to larger stores commenced, bringing together all four product groups and ranges across both retail and home shopping formats.
The NEXT Directory website was launched in 1999 to augment the traditional catalogue offer and has become a significant driver of the growth of the Groups sales and profitability.
The strategy of larger stores and multi-channel retailing has been continuously developed over the past two decades.
The Group is primarily comprised of: 2016 17 profit by segment NEXT Retail, a chain of around 540 stores in the UK and Eire.
The majority of our stores sell clothing, footwear, accessories and or home products: and we now operate over 30 large combined fashion and home stores.
NEXT Directory, an online and catalogue shopping business with over 4.5 million active customers and international websites serving approximately 70 countries.
By embracing the internet, providing exceptional customer service and developing overseas opportunities, NEXT Directorys sales have grown by more than 120% over the last ten years.
The NEXT Directory business provides customers with the option of a credit facility for purchases called nextpay.
Through LABEL, NEXT Directory offers premium non-competing brands to customers.
NEXT International Retail, with around 200 mainly franchised stores across the world.
NEXTs franchise partners operate over 180 stores in 33 countries: there are also a small number of overseas stores which NEXT operates directly.
NEXT Retail 40% Lipsy, which designs and sells Lipsy and other branded fashion products.
NEXT Directory 52% Lipsy trades from 38 stores, online, and through wholesale and franchise channels.
NEXT International Retail 1% NEXT Sourcing, which designs and sources NEXT branded products.
NEXT Sourcing 5% NEXT Sourcing NS is our Hong Kong based internal sourcing agent which competes for business against other suppliers to NEXT Retail and Directory.
Other 2% 1 Great products What we do NEXT products are developed by our in-house design team to offer great style, quality and value for money with a contemporary fashion edge.
2 Global sourcing Over 130 million products are sourced globally from around 40 countries.
Great products During the year, NEXT Sourcing provided around 40% of the NEXT branded 1 products from our global supplier base including 3 owned factories.
Over 100 brands are sold through LABEL online.
2 Returning value to 3 Efficient supply chain shareholders Our network of warehouses and international hubs delivers product costGlobal effectively and efficiently.
sourcing 9 warehouses, 6 depots and 4 international hubs.
Next day delivery is standard for UK NEXT Directory orders placed before midnight.
4 Outstanding customer service 5 Providing value for money and outstanding customer service is key to NEXT.
We offer customers a credit facility for UK NEXT Directory purchases, called nextpay.
3 Our large number of stores, complemented by an integrated multi-channel offering, offers convenience to customers.
Outstanding efficient In store design and concession partners provide an exciting shopping environment.
customer supply chain service 5 Returning value to shareholders We are very cash generative, allowing us to invest in the business and return value 4 to shareholders through dividends, share buybacks and earnings growth.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Our key resources and relationships People The employees of NEXT are key to achieving the objectives of the business.
For further details refer to page 36 Customers are at the heart of everything we do.
Knowledge and know-how 35 years of retailing experience.
The NEXT brand offers uniquely designed and high quality products: forging long term relationships with customers and suppliers.
Suppliers For further details refer to page 37 Sourcing globally to deliver quality and value under ethical trading principles.
Buildings and Infrastructure For further details refer to page 8 The predominantly leased store portfolio is actively managed, with opening and closure decisions based on store profitability and payback.
Finance Effective management of financial resources including focus on cost management and maximising returns from space.
Further detail on the performance and development of the Groups business can be found in the Chief Executives Review pages 4 to 25, which forms part of this Strategic Report along with Key Performance Indicators pages 28 to 29, Risks and Uncertainties pages 30 to 34 and Environmental Matters page 38. Business Strategies and Objectives How we create value The primary financial objective of the Group is to deliver long term, sustainable returns to shareholders through a combination of growth in Earnings Per Share EPS and payment of cash dividends.
Over the last ten years, EPS and ordinary dividends per share have both increased by over 200% and the Companys share price has increased by around 100%.
This long term value has been created through the pursuit of the following strategies: Improving and developing our product ranges, success in which is measured by sales performance.
Profitably increasing retail selling space.
New store appraisals must meet demanding financial criteria before the investment is made, and success is measured by achieved profit contribution and return on capital against appraised targets.
Increasing the number of profitable NEXT Directory cash and credit customers and their spend, both in the UK and internationally, complemented by our LABEL publication of branded products and the credit facility nextpay we offer to our UK NEXT Directory customers.
Managing gross and net margins through efficient product sourcing, stock management and cost control.
Focussing on customer service and satisfaction levels in both Retail stores and Directory.
Maintaining the Groups financial strength through an efficient balance sheet and secure financing structure.
Generating and returning surplus cash to shareholders by way of share buybacks or special dividends.
Read about our objectives for the year ahead on page 25 Read about the outlook for sales and profit on page 25 nextplc.
