Directors Report Directors and Officers John Barton Michael Roney Lord Wolfson of Aspley Guise CHAIRMAN DEPUTY CHAIRMAN AND CHAIRMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE DESIGNATE from 14 February 2017 EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR John was appointed Deputy Chairman Michael is also Chairman of Grafton Simon joined the Group in 1991 and in 2004 and Chairman in 2006.
He is Group plc and a non-executive director was appointed Retail Sales Director also Chairman of easyJet plc and a of US firm Brown-Forman Corporation in 1993.
He became responsible for non-executive director of SSP Group and of Azelis SA, a privately owned NEXT Directory in 1995 and was plc and Luceco plc.
Michael brings a wealth appointed to the Board in 1997 with served as Chief Executive of JIB of business experience to the Board additional responsibilities for Systems.
Group plc, was Chairman of Cable and having previously been the Chief Simon was appointed Managing Wireless Worldwide plc, Catlin Group Executive of Bunzl plc, Chief Executive Director of the NEXT Brand in 1999 Limited, Jardine Lloyd Thompson of Goodyear Dunlop Tires Europe and and Chief Executive in 2001.
Group plc, Wellington Underwriting non-executive director of Johnson plc and Brit Insurance Holdings plc Matthey plc.
and a non-executive director of Michael will succeed John Barton as WH Smith plc and Hammerson plc.
non-executive Chairman on 1 August John will retire as non-executive 2017.
Chairman and step down from the Board of NEXT on 1 August 2017.
APPOINTED TO THE BOARD APPOINTED TO THE BOARD APPOINTED TO THE BOARD February 2002 February 2017 February 1997 COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Remuneration and Remuneration and Nomination Chairman Nomination Amanda James Michael Law Jane Shields GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR GROUP OPERATIONS DIRECTOR GROUP SALES AND MARKETING DIRECTOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Amanda joined the Group in 1995 and Michael joined the Group in 1995 as Jane joined NEXT Retail in 1985 as a has led the management accounting Call Centre Manager for the NEXT Sales Assistant in one of our London and commercial finance teams since Directory.
Jane worked her way through 2005.
In 2009 Amanda was appointed Call Centre Director in 2003 and store management to be appointed Commercial Finance Director and was in 2006 became responsible for Sales Director in 2000, responsible for promoted to NEXT Brand Finance Group IT.
In 2010 he was appointed all store operations and training.
Amanda has Group Operations Director, adding Jane was given additional responsibility comprehensive knowledge of NEXTs Warehousing and Logistics to his for Retail Marketing and in 2010 was operations and has played a central portfolio.
Michael is now responsible appointed Group Sales and Marketing role in the financial management of for all Systems, Warehousing, Logistics Director, adding Directory and online the business.
and Call Centres within the Group.
APPOINTED TO THE BOARD APPOINTED TO THE BOARD APPOINTED TO THE BOARD April 2015 July 2013 July 2013 40 nextplc.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Francis Salway Steve Barber Jonathan Bewes SENIOR INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR DIRECTOR from 3 October 2016 Francis is also Chairman of Town & Steve is also a non-executive director of Since qualifying as a Chartered Dominos Pizza Group plc and Fenwick Country Housing Group, Chairman Accountant with KPMG, Jonathan has Limited.
Steves previous experience of the Property Advisory Group for spent 25 years in investment banking, includes almost thirty years in the Transport for London, a non-executive with Robert Fleming, UBS and Bank accountancy profession, principally with director of Cadogan Group Limited of America Merrill Lynch.
As a senior Price Waterhouse where he was a senior and a Visiting Professor in Practice banker, he has provided advice to partner.
Steve was formerly Finance at the London School of Economics.
the Boards of many UK and overseas Director of Mirror Group and Chief Formerly Chief Executive of Land companies on a wide range of Operating Officer of Whitehead Mann.
Securities Group plc and past president financial and strategic issues, including Founder of The Objectivity Partnership, of the British Property Federation.
financing, M&A and general corporate a member of the steering group of the matters.
Jonathan is a Fellow of the Audit Quality Forum and Chairman of Institute of Chartered Accountants of Design Objectives Worldwide.
Steve will step down from the Board of NEXT on 18 May, immediately after the 2017 AGM.
APPOINTED TO THE BOARD APPOINTED TO THE BOARD APPOINTED TO THE BOARD June 2010 June 2007 October 2016 COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Audit Chairman, Remuneration and Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Nomination Caroline Goodall Dame Dianne Thompson Company Secretary INDEPENDENT INDEPENDENT Seonna Anderson NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Dianne has significant senior Caroline is also an independent nonBoard committees executive on the Partnership Board of management experience including the accountancy firm Grant Thornton fourteen years as Chief Executive Audit Committee Nomination Committee UK LLP and a Trustee of the National Steve Barber Chairman John Barton Chairman Officer of Camelot Group.
During Jonathan Bewes Steve Barber Trust.
She was a non-executive director her 42 year career, she has worked in Caroline Goodall Jonathan Bewes of SVG Capital plc, a FTSE 250 listed marketing for several retail companies.
Francis Salway Caroline Goodall private equity investor, from 2010 to More recently she was Chairman of Dame Dianne Thompson Michael Roney October 2014.
Prior to that, Caroline RadioCentre and a non-executive Francis Salway had over thirty years experience in director of the Home Office.
She is Dame Dianne Thompson corporate finance and was a corporate currently President of the Market finance partner at the international law Remuneration Committee Research Society.
firm Herbert Smith including five years as Caroline Goodall Chairman Head of the Global Corporate Division.
John Barton Steve Barber APPOINTED TO THE BOARD APPOINTED TO THE BOARD Jonathan Bewes Michael Roney January 2013 January 2015 Francis Salway COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Dame Dianne Thompson Audit, Remuneration Chairman and Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Nomination n e x t p l c. c o. u k 41 slugline Directors Report Disclosures required under the 2013 amendment to the Large investment banking which enable him to make a valuable and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and contribution to the Company.
When Steve Barber steps down Reports Regulations 2008 in respect of employee matters from the Board, Jonathan Bewes will succeed him as Chairman including the employment, training and advancement of of the Audit Committee.
disabled persons, future developments, political donations and Michael Roney was appointed as a non-executive director, greenhouse gas emissions are given in the Strategic Report.
Deputy Chairman and Chairman Designate on 14 February Information on financial instruments and the use of derivatives 2017 and will be subject to election by shareholders at the is given in Notes 24 to 27 of the financial statements.
Michael has extensive business experience.
He was Chief Executive of Bunzl plc, a FTSE 100 listed distribution Annual General Meeting & and outsourcing business from 2005 until his retirement in April 2016.
Michael will succeed John Barton as non-executive Other Matters Chairman on 1 August 2017.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting AGM is on pages Further details about the appointments of Jonathan Bewes and Michael Roney are provided in the Nomination Committee 149 to 156 and includes the following business: Report on page 53.
Dividends The interests of the directors who held office at 28 January 2017 and their connected persons are shown in the Remuneration The directors recommend that a final dividend of 105p per Report on page 77. share be paid on 1 August 2017 to shareholders on the register of members at close of business on 7 July 2017.
Auditor This resolution relates only to the final dividend.
The directors may decide to pay special dividends in line with the Companys The Company is required to appoint auditors at each general policy of returning surplus cash generated from operations to meeting at which its report and accounts are presented to shareholders, via special dividends or share buybacks.
Following a tender process during 2016 see special dividends will be declared by the directors as interim page 57 for further details ordinary resolution 15 proposes dividends.
The announcement of any dividend will clearly the appointment of  LLP as auditor.
indicate whether it is a special dividend or not.
Ernst & Young LLP has confirmed that it will resign as auditor with effect from the conclusion of the 2017 AGM and has The Trustee of the NEXT Employee Share Ownership Trust provided the Company with a Statement of Circumstances ESOT has waived dividends paid in the year on the shares see page 154.
This resolution also proposes that the auditors held by it, refer to Note 23 of the financial statements.
remuneration be determined by the directors.
In practice, the Audit Committee will consider and approve the audit fees on Directors behalf of the Board in accordance with the Competition and Directors biographies are set out on pages 40 to 41.
The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code Disclosure of information to the recommends that all directors of FTSE companies stand for election every year and all members of the Board will do so auditor at this years AGM, other than Steve Barber who is stepping In accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the down immediately after the 2017 AGM, which is the ninth Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, each of the persons anniversary of his first election to the Board.
Each of the who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms directors standing for re-election has undergone performance that: evaluation and has demonstrated that they remain committed to their role including making sufficient time available for Board so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit and committee meetings and other duties as required and information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: continue to be an effective and valuable member of the Board.
and The Board is satisfied that each non-executive director offering themselves for re-election is independent in both character and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to judgement, and their knowledge and other business interests have taken as a director to make themselves aware of enable them to contribute significantly to the work and balance any relevant audit information and to establish that the of the Board.
Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Jonathan Bewes was appointed as a non-executive director on 3 October 2016 and will be subject to election by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Jonathan is a qualified accountant and also has significant skills and experience in 42 nextplc.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The NEXT Long Term Incentive Authority to disapply pre-emption Plan LTIP rights Ordinary resolution 16 is seeking authority from shareholders Special resolution 18 will, if passed, renew the directors to amend the NEXT LTIP to permit new awards under this plan authority pursuant to sections 570 to 573 of the 2006 Act to receive the benefit of dividends paid in the period between to allot equity securities for cash without first offering them the grant date of these awards and the date when these awards to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
vest which is normally the third anniversary of the date of grant.
This resolution limits the aggregate nominal value of ordinary shares which may be issued by the directors on a This is a standard provision for share plans like the LTIP and non pre-emptive basis to 735,000, representing 5% of the its effect is to align further the position of LTIP award-holders issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 22 March with that of shareholders.
Any benefit from this provision will 2017 excluding treasury shares.
This authority also allows normally be delivered in the form of additional NEXT shares the directors, within the same aggregate limit, to sell for cash, when an LTIP award vests, with such shares representing shares that may be held by the Company in treasury.
the cumulative value of dividends which would have been paid on the number of vesting shares since the grant In March 2015, the Pre-Emption Group issued a revised date, and assuming re-investment in NEXT shares on each Statement of Principles stating that an allotment of up to ex-dividend date.
No benefits will be delivered in respect of an additional 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the dividends which relate to award shares which lapse due to nonCompany may be made on a non pre-emptive basis if that fulfilment of applicable performance vesting conditions.
allotment is in connection with an acquisition or specified capital investment within the meaning given in the Pre-Emption This change to the LTIP is being introduced as part of the Groups Statement of Principles which is announced at the revised Directors Remuneration Policy which is proposed for same time as the allotment, or which has taken place in the sixapproval at the 2017 AGM.
However, as the change involves month period before and is disclosed in the announcement an alteration to the rules of the LTIP itself which is to the of the allotment.
Special resolution 19 seeks this separate potential advantage of LTIP participants in respect of future and additional authority.
awards, this alteration to the LTIP requires specific approval by NEXTs shareholders in a general meeting.
In accordance with the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles, the directors do not intend to issue more than 7.5% Authority to allot shares of the share capital of the Company for cash excluding treasury shares under this or previous authorities in any rolling three Under the 2006 Act, the directors may only allot shares or year period without prior consultation with shareholders, grant rights to subscribe for, or convert any security into, except in connection with an acquisition or specified capital shares if authorised to do so by shareholders in general investment.
The authority conferred on the directors at last years AGM under section 551 of the 2006 Act expires on the date The directors do not have any present intention of exercising of the forthcoming AGM and ordinary resolution 17 seeks a this authority which will expire at the AGM in 2018 or, if new authority to allow the directors to allot ordinary shares up earlier, 18 August 2018. to a maximum nominal amount of 4,900,000, representing approximately one third of the Companys existing issued share On-market purchase of own shares capital as at 22 March 2017.
In accordance with institutional guidelines, resolution 17 will also allow directors to allot further NEXT has been returning capital to its shareholders through ordinary shares, in connection with a pre-emptive offer by way share repurchases as well as special and ordinary dividends of a rights issue, up to a total maximum nominal amount of since March 2000 as part of its strategy for delivering sustainable 9,800,000, representing approximately two thirds of the long term returns to shareholders.
Over this period, and up to Companys existing issued share capital as at that date.
As 22 March 2017, NEXT has returned over 3.6bn to shareholders at 22 March 2017 being the latest practicable date prior to by way of share buybacks and over 2.8bn in dividends, of publication of this document the Companys issued share which 652m comprised special dividends.
This buyback capital amounted to 14,705,656 comprising 147,056,562 activity has enhanced Earnings Per Share, given shareholders ordinary shares of 10 pence each, none of which are held in the opportunity for capital returns as well as dividends and has treasury.
The directors have no present intention of exercising been transparent to the financial markets.
Share buybacks have not been made at the expense of investment in the business.
this authority which will expire at the conclusion of the AGM Over the last five years, NEXT has invested over 609m in in 2018 or, if earlier, 18 August 2018. capital expenditure to support and grow the business.
n e x t p l c. c o. u k 43 slugline Directors Report Special resolution 20 will renew the authority for the Company Contingent contracts allow the Company to purchase shares to make market purchases as defined in Section 693 of the at a discount to the market price prevailing at the date 2006 Act of its ordinary shares of 10p each provided that: each contract is entered into.
No shares have been bought back under contingent purchase contracts pursuant to the a. the aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to authority granted at the 2016 AGM up to 22 March 2017. be purchased shall be the lesser of 22,043,000 ordinary Low share liquidity can often prevent the Company from shares of 10p each being less than 15% of the issued share purchasing sufficient numbers of shares on a single day capital at 22 March 2017 and no more than 14.99% of the without risk of affecting the prevailing market price.
issued ordinary share capital outstanding at the date of Contingent contracts enable the Company to purchase the AGM, such limits to be reduced by the number of any shares over time without risk of distorting the prevailing shares to be purchased pursuant to special resolution 21: share price, and also spread the cash outflow.
Off-market purchases of own shares, see below: Contingent contracts entered into prior to any closed b. the payment per ordinary share is not less than 10p and is an period allow the Company to take delivery of shares amount not more than the higher of: i 105% of the average of during these periods.
the middle market price of the ordinary shares of the Company Competitive tendering involving up to five banks is used according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock which minimises the risk of hidden purchase costs.
The Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding pricing mechanism ensures the Company retains the the date of purchase and ii an amount equal to the higher of benefit of declared and forecast dividends.
the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share of The Company would also have the option to set a suspension the Company and the highest current independent bid for an price in individual contracts whereby they would automatically ordinary share of the Company as derived from the London terminate if the Companys share price was to fall.
Stock Exchange Trading System: and As with any share buyback decision, the directors would c. the renewed authority will expire at the AGM in 2018 or, if use this authority only after careful consideration, taking earlier, 18 August 2018. into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other The directors intend that this authority to purchase the investment opportunities and the overall financial position Companys shares will only be exercised if doing so will result of the Company.
The directors will only purchase shares in an increase in Earnings Per Share and, being in the interests using such contracts if, based on the contract discounted of shareholders generally, it is considered to promote the price rather than any future price, it is earnings enhancing and success of the Company.
The directors will also give careful promotes the success of the Company for the benefit of its consideration to financial gearing levels of the Company and shareholders generally.
It is the directors present intention to its general financial position.
The purchase price would be paid cancel any shares purchased under this authority.
It is the directors present intention Special resolution 21 will give the Company authority to enter to cancel any shares purchased under this authority.
into contingent purchase contracts with any of Goldman Sachs The repurchase of ordinary shares would give rise to a stamp International, UBS AG, Deutsche Bank AG, HSBC Bank plc and duty liability of the Company at the rate currently of 0.5% of the Barclays Bank plc under which shares may be purchased offconsideration paid.
market at a discount to the market price prevailing at the date each contract is entered into.
The maximum which the Company The total number of employee share awards and share options would be permitted to purchase pursuant to this authority would to subscribe for shares outstanding at 22 March 2017 was be the lower of 3,000,000 shares or a total cost of 200 million.
This represents 3.7% of the issued share capital at that date.
If the Company were to buyback the maximum number of The principal features of the contracts are set out in Appendix shares permitted pursuant to both the existing authority granted 1 to the Notice of the AGM.
Copies of the agreements the at the 2016 AGM which will expire at the 2017 AGM and the Company proposes to enter into with any of the banks the authority sought by this resolution, then the total number of Programme Agreements will be available for inspection at the options to subscribe for shares outstanding at 22 March 2017 registered office of the Company, and at the offices of Slaughter would represent 5.1% of the reduced issued share capital.
and May, One Bunhill Row, EC1Y 8YY during normal working hours from the date of the Notice of the AGM up to the date of Off-market purchases of own shares the AGM and at the Meeting itself.
The directors consider that share buybacks are an important Increasing the Companys means of returning value to shareholders and maximising sustainable long term growth in EPS.
Contingent contracts borrowing powers for off-market share purchases are an integral part of the Special resolution 22 proposes an increase in the Companys Companys buyback strategy and offer a number of additional maximum borrowing powers limit in its Articles, as set out in Article benefits compared to on-market share purchases: 44 nextplc.
co. uk slugline Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 67, by increasing the directors powers to incur borrowings from Notice of general meetings the higher of 1.5bn or an amount equal to two times adjusted total equity as defined in the Articles in the Company to the The notice period required by the 2006 Act for general meetings higher of 2bn, or an amount equal to two times adjusted total of the Company is 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter equity as defined in the Articles of the Company.
For these notice period, which cannot be less than 14 clear days.
However, purposes borrowings do not include operational leases.
the Companys AGM must always be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
At the AGM of the Company held in 2016, The current fixed limit was last changed in 2006.
The Company has shareholders authorised the calling of general meetings other grown significantly over the last decade in market capitalisation, than an AGM on not less than 14 clear days notice and it is revenue and profits.
The Board considers that it is prudent to proposed that this authority be renewed.
The authority granted refresh the borrowing limit to create additional headroom and flexibility for the Company to respond to future development of by special resolution 23, if passed, will be effective until the the business.
The Companys external borrowing is also limited Companys AGM in 2018.
In order to be able to call a general by the financial ratios required to maintain its credit rating and the meeting on less than 21 clear days notice, the Company will financial covenants in the Groups committed borrowing facilities.
make electronic voting available to all shareholders for that There are no current plans to materially increase the level of debt, meeting.
The flexibility offered by this resolution will not be however the Board believes it to be in the best interests of the used as a matter of routine for such meetings, but only where Group to give the Company sufficient headroom over the long the directors consider it appropriate, taking account of the term to develop its business.
business to be conducted at the meeting and the interests of the A copy of the proposed amended Articles of Association that Company and its shareholders as a whole.
reflect the above change will be available at the AGM on 18 May 2017.
A copy will also be available for inspection at Recommendation the Companys registered office at Desford Road, Enderby, The Board are of the opinion that all resolutions which are to Leicester, LE19 4AT and at the offices of Slaughter and May be proposed at the 2017 AGM will promote the success of the at One Bunhill Row, London, EC1Y 8YY during usual business Company and are in the best interests of its shareholders as a hours until the date of the AGM.
whole and, accordingly, unanimously recommend that they vote in favour of the resolutions.
Share capital and major shareholders Details of the Companys share capital are shown in Note 20 of the financial statements.
The Company was authorised by its shareholders at the 2016 AGM to purchase its own shares.
During the year the Company purchased and cancelled 3,613,121 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 10p none of which were purchased off-market, at a cost of 187.6m and representing 2.4% of its issued share capital at the start of the year.
At the financial year end 28 January 2017, the Company had 147,056,562 shares in issue, which remained the same as at 22 March 2017.
As at 28 January 2017, the Company had been notified under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5 of the following notifiable interests in the Companys issued share capital.
The information provided below was correct at the date of notification.
These holdings are likely to have changed since the Company was notified, however, notification of any change is not required until the next notifiable threshold is crossed: No.
of voting Notifications received as at rights at date of % of voting Nature of Date of 28 January 2017 notification rights holding notification BlackRock, Inc. 15,449,823 10.51 Indirect interest 8 January 2014 FMR LLC Fidelity 19,486,285 13.25 Indirect interest 8 April 2016 Invesco Limited 7,522,064 5.12 Indirect interest 3 June 2016 NEXT plc Employee Share Ownership Trust 4,437,245 3.02 Direct interest 8 November 2016 Based on the total issued share capital at 28 January 2017.
The following notification was received after 28 January 2017 up to 22 March 2017.
of voting rights at date of % of voting Date of notification rights Nature of holding notification NEXT plc Employee Share Ownership Trust 4,408,241 2.98 Direct interest 30 January 2017 n e x t p l c. c o. u k 45 slugline Directors Report Change of control Additional information The Company is not party to any significant agreements which Shareholder and voting rights take effect, alter or terminate solely upon a change of control of the Company.
However, in the event of a change of control, All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend the Companys medium term borrowing facilities will be subject and vote at the AGM.
On a show of hands at a general meeting to early repayment in full if a majority of the lending banks give every member present in person and every duly appointed written notice or in part if a lending bank gives written notice proxy shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present following a change of control.
In addition, should a change of in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every ordinary control cause a downgrading in the credit rating of the Companys share held or represented.
It is intended that voting at the 2017 corporate bonds to sub-investment grade or if already subAGM will be on a poll.
The Notice of Meeting on pages 149 to investment grade, a further credit rating downgrade which is not 156 specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights.
rectified within 120 days after a change of control, holders of the The Company is not aware of any agreements between bonds have the option to call for redemption of the bonds by the shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Company at their nominal value together with accrued interest.
There are no restrictions on the The Companys share option plans, and its Long Term transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than certain Incentive and Share Matching Plans, contain provisions restrictions imposed by laws and regulations such as insider regarding a change of control.
Outstanding options and trading laws and market requirements relating to closed awards may vest on a change of control, subject to the periods and requirements of internal rules and procedures satisfaction of any relevant performance conditions.
whereby directors and certain employees of the Company require Board approval to deal in the Companys securities.
Directors service contracts are terminable by the Company The Companys Articles may only be amended by a special on giving one years notice.
There are no agreements resolution at a general meeting.
Directors are elected or between the Company and its directors or employees re-elected by ordinary resolution at a general meeting: the providing for additional compensation for loss of office or Board may appoint a director but anyone so appointed must employment whether through resignation, redundancy or be elected by ordinary resolution at the next general meeting.
otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Under the Articles, directors retire and may offer themselves for re-election at a general meeting at least every three years.
However, in line with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors will stand for re-election at the 2017 AGM other than Steve Barber, see page 149.
Corporate governance The corporate governance statement as required by the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2.
6 comprises the Additional Information section of the Directors Report and the Corporate Governance statement included in this Annual Report.
The following disclosures are required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R: Publication of unaudited In January 2017, NEXT published a Profit Before Tax PBT forecast for the year to January financial information 2017 of 785m to 799m.
Actual PBT for the period was 790.2m.
Shareholder waivers of The NEXT Employee Share Ownership Trust waived its rights to receive dividends during the year.
By order of the Board Amanda James Group Finance Director 23 March 2017 46 nextplc.
