Annual Report & Accounts 2017 The Board Peter Cowgill Andrew Leslie Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Nomination Committee - Aged 64 Remuneration Committee and Member of the Peter was appointed Executive Chairman in March Audit and Nomination Committees - Aged 70 2004.
He was previously Finance Director of the Group Andrew was appointed to the Board in May 2010.
He has until his resignation in June 2001.
He is the Nonover 40 years of experience in the retail, footwear and Executive Chairman of United Carpets Plc and was apparel sectors.
He was an Executive Board Director of appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Better Pentland Brands Plc, from which he retired in 2008.
Bathrooms UK Limited in January 2017.
Andrew also held a number of senior positions with British Shoe Corporation, The Burton Group Plc and Brian Small Timpson Shoes Limited.
Chief Financial Officer - Aged 60 Brian was appointed Chief Financial Officer in January Martin Davies 2004.
Immediately prior to his appointment he was Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Audit Operations Finance Director at Intercare Group Plc and Committee and Member of the Nomination and has also been Finance Director of a number of other Remuneration Committees - Aged 57 companies.
He qualified as an accountant with Price Martin was appointed to the Board in October 2012.
Martin also holds the position of Chairman of Sentric Music Limited.
He was previously Group Chief Executive of Holidaybreak Plc from 2010 until its sale to Cox and Kings Limited in 2011.
He joined the Board of Holidaybreak Plc in 2007 when it acquired PGL where he had been Chief Executive.
He left Holidaybreak Plc in 2012.
Previously, he has had roles at Allied Breweries, Kingfisher and Woolworths.
Heather Jackson Non-Executive Director, member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees - Aged 51 Heather was appointed to the Board in May 2015.
Heather has extensive experience in IT and change management.
Heather is currently Managing Director at Actinista 2016 Limited and a Non-Executive Director of Ikano Bank AB.
Her former roles have included CIO and COO of HBOS Plc and other director level roles with Capital One, Boots the Chemist and George at Asda.
Andy Rubin Non-Executive Director - Aged 52 Andy was appointed to the Board in February 2016.
Andy is Chairman of Pentland Brands, a Director of Pentland Group Plc and the European Vice-President of the World Federation of the Sporting Goods Industry.
