Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Who We Are The Group has almost 1,300 stores across a number of retail fascias and is proud of the fact that it always provides its customers with the latest products from the very best brands.
The Group embraces the latest online and instore digital technology providing it with a truly multichannel, international platform for future growth.
Overview 9 JD, West One, London, UK Overview Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Who We Are JD, Rue Neuve, Brussels, Belgium JD, Pavilion, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Overview 11 JD, Hohestrasse, Cologne, Germany Overview Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Who We Are Size?
Carnaby Street, London, UK Scotts, The Trafford Centre, Manchester, UK Ov Overvie erview w 13 Tessuti, The Trafford Centre, Manchester, UK Overview Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Who We Are Chausport, Rennes Alma, Rennes, France Sprinter, Vaguada Shopping Centre, Madrid, Spain Overview Perry, Kalverstraat, Amsterdam, The Netherlands 15 Aktiesport, Zuidplein Shopping Mall, Rotterdam, The Netherlands Overview Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Who We Are Blacks, Tottenham Court Road, London, UK Go Outdoors, Milton Keynes, UK Overview Established in 1981 with a single store in the North West of England, JD Sports Fashion Plc is a leading international multichannel retailer of sports, fashion and outdoor brands.
17 Overview Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Who We Are JD is acknowledged as the leading specialist multiple retailer of fashionable branded and own brand sports and casual wear in the UK and Republic of Ireland combining globally recognised brands such as Nike, adidas and The North Face with strong own brand labels such as Pink Soda, Supply & Demand and The Duffer of St George.
JD continues to increase its presence in the European market with additional stores in all of our existing territories complemented by a multi-store acquisition in Portugal.
The first JD store outside of Europe opened in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia in January 2016 with two further stores in the year to January 2017.
JD is increasing its international presence with its first store in Australia due to open in Spring 2017.
Footpatrol is Londons best-known destination sneaker Established in 2000, Size?
specialises in supplying store, with a history in supplying the most exclusive the finest products from the best brands in footwear, footwear.
It has been at the heart of supplying the apparel and accessories.
Initially set up to trial edgier sneaker fraternity with the most desirable footwear, product collections before introducing them to the apparel and accessories.
Specialising in new and mass market through the JD fascia, the Size?
offer has classic sneakers, limited editions, Japanese exclusives since grown to include its own roster of highly and rare deadstock, Footpatrol is based in the heart of sought-after worldwide exclusive product releases.
Outside of the UK and Republic of Ireland, Size?
now has stores in Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Spain.
Overview Who We Are Chausport operates throughout France retailing Sprinter is one of the leading sports retailers in Spain leading international footwear brands such as adidas, selling footwear, apparel, accessories and equipment Nike and Timberland together with brands more for a wide range of sports as well as lifestyle casual specific to the local market such as Le Coq Sportif.
Their offer includes both international sports brands and successful own brands.
Sports Unlimited Retail operates in the Netherlands Next Athleisure operates 32 stores and a trading under the Perry Sport and Aktiesport fascias.
website in Australia under the Glue and Superglue Aktiesport is the largest sports retail business in the retail banners.
Glue and Superglue stores offer Netherlands selling a host of familiar brands such as cutting-edge youth fashion from international and Nike, adidas, Under Armour and Reebok.
Perry Sport local brands such as Denham, Ivy Park, Nude Lucy sells a large array of product types, operating and Superga with a blend of contemporary, ageless, simultaneously in the sports fashion, sports vintage and modern styles as well as the classics equipment and outdoor sectors.
across menswear, womenswear, shoes and accessories.
19 Overview Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Who We Are Scotts retails fashion and sport led brands with Tessutis vision is to become the first choice retailer authority to older, more affluent male consumers for branded premium menswear fashion in the UK.
largely beyond school age, stocking brands such The current stores offer customers a strong mix of as EA7, Lacoste, Fred Perry, adidas Originals and brands including Hugo Boss, Ralph Lauren Polo, Pretty Green.
Canada Goose and Stone Island.
Mainline Menswear is an online niche retailer of Cloggs is an online niche retailer of premium branded premium branded mens apparel and footwear, footwear.
Cloggs also has three stores in Shrewsbury, stocking brands such as Armani, Hugo Boss York and Newcastle.
Overview Who We Are Getthelabel.
com is an online and catalogue business JD Gyms offer exceptional fitness facilities in nine which offers customers significant savings on branded prime city centre locations.
JD Gyms have the latest fashion and footwear.
gym equipment and workout techniques, providing a whole host of effective fitness classes and unrivalled onsite support and advice.
The JD Gym at Liverpool was announced as the Best Budget Gym at the National Fitness Awards in 2016, the second consecutive year that JD Gyms has won this prestigious award.
Kooga Rugby operates within the UK as a direct to Kukri Sports is an international sportswear retail business.
Kooga also provides licenses for the manufacturer supplying bespoke teamwear to many use of the brand in domestic and international leading schools, colleges and universities.
In addition, markets to distributors of rugby apparel, equipment, Kukri is sole kit supplier to a number of high profile team wear and leisurewear ranges.
professional teams and will once again be the official kit supplier to Team England for the 2018 Commonwealth Games.
21 Overview Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Who We Are Source Lab is a football license business in the UK Focus are involved in the design, sourcing and working with some of the biggest and best known distribution of footwear and apparel both for own names in world football, designing, sourcing and brand and licensed brands, such as Peter Werth, distributing mono branded apparel as well as supplying Fly 53, Ecko, Ellesse, and Voi Footwear, for both club retail operations.
Source Lab has an impressive Group and external customers.
license portfolio which includes Chelsea, Arsenal, Manchester City, Tottenham, Liverpool and Barcelona.
Nicholas Deakins was launched in 1991 and is firmly Blacks is a long established retailer of specialist established as one of the UKs leading footwear outdoor apparel, footwear and equipment.
Trading and clothing lifestyle brands with a reputation for online and from approximately 60 stores, Blacks innovative, original design and quality manufacture.
primarily stock more technical products from Nicholas Deakins celebrated their 25th Anniversary premium brands such as Berghaus and The North in September 2016.
Face helping Outdoor participants, from weekend family users to more avid explorers, reach their goals, no matter how high.
Overview Who We Are Ultimate Outdoors is the ultimate destination for Trading from approximately 100 stores, Millets supply the outdoor consumer offering high quality and a more casual outdoor customer who seeks value for technical product from the biggest names in money, providing for a wide range of recreational outdoors at the best prices.
There are now activities, such as walking or leisure camping with an seven Ultimate Outdoors stores.
emphasis on strong own brands, such as Peter Storm and Eurohike.
GO Outdoors was acquired in November 2016.
Tiso is Scotlands leading outdoor retailer with GO focuses on innovation and value, helping people unrivalled product ranges catering for those who to step into the outdoors whether its to go walking, take the outdoors a bit more seriously.
There are 15 camping, cycling or fishing.
From unique product stores, including four Alpine Bikes stores and one areas to strong own brands such as Hi-Gear, North George Fisher store based in Keswick in the heart Ridge and Freedom Trail, GO is constantly looking of the English Lake District.
for fresh ideas to keep things fun.
In March 2017, GOs OEX range was awarded the best own brand range of the year at the Retail Week awards.
