Strategic Report 12 Strategy Delivering long-term sustainable value Our overarching business strategy is to deliver long-term sustainable value in all that we do.
Connecting Building Understanding with consumers brands our customers Consumer insight drives our business.
We are brand owners and builders, Building and maintaining long-lasting Our consumers are growing in number, oering a diverse and dierentiated and successful customer relationships, location and diversity and we ensure portfolio of products that people love.
across multiple routes to market, is that we take the time to listen, to With our own powerful brands, central to our business.
We work closely understand their needs and to oer complementary franchise partner with our customers to develop joint them a choice of great tasting, high brands and a strong track record plans which allow us to share in success.
of bringing successful innovation to We pride ourselves on our ability to turn the market, we seek to build brand these shared plans into eective actions, awareness, grow our brand equity supporting our customers with excellent and outperform the market.
in-store activation of our brand led activities and delivering the highest possible levels of service.
Developing Driving Acting partnerships efficiency responsibly With strong ambitions, both within the We continually strive for eciency We believe that how we act reects UK and internationally, we recognise the across our business, ensuring strong who we are.
We take our responsibilities advantages that working in partnership financial controls are in place while also seriously and aim to be a sustainable can deliver.
By working closely with investing for growth.
As our business and responsible business that listens to others, whether that be brand franchise develops, we are committed to driving our consumers, takes care of our people, partners, international distributors or continuous improvement across our works to minimise our environmental 3rd party logistics providers, we develop processes and technology.
As an asset impact and gives something back to the complementary relationships that backed business we drive operational communities we serve.
deliver shared benets and support improvements, exibility and eciency our growing business.
through our expansionary capital investment programme, equipping us with some of the industrys most advanced operational capability.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017
