Governance Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and the Shareholder and Voting Rights audited financial statements of JD Sports Fashion Plc All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled the Company and its subsidiaries together referred to attend and vote at the Companys Annual General to as the Group for the 52 week period ended 28 Meeting.
On a show of hands at a general meeting, January 2017.
The Board considers that the Annual every member present in person or by proxy shall have Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced one vote and, on a poll, every member present and understandable and provides the information in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys ordinary share they hold.
Subject to relevant statutory position and performance, business model and strategy.
provisions and the Companys Articles of Association, holders of ordinary shares are entitled to a dividend Principal Activity where declared or paid out of profits available for such The principal activity of the Group is the retail of purposes.
branded sports fashionwear and outdoor clothing and equipment.
Restrictions on Transfer of Shares The restrictions on the transfer of shares in the In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, a review Company are as follows: of the business providing a comprehensive analysis of The Board may, in its absolute discretion, refuse to the main trends and factors likely to affect the register any transfer of shares which are not fully development, performance and position of the paid up but not so as to prevent dealings in listed business, including environmental, employee, social, shares from taking place, or which is in favour of community and human rights issues, together with the more than four persons jointly or which is in relation Groups Key Performance Indicators and a description to more than one class of share.
of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Certain restrictions may, from time to time, be business is detailed in the Strategic Report on pages 54 imposed by laws and regulations for example, to 73. insider trading laws.
Restrictions apply pursuant to the Listing Rules and All of the information set out in those sections is the Market Abuse Regulation which came into force incorporated by reference into, and is deemed to during this financial year of the Financial Conduct form part of, this report.
Authority whereby Directors and certain of the Groups employees require prior approval to deal in The Corporate Governance Report pages 80 to 84 and the Companys shares.
the Directors Remuneration Report page 85 to 95 are incorporated by reference into, and are deemed The Company is not aware of any arrangement between to form part of, this report.
This report is also intended its shareholders that may result in restrictions on the to incorporate the Companys management report transfer of shares and or voting rights.
Substantial Interests in Share Capital Share Capital As at 28 January 2017 the Company has been advised As at 30 January 2016, the Companys issued share of the following significant holdings of voting rights in capital was 2,433,083, comprising 194,646,632 its ordinary share capital pursuant to the Disclosure ordinary shares of 1.25p each.
However, following a Guidance and Transparency Rules of the Financial reorganisation of the Companys share capital as Conduct Authority DTRs : approved by the shareholders at a general meeting of the Company held on 24 November 2016, each 1.25p Number of ordinary share was subdivided into five ordinary shares ordinary shares % of Ordinary share of 0.25p each.
The issued share capital following the voting rights held capital general meeting was 2,433,083, comprising Pentland Group Plc 559,274,440 57.47 973,233,160 ordinary shares of 0.25p each.
The new 0.25p ordinary shares were admitted to the Official List Fidelity Management and Research LLC 48,588,900 4.99 of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on 28 Old Mutual Global Investors 34,412,294 3.54 November 2016.
The Company has not been notified of any significant As at 28 January 2017 the Companys issued share changes in interests pursuant to the DTRs between 28 capital was 2,433,083 comprising 973,233,160 January 2017 and the date of this report.
77 77 77 Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Directors Report continued Relationship Agreement Contractual Arrangements Essential to the Business In accordance with LR 9.2.
2AR 2 a, the Company of the Group has entered into a written and legally binding relationship The Board considers that continuing supply from agreement with its controlling shareholder Pentland Nike and adidas, being the main suppliers of third party Group Plc.
So far as the Company is aware, the branded sporting products, to the Groups independence provisions included within the relationship core sports fashion retail operation is essential to agreement have been complied with during the period the business of the Group.
since the agreement has been in force.
Employees Directors The Group communicates with its employees through The names and roles of the current Directors together team briefs and via the Companys intranet and notice with brief biographical details are given on page 76. boards.
Views of employees are sought on matters of The Directors are responsible for the management common concern via one to one meetings with of the business of the Company and, subject to law management, staff forums and other employee and the Companys Articles of Association Articles, committees.
Priority is given to ensuring that employees the Directors may exercise all of the powers of the are aware of all significant matters affecting the Groups Company and may delegate their power and discretion performance and of significant organisational changes.
A key factor in the Groups employee remuneration The number of Directors at any one point in time strategy is encouraging the involvement of all employees shall not be less than two.
Full details of the Groups remuneration strategy are set out in the Remuneration The Articles give the Directors power to appoint and Report on pages 85 to 95. replace Directors.
Any Director so appointed shall hold office only until the dissolution of the first Annual The Group is committed to promoting equal General Meeting of the Company following appointment opportunities in employment regardless of employees unless they are re-elected during such meeting.
or potential employees gender, marital status, sexual orientation, age, race, religion, ethnic or social origin or The Articles require that, at each AGM of the Company, disability.
Recruitment, promotion and the availability any Director who was elected or last re-elected at or of training are based on the suitability of any applicant before the AGM held in the third calendar year before for the job and full and fair consideration is always the current calendar year must retire by rotation and given to disabled persons in such circumstances.
such further Directors must retire by rotation so that in total not less than one third of the Directors retire Should an employee become disabled during his or her by rotation each year.
A retiring Director is eligible employment by the Group, every effort is made to for re-election.
continue the employment, development and training of the employee in question within their existing capacity However, in accordance with the UK Corporate wherever practicable, or failing that, in an alternative Governance Code the Board has determined that all suitable capacity.
Directors will stand for re-election at the 2017 AGM.
Auditor Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association KPMG LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in The Companys Articles of Association may only be office as auditor of the Company.
A resolution proposing amended by a special resolution at a general meeting their re-appointment will be proposed to shareholders at of shareholders.
Change of Control Significant Agreements Disclosure of Information to the Auditor In the event of a change of control of the Company, Each person who is a Director at the date of approval the Company and the lenders of the 215 million bank of this report confirms that: syndicated facility shall enter into an agreement to So far as they are aware, there is no relevant determine how to continue the facility.
If no agreement audit information of which the Companys auditor is reached within 20 business days of the date of is unaware: and change in control, the lenders may, by giving not less Each Director has taken all the steps that they ought than 10 business days' notice to the Company, cancel to have taken as a Director to make themselves the facility and declare all outstanding loans, together aware of any relevant audit information and to with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued establish that the Companys auditor is aware of immediately due and payable.
Governance Directors Report continued Viability Statement Annual General Meeting In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate The Companys AGM will be held at 1pm on 29 June Governance Code, published by the Financial Reporting 2017 at Edinburgh House, Hollinsbrook Way, Pilsworth, Council in September 2014, the Directors have assessed Bury, Lancashire, BL9 8RR.
The notice of this year's the prospects of the Group over a longer period.
AGM is included in a separate circular to shareholders and will be sent out at least 20 working days before The Board conducted this review for a period of three the meeting.
This notice will be available to view years to 1 February 2020.
A period of five years was under the 'Investors' section of the Company's website, selected for the previous financial year however this has www.
been revised to three years as the Board considered this to be a more appropriate period to assess performance The Directors consider that each of the proposed and the potential impact of key risks in a fast paced resolutions to be presented at the AGM is in the best retail environment.
The three year period also aligns interests of the Company and its shareholders and with how we measure performance and remunerate employees as a whole and most likely to promote the at a senior level through the Long Term Incentive success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders Plan LTIP.
The Directors unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each of the proposed In assessment of the viability of the Group, the Board resolutions, as the Directors intend to do in respect of has considered the Groups current position and their own shareholdings.
strategy and performed a robust assessment of each of the principal risks detailed on pages pages 57 to 59.
By order of the Board These principal risks are considered to be those which may threaten the business model, future performance and liquidity.
Where appropriate, the Board has evaluated the impact of the key principal risks actually occurring based on severe but plausible scenarios.
The evaluation included performing sensitivity analysis by flexing the main assumptions in the scenarios.
Brian Small The Board has also considered the Groups income and Chief Financial Officer expenditure projections, the Group cash flows and 10 April 2017 other key financial ratios over the period along with the potential impact of Brexit.
Based on the results of the analysis, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period of the assessment.
Going Concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company, and the Group as a whole, has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
