Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Property and Stores Review Sports Fashion JD The retail property strategy for the core JD fascia is Asia JDs presence in Malaysia has been enhanced consistent across all of our territories.
JD is a world through the opening of two further new stores in class retail fascia where the latest retail digital Kuala Lumpur, at Pavilion, which is presented in the technology is integrated into a vibrant retail theatre flagship style, and Sunway Velocity, complementing to give a truly multichannel experience.
We strongly the opening in the previous year at Sunway Pyramid.
believe that our approach increases the attractiveness During the year, we also concluded a transaction to and desirability of our product to customers and acquire 20 multi-brand Sports Fashion stores and a also helps protect the equity of our branded trading website which currently trade as Sports supplier partners.
Empire, Revolution and The Marathon Shop from our joint venture partners, Stream Enterprise SDN BHD.
International expansion of the JD fascia remains a clear There is no immediate intention to convert these strategic focus.
During the year we have opened stores to JD.
additional stores in all existing European territories Australia Development works are ongoing for including larger space stores in the new flagship style the first JD store in Australia which will be at the in Cologne and Brussels.
We also saw the opening of Melbourne Central Shopping Centre.
This store will our first JD stores in Portugal.
Further afield, we opened open in Spring 2017 and we anticipate further two further stores in Kuala Lumpur and we also openings elsewhere in Australia during the year.
anticipate opening our first stores in Australia later in the year.
We are confident that our increasing credibility Size?
with both major international landlords and property This has been a year of consolidation for the Size?
agents will provide opportunities for further development fascia with no net increase in the number of stores.
of the JD fascia in both existing and new territories.
has the potential to be successful internationally with the current focus being progression The major property developments in each area were: in the major cities in Europe.
UK & Republic of Ireland 21 new stores were opened in the period with 13 stores closed.
The new Chausport stores included Oxford Street in London where we We continue to support the development of the have opened a store in the West One shopping centre Chausport fascia in locations which will not conflict with by Bond Street tube station giving us our second JDs expansion.
Four stores have opened in the year flagship style store on the busiest shopping street in in smaller regional towns which are not appropriate for Europe.
The openings included seven relocations in JD at this time with one store closed.
We anticipate a towns or malls in the UK to a more appropriately similar level of development in the current financial year.
spaced store or a position of greater footfall.
Elsewhere, continuing with our strategy of ensuring Sprinter that we have sufficient space to present the full JD Sprinter continues to expand beyond its traditional offer in key locations, we have upsized four stores heartlands in the regions of Andaluca, Murcia and being Meadowhall in Sheffield, the White Rose Valencia.
During the year we opened a further 16 stores Shopping Centre in Leeds, the White City Shopping of which nine were outside those heartland regions, Centre in London and the Merryhill Shopping Centre including four in Catalonia and two in Madrid.
average retail footprint of the stores opened in the year was 6,800 sq.
ft. which provides an effective Europe - JD continues to develop momentum in and efficient trading space for the Sprinter core offer.
Europe with a net increase of 54 stores.
A total of 58 stores were opened in the year of which 46 were across existing territories complemented by 12 stores opening in Portugal subsequent to our acquisition of the stores in the small acquired business formerly trading as The Athletes Foot.
The openings included two flagship style stores at Rue Neuve in Brussels and Hohestrasse in Cologne which, at 13,600 sq.
ft, is now our largest store in Europe.
The former Aktiesport store in the Zuidplein Shopping Centre in Rotterdam was also converted to JD.
Five stores were closed in the year of which three were relocations into larger space.
Strategic Report Property and Stores Review continued Perry Sport and Aktiesport Outdoor In March, we acquired the trade and store assets of the Aktiesport and Perry Sport retail fascias in the Blacks, Millets and Ultimate Outdoors Netherlands from the trustee in bankruptcy of Unlimited Subsequent to our acquisition of the business in January Sports Group BV.
As is usual in these distressed situations, 2012, we agreed short term leases with flexible break the initial focus is to right size and right rent the store clauses with landlords in a number of locations which portfolios.
This process is ongoing with 23 of the original gave both parties the mutual ability to move quickly if 187 stores closed to date.
Consequently, whilst this gives maximum flexibility, it does mean that the Blacks and Millets store A number of the Perry Sport and Aktiesport stores had portfolios continue to be in flux: suffered from a lack of investment in the years prior to Blacks: Three new stores were opened in the period bankruptcy.
We have begun to address this with the first including a flagship store on Tottenham Court Road refurbishment being a major refurbishment of the Perry in Central London.
Four Blacks stores were closed in Sport store on Kalverstraat in Amsterdam which is one the period including the store on Regent Street of the busiest shopping streets in the Netherlands.
Elsewhere, we have also invested in a new store for Millets: The Millets store portfolio has seen further Aktiesport in the Zuidplein Shopping Centre in Rotterdam considerable change during the year with seven new with JD taking over the unit which Aktiesport previously stores opened and seven stores closed in the year.
This included relocations in Keswick and Peterborough.
Ultimate Outdoors: There has been no change to Glue and Superglue the Ultimate Outdoors store portfolio in the year In August, we acquired 32 stores in Australia which trade although the former Kiddicare store at Southampton, under the Glue and Superglue retail banners.
These which has never traded, was surrendered to stores are principally located in major shopping centres the landlord.
in New South Wales, Victoria and Queensland.
Prior to our acquisition, the business had refurbished its store in Tiso the Queen Victoria Building in the centre of Sydney in a The underperforming Alpines Bike store in Glasgow was new style.
We are encouraged by the initial performance closed in the year.
Go Outdoors Scotts Go Outdoors had 58 stores across the UK at acquisition, We continue to be satisfied by the performance of the the majority of which are situated in out of town retail Scotts fascia although the specific timing of certain parks.
The Go Outdoors store portfolio will continue to property issues has meant that there was a net reduction develop under its separate management although of two stores in the year.
We will continue to support property decisions will have to be appraised using investment in the fascia where it is justified.
the same financial rigour with which stores in other group fascias are appraised.
JD will also assist the Tessuti Go Outdoors management team, where appropriate, The Tessuti company has seen a major expansion in its on lease negotiations with landlords.
store portfolio in the year with the business now having 38 stores, a net increase of 22 stores from January 2016.
For a complete table of store numbers see page 24 and 25.
This expansion has been focused in the North of England and Scotland and has comprised organic store growth together with the acquisition of stores which traded as Infinities, Aspecto, ML Clothing and Xile.
There is a programme in place to rebrand all of the acquired stores to the Tessuti fascia subject to the usual decision making factors for properties of rent cost, retail footprint and strength of footfall.
New openings and conversions Peter Cowgill in the premium branded Tessuti business are also Executive Chairman dependent on availability of third party brands in a 10 April 2017 particular location.
