Strategic Report 06 Business Model Simple, effective, profitable We make We move We pride ourselves on our eective manufacturing With a fleet of more than 100 vehicles, and longcapabilities, producing high quality products across standing relationships with our key distribution our well-invested and ecient production sites, in partners, we strive to deliver a great service to Cumbernauld, Forfar and our new state of the art all our customers, from the biggest food service facility at Milton Keynes.
From sourcing our raw customer to the smallest local shop.
Operating materials across the globe, to designing our across multiple routes to market, we have a well packaging materials, we strive for continuous established and ecient distribution network, improvements, keep safety at the forefront of all with our Direct Store Delivery channel in particular we do, and invest accordingly to ensure we produce setting us apart, by oering a tailored and personal the best tasting products as eciently as possible.
service to thousands of independent retailers across the UK.
An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 07 This simple but eective approach We are a growth driven, branded consumer goods is supported by strong partnerships, business, delivering long-term sustainable value.
talented people and responsible actions.
Our business model has proven successful for more than 140 years and continues to create We build great tasting brands that people love, and deliver value in all that we do.
oering them choice and enjoyment.
Our business model is simple, eective and profitable.
We market We sell Listening carefully to our consumers is paramount Building long lasting relationships with our and by doing so we have developed a diverse and customers across all our key markets is fundamental dierentiated brand portfolio of great tasting to our business.
Whether its a multiple grocer, a products to satisfy their needs and oer choice.
wholesaler, a regional restaurant group or a local And when it comes to marketing and building our independent retailer, we work collaboratively with brands we like to have some fun, appealing to our all our customers to understand their businesses broad range of consumers, whether thats through and nd winning consumer propositions in a national TV campaigns, digital media, sponsorship practical, fun and profitable way.
or supporting local community events.
An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 17 7
