Corporate Governance 36 Board of Directors John R. Nicolson Roger A.
White Stuart Lorimer Jonathan D. Kemp B.
A. Hons Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Commercial Director Johns career was spent with ICI, Roger is a member of the Board Stuart was with Diageo for 22 Jonathan has had a successful Unilever, Fosters Brewing Group, of Management and Executive years in a range of roles and career in various commercial roles Scottish & Newcastle PLC, and Council and is a past President of countries, ultimately as the FD for within Procter and Gamble.
latterly as President Americas the British Soft Drinks Association.
for Heineken NV and Deputy Previously held numerous senior Term of Oce Chairman of CCU SA Chile.
He positions in food group Rank Term of Oce Joined the Company in 2003 held various positions in Marketing Hovis McDougall.
Scottish PLC Joined the Company as Finance as Commercial Director.
and Sales before moving into Chief Executive of the year in 2010.
Corporate Development and Honorary Doctorate University of External Appointments then General Management.
External Appointments Non-Executive Director Trustee Community Integrated Cricket Scotland.
Term of Oce Term of Oce Care.
Joined the Company in 2013 Joined the Company in 2002 as as a Non-Executive Director.
External Appointments External Appointments Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director of Stocks Spirits Group PLC, Troy Income & Growth Trust.
Non-Executive Director of North American Breweries Inc and Non-Executive Director of PZ Cussons PLC.
Committee Membership Nomination Committee Chair Remuneration Committee.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 37 Andrew L. Memmott Martin A. Griths W. Robin G. Barr Pamela Powell David J. Ritchie BSc, MSc.
Supply Chain Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Director Director Andrew joined the Company following three A Chartered Accountant, Robin is a past President Pam was formerly Group David is a qualied years with Cooperative Martin is a former of the British Soft Director of Strategy and Chartered Accountant Wholesale Society.
Chairman of the Scottish Drinks Association.
Innovation at SABMiller plc, and former Chief Executive Finance Directors Group SVP Global Personal Care of Bovis Homes Group PLC Term of Oce and a former Director of Term of Oce at Coty Beauty Inc, and Bovis.
He joined Bovis Joined the Companys Troy Income & Growth Joined the Company in VP Skincare and Global in 1998 from KPMG as Project Engineering Team Trust plc, Trainline Holdings 1960.
Appointed Director Brand Director Dove at Group Financial Controller in June 1990.
Appointed Limited, RoadKing in 1964 and Chairman in Unilever plc.
becoming Group Finance Operations Director Infrastructure HK Limited 1978.
Retired as Chairman Director in 2002 and Chief in 2008. and Citybus HK Limited.
and appointed NonTerm of Oce Executive in 2008.
He is also a former Senior Executive Director in 2009.
Joined the Company in External Appointments Independent Non- 2013 as a Non-Executive Term of Oce None.
Executive Director External Appointments Director.
Joined the Company of Robert Walters plc and None.
in April 2015 as Nonpast Chairman of Rail External Appointments Executive Director.
Delivery Group Limited Committee Membership Non-Executive Director and was young Scottish Audit Committee of Premier Foods plc.
External Appointments Finance Director of the Nomination Committee None.
Committee Membership Audit Committee Committee Membership Term of Oce Nomination Committee Audit Committee Joined the Company in Remuneration Committee.
Nomination Committee 2010 as a Non-Executive Remuneration Director.
External Appointments CEO of Stagecoach Group, Co-Chairman of Virgin Rail Group Holdings Limited and Virgin Trains East Coast.
Committee Membership Audit Committee Chair Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017
