Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 77 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of aairs of the Group and parent Company and of the consolidated profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sucient to show and explain the parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the parent Company and the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
A copy of the Group and parent Company financial statements has been placed on the Companys website, www.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may dier from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors statement pursuant to the disclosure and transparency rules Each of the directors, whose names and functions are set out on pages 36 to 37 of this report, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities and financial position of the Group and parent Company and of the consolidated profit: the Annual Report and Accounts includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group: and they consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
White S. Lorimer Chief Executive Finance Director 28 March 2017 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Accounts 78 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of A. G. BARR p. l. c. only Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified We have audited the financial statements of A. G. BARR p. l. c. for the year ended 28 January 2017 set out on pages 81 to 128.
In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 28 January 2017 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRSs as adopted by the EU : the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2 Overview Audit coverage: A summary of our approach: 100% of pbt before exceptionals Our audit covered 100% of the Groups total revenue, profit before tax and total assets and was completed at Cumbernauld and in London.
Materiality: Overall group materiality: 1.4m which represents 3% of profit before tax before exceptionals 3% pbt before exceptionals this year.
significant areas: The accounting for the brand support accruals is a judgemental area.
inventory and brand Inventory is significant and raw materials are subject to price volatility so that is also a support accruals judgemental area.
There is no movement in the risk direction in either of these areas year on year.
There has been no change in our assessment of significant risks year on year.
3 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial statements the risks of material misstatement that had the greatest effect on our audit were as follows unchanged from 2016 : The area of focus Our approach Brand support discounts and costs accrual 14.7 million, Risk direction: 2016: 13.0 million : Refer to page 49 Audit Committee Report, pages 88 and 94 unchanged accounting policy and page 115 financial disclosures The group agrees sales discounts and other payments with Our procedures in relation to accounting for brand certain of its customers and incurs costs in supporting and support discounts and costs included testing the groups developing its brands.
Accounting for such sales discounts authorisation controls over such discounts and costs and and costs is judgmental where promotion and brand support inspecting the detail of such discounts and costs.
In addition campaigns either span the year end where settlement has not we agreed samples of specific items within accruals at been fully and finally agreed by the year end or where prior the year end to supporting documentation to assess the year claims arise, as the year end accrual can depend on accuracy of brand support discounts and costs and to ensure information not yet made available by the customer.
they are reflected in the correct period: we agreed a sample of post year end claims relating to the period prior to the year end to accruals at the year end, to give us comfort over the completeness of the year end accrual: and we considered and challenged the judgements formed by management in relation to any prior year claims from customers that remained within accruals at the year end or claims prior to the year end where there may not be an accrual for costs.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Accounts 79 The area of focus Our approach Valuation of inventories 17.3 million : 2016: 15.6 million Risk direction: Refer to page 49 Audit Committee Report, pages 92 and 94 accounting policy and page 111 financial disclosures unchanged Inventory is a significant balance and the groups main raw In this area, our procedures included testing of the controls in materials are commodities which are subject to price volatility.
relation to purchases, comparing the valuation of inventories As the group uses a standard cost as its basis of inventory for a sample of items to supporting documentation e. g. valuation, changes in price and production levels lead to purchase invoices and considering for reasonableness by purchase price or manufacturing variances which, if not reference to historical data and commodity price movements accounted for correctly, may lead to the valuation of the variances arising from the groups standard costing system inventories being misstated.
and challenging managements calculations as appropriate.
In addition our procedures included testing whether the standard costs which form the basis of the inventory valuation were set appropriately e. g. by comparing standard costs back to supporting purchase invoices and other supporting costings and reflected normal production levels, having been adjusted appropriately for any capacity underutilisation: and agreeing the calculation of overheads absorbed into inventory to supporting analyses of production costs incurred during the time of production of year-end inventory.
4 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit Materiality for the group financial statements as a whole was set at 1.4m 2016: 1.4m.
Materiality is determined with reference to a benchmark of group profit before tax, normalised to exclude exceptional items.
Materiality this year is based on profit before tax, normalized to exclude exceptional items, of 43.1 million, of which it represents 3% 2016: 3% of profit before tax.
We have chosen profit before tax excluding exceptional items because it removes the non-recurring distorting impact of exceptional items.
We report to the Audit Committee any corrected or uncorrected misstatements identified exceeding 250,000 2016: 250,000, in addition to other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
This level was selected and agreed with the Audit Committee as, given the nature and scale of operations, adjustments under this level were not deemed to be of specific interest to them.
Audits for group reporting purposes were performed for all three components by the group audit team in Cumbernauld and in London.
These audits covered 100% of group turnover, profit before tax and total assets.
The audits performed for group reporting purposes were all performed to materiality levels set individually for each component and ranged from 10,000 to 1.1 million.
Materiality Group materiallity 1.4m 1.1m Component materiality range 10,000 to 1.1m 1.4m 3% 43.1m Group materiallity PBT before exceptional items 5 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report for the financial year is consistent with the financial statements.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Accounts 80 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of A. G. BARR p. l. c. only continued 5 Our opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 is unmodified continued Based solely on the work required to be undertaken in the course of the audit of the financial statements and from reading the Strategic report and the Directors report: we have not identified material misstatements in those reports: and in our opinion, those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
6 We have nothing to report on the disclosures of principal risks Based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the directors statement of risk factors that could affect financial performance on pages 31 to 34, concerning the principal risks, their management, and, based on that, the directors assessment and expectations of the groups continuing in operation over the three years to 2020: or the disclosures in note 31 of the financial statements concerning the use of the going concern basis of accounting.
7 We have nothing to report in respect of the matters on which we are required to report by exception Under ISAs UK and Ireland we are required to report to you if, based on the knowledge we acquired during our audit, we have identified other information in the annual report that contains a material inconsistency with either that knowledge or the financial statements, a material misstatement of fact, or that is otherwise misleading.
In particular, we are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge we acquired during our audit and the directors statement that they consider that the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or the Audit Committee Report does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statements, set out on pages 35 and 42, in relation to going concern and longer-term viability: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 43 to 47 relating to the companys compliance with the eleven provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We have nothing to report in respect of the above responsibilities.
Scope and responsibilities As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 77, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
This report is made solely to the companys members as a body and is subject to important explanations and disclaimers regarding our responsibilities, published on our website at www.
com uk auditscopeukco2014a, which are incorporated into this report as if set out in full and should be read to provide an understanding of the purpose of this report, the work we have undertaken and the basis of our opinions.
Alex Sanderson Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 319 St Vincent Street Glasgow G2 5AS 28 March 2017 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2017
