Strategic Report Our Strategy Introduction Stores The Groups principal JD fascia has long been established We are engaged in omnichannel retail and we continue to as a leading retailer of branded and own brand sports invest considerable time and financial resources in our fashion apparel and footwear in the UK and Ireland.
Increasingly, developments in JD fascia is also now firmly established in mainland the Sports Fashion fascias are focused overseas with the Europe with new stores in all of our existing territories Group in the early stages of expansion outside of Europe.
complemented by a multi-store acquisition in Portugal We believe that the combination of a largely exclusive with these stores now converted to the JD format.
product offering, presented in a well fitted store with Further afield, we have expanded the JD presence in world class standards of retail theatre, are major drivers Malaysia and our acquisition in the year of Next Athleisure of footfall to our stores.
in Australia will provide the platform to open JD in Australia during the course of the new financial year.
During the year, we have continued to develop our new Building our reach for the principal JD fascia in, and flagship concept with new stores in Brussels, Cologne beyond Europe, not only gives us significant potential and a second store on Oxford Street.
These stores are for growth but it also cements the strong supplier enhanced by the latest innovations in digital technology relationships required to constantly bring in new and and take our already market leading standards of visual exclusive products and to market them collaboratively.
We will sustain the market position of the principal JD The movements in store numbers and square footage at fascia through ongoing investment in the retail store the start and end of the period are documented in the portfolio, development and nurture of global branded Where We Are section on page 24. supplier relationships, and the acquisition of brands and retailers which we can develop and exploit to ensure our Multichannel overall product offers remain uniquely appealing and our Multichannel activity has continued to grow significantly stores retain a vibrant atmosphere.
over the last 12 months as we continuously strengthen each of our channels and focus on delivering a seamless Elsewhere, we have expanded our overall Sports Fashion shopping experience for our customers.
The strength of offering with three multi-store acquisitions of which two our multichannel offer continues to differentiate us in were outside of Europe as the Group increases its global the market place, is highly regarded by our key global reach.
In Europe, we acquired the Perry Sport and brand partners and is very popular with our customers.
Aktiesport businesses which operate independently We remain focused on ensuring our customers choose from JD in the Netherlands.
Further afield, we have to shop with us, irrespective of which channels they expanded our presence in Malaysia with the acquisition choose to shop in and across.
from our JD joint venture partner Stream Enterprises of 20 small multi-brand stores trading as Sports Empire, In the UK, we have again seen significant growth in Revolution and The Marathon Shop and the acquisition online sales, principally driven by our continued of Next Athleisure in Australia giving us 32 stores trading investment and strengthening of our mobile and apps as Glue and Superglue.
Our digital and social media channels continue to be important destinations for our customers and there Our core business strength is branded retail and our has been substantial growth in sales from our instore customers are either sports fashion or outdoor oriented.
digital devices kiosks, web tills and iPads, both through Where we use own brands we will seek to present them increased adoption of existing ones by customers and as complementary to third party brands.
We seek to through the roll out of additional devices.
These enable build strong market positions which we will always seek customers to order products from the website but pay to sustain and defend.
We maintain these positions by in cash, access extended ranges not available in the constantly adding to our brand roster and endeavouring store and access our full warehouse stock inventory.
to be the partner of choice to as many brands as possible Overseas, JD now has a local language and local with as much exclusive product as possible.
currency multichannel offer in Belgium, Denmark, Ireland, Italy, France, Germany, Malaysia, the Netherlands, Any business in the Group which we invest in will have Spain and Sweden.
relevance to our core strength and all businesses in the Group need to be capable of enhanced profitability in In 2017 we will continue our focus on optimising our the medium term.
Our ultimate objective is to deliver digital channels profitably, improving the customer long term sustainable earnings growth to enhance total experience, enhancing our multichannel proposition, shareholder returns TSR through share price exploiting group synergies and rolling out our performance and dividends, whilst retaining our financial multichannel offer internationally.
capability to invest in the growth and the sustainability of our propositions.
Recent TSR performance is shown in Multichannel sales represented 13.2% 2016: 10.4% of the graph within the Remuneration Report on page 93. total fascia sales in the core JD fascia across the core markets of the UK and Republic of Ireland, excluding In working towards our objectives we aim to act kiosk sales.
always in a responsible and ethical manner with all our stakeholders including suppliers, employees and, of course, our customers.
55 55 Strategic Report Annual Report & Accounts 2017 Our Strategy continued Infrastructure and Resources Financial Key Performance Indicators Our most important resources are our people.
We are a large equal opportunities employer and we are 2017 2016 % particularly proud of our training resources.
We provide 000 000 Change Note direct employment and career development to Revenue 2,378,694 1,821,652 31% thousands of people, including large numbers of recent school leavers and graduates.
We believe retention of Gross profit % 48.9% 48.5% our best staff is crucial to the success of our business Operating profit 239,793 133,406 80% as it preserves the DNA of each business.
Operating profit 246,212 158,902 55% before exceptional items We continue to invest in our central distribution facility Kingsway in Rochdale to handle further growth in 157,127 56% Profit before tax and 244,787 volumes.
Internal infrastructure works commenced in exceptional items January 2017 to expand the existing facility whilst Profit before tax 238,368 131,631 81% construction work on a 352,000 sqft.
footprint Basic earnings per 18.38p 10.03p extension commenced in March 2017.
This facility will ordinary share b be available for full use in 2019.
Adjusted basic earnings per 10 19.04p 12.27p ordinary share b Period ended Period ended 28 January 2017 30 January 2016 Total dividend payable per ordinary 1.55p 1.48p share b 66.40m 59.58m Number of items processed by Kingsway Distribution Centre Net cash at end of period a 28 213,600 209,421 We recognise the importance of protecting our a Net cash consists of cash and cash equivalents together with interest-bearing environment and are committed to carrying out loans and borrowings.
all our activities with due consideration for their environmental impact, particularly with regard to b The prior year has been restated to reflect the 5:1 share split which was approved ensuring efficient use of energy and other resources by shareholders at a General Meeting on 24 November 2016. and materials, minimising waste by recycling wherever possible and ensuring compliance with relevant legislation and codes of best practice.
See also our Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 66 to 73.
On behalf of the Board The risks faced by the Group and our mitigation plans are reported separately on pages 57 to 59.
Peter Cowgill Executive Chairman 10 April 2017
