GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 MARKET OUTLOOK The Company has seen a limited pipeline of primary deals but attractive opportunities in the secondarymarket.
14 Strategic report GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 UK infrastructure sector overview Despite this uncertainty, investors from all over the The Company has also recently enjoyed The political outlook in the UK remains uncertain, world retain confidence in the UK as an attractive increasingsuccess in targeting large scale 18 months on from the UK vote to leave the EU.
In the context well-performing operational assets supported by The impact of Brexit continues to be difficult to of historic low interest rates, the low-volatility, legacy subsidy regimes, as asset owners seek to quantify amidst the backdrop of greater domestic relatively dependable and income-generating refinance existing debt or investors have continued political tension, and despite Parliaments nature of UK infrastructure investments have to look to sell down positions.
These types of decision to trigger Article 50 in March this year, proved increasingly attractive to a diverse range opportunities have now become a key focus for no coherent strategy for a future relationship with ofinvestors spanning the debt and equity space.
The enormous complexity This has resulted in increasing prices and falling that surroundsthe withdrawal process means the returns in many of the Companys target markets.
next twelve months will be critical in determining Historically the Company has been able to investor confidence in the UK, and more specifically differentiate itself by focusing on opportunities the health of the its public finances, which in turn with smaller developers, notably in renewables, will directly impact on the appetite and capacity that were otherwise unable to gain traction with the to deliver investment in public infrastructure.
bank lending or institutional market.
This enabled Theimmediate economic repercussions of the the Company to deliver growth through significant decision to leave have been a weakened currency primary investment, aided by the prevalence resulting in a spike in inflation and an increase of the PFI procurement model for small social in interest rates from the Bank of England.
infrastructure assets, and widespread government Withinflation protection embedded within a support for renewables.
material portion of the portfolio and valuation discount rates in maturing sectors at material premiums to risk-free rates, the Company is well positioned to weather these eventualities.
UK PFI PROCUREMENT 80 8 Capital value billion Number of projects 70 7 60 6 50 5 40 4 30 3 20 2 10 1 0 0 Source: HM Treasury and Infrastructure and Projects Authority.
15 Number of projects 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Capital value billion GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 MARKET OUTLOOK CONTINUED Target market updates and investment focus of the majority of operational social infrastructure To maintain its support for future renewable PFI PF2 assets is dominated by long-term investors, and so energyprojects under the Electricity Market Both the primary and secondary PFI market has further disposals of these assets are likely to be Reform the Government has shifted towards a continued to be quiet over the year as a general limited to where such investors target a strategic pricing model involving CfDs, which effectively political consensus has emerged opposing adjustment in asset or geographical allocation or provide for a real terms floor in the value of the extended roll out of PF2.
In particular, an outright exit.
the procurement pipeline of new assets has The Company has not made material investments Several notable CfDs were awarded during the stuttered.
The Conservative Government is in PFI or PF2 projects for several years, but a year, including for the 3.2GW Hinckley Point C focused on delivering Brexit and lacks the number of small-scale PPP opportunities in nuclear power and the 2.4GW combined Hornsea2 necessary parliamentary majority to extend PF2.
Scotland have emerged through the strong and Mary offshore wind farms.
The latter largely In his Autumn budget in November 2017, the relationships formed with the limited number surprised the market and confirmed the dramatic Chancellor was noticeably less specific about of developers operating in this space seeking reduction in the cost of producing offshore wind the timing, scale and structure of private sector subordinated debt funding.
energy resulting from increased technological infrastructure investment opportunities than a innovation and growing investor sentiment.
The Labour opposition has specifically The large growth seen in this sector over the The CfD support mechanism is geared towards pledged to abandon PF2 entirely with the Shadow last decade was fuelled by Government subsidy larger generation assets which due to both the Chancellor going further by suggesting at the regimes, the most significant of which have Companys size and target returns have typically Labour conference in September 2017 that they been the FiT and ROCs.
These subsidies have not been a core focus.
Additionally, onshore wind would bring existing PFI contracts back in-house.
now eitherbeen removed entirely for large-scale and solar are not supported by the CfD mechanism.
What the implications of this latter comment are projects greater than 5MW, or reduced to levels Going forward, the Government now expects these for existing investors in PFI assets is very difficult that render small-scale projects uneconomical.
assets to be delivered on an unsubsidised basis.
to gauge given the lack of policy specifics.
The This has resulted in amaterial reduction in primary churn in operational assets has declined as fewer opportunities for the Company.
projects roll out of construction.
The investor base PROJECTED UK RENEWABLES MARKET GROWTH 50 40 30 20 10 0 2016 17 2017 18 2018 19 2019 20 2020 21 2021 22 2022 23 2023 24 2024 25 Anaerobic digestion Biomass Hydro power Onshore wind Solar Offshore wind Source: HM Treasury, Control for Low Carbon Levies, November 2017.
16 Gigawatts Strategic report GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 With the exception of a handful of new build The delivery model for supported living currently BEPS small-scale anaerobic digestion projects, the involves supplementary funding provided from After industry consultation, HMRC updated Companys focus in the renewables sector has central Government exempt from the wider caps their guidance around BEPS legislation and now shifted towards the secondary market.
A key in place for housing benefit through the universal the deduction of corporateinterest expense.
example of this was the Companys participation credit system.
From 2019 20 onwards this The guidance contained a number of reliefs for in the sale of the GIB, in which loans were additional funding is expected to be met through infrastructure assets under the PIE, which includes advanced against a variety of construction phase a ring-fenced pot devolved to local authorities.
exemptions for legacy PFI PPP projects, and and operational renewable and energy efficiency Whilstthe finer details of this policy remain greater detail on the accounting application has assets.
Following on from this, the active pipeline subjectto extended consultation, the Government been provided for projects not otherwise covered for similar secondary investment opportunities has committed to the principle of maintaining the by the PIE.
The new UK rules were passed into in operational onshore wind and solar assets has current level of funding that is provided through law on 16 November 2017 under the Finance grown, assisted by the Companys capacity for the existing model, in acknowledgment of the No.
2 Act 2017-2019, with the UK corporate larger individual deal sizes and its relationship with economic and social benefits of increased delivery interest restriction legislation being effective the developers and advisers active in this segment of specialist social housing.
To date, the Company has invested in the sector The Company does not believe that the application Social housing through the provision of senior ranking secured of the new rules presents a material risk, primarily Over the last three years, the Company has debt against a combination of existing and new as the Company is not UK resident and is not specifically targeted lending in the supported living housing stock.
Each of these units benefits from part of a worldwide group with a net UK interest sub-sector of the social housing market, primarily a long-dated typically 35 years fully repairing expense in excess of 2 million per year, which because opportunities have emerged in relatively and insuring lease with a registered provider of is the threshold for the UK corporate interest small lot sizes that have until recently been less social housing.
It is expected that the heightened restriction rules to apply.
competitive than the general social housing arena.
competition in this sector will narrow the In response to the growing demand for investment Companys focus to very small individual projects in both supported housing and social housing more with existing borrowers, limited to the delivery generally, several specialist funds have launched of new stock with registered providers with during the year which have introduced in excess specialised geographic focus.
of1 billion of additional capital to this sector.
