GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 UK INFRASTRUCTURE MARKET UK infrastructure assets involving private sector investment typically generate revenues from long-term, public sector backed contracts.
12 Strategic report GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 Social and economic infrastructure Renewable energy infrastructure of housing for families, while others provide The UK Government first introduced PFI structures In an effort to increase the proportion of energy supported accommodation through specialist in the mid-1990s as the primary method of produced in the UK from renewable resources projects for people with mental or physical procurement for social infrastructure projects.
like sunlight, wind and wood, the UK introduced disabilities.
The vast majority of the income of Over 60 billion of predominantly hospitals and a variety of incentives to stimulate private sector housing associations arises from the payments schools were developed using private sector investment in renewable energy infrastructure.
of rent by local authorities.
Housing associations capital under PFI structures, with a new, if similar, The subsidies such as the FiT, RHI, ROCs and typically either own the properties within their model being introduced in 2012 in the form of PFI CfDs are typically payable over a 20 year period portfolios or enter into long-term typically 20 and PF2 structures which involve a private sector to owners of eligible renewable energy projects to 50 year fully repairing and insuring leases consortium entering into a contract with a central for the generation of energy using renewable from private sector landlords inorder to access or local government entity e. g. a local authority in sources.
As such, renewable energy projects that suitableproperties.
the case of a school or an NHS Trust in the case of receive subsidy payments generate long-dated Longdated infrastructure debt finance a hospital to design, finance, build and operate an andpredictable cash flows that are either implicitly Given the high capital cost and long-dated cash infrastructure asset.
The contract term is typically or explicitly supported by the UK Government.
flows generated by infrastructure assets, they are between 25 and 30 years.
During the operational Social housing generally most efficiently financed by long-dated phase of the contract, the public sector entity pays Housing associations, or registered providers debt.
Such loans are made to a single purpose, a predetermined fee for the use of the asset that is of social housing, are independent bodies ring-fenced company that owns the underlying operated by the private sector consortium.
established for the purpose of providing low-cost asset as shown below.
The payment of such a fee is typically not social housing for people in housing need on Loan documentation ensures key structural dependent on the level of use of the infrastructure a not-for-profit basis.
Housing associations benefits for the lenders, including tight control of asset, but on whether the asset is available for use.
are regulated in England by the Homes and project cash flows and assets, high transparency As such, PFI and PF2 structures create long-dated Communities Agency.
There are now c. 1,800 and an exposure limited solely to an identified and predictable cash flows payable by central or English housing associations that provide a wide asset with pre-defined risks.
range of housing, some managing large estates Typical infrastructure project structure Illustrative priority of payments with typical infrastructure project structure UK infrastructure assets involving private sector investment are often Total revenues, often contracted to rise in line with RPI or another inflation constructed and to a greater or lesser extent maintained by a private index, will typically be used to service in order of priority the cost of sector entity or consortium acting through a single purpose company operating and or maintaining the asset to the required standard, senior known as the Project Company.
Such companies typically generate their debt, subordinated debt if any, and finally to provide a return to the primary source of revenue from long-term contracts with public sector or equityholders.
public sector backed counterparties and are thus generally considered to be relatively dependable and predictable.
Theproject company also enters into various contracts in order to deliver, inter alia, the construction and operations and maintenance ofthe project.
Senior Subordinated Equity debt debt Equity Senior Subordinated owner lender lender Public sector backed counterparty Public sector backed counterparty Project Project agreement agreement Project Company Project Company O&M Construction 1st 2nd 3rd 4th contract contract O&M Building O&M Senior Subordinated Equity company contractor company lender lender provider 13
