GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 EFFECTIVENESS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The Board attempts to ensure that it has the appropriate balance of skills, experience, knowledge and independence in order to remain effective.
Performance evaluation The Board undertakes annual anti-money The Boards policy regarding tenure of service is The Company engaged Trust Associates, a laundering training and the Jersey resident that any decisions regarding tenure should balance specialist consultancy firm which is independent of Directors undertake the required hours of the need to maintain continuity, knowledge, the Company and its Investment Adviser, during the continuing professional development in experience and independence, against the need to year to undertake an evaluation of the performance accordance with their profession and Jersey periodically refresh the Board composition in order of the Board of Directors and its committees.
regulations including training on areas relating to have the appropriate mix of skills, experience, to the Companys activities such as specialist age and length of service.
The Board considers Trust Associates engaged with the Chairman to renewable sectors.
that the length of service of a Director should be set the context for the evaluation and to tailor determined on an individual basis.
Therefore, if the content to the specific circumstances of the The Board attempts to ensure that it has the a Director has served more than nine years, the Company.
A representative from Trust Associates appropriate balance of skills, experience, Board will consider the issue of independence conducted interviews with each Director together knowledge and independence in order to remain carefully on an annual basis as part of the Board with representatives from the InvestmentAdviser, effective.
Biographical details of the Directors are self-evaluation process and will disclose its the Company Secretary and with four of the shown on pages 38 and 39. conclusions in the Directors report.
Trust Associates were also engaged by the Board Directors' independence The results of the performance evaluation to conduct a review of the Directors remuneration.
The Board has reviewed the independence of processwere reported to, and discussed by Their recommendations can be found in the each Director in accordance with the guidance both the Nomination committee and the Board.
Directors' remuneration report on page 56 andwill set out under principle 2 of the AIC Code and the It was noted that a recommendation had been be put forward to the 2018 Annual GeneralMeeting.
The Board acknowledges made to consider the appointment of a Senior Appointment and re-election of Directors that Paul fide Gruchy has an indirect holding of Independent Director together with a number of Under the provisions of the Companys Articles, 474,390 ordinary shares in the Company and that other recommendations and matters which will the Directors retire by rotation with one-third of Clive Spears has a holding of 26,531 ordinary beconsidered by the Board during the course of the Directors submitting themselves for election shares in the Company, at 30 September 2017. the forthcoming financial year.
at each Annual General Meeting, however, the The Board has discussed the interests in the The Board evaluation for 2018 will follow up on the Board recognises that as a FTSE 250 company Company held by Mr fide Gruchy and Mr Spears recommendations made to ensure that progress is and in accordance with corporate governance best and it is satisfied that it does not materially impact assessed and measured.
practice as set out in the AIC Code, all Directors their ability to exercise independent judgement should put themselves forward for re-election on the Board.
Accordingly, the Board considers everyyear.
all Directors on the Board to be independent.
Forfurther details on Directors interests, refer topage 57.
50 Governance GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 Statement of Directors shareholding Responsibility for accounting and company In arriving at its judgement of what risks the andshareinterests secretarial services has been contractually Company faces, the Board has considered the The Board has discussed the interests in the delegated to the Administrator.
The Administrator Companys operations in the light of the following Company by both Mr fide Gruchy and Mr Spears has established its own system of internal factors: and maintains that it does not materially impact controlsin relation to these matters, details of the nature and extent of risks which it regards their ability to exercise independent judgement which have been reviewed by the Board as part as acceptable for the Company to bear within on the Board.
Accordingly, the Board considers all ofthe risk assessment process.
its overall business objective: Directors on the Board to be independent.
Internal control assessment process the threat of such risks becoming reality: Internal controls and risk management review The Board conducts a risk assessment on a the Companys ability to reduce the incidence The Directors acknowledge that they have overall semi-annual basis.
The review covers the operation, and impact of risk on its performance: responsibility for ensuring that there are systems compliance and financial risks facing theCompany.
of internal control in place, both financial and The Directors confirm that by means of the the cost to the Company and benefits related non-financial, and for reviewing their effectiveness.
procedures set out above, and in accordance with to the review of risk associated controls of the The purpose of the internal financial controls the UK Code and the AIC Code and Guide, they have Company: and is to ensure that proper accounting records are established a continuing process for identifying, the extent to which the third parties operate the maintained, the Companys assets are safeguarded evaluating and managing the significant potential relevant controls.
and the financial information used within the risks faced by the Company and have reviewed This process has been in place throughout and business and for publication is accurate and the effectiveness of the internal control systems.
subsequent to the accounting year under review.
reliable: such a system can provide only reasonable The Board, through the Audit & Risk committee, and not absolute assurance against material has identified risk management controls in the Key service providers other misstatement or loss.
following key areas:  Details of the key service providers other than The Board reviews the effectiveness of its execution risk: theInvestment Adviser can be found on page 74 risk management systems and all financial portfolio risk: ofthe financial statements.
performance and results notifications together financial risk: and with the Investment Adviser.
Non-financial internal controls include the systems of operational other risks.
and compliance controls maintained by the Ian Reeves CBE Administrator and the Investment Adviser in Chairman relation to the Companys business as well as the management of key risks as referred to in the 13 December 2017 strategic report.
Refer to pages 30 to 35 for amore detailed overview of the risks that have been assessed.
There were no matters arising from this review that required further investigation and no significant failings or weakness were identified.
