GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC OVERVIEW The Company seeks to provide shareholders with regular, sustained, long-term dividend income.
8 Strategic report GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 The objective of the Company is to establish a diversified portfolio of subordinated debt infrastructure assets and related and or similar assets.
Investment objectives and policies Nonfinancial objectives of the Company Investment strategy The Companys investment objectives are to The key non-financial objectives of the The Company achieves its investment objectives provide shareholders with regular, sustained, Companyare: primarily by taking on debt exposure on a senior long-term dividends and to preserve the capital and subordinated basis to UK infrastructure to maintain strong relationships with all value of its investment assets over the long term, projects with the following characteristics: key stakeholders of the Company, including by generating exposure to infrastructure debt shareholders and borrowers: and pre-determined, very long-term, public sector and or similar assets.
backed revenues: to develop and increase the understanding of The Company makes investments in senior the investment strategy of the Company and no construction or property risks: and and subordinated debt instruments issued by infrastructure as an investment class.
contracts where payments do not depend on the infrastructure project companies, their owners Key policies level of use of the project which are availability ortheir lenders, and assets with a similar Distribution based i. e. the payments under the contracts economiceffect.
The Company seeks to provide its shareholders do not depend on the level of use of the project The Company receives debt service payments with regular, sustained, long-term dividend income.
in accordance with the terms of its investments.
TheCompany has previously offered a scrip In accordance with the Companys prospectus, Thedebt service payments, comprisinginterest dividend alternative and anticipates that it will investments as described above must make up a and principal payments are covered by expected continue to do so.
minimum of 75% of the Companys total assets.
cash flows generated by the underlying Leverage and gearing infrastructure project company.
The Company may also consider, in respect of up The Company intends to make prudent use of to an absolute maximum of 25% of its total assets The objective of the Company is to establish leverage to finance the acquisition of investments at the time the relevant investment is made, a diversified portfolio of subordinated debt and enhance returns to investors.
taking exposure to: infrastructure assets and related and or similar Structural gearing of investments is permitted up assets and to maintain its portfolio so that not projects that have not yet completed to a maximum of 20% of the Companys net asset more than 10% in value of the Companys total construction: value immediately following drawdown of the assets from time to time consist of securities or projects in the regulated utilities sector: and relevant debt.
loans relating to any one individual infrastructure projects with demand based concessions asset having regard to the risks relating to any Conflicts of interest i. e. where the payments received depend on the cross default or  provisions.
The Company has given its consent for the level of use of the project assets or which have This objective is subject to the Company having Investment Adviser to act as the investment private sector sponsored concessions, to the a sufficient level of investment capital from time manager to GCP Asset Backed Income Fund extent that the Investment Adviser considers to time, the ability of the Company to invest Limited, a closed-ended investment company that there is a reasonable level of certainty in its cash in suitable investments and is subject listedon the London Stock Exchanges Main relation to: to theinvestment restrictions described in the Market.
GCP Asset Backed Income Fund Limited investment strategy.
is focused predominantly on debt investments the likely level of demand: and secured against physical assets and or contracted Similarly, it is the intention of the Directors that the the stability of the resulting revenue.
assets of the Company are as far as is reasonable There is no, and it is not anticipated that there will in the context of a UK infrastructure portfolio The Company has given its consent on the basis be any, outright property exposure to the Company appropriately diversified by asset type e. g. PFI that where the Investment Adviser identifies an except potentially as additional security.
healthcare, PFI education, solar power, social investment which, in its opinion acting reasonably housing, biomass etc.
and by revenue source and in good faith, falls within the Companys remit, e. g. NHS Trusts, local authorities, FiT, ROCs etc.
the Company will have a right of first refusal.
9 GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC OVERVIEW CONTINUED Delivery of investment objectives through implementation of investment strategy Investment objective Implementation of investment strategy PFI, social housing and renewable energy cash flows DIVIDEND INCOME The Companys distributions are dependent primarily on the long-term cash flows generated by To provide shareholders with regular, projects in the PFI, social housing and renewable energy sectors that are backed by the UK public sustainablelongterm dividends sector, unitary charge payments in PFI transactions, lease payments in social housing deals and subsidy payments in renewable energy projects.
Availabilitybased cash flows The Companys investments are typically secured against cash flows that are not dependent on the level of use of the underlying infrastructure asset, meaning that if the project is operating as expected, future cash flows are predictable and dependable.
Investment in debt The Company normally invests in debt where there is equity that takes the first loss position in the event of project cash flow interruption or underperformance.
Debt returns, by their nature, are more predictable than equity returns.
Careful management of costs The Board pays careful attention to the management of costs associated with running the Company and follows comprehensive corporate governance procedures.
Careful management of capital raising spending The Company raises capital on a highly conservative basis only when it has a clear view of a robust pipeline of highly advanced investment opportunities.
Delivery of investment objective The Company has maintained or progressively increased its dividend for every period since inception and has paid a dividend of 7.6 pence for the fifth consecutive year.
7.6p 46.7m Dividends paid in 2016 17 Profit for the year Exposure limits DIVERSIFICATION The investments of the Company are, as far as is reasonable in the context of a UK infrastructure To create a diversified portfolio of debt portfolio, appropriately diversified by underlying project, borrower, facilities manager, asset type securedagainst UK infrastructure projects e. g. PFIhealthcare, PFI education, solar power, social housing, biomass etc.
and by revenue source e. g. NHS Trusts, local authorities, FiT, ROCs etc.
Synergy with existing portfolio New investments are evaluated to ensure their addition would add balance and diversification to theexisting portfolio of the Company with regards to credit risk, asset sector, investment term and income return.
Regular monitoring The exposures within the Companys investment portfolio are constantly monitored to ensure any concentration of risk falls within acceptable parameters.
Delivery of investment objective During the year, the Company has increased the number of investments in its portfolio from 43 to 46.
The investment portfolio is exposed to a wide variety of sectors in terms of project type and source of underlying cash flow.
1 46 13.2% Number of investments Size of largest investment 1.
The size of the largest investment the Cardale PFI loan is calculated by reference to the percentage of total assets.
The Cardale PFI loan is secured on a cross-collateralised basis against 14 separate operational PFI projects, with no exposure to any individual project being in excess of 10% of the total portfolio.
10 Strategic report GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 Investment objective Implementation of investment strategy Inflation protection CAPITAL PRESERVATION Wherever possible, the Company invests in projects with sufficient inflation linkage in the underlying To preserve the capital value of its cash flows to enable the Companys debt investments to be structured with inflation protection investmentassets over the long term characteristics.
This protects the capital value of the investments in the event of high inflation.
Underlying project dependability The Company invests primarily in debt secured against projects that are relatively simple in terms of construction, operation, maintenance and technology, have competent and financially stable facilities managers and good operational histories.
Extensive due diligence Where appropriate, the Investment Adviser will complement its analysis through the use of professional third party advisers, including technical advisers, financial and legal advisers and valuation and insurance experts.
These advisers are engaged to conduct due diligence that is intended to provide an additional and independent review of key aspects and risks of a project, providing comfort as to the level of risk mitigation and the projects ongoing performance.
Investment in debt The capital value of the Companys investments is partially insulated from underlying project underperformance by the equity finance that always ranks below such debt investments.
Return premium over longterm interest rates The valuations of the Companys investments take into account, inter alia, long-term interest rates.
TheCompanys investments yield significant premiums to such rates as swaps and gilts and as such create a buffer in the event of long-dated rate rises.
Delivery of investment objective The valuation of the Companys investment portfolio is in excess of the principal value outstanding.
The increase in valuation has resulted in a NAV per share of 110.57 pence.
The ordinary shares have always traded at a premium to their net asset value.
110.57p 126.40p NAV per share Share price as at 29 September 2017 11
