GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS Dialogue with shareholders In the annual report, the Directors seek to provide that the authorised share capital of the The Board recognises the importance of shareholders with information in sufficient detail to Company be increased by the creation of maintaining a purposeful relationship with allow them to obtain a reasonable understanding an additional 700,000,000 ordinary shares, shareholders.
The Company, primarily through of recent developments affecting the business and 150,000,000 C shares and 150,000,000 deferred its Investment Adviser and Corporate Broker, the prospects for the Company in the year ahead.
shares in the capital of the Company with engages in ongoing communication with its The various sections of the strategic report on 99.63% of the shareholders voting in favour.
shareholders via daily market interactions and pages 8 to 35 provide further information.
Statement of voting at general meeting shareholder, analyst and marketing presentations.
Communication of up-to-date information is The Company is committed to ongoing The Board invites shareholders to attend and vote provided through the Companys website.
shareholderdialogue and takes an active at general meetings of the Company in order that interestinvoting outcomes.
Where there are 2017 General Meeting they may discuss governance and strategy and to substantial votes against any resolution at the A General Meeting was held on 10 February 2017 understand shareholders issues and concerns.
Annual General Meeting, the Company will liaise to approve the proposal to grant the Directors The Chairman of the Board and the Chair of each with investors and agree on the actions it intends authority to allot and disapply pre-emption of the committees attend general meetings of the to take going forward.
rights in respect of 215 million ordinary shares Company to answer any questions posed by the in connection with the 2017 share issuance At the last Annual General Meeting, 99.69% of shareholders.
programme with 97.04% of the shareholders shareholders voted for the resolution to approve Further dialogue with shareholders is achieved votingin favour of the resolution.
through the annual and half-yearly reports, 2017 Annual General Meeting 2018 Annual General Meeting news releases via the LSE and the Companys The 2017 Annual General Meeting of the Company The Annual General Meeting will be held on website.
The Companys annual and half-year was held on 10 February 2017.
Resolutions 1 to 12 9February 2018 at the registered office of the reports reports are dispatched to shareholders related to ordinary business, which are put to the Company: 12 Castle Street, St Helier, Jersey by post andare also available to download from shareholders annually.
This information is to special business as passed by the shareholders supplemented by the quarterly calculation and A separate notice convening the Annual General as follows: publication of the NAV of the Companys shares Meeting will be distributed to shareholders onthe LSE and the publication of a quarterly to authorise the Directors to allot ordinary on or around 8 January 2018, which includes factsheet by the Investment Adviser.
shares and in otherwise than in accordance an explanation of the items of business to be withstatutory pre-emption rights with 99.66% considered at the meeting.
A copy of the notice of the shareholder voting in favour of the willbe published on the Companys website.
resolution: and Investor publications Results and other news releases such as asset acquisitions and annual and half-yearly results of the Company are published via RNS.
This information is supplemented by publication of thequarterly NAV and the dividend declarations.
The Investment Adviser publishes a quarterly factsheet on its website which provides a Company update and key statistics in regards to the Companys portfolio.
The investor factsheets are available to download from the Companys website.
The Companys annual report is despatched to shareholders annually by post.
Electronic copies of the annual report and half-yearly report are also available to download from the Companys website.
