GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 ACCOUNTABILITY AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT I am pleased to present the Companys 2017 Audit & Risk committee report.
Summary consistent with prior year reporting and how the The committee operates within clearly defined Board assesses the performance of the Companys Terms of Reference, a copy of which is available business during the financial year, as required for from the Companys website or on request companies with a Premium Listing under the UK from the Company Secretary.
The Terms of Corporate Governance Code.
As part of this review, Reference require the committee to monitor the the committee considered if the annual report Companys financial reporting, internal controls, and financial statements provided the information risk management and external audit process.
necessary to shareholders to assess the Companys In August2017, the committee reviewed and performance, strategy and business model and recommended updates to its Terms of Reference reviewed the description of the Companys key to the Board.
This included the renaming of the performance indicators as well as updating the committee to the Audit & Risk committee to Governance section of the annual report.
betterreflect the responsibilities and workings The committee presented its conclusions to the ofthe committee.
Board and the Board concluded that it considered The committee is responsible for making the annual report and financial statements, taken recommendations to the Board in respect of the as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable appointment, re-appointment, and remuneration and provides the information necessary for ofthe Auditor and the Auditors plan for the year.
the shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Composition At 30 September 2017, the committee comprised In addition to the above matters, the committees three of the Companys Directors including work was focused on the following areas: David Pirouet FCA the Chairman, Mr David Pirouet, who is a Chairman of the Audit reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control chartered accountant and a former audit partner, & Risk committee environment of the Company and the Companys MrIanReeves CBE and Mr Michael Gray.
compliance with its regulatory requirements: The Board considers that the independence, reviewing and recommending to the Board experience and knowledge of each of the significant accounting matters and accounting committee members is sufficient for discharging disclosures in the half-yearly and annual financial its responsibilities and in particular taking account statements of the Company including matters of the financial, audit, banking and infrastructure of judgement in relation to valuation.
This experience of the members of the committee.
year the areas examined include the discount Thecommittee met three times during the year rates applied in the valuation process and the ended 30 September 2017. performance of the investments.
The committee The committee has reviewed and evaluated its discussed these matters with the Valuation own performance as part of the Boards annual Agent, the Investment Adviser and the Auditor, evaluation process, explained in the Nomination including the Auditors valuation specialist: committee report on page 54. overseeing the Companys relations with Financial reporting its Auditor including assessing the conduct The committee considered the requirements of and effectiveness of the audit process and the UK Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and the Auditors independence and objectivity, Directors Report Regulation 2013 with which it recommending the Auditors reappointment is complying voluntarily, in line with best practice andapproving the Auditors fees: and reporting.
The committee specifically reviewed reviewing the Companys compliance with its the annual report and financial statements to regulatory obligations in Jersey.
conclude whether the financial reporting is fair, balanced, understandable, comprehensive and 52 Governance GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 The Auditor is invited to attend the committee The discount rates adopted to determine the KPMG Channel Islands Limited has been Auditor meeting at which the annual report is considered valuation are selected and recommended by ofthe Company since its appointment at the and at which they have the opportunity to meet the Valuation Agent.
The discount rates applied Annual General Meeting in February 2016, following with the committee without representatives to the expected future cash flows for each an external audit tender process in October 2015. of the Investment Adviser being present.
The investments financial forecasts derived adopting There are no contractual obligations restricting committee has direct access to the Auditor and the assumptions explained above to arrive at a thechoice of Auditor and the Company will to the key senior staff of the Investment Adviser valuation discounted cash flow valuation.
The consider putting the audit services contract out and reports its findings and recommendations to resulting valuation is sensitive to the discount rate to tender at least every ten years.
The committee the Board which retains the ultimate responsibility selected.
The Valuation Agent is experienced and reviewed the effectiveness of the audit process for the financial statements of the Company.
active in the area of valuing these investments during the year, considering performance, Allrecommendations were accepted by the Board.
and adopts discount rates reflecting their current objectivity, independence and relevant experience and extensive experience of the market.
The of the Auditor during the year.
Following this Significant issues considered discount rate assumptions and the sensitivity of review, the committee has recommended the After discussions with both the Investment Adviser the valuation of the investments to this discount re-appointment of KPMG Channel Islands and the Auditor, the committee determined that rateare disclosed in note 18.
Limitedas the Companys Auditor at the Annual the key risks of material misstatement of the General Meeting.
Companys financial statements related to the In particular, the committee considered in detail valuation of investments.
the reductions of the discount rate applied to As previously explained, it has been decided that certain assets during the year.
The Valuation Agent the Auditor would review the Companys half year Valuation of investments explained this was principally as a consequence accounts, but the Auditor would not be requested As outlined in note 18, the total carrying value of of increased competition in the secondary market to perform any other non-audit services.
financial assets at fair value at 30 September 2017 for infrastructure and renewable assets, which was 899.3 million 2016: 699.7 million.
Market Risk management had been seen during bidding and general market quotations are not available for these financial During the year the committee: activity.
This was corroborated by the Investment assets such that their valuation is undertaken using reviewed and updated the risk matrix, where Adviser.
The committee considered in detail the a discounted cash flow methodology.
This requires appropriate, to reflect the Companys key risks: revised discount rates applied to the loans subject a series of material judgements to be made as and to impairment.
further explained in note 18. considered the presentation of risk related The committee discussed the material estimates The committee discussed the valuation process matters in the annual report and financial and judgements and also compared these to and methodology with the Investment Adviser statements.
feedback from the Investment Adviser.
The in May, July, September and October 2017 as committee was satisfied that the range of discount Other matters part ofthe review of the half-yearly and annual rates were appropriate for the valuation carried out Other matters reviewed by the committee during reports.
The Valuation Agent carries out a valuation by the Valuation Agent.
the year included: quarterly and provides a quarterly valuation updateand detailed quarterly valuation report The Auditor explained the results of their audit and the Companys dividend policy relating to new tothe Company.
that on the basis of their audit work there were no shares issued where these have been partly adjustments proposed that were material in the funded by share premium and the policy has In order to provide further assurance regarding the context of the financial statements as a whole.
been amended as explained in note 9. basis of valuation, the Company meets with the Valuation Agent at least once a year to discuss this External audit as well as reviewing the formal reports from the Audit fees for the year amounted to 66,000 Valuation Agent on a regular basis.
2016:52,000 and non-audit fees amounted David Pirouet FCA to15,000 2016: 15,000 In August 2017, the committee met with the Chairman of the Audit & Risk committee Auditor to review and agree their audit plan 13 December 2017 for the audit of the financial statements and in particular their approach on the valuation and in December2017 to discuss their report after the conclusion oftheir audit.
53 GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 ACCOUNTABILITY NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Company has a formal, rigorous and transparent process for the appointment of directors.
The Nomination committee comprises Mr Ian Succession planning and tenure of service The Deputy Chairman also met with the Chairman Reeves CBE, Mr Clive Spears and Mr David Pirouet.
The Nomination committee is also obliged to to discuss the Directors comments on the consider succession planning for Directors with Chairmans performance evaluation.
The results During the year, the Nomination committee held particular attention paid to the challenges and of the evaluation process were reported to, two meetings.
Attendance of members at those opportunities facing the Company.
As Ian Reeves and discussed by the Nomination committee meetings is shown in the table on page 47.
CBE is Chairman of the Nomination committee and and subsequently by the Board.
The evaluation The function of this committee is to consider the Company, he will not chair any meeting when considered the overall composition of the Board appointments to the Board and its individual dealing with the appointment of a successor to the including plans for succession over time and the committees in the context of the requirements of Companys chairmanship.
delivery of Directors performance appraisals.
the Company and to make recommendations to Atthis meeting, the committee noted that each The Boards policy regarding tenure of service is the Board with regard to any changes to maintain of the Directors had expressed an intention to that any decisions regarding tenure should balance abalanced and effective Board.
continue in office for the foreseeable future.
the need to maintain continuity, knowledge, Thecommittee also agreed that Clive Spears Board appointments and diversity experience and independence against the need to wouldcontinue to assume the role of Deputy Further to the publication of the Davies Report on periodically refresh the Board composition in order Chairman in the event of Ian Reeves unavailability.
Women on Boards, the Board supports the principle to have the appropriate mix of skills, experience, for boardroom diversity, of which gender is one age and length of service.
The Board considers Based on the outcome of the Board performance important aspect.
Board diversity, including gender, that the length of service of a Director should be evaluation process, the Nomination committee is taken into account when evaluating the skills, determined on an individual basis.
Therefore, if agreed to recommend the re-appointment of knowledge and experience desirable to fill vacancies a Director has served more than nine years, the Ian Reeves CBE as Chairman at the Annual on the Board as and when they arise.
The committee Board will consider the issue of independence General Meeting together with the appointment would like to emphasise that all appointments to the carefully on an annual basis as part of the Board of Clive Spears as SID.
The committee believes Board are based on merit with the most appropriate evaluation process and will disclose its conclusion that Mr Reeves has continued to make valuable candidate, who is the best fit for the Company, being in the Directors report.
contributions to the Company and has exercised nominated for appointment.
The committee believes his judgement and expressed his opinions in Performance evaluation the Directors provide, individually and collectively, an independent manner.
Each of the Directors The Nomination committee met in October 2017, to the necessary breadth of skills and experience to will also be offering themselves for re-election review the results of the performance evaluation of manage the Company.
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on the Board which had been externally facilitated by The Company has a formal, rigorous and 9February2018.
The evaluation process involved transparent process for the appointment of an analysis of the Chairmans performance, Board directors.
Specialist recruitment consultants assist performance and that of its committees and the committee with this process.
recommendations for appointments are put to the Ian Reeves CBE Board for approval.
Chairman of the Nomination committee 13 December 2017 54
