Governance GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors are pleased to present their annual The Company currently posts a circular to On 10 February 2017 the Company obtained report and the audited financial statements for shareholders in relation to the scrip dividend shareholder approval relating to the creation the year ended 30September 2017.
The corporate facility on a quarterly basis.
In order to streamline ofthe2017 Placing Programme permitting it to governance statement set out on pages 44 to 51 this process and reduce costs, going forward the issueup to 215 million ordinary shares for cash forms part of this report.
Company will publish a single shareholder circular ona non pre-emptive basis, representing 29.3% on an annual basis in respect of its scrip dividend of the ordinary shares then in issue.
This followed Principal activity and business review facility which will be available for viewing on the similar authorities for placing programmes in The strategic report has been prepared by the Companys website.
Directors and should be read in conjunction with the Chairmans statement and forms part of the This annual circular will contain all relevant The shareholder authorities granted in respect annual report to shareholders.
information for shareholders including an of the 2017 Placing Programme will expire on expectedtimetable for the quarterly scrip 13February 2018.
Dividends dividendsin respect of the upcoming financial On 19 October 2017, the Directors announced a To date, the Company has benefited from such year.
The Company currently expects to publish fourth interim dividend of 1.9 pence per ordinary authorities as the ability to raise additional equity thescrip dividend circular in respect of the share which was paid on 1 December2017 capital promptly has enabled it to take advantage financialyear ended 30 September 2018 on to ordinary shareholders on the register on of investment opportunities as they arise.
resultant increase to the Companys market Share capital capitalisation has broadened the Companys The Company offered a scrip dividend alternative During the year, the Company issued 130,941,204 investor base and enhanced the secondary market under which shareholders elected to receive new ordinary shares of 0.01.
Details of the movements liquidity in its ordinary shares, whilst spreading its ordinary shares in lieu of the cash dividend.
in share capital during the year are set out in the fixed running costs across a wider asset base.
The price of a new ordinary share to be issued statement of changes in equity on page 69 and In order to implement placing programmes to under the scrip dividend alternative was calculated innote 16. date, the Company has been required under the by taking the average of the Companys closing At 30 September 2017, the Companys issued Prospectus Rules to publish a prospectus which middle market quotations of an ordinary share for sharecapital comprised 790,967,125 ordinary is approved by the UK Listing Authority.
From the five consecutive dealing days commencing on shares of 0.01, none of which were held in July2017 issuers, including the Company, can the ex-dividend date of 26 October 2017.
At general meetings of the Company, issue up to 20% previously 10% of the same and form of election were sent to shareholders on every holder shall have one vote in respect of class of share without being obliged to publish 3November 2017. everyordinary share.
a prospectus document, subject to certain restrictions regarding public offerings.
Significant voting rights As at 30 September 2017, the Company had received notification of the following disclosable interests in the voting rights of the Company: % of total Name Shares held voting rights Insight Investment Management 60,660,517 7.67 Tredje AP Fonden 49,250,000 6.23 Investec Wealth & Investment 47,775,830 6.04 Rathbone Investment Management 42,128,367 5.33 Close Asset Management 38,693,107 4.89 Brewin Dolphin 36,785,626 4.65 West Yorkshire Pension Fund 33,344,860 4.22 BMO Global Asset Management 29,647,228 3.75 Quilter Cheviot Investment Management 26,250,079 3.32 The table of significant shareholders disclosed above forms part of note 2.2 in the financial statements.
59 GCP INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS LIMITED Annual report and financial statements 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Share capital continued Conflicts of interest Share repurchases Accordingly, the Company will seek shareholder The Directors have declared any conflicts or No shares have been bought back in the year.
approval at meetings of the Company in potential conflicts of interest to the Board of Thelatest authority to purchase ordinary shares February2018 in respect of the disapplication of Directors which has the authority to approve such for cancellation was granted to the Directors on pre-emption rights over 20% its ordinary shares in situations.
The Company Secretary maintains the 10February 2017 and expires on the date of the issue which it may then be able to issue by way of Register of Directors Conflicts of Interests which next Annual General Meeting.
placings in the ordinary manner.
This is expected is reviewed quarterly by the Board and whenever The Directors areproposing that their authority to to achieve cost savings for the Company in respect changes are notified.
The Directors advise the buy back shares be renewed at the forthcoming of prospectus documentation, whilst continuing Company Secretary and Board as soon as they 2018 Annual General Meeting.
to provide it with the ability to take advantage of become aware of any conflicts of interest.
Directors Treasury shares investment opportunities as they arise and further who have conflicts of interest do not take part in The Law allows companies to hold shares acquired broaden its investor base over time.
discussions which relate to any of their conflicts.
by market purchase as treasury shares, rather Further details will be set out in notices to be It is the responsibility of each individual Director to than having to cancel the shares.
Up to 10% of posted to shareholders in January 2018 in avoid a conflict arising.
In the event that a conflict the issued shares may be held in treasury and which shareholders will be asked to approve of interest arises, the Director s must request may be subsequently cancelled or sold for cash in thedisapplication of pre-emption rights for authorisation from the Board as soon as they the market.
This gives the Company the ability to thesepurposes.
become aware of the possibility of a situational reissue shares quickly and cost efficiently, thereby conflict arising.
Directors improving liquidity and providing the Company The Directors in office as at 30 September 2017 The Board is responsible for considering Directors with additional flexibility in the management of arelisted on pages 38 and 39. requests for authorisation of situational conflicts itscapital base.
and for deciding whether or not the situational Details as to the Directors terms of appointment Disclosure of information to the Auditor conflict should be authorised.
The factors to be can be found in the corporate governance Each of the persons who is a Director at the date considered will include whether the situational statement on pages 44 to 51 and the Directors' ofapproval of this annual report confirms that: conflict could prevent the Director from properly remuneration report on pages 55 to 57. so far as they are aware, there is no relevant performing his duties, whether it has, or could Directors interests audit information of which the Companys have, any impact on the Company and whether it At the year end, Paul fide Gruchy had a holding Auditor is unaware: and could be regarded as likely to affect the judgement of474,390 ordinary shares in the Company.
Clive and or actions of the Director in question.
When they have taken all the steps that they ought Spears had a holding of 26,531 ordinary shares in the Board is deciding whether to authorise a to have taken as a Director in order to make the Company.
conflictor potential conflict, only Directors who themselves aware of any relevant audit None of the Directors have been granted options to have no interest in the matter being considered information and to establish that the Companys acquire shares in the Company.
are able to take the relevant decision, and in Auditor is aware of that information.
taking the decision the Directors must act in a way None of the Directors or any persons connected with Financial risk management they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to them have had a material interest in the Companys Information about the Companys financial risk promote the Companys success.
The Directors transactions or agreements during the year.
management objectives is set out in note 18 to are able to impose limits or conditions when giving thefinancial statements.
None of the Directors or the Chairman sit on the authorisation if they believe this is appropriate in boards of any other companies managed by the Requirements of the Listing Rules the circumstances.
Investment Adviser and do not have any close Listing Rule 9.8.
4 requires the Company to include The Directors must also comply with the statutory family ties with any of the Companys advisers.
specified information in a single identifiable section rules requiring company directors to declare any of the annual report or a cross reference table The Board has not delegated any of its decision interest in an actual or proposed transaction or indication where the information is set out.
Interest making powers to the Investment Adviser other arrangement with the Company.
income capitalised during the year is disclosed than in relation to the administration of the SPVs Directors and officers liability insurance in note 3 to the audited financial statements.
and also in respect of holdings in the portfolio, the andindemnity agreements TheDirectors confirm that there are no other Board has delegated the exercise of its voting rights The Company has purchased insurance to cover disclosures required in relation to Listing Rule 9.8.
4. to the Investment Adviser, who has the discretion Directors and officers liability, as permitted by to manage the assets in accordance with the theLaw.
Companys investment objective and policy.
Political donations There are no agreements between the Company Ian Reeves CBE The Company made no donations to political and its Directors concerning compensation for Chairman parties or organisations during the year and no lossof office.
