Redefine International P. L. C. 10 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Income and income quality is as important Market as ever.
As investors seek out acceptable yields, our ability to deliver sustainable asset context backedincome returns is compelling.
We anticipate Economy Occupational market income returns to remain the focus Economic and political uncertainty have The UK occupational market has been resilient become commonplace.
In many respects, the and performed better in a post Brexit climate for UK-REITs which UK has faired well post the EU referendum.
Performance has Unemployment remains at very low levels and however been varied, with distribution aligns well toour GDP growth forecasts remain positive, albeit and industrial benefiting strongly from the below 2.0 per cent.
Germany has benefited structural change in retailing while certain strategy.
Ourfocus on from low unemployment, solid economic parts of the retail market have come under Europes two largest growth and a broad based European pressure from changing consumer habits and economic recovery.
the corresponding change in retailers sales real estate markets and delivery network.
The UK will likely experience its first rise in interest rates in ten years with the base Retailers embracing these changes remain provides liquidity rateexpected to increase over the coming successful, however the traditional sales andtransparency.
Despite this likely increase in channels and store networks have and will shortterm rates, the outlook for longerterm continue to change.
Our largely food, discount rates remains low with UK ten year gilts below and convenience shopping centres reflect a 1.5 per cent immediately after the increase more resilient part of the market evidenced by in the base rate.
Likewise, interest rates in the portfolios continued high occupancy rate Germany remain exceptionally low by historic of 96.7 per cent.
While interest rates remain at such customers and local communities all form depressed levels, the premium between real an integral part of our asset management estate yields and interest rates remains well process.
We are actively investing in our assets above historic averages.
to ensure they remain relevant and attractive to both retailers and customers.
Economic uncertainty generally results in businesses and consumers delaying The London hotel market has benefited from investment decisions.
Despite these a stronger than anticipated economy and nearterm challenges, our strategy of investing weaker Sterling with London centric, limited in Europes two largest and most liquid real service hotels demonstrating positive trading.
estate markets is expected to provide Regional office markets have seen limited new longterm sustainable income returns.
development and robust occupier demand.
However we have taken the opportunity to sell regional office assets where we believe values have been maximised.
Occupier demand from London offices has been resilient and future speculative supply has reduced.
Our exposure to areas of London benefiting from large scale transport and infrastructure investment is wellplaced.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2017 11 We see clear evidence of greater levels of occupational and investment activity in major cities and key economic areas.
Investment and Technology capital markets Investment market activity was strong across Real estate continues to be defined by most sectors, both in the UK and Germany.
technological and social disruption, and Capital and liquidity for real investment businesses continue to respond with newtech remains strong but is selective with depth initiatives to match customer behaviour.
of demand significantly stronger for good The ondemand culture created by the quality assets.
One area of significant growth entertainment sector has filtered through to all has been the alternative sectors including aspects of daily life.
Consumers demand to be student accommodation, selfstorage and where its happening whether that be at work, the private rented sector.
As occupier and at leisure or at home.
customer needs evolve, flexibility and service levels are becoming an increasingly important The retail sector is responding to consumer consideration.
demands by focusing on spaceasaservice, bringing together physical space and location Capital values in most markets have performed with technology to create ultimate engagement well driven by both lower investment yields and experience.
Augmented reality, beacons and rental growth.
With investment yields and voice recognition technology are now broadly at levels previously seen in 2007, just some of the tools being employed in investment demand has become increasingly physical shopping locations to challenge focused on sectors with rental growth onlineshopping.
Shopping centres, particularly in the UK, have been the exception and have Smartphones and social media remain the seen a sharp reduction in investment demand enabler for shopping centres, utilising apps to and transactional volume.
Market concerns deliver greater convenience.
An example of reflect a lack of real growth in retail sales this is appdriven ticketless, cashless parking volumes and the impact of online retailing solutions which are becoming commonplace and changing consumer habits on physical as retail destinations strive to become retail outlets.
At 20 per cent by market value, customer driven and outcomefocused.
UK Shopping centres reflect a decreasing part The growing use of data analytics is also ofourportfolio.
Knowing Investment and disposal activity continues to the customer is certainly not a new concept focus on allocating capital to assets in locations but with technology advances retailers and and sectors with longterm structural support retail environments are able to gain an and occupier demand.
Our experience of indepth knowledge of their shoppers and managing a diversified portfolio of assets target audiences like never before.
It goes provides clear evidence of greater levels of beyond age and demographic profiling, occupational and investment activity in major enabling brands to create personal, tailor cities and key economic areas.
The increased made marketing activity resulting in brand weighting of the Groups portfolio to London, immersion and engagement.
the Big six UK cities and the South East as In addition to a robust traditional research well as key German cities including Berlin programme, our Retail Portfolio utilises our and Hamburg provides greater confidence in consumer websites, apps and social media futuregrowth and sustainability.
functionality to understand and respond to customer needs and wants.
