Redefine International P. L. C. 62 Annual Report 2017 Directors report Governance Board of Directors GREG CLARKE MBA, BA Hons MIKE WATTERS MBA, BSc Eng.
Civil STEPHEN OAKENFULL CFA, BSc Hons Construction Chairman Chief Executive Officer Deputy Chief Executive Officer Age: 60 Age: 58 Age: 38 Appointed:October 2011 Appointed: December 2013 Appointed: December 2013 N C I Committee: Committees: Committee: None Independence: Complied with independence Skills and experience: Skills and experience: criteria of the UK Corporate Governance Code Over 28 years experience in the investment Over 17 years experience working in on appointment as Chairman.
banking and real estate industries corporate finance and real estate Significant experience as a director of Former COO of Redefine International Skills and experience: property and investment companies in the FundManagers Significant Board experience, including UKand South Africa SA Former analyst at DTZ Corporate CEOand Chair roles Former director of Sycom Property Fund, FinanceinLondon Over 30 years experience working for HypropInvestments Limited and Redefine Former management consultant for and running large international public Properties Limited in SA and Sapphire Retail Turner&Townsend corporations across Europe, Australia and Fundin the UK South Africa External appointments: None.
External appointments: Chairman of Former CEO of Lend Lease Corporation, an RedefineBDL Hotel Group, Director of ASX 50 international property corporation International Hotel Properties Limited.
Former CEO of Cable and Wireless Communications Plc Former Chairman of The Football League and former Chairman of the MeteorologicalOffice External appointments: Chairman of the Football Association, Chairman of two private equity owned businesses.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2017 63 ADRIAN HORSBURGH MRICS DONALD GRANT CA Property Director Chief Financial Officer Age: 55 Age: 43 Appointed: March 2014 Appointed: August 2015 Committee: C Committee: C Skills and experience: Skills and experience: 30 years experience in the investment Over ten years experience working in property sector specialising in retail and various banking and broking institutions shopping centres Over eight years experience working in Former Retail Investment Director and theproperty sector International Director at Jones Lang LaSalle Former financial controller of Capital Former Equity Partner and Trainee Surveyor & Counties Properties PLC, a FTSE 250 in the investment department at King Sturge company External appointments: None.
Key to committees: A Audit and Risk Committee C Corporate Social Responsibility Committee I Investment Committee N Nominations Committee R Remuneration Committee Denotes chair of a committee All Directors served throughout the year.
There were no appointments or resignations.
Redefine International P. L. C. 64 Annual Report 2017 Directors report Governance Board of Directors continued MICHAEL FARROW FCIS, MSc Corporate Governance GAVIN TIPPER MBA, CA, BCom, BAcc SUE FORD ACA, BSc Hons Senior Independent Nonexecutive Director Independent Nonexecutive Director Independent Nonexecutive Director Age: 63 Age: 52 Age: 57 Appointed: August 2011 Appointed: August 2011 Appointed: December 2013 R A A N A R N Committees: Committees: Committees: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Over 20 years experience of UK listed and Over 20 years financial experience of Over 30 years experience working within private property companies and funds companies listed in both the UK and various leading organisations overseeing working as a director and a company SouthAfrica finance, strategy and governance matters secretary Former technical partner at KPMG Co-founder and former finance director Former Group Company Secretary of for Metric Property Investment plc, now Previously COO of the Coronation Group CaterAllen, Jersey LondonMetric Property plc, an income External appointments: Non-executive focused, diversified FTSE 250 REIT Founding director of Consortia Partnership Director of Hyprop Investments Limited, AVI Limited, a Jersey licensed trust company External appointments: None.
Limited, York Timber Holdings Limited and External appointments: Chairman of various private companies and trusts.
Bellzone Mining Plc, Non-executive Director ofRedT Energy plc and Circle Propertyplc.
Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Other information Redefine International P. L. C. Annual Report 2017 65 ROBERT ORR MRICS, BSc Estate Management MARC WAINER BERNIE NACKAN BA Econ, SEP Independent Nonexecutive Director Nonexecutive Director Nonexecutive Director Age: 58 Age: 69 Age: 73 Appointed: April 2015 Appointed: August 2011 Appointed: April 2014 I R I Committees: Committee: Committee: None Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Over 30 years experience of the German Over 35 years experience in the property Over 50 years experience working in andEuropean real estate markets industry in South Africa finance, investment, property in South Africa and Internationally Former Country Manager for Germany Founder of Investec Property Group, andformer European CEO at JLL Investec Banks property division Former financial editor of the Rand Daily Mail, managing director of Sage Unit Trusts Founded the International Capital Group Founder of Redefine Properties Limited and Executive Director of Sage Group forJLL External appointments: Executive Chairman Former member of the Collective External appointments: Non-executive of Redefine Properties Limited.
Non-executive Investment Scheme Advisory Committee Director of Tishman Speyer Properties UK Director of Cromwell Property Group, and inSouth Africa Limited and APCOA Parking Holdings GmbH.
Echo Polska Properties N. V. Adviser to UK and European Investments External appointments: Non-executive andEQT Real Estate 1 Fund.
Trustee of Director of Redefine Properties Limited, Dementia UK.
Chairman of its Investment and Nominations Committee and member of theRemunerations Committee.
Non-executive of Rezco Asset Management Limited.
