Directors Report other disclosures Accountability October 2018 the Buyback Programme.
It is intended that a special Articles of Association resolution will be proposed at the 2017 AGM to grant authority for the The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by a special Company to purchase up to approximately 10 per cent of the Companys resolution of the shareholders.
issued share capital, calculated at the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of AGM.
The special resolution will set Appointment and removal of Directors the minimum and maximum prices which may be paid.
The Directors The Board may exercise all powers of the Company, subject to the intend to use this authority to make share repurchases pursuant to the limitations of the law and the Companys Articles of Association.
The Directors will use this authority only after careful may appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director, either to ll a consideration, taking into account market conditions, other investment vacancy or as an additional Director.
Under the Articles of Association any opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall financial position such Director shall hold office only until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The authority will enable the Directors to continue to AGM and shall then be eligible for election.
In addition, the Articles be able to respond promptly should circumstances arise in which they require that at each AGM at least one-third of the current Directors must consider that such a purchase would result in an increase in earnings per retire as Directors by rotation.
All those Directors who have been in office share and would be in the best interests of the Company.
In accordance for three years or more since their last appointment shall retire at that AGM.
with the Companys Articles of Association, the Company is allowed to Any Director may at any AGM retire from office and stand for re-election.
hold shares purchased by it as Treasury shares that may be cancelled, However, in accordance with the provisions of the Code, the Board has sold for cash or used for the purpose of employee share schemes.
agreed that all continuing Directors will stand for annual election at the The Allotment Authority and Authority to Disapply Pre-Emption apply 2017 AGM.
equally to shares to be held by the Company as Treasury shares and to the sale of Treasury shares.
The Directors consider it desirable for these Authority to allot shares general authorities to be available to provide exibility in the management of the Companys capital resources.
At the 2016 AGM, authority was given to the Directors to allot new ordinary shares up to a nominal value of 18,194,582.
The Directors Details of shares held by the Company that were acquired in previous intend to propose at the 2017 AGM to seek authority to allot and grant financial years are provided in note 27 to the consolidated financial rights to subscribe for or to convert securities into shares up to an statements on page 113. aggregate nominal amount representing approximately two-thirds of the Companys issued share capital excluding Treasury shares, calculated Capitalised interest at the latest practicable date prior to publication of the Notice of AGM, The Group does not have capitalised interest of any signicance on its but of that amount only one-third of the Companys issued share capital balance sheet.
excluding Treasury shares, calculated at the latest practicable date prior to publication of the Notice of AGM, may be allotted pursuant to a fully Change of control significant agreements pre-emptive rights issue Allotment Authority.
If approved, the Allotment Authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
The Company is not party to any significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover except for Subject to the terms of the authority noted above, the Directors will also the US$800 million USA Private Placement Bonds issued on 1 September recommend that they be empowered to allot equity securities for cash 2015, the 800 million multi-currency revolving credit facility agreement or to sell or transfer shares out of Treasury other than pro rata to existing dated 3 June 2015, the amended US$600 million receivables facility shareholders, until the 2018 AGM Authority to Disapply Pre-Emption.
agreement originally entered into on 31 July 2013 and the US$438 million This authority shall be limited to the allotment of equity securities for cash USA private placement Bonds issued on 16 November 2005 which could up to an aggregate nominal amount of no more than approximately 5 per become repayable following a relevant change of control.
There are cent of the issued ordinary share capital calculated at the latest practicable no agreements between the Company and any Director that would date prior to publication of the Notice of AGM as well as an additional 5 provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from per cent, which may only be used for an acquisition or specified capital a change of control following a takeover bid, except that provisions of investment which is announced contemporaneously with the issue or the Companys share schemes may cause options and awards granted which has taken place in the preceding six-month period and is disclosed under such schemes to vest in those circumstances.
All of the Companys in the announcement of the issue in accordance with the Pre-Emption share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would normally vest and become exercisable for a limited period of time upon a change of control following Authority to purchase shares a takeover, reconstruction or winding up of the Company not being At the 2016 AGM, authority was given to the Directors to purchase up an internal reorganisation, subject at that time to rules concerning the to 25,263,165 of the Companys ordinary shares of 10 5366 pence with satisfaction of any performance conditions.
such purchase being subject to minimum and maximum price conditions.
This authority to purchase the Companys shares will expire at the Conicts of interest 2017 AGM.
Processes and procedures are in place which require the Directors to In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for the Company to identify and declare actual or potential conicts of interest, whether purchase its own ordinary shares and the Company seeks authority on matter-specic or situational.
These notications are made by a Director an annual basis to renew the Directors limited authority to purchase the prior to or at a Board meeting, or in writing.
All Directors have a continuing Companys ordinary shares in the market pursuant to Article 57 of the duty to update any changes.
The Board may authorise potential conicts Companies Jersey Law 1991.
As detailed in the Chairmans statement which can be limited in scope, in accordance with the Companys on page 13, the Company intends to commence a 500 million share Articles of Association.
These authorisations are regularly reviewed.
repurchase programme to be executed over the 12-month period to 66 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information During the year, all conict management procedures were adhered to and Independent Auditors and audit information operated efficiently.
In respect of the consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 31 July 2017, the Directors in office at the date of this report confirm Disclosures required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of The relevant disclosures concerning capitalised interest: the allotments which Deloitte LLP Deloitte are unaware and each Director has taken ofequity securities for cash: and dividend waiver can be found on all the steps that ought to have been taken as a Director to be aware of pages 66, 126 and 84 of this Annual Report respectively.
The remaining any relevant audit information and to establish that Deloitte are aware of disclosures required by the above Listing Rule are not applicable to that information.
Deloitte is willing to act as auditors of the Company, and resolutions concerning their appointment and the determination of their remuneration Employees will be proposed at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The Group actively encourages employee involvement in driving our current and future success and places particular importance on keeping Political donations employees regularly informed about the Groups activities and financial No political donations or contributions to political parties under the performance and on matters affecting them individually and the business Companies Act 2006 have been made during the financial year.
This can be through informal bulletins, in-house publications and The Group policy is that no political donations be made or political briengs, as well as via the Groups intranet sites.
A European Works Council EWC has been operating since 1996 to provide a forum for informing and consulting employees in Restrictions on transfer of shares Europe on such matters as significant developments in the Groups There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the Companys operations, managements plans and organisational changes within ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the Company.
There are currently 11 EWC representatives, of which six are holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to employee representatives and five are management representatives.
The Company is not aware of any agreements Employee representatives are appointed from each European country between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer inwhich Ferguson operates.
of securities or on voting rights.
All employees are offered a range of benets depending on their local environment.
Where possible, they are encouraged to build a stake in the Share capital and voting rights Company through the ownership of shares through participation in the Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with any Companys all-employee sharesave plans.
movements in the issued share capital during the year, are shown innote27 to the consolidated financial statements on page 113.
Employment policies Subject to the provisions of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and without Our employment policies aim to attract the very best people and we prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares or class of shares, believe that a diverse and inclusive culture is a key factor in being a any share may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company successful business.
For more information on this, see pages 23 and 36. may by ordinary resolution determine or as the Board shall determine.
The Group also has policies in place relating to the continuation Copies of the Companys Articles of Association can be obtained from Companies Registry, Jersey, or by writing to the Group Company Secretary.
of employment of, and appropriate retraining for, employees who become disabled, for giving full and fair consideration to applications The Company also has a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR for employment by disabled persons, having regard to their particular programme in the USA for which Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas attributes and abilities, and for the training, career development and acts as Depositary.
The American Depositary Shares ADS which are promotion of disabled employees.
evidenced by ADRs are traded on the USA over-the-counter market, where each ADS represents one-tenth of a Ferguson plc ordinary share.
Indemnities and insurance The Company indemnifies the Directors in respect of liabilities incurred Shareholder notications as a result of their office in accordance with its Articles of Association and No notications were received by the Company pursuant to the Financial to the maximum extent permitted by Jersey law.
Qualifying third-party Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule indemnity provisions to the maximum extent permitted by English law 5 DTR5 during the year ended 31 July 2017 or between then and the were granted to all Directors in office by the then holding company now date of this report.
The following notications, representing significant known as Wolseley Limited and these remain in force as at the date of this shareholdings, were received by the Company in previous financial years.
When Ferguson plc registered in Jersey became the new holding 1 Name of holder Percentage of issued voting share capital company, additional third-party indemnity provisions were granted by the Company, and it has granted indemnities in accordance with Jersey law to BlackRock, Inc 9.64% all Directors and the Company Secretary appointed since November 2010.
FIL Limited 4.95% There is appropriate insurance coverage in respect of legal action Standard Life Investments Limited 3.85% against the Directors and officers.
Since the disclosure date, the shareholders interests in the Company may have changed.
nor insurance would provide any coverage to the extent that a Director isproved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67 Directors Report other disclosures continued Accountability provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic Further disclosures requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the Further disclosures required under the Companies Act 2006, Schedule impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and entitys financial position and financial performance: and Reports Regulations 2008 and the FCAs Listing Rules and Disclosure and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a Transparency Rules can be found on the following pages of this Annual going concern.
Report and are incorporated into the Directors Report by reference: The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records Page that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and Details of the Companys proposed final dividend payment for disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the the year ended 31 July 2017 40 Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply Disclosures relating to exposure to price, credit, liquidity and with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They are also responsible for cash ow risks 119 to 127 safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable Disclosures relating to financial risk management objectives steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
and policies, including our policy for hedging 119 to 127 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Going concern statement 41 corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Viability statement 43 Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions 37 financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The management report for the year 1 to 68 The Directors of Ferguson plc as at the date of this Annual Report are Information concerning post-balance sheet events 119 as follows: Future developments within the Group 1 to 49 Gareth Davis, Chairman Details of the Groups profit for the year ended 31 July 2017 39 John Martin, Group Chief Executive Shares issued during the year 113 and 126 Michael Powell, Group Chief Financial Officer Kevin Murphy, Chief Executive Officer, USA Directors responsibilities statement Alan Murray, Senior Independent Director The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Tessa Bamford, Non Executive Director Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for John Daly, Non Executive Director each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare Pilar Lpez, Non Executive Director the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Darren Shapland, Non Executive Director Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent Nadia Shouraboura, Non Executive Director company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Jacqueline Simmonds, Non Executive Director Standards and applicable law, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Each Director confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, that period.
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the In preparing the parent company financial statements, the Directors are undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: required to: the management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and prudent: and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary financial statements: and for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is business model and strategy.
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors Report, comprising pages 13 to 84 was approved by the In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Board and signed on its behalf by: Standard 1 requires that Directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Graham Middlemiss Group Company Secretary 2 October 2017 68 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
