Twenty Largest Holdings th as at 30 June 2017 Samsung Electronics South Korea 4.85% Information Technology Samsung Electronics is a global leader in the IT hardware industry, producing handsets, semiconductors mostly memory, LCD panels and a wide range of consumer electronics and digital appliances.
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Taiwan 3.77% Information Technology Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing is the worlds largest dedicated semiconductor foundry manufacturing integrated circuits for computer, communications, and consumer electronics applications.
Naspers South Africa 2.60% Consumer Discretionary Naspers is a South African internet and entertainment group, with the majority of its value derived from the companys investment in Tencent, the leading Chinese internet service provider.
AIA Group China 2.56% Financials AIA Group offers insurance and financial services.
The company writes life insurance for individuals and businesses, accident and health insurance, retirement planning, and wealth management services.
Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance South Korea 2.47% Financials Samsung Fire &Marine Insurance is a multinational insurance company based in South Korea, with automobile insurance prominent amongst its products.
Heineken Netherlands 2.28% Consumer Staples Heineken is a leading international brewer with emerging markets accounting for approximately 70% of earnings.
It has significant market positions in Central & Eastern Europe, Mexico, Africa and Asia.
Alibaba Group China 2.12% Information Technology Alibaba is the worlds largest e-commerce company by gross merchandise volume, also operating a financial services business including the largest online payments mechanism in China, and a cloud computing business.
Genesis Smaller Companies SICAV Luxembourg 2.07% Investment Company An open-ended Luxembourg SICAV whose objective is to achieve capital growth over the medium to long term through investment in smaller emerging market companies.
It held positions in nine listed th stocks as at 30 June 2017.
36 | Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited www.
com Kotak Mahindra Bank India 1.96% Financials Kotak Mahindra Bank is one of the leading integrated financial services groups in India, with interests in retail banking, asset management, life insurance and investment banking.
Shinhan Financial Group South Korea 1.75% Financials Shinhan Financial Group is a holding company that offers a full range of financial services to retail and corporate customers in South Korea through its subsidiaries, which include one of the largest banks in the country.
Novatek Russia 1.70% Energy Novatek is Russias second largest producer of natural gas, operating principally in western Siberia.
Infosys India 1.63% Information Technology Infosys provides IT consulting and software services, including e-business, program management and supply chain solutions.
The companys services include application development, product codevelopment, and system implementation and system engineering.
Jiangsu Yanghe Brewery China 1.61% Consumer Staples Jiangsu Yanghe Brewery is a Chinese spirits producer, focusing primarily on the mid-end range of the clear liquor known as baijiu.
Axis Bank India 1.58% Financials Axis Bank operates more than 3,000 domestic branches and is the third largest private sector bank with 2% market share.
Kweichow Moutai China 1.56% Consumer Staples Kweichow Moutai is one of the worlds most valuable liquor companies: it distils the premium highend baijiu product and with a 300 year history is a very strong brand in China.
Sberbank Russia 1.55% Financials Sberbank is the largest bank in Russia, accounting for almost 30% of aggregate banking assets.
Trkiye Garanti Bankasi Turkey 1.51% Financials Trkiye Garanti Bankas is Turkeys second largest private bank, providing a wide range of financial services to its 14 million customers.
com Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited | 37 Bid Corp South Africa 1.49% Consumer Staples Bid Corp is a market-leading foodservice business listed in South Africa but operating in many underpenetrated and fragmented markets.
Central Pattana Thailand 1.49% Financials Central Pattana is Thailands largest developer and operator of shopping malls, accounting for a quarter of Bankgoks retail market.
Sun Pharmaceutical Industries India 1.48% Health Care Sun Pharmaceutical Industries is a specialty pharmaceutical company active in various high growth segments of the industry.
38 | Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited www.
