Managers Review Investment Environment After a prolonged period of weak returns in emerging markets, it is pleasing to report a steady period of strong absolute performance.
Many of the drivers noted in the Funds Half-Year Report six months ago continued to be significant, such as the acceleration of credit growth in China and fewer than expected interest rate rises in the US.
The environment has also been characterised by strong returns in the IT sector, particularly technology hardware and internet.
This sector outperformed the wider market significantly up 52%, with large Index positions Tencent and Alibaba rising by 62% and 82% respectively.
In this environment, developing stockmarkets, as measured by the MSCI EM TR Index, rose 27.8% in sterling terms over the financial year.
The Funds net asset value failed to match the index, gaining 20.6%.
In an environment such as this where performance is driven by a narrow segment of the opportunity set, our philosophy of investing in quality businesses at attractive prices is unlikely to outperform.
The Fund has in the past experienced similar periods of relative underperformance, such as the technology boom of the late 1990s and in the period leading up to the global financial crisis where valuations in markets such as China were extreme.
Our focus is, as ever, to invest over the long term in a diversified portfolio with a quality bias, identifying companies which can compound value.
We believe this philosophy is well suited to capitalise on the structural changes taking place in emerging economies such as institutional quality improvement, increasing penetration of goods and services, and pricing inefficiencies and add value relative to the Index over the long term.
Performance Significant value was lost in the IT sector, predominantly by being underweight in Chinese internet companies.
Tencent and Alibaba were large detractors despite the portfolio being invested in both Tencent through a position in Naspers.
We believe these businesses are great franchises with scale, network effects and capable management teams.
However, there remains a wide range of outcomes and we believe current valuations, particularly that of Tencent, are skewed toward the upside.
Conversely, the portfolio benefitted from its positions in technology hardware giants TSMC up 45%, Taiwan and Samsung Electronics up 73%, South Korea.
Elsewhere, value was lost in the health care sector, particularly through positions in Indian generic drugs manufacturers Sun Pharmaceutical down 22% and Lupin down 26%.
Again, these companies have strong franchises with talented management teams.
However, despite adding value to the Fund over the long term, recent challenges such as enhanced FDA regulatory scrutiny and a slowdown in the new drug pipeline has affected earnings and our estimates of intrinsic value.
These businesses are proactively addressing the regulatory issues and continue to implement a strategy of building out a longer-term pipeline of products.
Some companies disappointed for more stock specific reasons, most notably the LatAm Caribbean telecom operator, LiLAC, and Universal Robina, the dominant producer of branded snacks in the Philippines.
On the positive side, value was added in the consumer discretionary sector, where Chinese white goods company Midea and luxury brand owner Richemont both absent from the benchmark rose 88% and 50% respectively.
From a country perspective, the largest detractor was India chiefly due to the positions in the pharmaceutical companies noted above.
Further value was lost in Thailand, where Bangkok Dusit retreated by 13% and Thai Beverage rose by only 3%, and in Turkey through a combination of stock performance and the overweight position, while the underweight position in Taiwan also hurt the portfolio.
These losses were partially offset by gains in South Africa and Mexico through stock selection, and the underweight position in Malaysia.
32 | Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited www.
com Relative Performance Attribution in GBP 12 Months to June 2017 GEMF vs. MSCI EM TR Index Top 10 Stock Contributors % Top 10 Stock Detractors % Midea China 0.64 Tencent China Naspers 1.22 South Africa Kweichow Moutai China 0.45 LiLAC United Kingdom 1.01 First Quantum Minerals Zambia 0.35 Sun Pharmaceutical India 0.93 Anhui Conch Cement China 0.30 Universal Robina Philippines 0.76 Richemont Switzerland 0.29 Lupin India 0.74 China Mobile China 0.25 Tullow Oil United Kingdom 0.67 Anglo American South Africa 0.21 Alibaba Group China 0.51 Ambev Brazil 0.20 Hikma Pharmaceuticals Jordan 0.46 Rumo Brazil 0.20 Bangkok Dusit Medical Services 0.45 Amorepacific South Korea 0.19 Thailand Hon Hai Precision Industry Taiwan 0.45 Stocks in italics are omissions at end of period Sector % Top 5 Country Top 5 Country Contributors % Detractors % Consumer Discretionary 1.32 South Africa 0.49 India 2.89 Materials 0.67 Malaysia 0.48 Thailand 0.78 Industrials 0.65 Zambia 0.35 Taiwan 0.50 Utilities 0.54 Mexico 0.35 Turkey 0.47 Consumer Staples 0.23 Brazil 0.24 Philippines 0.46 Telecoms 0.03 Real Estate 0.25 Energy 0.50 Financials 0.98 Health Care 2.82 Information Technology 3.34 Source: FactSet Portfolio Activity Consumer, IT and the materials sectors dominated trading activity over the Funds financial year.
Valuations in the consumer sector became more attractive on a relative basis.
As a result, we topped up many existing holdings and initiated new positions, including Naspers South Africa, e-commerce company JD.
com China and convenience store operator Lojas Americanas Brazil.
Conversely, we took the opportunity to reduce two of the largest positions in the portfolio, both from the technology hardware industry TSMC and Samsung Electronics due to strong share price performance.
Finally, we maintained our valuation discipline for companies which we view as lower quality, such as those from the materials sector, and reduced miners First Quantum Zambia and Anglo American South Africa as their share prices continued to rebound.
In other sectors, noteworthy new positions included leading private hospital operator Mediclinic South Africa and high-quality, private sector bank HDFC India.
com Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited | 33 Outlook As we have noted in previous Managers Reviews, the key risk in our view remains China.
Policymakers are trying to do three things: rebalance the economy from investment to consumption, reduce financial leverage and achieve a soft landing.
It has become apparent that they cannot achieve all three at once and in the near term they have allowed credit to continue to build, favouring short-term growth over long-term economic reform.
However, we are encouraged that emerging market economic growth has begun to stabilise after many years of decline.
In addition, many of the excesses of the cycle following the global financial crisis, such as elevated corporate profitability, high commodity prices and overvalued currencies, have now reverted to a more sustainable level.
Although valuations are not attractive across the board, we are still finding interesting opportunities in a variety of markets.
Genesis Asset Managers, LLP September 2017 34 | Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited www.
