Directors Report The Directors are pleased to present their twenty-eighth Annual Financial Report of the Fund, covering th the year ended 30 June 2017.
Financial Performance Results The total profit for the year for the Fund amounted to $192,866,000 compared to a total loss of $91,996,000 in the previous year.
Refer to the Managers Review on pages 32 to 34 for an explanation of the Funds performance.
The Directors propose a dividend of 14.0 US cents per Participating Preference Share in respect of the th th year ended 30 June 2017 2016: nil.
If approved by shareholders at the AGM on 6 November 2017, st the dividend will be payable on 1 December 2017 to shareholders on the register at close of business th on 10 November 2017.
The Net Asset Value per Participating Preference Share was $9.74 2016: $8.31.
Key Performance Indicators The Highlights and Performance section on pages 4 and 5 show the Funds Key Performance Indicators including its performance and discount to its NAV over the last five years.
Corporate Governance The Board is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Funds affairs.
The Directors use this Report to detail the Funds corporate governance statement.
The Fund is a member of the Association of Investment Companies AIC and the Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the 2016 AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Fund.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
As a Guernsey incorporated company listed on the London Stock Exchange within the FTSE 250, the Fund is required to comply with Listing Rule 9.8.
This requires the Fund to state how it has applied the main principles set out in the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code and whether it has complied with these provisions throughout the accounting period.
The Fund is an Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Scheme regulated by the Guernsey Financial Services Commission GFSC.
The GFSC requires compliance with the principles set out in the Finance Sector Code of Corporate Governance Guernsey Code, or alternative codes accepted by the GFSC, in the context of the nature, scale and complexity of the business.
Statement of compliance The Directors believe that during the year under review, they have complied with the provisions of the AIC Code and therefore, insofar as they apply to the Funds business, with the provisions of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code and Guernsey Code except as noted below.
18 | Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited www.
com The role of Chief Executive Since all Directors are non-executive and day-to-day management responsibilities are subcontracted to the Manager, the Fund does not have a Chief Executive.
Executive Directors remuneration As the Board has no Executive Directors, it is not required to comply with the principles of the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code in respect of Executive Directors remuneration and does not have a Remuneration Committee.
Internal audit function As the Fund delegates to third parties its day-to-day operations and has no employees, the Board has determined that there is no requirement for an internal audit function.
The Directors annually review whether a function equivalent to internal audit is needed and will continue to monitor the Funds systems of internal controls in order to provide assurance that they operate as intended.
In particular, the Directors review the processes and controls managed by relevant specialist staff at the Manager.
Shareholders Shareholder relations The Board recognises the need for good communications with its shareholders.
The primary medium through which the Fund communicates with shareholders is the Annual and Half Year Financial Report and the monthly Fact Sheet, which are available via the Funds website, www.
The Chairman of the Fund and other Directors, periodically is available for meetings with the Funds major shareholders at their request, and all Members of the Board are available for shareholders questions and significant matters arising.
On behalf of the Board and often with members of the Board in attendance the Manager holds periodic meetings with the Funds major shareholders to discuss aspects of the Funds positioning, performance and outlook.
In addition, all shareholders are invited to attend the Funds annual Information Meeting.
The Board monitors the trading in the Funds shares and shareholder profile on a regular basis and maintains regular contact with the Funds brokers to ascertain the views of the market.
Sentiment is also ascertained by careful monitoring of the discount premium that the shares trade on versus their NAV and the comparison with the Funds peer group.
Significant shareholdings The Fund has a diversified shareholder population.
The Directors are however aware of the following shareholdings which represented beneficial interests of 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Fund.
com Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited | 19 Website: www.
com The Annual Financial Report is published on the website, www.
com, which is maintained by Genesis Investment Management, LLP Investment Adviser.
The maintenance and integrity of the website is, so far as relates to the Fund, the responsibility of the Investment Adviser.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Annual Financial Report since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Regulatory Disclosures The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD The Manager is a limited liability partnership organised under the law of Delaware, USA and qualifies as a non-EU alternative investment fund manager non-EU AIFM.
Article 22 of AIFMD requires certain qualitative and quantitative disclosures on remuneration to assist the understanding of the risk profile of the Fund.
Details of the Remuneration Policy of the Manager and amounts attributable to the Fund are available on the www.
UK Listing Authority Listing Rules LR compliance with rule 9.8.
4 None of the disclosures required under LR 9.8.
4 are applicable to the Fund.
The Board The Board, chaired by Hlne Ploix, consists of non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered to be independent of the Manager.
The biographies of the Directors are shown on pages 16 and 17.
The Board has consisted of no more than six Directors during the year and the Directors feel that given the fact that they do not have executive roles, it is not necessary to establish a separate Remuneration Committee.
There is also no separate Management Engagement Committee as the Board, as a whole, regularly meet with the Manager, the Administrator and the Company Secretary to discuss their performance.
Russell Edey held the role of Senior Independent Director during the year.
The Audit and Risk Committee and the Nomination Committee both have separate reports on pages 25 and 28 respectively.
The Board regularly reviews both the performance of, and the contractual arrangements with the Manager, and is satisfied that the continuing appointment of the Manager is in the best interests of shareholders.
The management agreement sets out matters over which the Manager has authority and includes management of the Funds assets and the provision of administrative duties.
The agreement further permits the Manager to delegate its administrative duties, subject to the Boards prior consent.
All other matters are reserved for the approval of the Board.
Under this agreement, for the 2017 financial year, the Manager was entitled to receive a management fee from the Fund, payable monthly, equal to 1.25% per annum, calculated and accrued on the Net Asset Value of the Fund as at each Valuation Day.
Following discussion with the Manager, it was agreed that the management fee st would be reduced at the start of the new financial year, 1 July 2017, to 0.95% of NAV per annum.
The Managers appointment is under a rolling contract which may be terminated by three months written notice given by the Fund, and twelve months written notice given by the Manager.
As noted on page 26, the Audit and Risk Committee reviews the performance of, and the contractual arrangements with the Administrator and the Custodian.
The Board is satisfied that the continuing appointment of the Administrator and the Custodian is in the best interests of shareholders.
20 | Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited www.
com The Board meets at least three times during the year and between these meetings there is regular contact with the Manager who provides the Board with appropriate and timely information.
Attendance at those meetings is given below each Directors biography on pages 16 and 17.
Note that attendance at a Board or Committee meeting by proxy does not count as formal attendance although it does count towards a quorum.
Directors Insurance and Indemnification Directors and Officers liability insurance cover is held by the Fund to cover Directors against certain liabilities that may arise in the course of their duties.
Other Matters Voting Policy The Directors have given the Manager discretion to exercise the Funds voting rights and the Manager, so far as is practicable, will exercise them in respect of resolutions proposed by investee companies.
The Manager aims to vote in the best interests of the Fund, and to vote on all shares in all markets.
Proxy Voting Guidelines are maintained to outline the overall approach to voting and ensure that it is conducted in an appropriate manner.
In evaluating specific voting issues, the Managers team members may engage directly with company management and directors and may also contact interest groups, other shareholders and research providers.
Where appropriate, and particularly where a vote against management is warranted, the Manager will contact the company to explain the decisionmaking process and promote best practice.
In a case where securities are on loan ahead of a General Meeting or corporate action it is the Managers policy to request that such securities be recalled to enable the shares to be voted.
The Manager has contracted with Institutional Shareholder Services, Inc.
ISS, an independent thirdparty provider of proxy voting and corporate governance services.
ISS provides proxy research and recommendations, executes votes as instructed by the Manager, and keeps various records necessary for tracking proxy voting materials and proxy voting actions taken.
ISS recommendations are one form of external research which is factored into the Managers investment decision-making process.
Each voting issue is analysed independently, however, and the Managers votes are not necessarily in line either with company management or the ISS recommendations.
Further details on voting policy are disclosed on the Managers website www.
co. uk, where a proxy voting report for the Fund over the last five years is also available.
Borrowing Facilities The Articles of Incorporation permit the Fund to borrow up to 10% of the value of its Net Assets.
No borrowing facility was used in either 2017 or 2016.
Company Secretary JP Morgan Administration Services Guernsey Limited has been in office for the whole year under review.
com Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited | 21 Authority to Purchase Own Shares th Under Resolution 9 of the Annual General Meeting held on 8 November 2016, the shareholders authorised the Company to purchase its own shares.
This authority is limited to the maximum number of 20,200,000 Participating Preference Shares of no par value equivalent to approximately 14.9% of the issued share capital of the Company.
This authority expires at this years Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The maximum price that may be paid for a Participating Preference Share will be the amount that is equal to 5% above the average of the middle market prices shown in quotations for a Participating Preference Share in the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that Participating Preference Share is purchased.
Renewal of the Companys power to purchase its own shares will be sought at the Annual General th Meeting on 6 November 2017.
In the event that the Company should purchase shares for cancellation, the Directors would only do so after consideration of the effect on earnings per share and the longerterm benefits for shareholders.
Going Concern The Directors believe that the Fund has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for twelve months from the approval date of the Annual Financial Report.
This is based on various factors including the Funds forecast expenditure, its ability to meet its current liabilities, the highly liquid nature of its assets, its market price volatility and its closed-ended legal structure.
For these reasons, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Signed on behalf of the Board Hlne Ploix th 28 September 2017 22 | Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited www.
