Board of Directors nd Hlne Ploix Appointed 2 November 2012 Chairman, Member of the Audit and Risk Committee, Chairman of the Nomination Committee Hlne Ploix French is a Partner and former chairman of Paris-based private equity firm Pechel Industries.
She has had an extensive career in finance and investment in the public and private sectors, both in France primarily at the French stateowned Caisse des Dpts et Consignations and internationally notably as an Executive Director at the IMF, World Bank and as a Member of the Investments Committee of the UN Joint Staff Pension Fund.
She is currently a Non-Executive Director of Sofina Brussels and Ferring Switzerland, Non-Executive Chairman of Sogama Crdit Associatif and was previously at a number of other companies, including The Boots Company PLC, BNP Paribas and Publicis.
Mrs Ploix was educated at the Institut dEtudes Politiques, the University of California at Berkeley and INSEAD.
Meeting Attendance Board: 3 3, Audit and Risk Committee: 3 3, Nomination Committee: 3 3 st Sujit Banerji Appointed 31 October 2013 Director Sujit Banerji Indian is an independent advisor on corporate strategy to a number of companies in the finance, and finance-related technology sectors globally.
In 2009 he completed a 33 year career at Citigroup where he had been a Managing Director since 1996, latterly serving as Head of Strategy and Institutional M&A for Europe, the Middle East and Africa MENA.
His career at Citi covered a number of regional roles including strategy and corporate finance, and relationships with multinational clients across the MENA region.
He has also served as the country and region head for Citi in India, and as the head of the corporate business in Thailand.
Over the course of his career he has been based in India, Bangladesh and Thailand as well as in Europe, and is currently based in Singapore.
He was educated at the University of Poona Pune and the University of Bombay Mumbai.
Meeting Attendance Board: 3 3, Audit and Risk Committee: n a, Nomination Committee: 3 3 st Russell Edey Appointed 1 January 2015 Director, Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, Senior Independent Director Russell Edey British spent the majority of his career at NM Rothschild & Sons, where he held a number of positions over his 35 years at the bank, including Head of Corporate Finance and subsequently Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
He currently serves as Chairman of Avocet Mining plc, and is a Non-Executive Director of Blackrock World Mining Trust plc.
He previously spent 12 years as Chairman of AngloGold Ashanti in South Africa, and in recent years he has also served as a NonExecutive Director of Old Mutual plc, Associated British Ports plc, FKI plc, and Paris Orleans SA.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant and began his career in finance at Anglo American in South Africa.
Meeting Attendance Board: 3 3, Audit and Risk Committee: 3 3, Nomination Committee: 3 3 16 | Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited www.
com st Saffet Karpat Appointed 1 October 2011 Director, Member of the Audit and Risk Committee Saffet Karpat Swiss Turkish is a consultant on strategy to management teams of organisations based in Turkey.
He is a Board member of Eczacba group, a Turkish conglomerate with businesses in construction materials, consumer goods, mining and medical services.
Previously he worked for Procter & Gamble 'P&G' for 30 years in various financial and senior management roles across a number of emerging markets: prior to retiring from P&G in 2013 he was Vice President and General Manager of the Central and Eastern Europe and Middle East and Africa Division, responsible for Turkey, Central Asia, Israel and the Caucasian region.
From 2013 to 2016 he was a member of the Board and the Executive Committee of Sta Dairy Company, and he has been an investor in agriculture in the Aegean region of Turkey since 2011.
He studied Business Administration at Istanbul University and received an MBA from Lausanne University.
Meeting Attendance Board: 3 3, Audit and Risk Committee: 3 3, Nomination Committee: 3 3 th Dr John Llewellyn Appointed 30 October 2009 Director Dr. John Llewellyn British is the founder of Llewellyn Consulting, a London-based consultancy specialising in macroeconomics and environmental economics.
From 1995 to 2008 he was Global Chief Economist and then Senior Economic Policy Advisor at Lehman Brothers.
Previously he spent seventeen years at the OECD in Paris, in charge of international economic forecasting and policy analysis and, latterly, as Head of the Secretary-Generals Private Office Chief of Staff.
Prior to that, Dr. Llewellyn spent ten years in academia University of Cambridge.
Meeting Attendance Board: 3 3, Audit and Risk Committee: n a, Nomination Committee: 3 3 th th Michael Hamson Appointed 19 January 2005, resigned 8 November 2016 Director, Member of the Audit and Risk Committee Michael Hamson was born in Scotland but is now an Australian citizen and based in Melbourne.
He was a Director of Newmont Mining Inc. for eleven years until 2012, and is Chairman of Hamson Consultants Pty Ltd and Technology Venture Partners, as well as a number of other companies.
Michael was the former Deputy Chairman of Normandy Mining Limited and was a founding partner, Chief Executive and Joint Chairman of McIntosh Griffin Hamson & Co now Merrill Lynch Australia, a leading stockbroker in Australia.
Meeting Attendance Board: 1 1, Audit and Risk Committee: 0 1, Nomination Committee: 1 1 www.
com Genesis Emerging Markets Fund Limited | 17
