How we create value in life science Our evergreen funding base enables us to take a flexible approach, providing choice and control over how we manage our life science portfolio to ensure maximum value is created for shareholders.
We invest through thecycle to on-market treatment, seeking to capture value and generate superior returns for shareholders.
Pre-clinical Clinical trials On market Milestones An ability toinvestand capture We have the flexibility to allocate our value long term capital where webelieve value can be Not a forced seller Our business building approach, combined best achieved.
Insome cases this will with our unique funding structure, leaves mean funding a business all the way We are a long-term investor focused us well placed to maximise value for to market on our own, in others it will on maximising value through the shareholders.
The significant stakes mean bringing in strategic partners cycle.
As we consider partial value we take in our investee companies mean to invest alongside us, or pursuing crystallisation or exit opportunities, we are able to influence and drive their wider ownership strategies such as whether opportunistic or proactively success, while our deep, evergreen capital publiclistings once our companies pursued, wewill always balance pool means we are able to continue to have sufficiently matured.
these against thepotential value support them.
We are guided by what is best for the wecould capture for shareholders This model provides us with choice and long-term sustainability of ourportfolio ifwe were to maintain or increase control over the management of our companies and achieving thegreatest theexposure we have in the portfolio, including when and how to value for shareholders.
business long term, relative to other crystallise value or seek exitopportunities.
This leaves us optimally positioned to deliver superior shareholder value over time.
Read more Life science portfolio review p. 20 Syncona Limited 10 Annual report and accounts 2017 Value
