Governance Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report and Audited The Company will seek to create and invest in new or existing Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March Life Science Investment businesses or opportunities with a view to 2017 which have been properly prepared in accordance with long-term ownership, to support the building of companies that are TheCompanies Guernsey Law, 2008. capable of taking their products to market on an independent basis and therefore to build sustainable, revenue-generating businesses.
Principal activity However, the Company may selectively divest companies in part or The Company is a Guernsey authorised closed ended in full where such divestment delivers a financial return beyond the investment company listed on the Premium Segment of the value that the Company could create alone.
The Company will commit at least 25 per cent.
of the assets that The Company is governed by an independent Board of directors it commits to Life Science Investments to oncology projects or and has no employees.
Its investment activities are outsourced Life Science Investment businesses with a sole or dominant focus to BACIT UK Limited and its company secretarial and on oncology.
administrative functions are outsourced to Northern Trust Guernsey Limited.
Further details on the Companys investment The Life Science Investment portfolio is subject to the following activities, Investment Manager and Investment Advisor are diversification requirements, measured at the time of investment: described in more detail below.
of the Companys gross assets Investment Objective and Policy may be invested in any single Life Science Investment: and At the Extraordinary General Meeting EGM held on no more than 15 per cent.
of the Companys gross assets 14December 2016, shareholders of the Company approved the may be invested in quoted companies, disregarding for these expansion of the Companys investment objective and policy.
purposes any investments which have become quoted The Companys investment objective is to achieve superior companies during their ownership by the Company.
long-term capital appreciation from its investments.
Fund Investments The Company may invest in: The Company may make Fund Investments in long-only funds, hedge funds, private equity funds, infrastructure funds, credit life science businesses including private and quoted companies and fixed income and real estate funds.
The Company may make and single asset projects Life Science Investments : and Fund Investments on a global basis, including in funds that invest leading long-only and alternative investment funds and managed in emerging markets.
The Company may also make short-term accounts across multiple asset classes Fund Investments.
investments in short-term deposits or investments that are readily realisable pending investment in longer-term opportunities.
The Company will target an annualised return per share across its investment portfolio of 15 per cent.
per annum over the long term.
The composition of the Fund Investments portfolio will vary over time, depending on the aggregate amount of the Companys The Company is not required to allocate a specific percentage gross assets that are allocated to it, but for the foreseeable future, of its assets to Life Science Investments or Fund Investments the Company intends to hold at least 15 Fund Investments.
although, over time, it is intended that the Company should invest the significant majority of its assets in Life Science Investments.
The Fund Investments portfolio is subject to the following The Company anticipates that it will, in general, invest available diversification requirements, measured at the time of investment: cash in Fund Investments and realise those investments as and no more than 20 per cent.
of the Companys gross assets when finance is required for its Life Science Investments.
may be invested in any single fund or managed account: Life Science Investments no more than 30 per cent.
of the Companys gross assets Life Science Investments will principally be privately owned may be invested with a single investment manager: businesses or single asset opportunities, together with the Companys investment in the Pioneer Fund.
of the Companys gross assets may be invested in funds or managed accounts pursuing any single The Company anticipates that its Life Science Investment investment strategy defined for these purposes as event-driven, businesses will primarily be headquartered in the United Kingdom merger arbitrage, convertible arbitrage, emerging markets, fixed and, to a lesser extent, continental Europe, although some may income, credit, distressed, macro, multi-strategy, relative value have operations elsewhere in the world and may market and and systematic strategies : and commercialise their products on a global basis.
of the Companys gross assets may The Company anticipates that, over time, its Life Science be invested in any single asset class defined for these purposes Investments portfolio will consist of around 20 life science as long-only equity funds, long-only fixed income and credit opportunities, of which three to five are likely to become significant funds, hedge funds, private equity funds and real estate funds, core holdings.
The Company will invest further in its existing infrastructure funds and other asset classes not included in any portfolio of Life Science Investments and will seek to create further of the foregoing.
opportunities by founding new businesses to commercialise academic science.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 63 Directors report continued Fund Investments may follow a wide range of investment policies Indebtedness and other investment limitations and strategies and may be permitted to borrow and invest in long The Group may incur indebtedness for the purpose of financing and short positions in quoted and unquoted equities, fixed income share repurchases or redemptions, satisfying working capital securities, options, warrants, futures, commodities, currency requirements or to assist in payment of the annual charitable forwards, over the counter derivative instruments such as swaps, donation, up to a maximum of 20 per cent.
of the Companys securities that lack active public markets, private securities, net asset value at the time of incurrence.
repurchase agreements, preferred stocks, convertible bonds Any decision to incur indebtedness for the purpose of servicing and other financial instruments or real estate as well as cash any awards under the Groups long term incentive plan must be and cash equivalents.
Any other decision to incur indebtedness Where feasible, the Company will endeavour but is not required may be taken by the Management Team within such parameters to make Fund Investments in cases where the relevant investment as are approved by the Board from time to time.
There are no manager provides investment capacity on a gross return limitations on indebtedness being incurred at the level of the basis, meaning that the Company does not bear the impact of Companys underlying investments.
management or performance fees on the relevant investment.
The Company does not propose to enter into any securities or This may be achieved by the relevant manager or fund agreeing derivative hedging or other derivative arrangements other than with the Company not to charge management or performance those that may from time to time be considered appropriate for the fees, by rebating or donating back to the Company any purposes of efficient portfolio management and will not enter into management or performance fees charged or otherwise arranging such arrangements for investment purposes, although there are for the Company to be directly or indirectly compensated so as no limitations on such arrangements being entered into at the effectively to increase its investment return on the relevant level of the Companys underlying investments.
investment by the amount of any such fees.
Depending on their specific terms, arrangements under which the Company receives Results and dividends a rebate, donation or other retrocession, compensation or The results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Statement payment in respect of fees payable in relation to an investment of Comprehensive Income on page 76.
During the year ended may mean that the investment returns actually received by the 31March 2017, the Company declared a dividend of 8.5 million Company are not identical to those that would have been received 31 March 2016: 8.0 million relating to the year ended 31 March had no fees been charged.
However, any such differences are 2016.
The dividend was comprised of 6.7 million 31 March 2016: not expected to be material.
5.8 million cash and a scrip dividend of 1.8million 31 March 2016: 2.2 million.
Further details can be found in note 6 of the Investment restrictions Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Company will not make any direct investment in any tobacco company and has agreed with a The Institute of Cancer Share Buyback Facility Research the ICR not knowingly to make any investment which The Company has the authority, subject to various terms as contravenes the tobacco restriction contained in the investment set out in its Articles and in accordance with The Companies policy of the ICR and b Cancer Research UK not knowingly to Guernsey Law, 2008, to acquire up to 14.99 per cent.
of the make or continue to hold any investments in the Fund Investment shares in issue.
The Company intends to renew this authority portfolio which would result in exposure to tobacco companies annually.
The Directors have no current intention to utilise exceeding one per cent.
of the aggregate value of the Fund this authority.
Investment portfolio from time to time.
Annual General Meeting Annual charitable donation The AGM will be held at Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St Peter The Company is required to make a charitable donation, in Port, Guernsey on 8 September 2017 at 10:30am.
Details of arrears, equal to one-twelfth of 0.3 per cent.
of its total net asset the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, together with value at each month-end during the relevant financial year.
Half is explanations, appear in the Notice of Annual General Meeting donated to the ICR and half donated to The BACIT Foundation for sent to shareholders separately.
onward distribution among other charities in proportions which Directors are determined each year by shareholders.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the The Company will bring forward charitable donations for future Companys policy on tenure outlined on page 53, Jeremy Tigue, years with the effect of maintaining the amount of charitable Thomas Henderson, Nicholas Moss, Nigel Keen and Ellen donations for 2016 to 2017 and 2017 to 2018 at a level equal to the Strahlman will offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming amount donated in 2015 to 2016.
Any excess amount paid by the Annual General Meeting.
Peter Hames will be stepping down from Company in those two years will be recovered from the charitable the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
donations for future years which will be equal to the lower of The Board recommends that shareholders support the re-election i 0.3per cent of its net asset value and ii the actual amount of these Directors who continue to demonstrate commitment to donated in 2015 to 2016, until such time as any excess amounts their roles and provide valuable contributions to the deliberations have been recovered in full.
of the Board and its Committees.
Further details of the Companys charitable donations can be Information on the independence of the Directors is contained found in the Companys Corporate Social Responsibility report onpage 53. on page 46.
Biographical details of all current Directors may be found on pages50 and 51.
Syncona Limited 64 Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance Investment Manager The Company will pay SIML an annual fee of up to one per cent The investment portfolio is managed by BACIT UK Limited per annum of the Companys NAV.
the Investment Manager or BACIT UK, which is independent Full details were set out in the Circular dated 28 November 2016 of the Company and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
which is available on the Companys website.
As part of the expansion of the Companys investment policy International tax reporting and the acquisition of Syncona Partners LLP in December 2016, For the purposes of the US Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act the Company has reconfigured its investment management FATCA, the Company registered with the US Internal Revenue arrangements by the recruitment of the investment management Services IRS as a Guernsey reporting Foreign Financial Institution team of Syncona Partners.
These investment management FFI, received a Global Intermediary Identification Number personnel are now employed by Syncona Investment WPC4ID.
831 and can be found on the IRS FFI list.
Management Limited SIML, which is indirectly wholly owned by the Company.
BACIT UK will remain as the Companys Alternative The Common Reporting Standard CRS is a global standard Investment Fund Manager AIFM until SIML receives regulatory for the automatic exchange of financial account information authorisation from the FCA to act as the Companys AIFM.
An developed by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and application by SIML to the FCA has been made.
In the meantime, Development OECD, which has been adopted by Guernsey and the Companys investment management arrangements have been which came into effect on 1 January 2016.
The CRS replaced the structured so that BACIT UK has investment discretion over the intergovernmental agreement between the UK and Guernsey to Companys entire investment portfolio.
Once SIML is authorised improve international tax compliance that had previously applied as the Companys AIFM, BACIT UK will become a sub-adviser to in respect of 2014 and 2015.
SIML in respect of the Companys Fund Investment portfolio and The Board has taken the necessary action to ensure that the keep discretion as to the allocation of that portfolio to specific Company is compliant with Guernsey regulations and guidance Fund Investments.
BACIT UK will not, however, from that point in this regard.
have any role regarding the life science portfolio nor will it decide what proportion of the Companys assets are allocated to BACIT Foundation LifeScience Investments or Fund Investments.
As discussed in the Companys investment objectives and policy, one-twelfth of 0.3 per cent of the total NAV of the Company at In order to provide a longer-term incentive for the investment each month-end during the year is donated annually by the management team of the Investment Manager especially following Company to charity, with half donated to the ICR and half donated the appointment of SIML as the Companys AIFM and to ensure to The BACIT Foundation for onward distribution among other continuity for the underlying managers who provide the Company charities in proportions which are determined each year by the with fee free access to their funds, the investment management shareholders.
There is a formal process allowing the Board to agreement with BACIT UK BACIT UK Agreement was amended scrutinise the list, and this has been duly conducted.
on 28 November 2016 and following shareholders approval on 14December 2016, the amended agreement was made effective The BACIT Foundations trustees consider carefully which charities with the following terms: to include on the list and ensure that the Companys shareholders, when given their opportunity to allocate the donation among the BACIT UK Agreement will have an initial fixed term of five charities, have an appropriate range to choose from.
years from the date which is the last day of the month during which the Implementation Date occurs the Start Date Thomas Henderson is a Trustee of The BACIT Foundation.
the First Period : and The charitable objects of The BACIT Foundation relate to the at the expiry of the First Period, the BACIT UK Agreement will prevention, treatment, cure and ultimately eradication of cancer, continue for a further five years and terminate on the date that is but also cover diseases allied to cancer, and such other charitable 10 years from the Start Date the Second Period provided that, objects and organisations as the Foundation may from time to over the First Period, the Fund Investment portfolio has achieved time consider desirable.
The trustees have considered a number a time weighted return equal to a at least 70 per cent of the of requests for funding that have been received.
These upside return or b no worse than 40 per cent of the downside applications have been predominantly received from charities return generated by the FTSE All-Share Index over the First associated with cancer in all of its forms, and that, too, has Period assuming reinvestment of all dividends.
operated to inform the trustees decision-making.
The BACIT UK Agreement will not automatically renew at the Auditor end of the Second Period.
Otherwise, the BACIT UK Agreement The Company is required to appoint auditors for each financial will not be terminable by the Company during the First Period year of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the or Second Period other than for certain cause events or with next general meeting at which accounts are presented.
Our the agreement of BACIT UK.
Independent Auditor, Deloitte LLP, has indicated their willingness to remain in office and resolutions to reappoint them and to The fees payable to BACIT UK under the revised Agreement authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be are as follows: proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
0.19 per cent of the Companys NAV per annum for the first period: and 0.15 per cent of the Companys NAV per annum for the second period.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 65 Directors report continued Provision of information to auditors As far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditor is unaware and they have taken all steps they should have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Share capital As at 31 March 2017, the Company had 658,387,407 nil paid shares in issue.
No shares were held in treasury.
The total number of voting rights at 31 March 2017 was 658,387,407.
During the year, 272,248,622 shares were issued in connection with the expansion of the Companys investment policy and capital raising, as further described in the Chairmans statement on pages 2 and 3.
Substantial share interests As at 30 June 2017, the Company has been notified of the following significant 5 per cent or more direct or indirect holdings of securities in the Company: Number of % of issued Shareholder shares held share capital held The Wellcome Trust 243,461,685 37.0% Rights attaching to shares The Company has one class of shares, namely ordinary shares, with standard rights as to voting, dividends and payment on winding up and no special rights and obligations attaching to them.
There are no material restrictions on transfers of shares.
Other than as disclosed above, the Company is not aware of any person who has a significant direct or indirect holding of securities in the Company.
There are no restrictions on voting rights.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The Board considers that all the resolutions to be put to the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Those Directors who are shareholders will be voting in favour of them and the Board unanimously recommends that you do so as well.
Signed on behalf of the Board Jeremy Tigue Nicholas Moss Chairman Non-Executive Director 5 July 2017 Syncona Limited 66 Annual report and accounts 2017
