Life science portfolio review Investment Advisors report Our portfolio is concentrated around the core expertise Syncona has built in the emerging next generation of life science technologies, such as engineered cell therapy and gene therapy.
At 31 March 2017, the Syncona life science Portfolio performance portfolio consisted of seven companies The portfolio generated a 12.4 per cent and was valued at 226.6 million.
These total return in the period since acquisition in span therapeutics and diagnostics and are December 2016.
The increase was driven concentrated around the core expertise by a write up in the Companys investment Syncona has built in the emerging next in Blue Earth Diagnostics from 83.5 generation of life science technologies, million to 108.4 million.
This was the result such as engineered cell therapy and gene of strong progress in the United States therapy, where Syncona is now an and a positive opinion by the Committee established leader.
These technologies for Medicinal Products for Human Use have the potential to deliver dramatic CHMP on Blue Earths product, Axumin, efficacy and are expected to underpin recommending it be approved for sale the healthcare products of the future, and marketing in Europe.
significantly improving the lives of patients suffering from devastating conditions such as cancer and blindness.
A snapshot of our portfolio at year end Value of investments and percentage holdings of Synconas life science portfolio.
Developing Maturing Chris Hollowood Chief Investment Officer, Syncona Investment Management Limited 5.2m CEGX Syncona share 12% 18.0m Freeline Therapeutics 34.2m Syncona share 74% 5.0m Gyroscope Therapeutics Syncona share 78% 1 NightstaRx Syncona share 55% 31.2m 2.8m Autolus Achilles Therapeutics Syncona share 37% Syncona share 66% 1 Following Nightstars Series C financing in June, Synconas holding in Nightstar is valued at 69.7m and its fully diluted ownership is 46%.
Syncona Limited 20 Annual report and accounts 2017 Cell therapy Gene therapy Diagnostics Strategic report The companies in our investment Key achievements 12 months to 31 March 2017 portfolio are categorised in three stages.
Established companies are those that First Syncona product on market as Blue Earth secured FDA approval are marketing their products, Maturing andpricing reimbursement for Axumin in theUnited States.
companies are those which have made A positive CHMP opinion recommending forAxumin to be approved in Europe.
significant development progress towards market approval for their products and A valuation uplift in Blue Earth from 83.5 million to 108.4 million, Emerging companies are those that are adding24.9 million to Synconas NAV.
earlier stage, focused on establishing their Significant progress in Nightstars clinical trials for its lead business platforms, management teams programme choroideremia.
and capabilities to progress their products through the full regulatory approval path.
The commencement of clinical trials in Nightstars second programme, X-LinkedRetinitis Pigmentosa.
Significant positive progression towards clinical studies in Autolus andFreeline.
Achilles formally founded with seed financing from Syncona.
Established Post year end achievements EMA approval secured for Blue Earth to commence sales of Axumin in Europe.
108.4m Completion of a US$45m Series C financing round in Nightstar, withSynconainvesting $12.5m 9.8m.
Syncona investment in Nightstar written up by 20.3m to 69.7m.
Blue Earth Diagnostics Syncona share 90% Target milestones next financial year Blue Earth Diagnostics to commence roll-out of Axumin in the EU andcontinue its positive commercial trajectory in the United States.
Autolus to enter three programmes into clinicaltrials in multiple myeloma, Non-Hodgkins lymphoma and T Cell lymphoma.
Nightstar to initiate pivotal Phase III clinical trial in choroideremia andprogress Phase I II trials for X-Linked Retinitis Pigmentosa.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 21 Life science portfolio review continued investment strategy which often targets During the year Blue Earth also received Established companies opportunities that can benefit from an a positive opinion from the CHMP Blue Earth Diagnostics expedited route to market.
During the year, recommending that the European Blue Earth was established by Syncona Blue Earth achieved pricing reimbursement Medical Authority grant Axumin marketing in 2014 when Axumin, then in clinical across the US from The Centers for authorisation in the European Union.
development, was licensed from GE Medicare and Medicaid Services at a price This, combined with the positive progress Healthcare.
The management team at the of $3,950.
The reimbursement decisions delivered in the United States, resulted in time joined the new venture to build a world came in significantly ahead of plan and Synconas investment in Blue Earth being leading imaging company, developing mean that healthcare providers in the US written up from 83.5 million to molecular imaging technologies to reliably can now use Axumin with confidence of 108.4million.
inform diagnosis and treatment decisions.
The company also signed an Subsequent to year end, in May 2017, Axumin is a positron emission tomography agreement with Siemens PETNET to be Blue Earth secured formal approval from PET imaging agent with the potential to the manufacturer, distributor and sales the European Medicines Agency, allowing significantly improve diagnosis in a number partner in the United States, where they it to be sold in the European Union as well of different cancer settings.
Its first indication are the leading manufacturer and as in Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway.
is for PET imaging in men with suspected distributor of PET imaging agents.
Working In anticipation of a commercial roll-out in prostate cancer recurrence based on in partnership with Siemens, Blue Earth Europe in 2018, Blue Earth also entered elevated blood prostate specific antigen delivered a prompt and successful into a marketing and distribution agreement PSA levels following prior treatment.
commercial launch in the United States with Advanced Accelerator Applications Over time, Blue Earth is seeking to expand initiating in August 2016.
Nasdaq: AAAP, an international specialist Axumins approved indications to other Early sales data has been very in Molecular Nuclear Medicine, to supply areas such as glioma and breast cancer.
encouraging and the commercial launch and distribute Axumin in France, Germany, This year was transformative for Blue Earth is on plan, with approximately 200 units of Spain, Italy and Portugal.
as it became Synconas first company to Axumin sold during an initial soft launch in Over the next year Blue Earth will seek deliver a product to market when Axumin the fourth quarter of 2016.
This increased to further increase United States received regulatory approval in the United significantly to over 800 units in the first manufacturing sites, weekly production States, a significant achievement at a quarter of 2017.
While cautious on the and its commercial team, which is relatively early point in Synconas existence.
interpretation of early sales data, these expected to increase its coverage of the This was achieved just two years after Blue figures give us grounds for optimism for US market from the current 50 per cent.
Earth was formed and 18 months ahead of the continued growth of Axumin in the Blue Earth expects to begin a roll-out of plan, illustrating the benefits of our focused United States.
European sales in 2018 and to continue its positive commercial trajectory in the United States.
Looking forward, we will continue to seek to optimise returns through our hands-on approach to driving the success of our investee companies.
Chris Hollowood CIO, Syncona Investment Management Limited Syncona Limited 22 Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Read more Life science portfolio p. 28 Autolus CRT Pioneer Fund Maturing companies.
Autolus develops precision T cell therapies, The CRT Pioneer Fund is managed by Nightstar leveraging industry leading intellectual Sixth Element Capital and invests in Nightstar utilises gene therapy to develop property in cell programming that is being oncology focused assets.
The fund has a products for inherited forms of blindness deployed to create advanced T cell pipeline agreement with Cancer Research and is pursuing a pipeline of products.
products for a range of haematological UK under which it has a right of first review Its lead product is for choroideremia, a blood and other cancers.
Technologies to certain Cancer Research UK funded progressive blinding condition for which in the space have recently been shown to drug discovery projects.
At the year end, there are no alternative therapies.
During the have curative potential in haematological Synconas investment in the fund was year Nightstar significantly progressed its cancers.
Autolus has a pipeline of Chimeric valued at 21.8 million, comprising a Phase II trials for choroideremia and held a Antigen Receptor CAR T cell therapies in portfolio of 11 investments in early stage successful end of Phase II meeting with the development, and is moving to commence drug discovery opportunities.
Food and Drug Administration in the United clinical trials in multiple myeloma, Outlook States.
A pivotal trial in this programme is Non-Hodgkins Lymphoma and T Cell Looking forward, we will continue to seek expected to commence within 12 months.
to optimise returns through our hands-on In March 2017 Nightstar also commenced Autolus is establishing a leading position approach to driving the success of our clinical testing of a second product to treat in the manufacturing and delivery of investee companies.
We have a clear set X-linked Retinitis Pigmentosa, another these products to patients, securing a of performance criteria for our existing progressive blinding condition for which manufacturing suite at the Cell and Gene portfolio, with further funding for follow-on there are no available therapies.
Therapy Catapult manufacturing centre in investment contingent on the achievement Stevenage.
The site is in part funded by of the development and strategic Subsequent to year end in June, Nightstar the UK Government and is dedicated to milestones we have set.
completed a US$45 million Series C supporting the growth of the cell and gene financing round in which Syncona We look forward to continuing to benefit therapy industry.
The funding from our strong relationships with the round attracted leading international Autolus has built up a strong management Wellcome Trust and Cancer Research UK investors and resulted in a write up of team led by CEO Dr Christian Itin, with to launch exciting new life science Synconas investment in Nightstar to DrVijay Peddareddigari serving as Chief companies with the capability and ambition 1 1 69.7million, a 20.3 million Medical Officer.
of taking ground-breaking products to 3.1ppershare uplift to Synconas patients.
We will also continue to review 2 proforma valuation of 49.4 million.
new opportunities at all stages of the Developing companies development cycle in the United Kingdom, Nightstar also continued to build out its Freeline, Gyroscope, Achilles and Europe, and beyond where our capabilities management team with the appointments Cambridge Epigenetix CEGX are our make us the natural partner and investor.
of Greg Robinson as Chief Scientific Officer developing companies.
The businesses are We will seek to add new investee and, subsequent to the year end, Senthil focused on establishing and embedding companies to our portfolio where they Sundaram as Chief Financial Officer.
the management, commercial and meet our strategic goals and are as technical capabilities to develop their compelling as our current group.
products through the full regulatory and development path.
These companies span oncology, severe orphan disease disorders and blinding conditions and are largely built on the advanced therapeutic technologies in which Syncona has built a leadership position.
Chris Hollowood Chief Investment Officer, Syncona Investment Management Limited 1 Based on third party funding round and 5 July 2017 at 27June 2017 foreign exchange rates.
2 Comprising 31 March 2017 valuation of 34.2m, completion of Series B funding of 5.4m and Series C financing investment of US$12.5m 9.8m, based on third party funding round and at 27 June 2017 foreign exchange rates.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 23
