Underlying investment portfolio Life science portfolio Blue Earth Diagnostics Established Blue Earth Diagnostics was founded in Axumin was reviewed by the US Food Description March 2014 to develop andcommercialise andDrug Administration and was granted PET imaging agent for prostate cancer.
molecular imaging agentsaddressing US regulatory approval in Q2 2016. areas of high unmet medical need.
Marketing authorisation in Europe was Fully diluted ownership 90% granted by the European Medicines The companys first product, Axumin, Value 108.4m Agency in Q2 2017.
Blue Earth Diagnostics hasbeen developed and proven clinically is investigating the utility of Axumin in the to target and image prostate cancer cells.
% of NAV 12.1% imaging of other cancers such as breast Prostate cancer is a leading cause of Focus areas Diagnostics cancer and glioma.
cancer death in men and a growing cost burden to healthcare systems worldwide: Valuation basis Risk adjusted Syncona has enabled us to take an in Europe and the USA over 450,000 new Discounted undervalued asset out of a major cases are diagnosed each year.
While Cash Flow healthcare company, and turn it into an most primary prostate cancer can be % of life science portfolio 47.9% exceptional business opportunity.
I have successfully treated, the disease recurs in found Syncona to be genuinely interested up to one third of patients.
com in our business, rather than just the recurrent disease is detectable only by a financials.
They have provided major rise in prostate specific antigen levels, but commercial and marketing insights, often the location of the recurrence cannot andhelped us to build a better business.
consistently be located by conventional imaging, limiting treatment guidance.
Jonathan Allis Axumin was developed to target the CEO, Blue Earth Diagnostics increased amino acid transport that occurs in many cancers, including prostate cancer.
It is labelled with the radioisotope F-18, enabling it to be visualised in the body with position emission tomography imaging.
Syncona Limited 28 Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Delivering transformational treatments for patients Axumin fluciclovine F-18, Blue Earth of the time.
For the remaining 90 per cent Axumin in practice: Diagnostics lead product, is an imaging of cases, patients and their doctors have patient case study agent used to detect the site of no choice but to wait for the site of the Following successful initial surgical biochemical recurrence in prostate cancer cancer to be evident or to select a treatment of his prostate cancer, a patients, a significant unmet need.
treatment based on the most likely site 69-year-old man was found to have an for the recurrence.
increasing PSA level, meaning it was Prostate cancer is the most common very likely that his prostate cancer had cancer in men in the United States, with Axumin allows the effective detection returned.
Conventional imaging showed around 160,000 new cases each year.
of recurrent tumours by using a synthetic a negative result when seeking to locate Most patients will be considered cured amino acid which is injected into the this cancer.
However, when screened with after initial surgery or radiotherapy, patient and actively transported into an Axumin PET scan, a recurrence of the however one third of these patients the cancer cells to effectively light up patients prostate cancer was identified in will experience a recurrence.
Patients then a lymph node in the pelvis.
Rather than undergo a sensitive PET positron The first indication of recurrence is rising select radiotherapy treatment for only the emission tomography scan which levels of a marker called a Prostate prostate bed, the patients doctor was can visualise Axumin within the cancer Specific Antigen PSA in the patients able to use the results of the Axumin scan cells, enabling the tumour to be located.
At this point, the doctor and the to target the treatment to also focus on Axumin is able to identify the location patient will know that the cancer has this lymph node.
In this case, Axumin of the recurrent prostate cancer returned, but they will not know where.
helped to ensure all the recurrent cancer 40-85 per cent of the time, a significant This is crucial information for determining was treated in the most appropriate way.
improvement over the current the best management option for the conventional standard of care imaging.
patient and may provide another This information from the Axumin scan opportunity for a potential cure.
allows the doctor to select the most Conventional imaging has low appropriate treatment for each individual effectiveness at this point, only finding patient, offering them the best chance of the recurrence approximately 10 per cent a successful response to that treatment.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 29 Underlying investment portfolio continued NightstaRx Maturing NightstaRx Nightstar is a Synconas deep understanding of the Description biopharmaceutical companyfocused genetherapy space coupled with their Gene therapy for inherited onthedevelopment andcommercialisation relationships in academic research retinaldystrophies.
of therapies for retinal dystrophies.
programmes provided a strong foundation for Nightstar.
The Syncona team continues 1 Nightstars most advanced programme, Fully diluted ownership 55% to provide not only strategic guidance, but NSRAAV2-REP1, is in clinical trials for the 1 practical problem-solving skills that are Value 34.2m treatment of choroideremia, a rare disease essential in the start-up environment.
which causes permanent loss of eyesight % of NAV 3.8% and for which there is no other treatment.
Dave Fellows Focus areas Gene therapy The gene therapy is delivered by injection CEO, Nightstar into the retina, providing a working copy of Valuation basis Price of Recent the disease-causing faulty gene locally in Investment the eye.
The disease-modifying technology % of life science portfolio 15.1% has the potential to maintain and restore sight in patients, from a single nightstarx.
There are multiple inherited forms of blindness that are addressable with Nightstars gene therapy technology.
Nightstar is building a pipeline of products based on its manufacturing, gene therapy and retinal surgery capability.
1 Following Nightstars Series C financing in June, Synconas holding in Nightstar is valued at 69.7m and its fully diluted ownership is 46%.
Syncona Limited 30 Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Autolus Maturing Autolus is a biopharmaceutical company, Autolus is at the forefront of a revolution in Description focused on the treatment of cancer cancer treatment that aims at improving A next generation engineered T-cell patients with precise, controlled and highly the survival of cancer patients.
supported the formation of the company, has committed an investment of 30m to The company was founded on advanced Fully diluted ownership 37% date and is the companys major investor.
cell programming technology pioneered Syncona shares our vision of creating a Value 31.2m byDr Martin Pule and was spun-out and sustainable, integrated business that brings established as an independent company % of NAV 3.5% real benefits to cancer patients.
by Syncona, from University College Focus areas Cell therapy London in 2014.
Christian Itin CEO, Autolus Valuation basis Price of Recent Utilising its advanced cell programming Investment and manufacturing technologies, % of life science portfolio 13.8% Autolushas a pipeline of Chimeric Antigen Receptor CAR T-cell therapies in autolus.
Working in partnership with physicians and other healthcare providers, Autolus modifies the patients own T-cells to equip them to recognise and fight the patients cancer.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 31 Underlying investment portfolio continued Freeline Therapeutics Developing Freeline Therapeutics is a biopharmaceutical company focused on the development Description of liver-directed gene therapies, based Liver-directed gene therapy.
on the pioneering work of Professor Amit Fully diluted ownership 74% Nathwani at the University College London Royal Free Hospital.
Value 18.0m The companys most advanced programme % of NAV 2.0% is a treatment for haemophilia B, a rare disorder associated with deficiency in a Focus areas Gene therapy blood clotting factor, that causes painful, Valuation basis Cost crippling bleeding in patients joints.
Patients currently require lifelong treatment % of life science portfolio 7.9% with concentrates of clotting factor freelinetx.
com administered intravenously on an on-demand or prophylactic basis.
Freelines world-class technology could replace the need for chronic enzyme treatment in genetic diseases such as haemophilia B with a single injection, providing the possibility of long-term disease modification.
Achilles Therapeutics Developing Achilles technology combines recent advances from two of the fastest Description developing fields in healthcare today, Immunotherapy for late-stage cancer.
DNAsequencing technology and cancer Fully diluted ownership 66% immunotherapy immuno-oncology, initially focussing on non-small cell lung Value 2.8m cancer tocreate a personalised medicine % of NAV 0.3% with thepotential to cure patients.
Focus areas Cell therapy Lung cancer accounts for 1.5 million deaths per year globally.
In the US alone, Valuation basis Cost more than 200,000 patients are diagnosed % of life science portfolio 1.2% with lung cancer every year, for which thefive-year survival rate is less than achillestx.
Syncona Limited 32 Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Gyroscope Therapeutics Developing Gyroscope was founded to exploit the convergence of break-through scientific Description advances in genetics, gene therapy and Therapeutics.
inthe understanding of the role of the Fully diluted ownership 78% complement system as a driver of retinaldisease.
Value 5.0m Syncona co-ordinated contributions from % of NAV 0.6% a number ofdifferent UK universities to Focus areas Gene therapy found the company.
The synthesis of these contributions represents a novel approach Valuation basis Cost to the diseases targeted by the company.
% of life science portfolio 2.2% Currently based in London, the company is recruiting its initial team.
com launch will follow later this year.
Cambridge Epigenetix CEGX Developing CEGX, a pioneer in the field of epigenetics, utilises its expertise and proprietary Description technology in partnership with leading Research tools.
biopharma companies to develop Fully diluted ownership 12% improved diagnostic tools for a number ofimportant diseases, including cancer.
Value 5.2m CEGX was formed out of the work of % of NAV 0.6% Professor Sir Shankar Balasubramanian, Focus areas Diagnostics the co-inventor of the market leading Solexa sequencing platform now Valuation basis Price of Recent commercialised by Illumina Inc. Investment % of life science portfolio 2.3% cambridge-epigenetix.
com Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 33 Underlying investment portfolio continued Funds portfolio Top 10 fund investments Polygon European Equity Opportunity Fund Manager Polygon Global Partners LLP Value 41.8m % of the funds portfolio 7.2% % of NAV 4.7% Strategy Hedge Geographic focus Europe Asset class Equity The Polygon European Equity Opportunity Fund pursues a relatively diversified event driven strategy that seeks to build a catalyst-driven portfolio.
The fund seeks to profit from revaluations to portfolio companies stemming from M&A, corporate restructurings and from fundamental, technical and regulatory developments.
Polar Capital Japan Parity Value Fund The SFP Value Alpha Fund Realization Fund Manager Manager Manager Polar Capital LLP Parity Asset Management Ltd Symphony Financial Partners Singapore Pte.
Ltd Value 36.6m Value 34.7m Value 33.0m % of the funds portfolio 6.3% % of the funds portfolio 6.0% % of the funds portfolio 5.7% % of NAV 4.1% % of NAV 3.9% % of NAV 3.7% Strategy Long bias Strategy Hedge Strategy Long bias Geographic focus Japan Geographic focus Global Geographic focus Japan Asset class Equity Asset class Macro Asset class Equity The Japan Alpha Fund aims to generate The objective of the Parity Value Fund The SFP Value Realization Fund pursues long-term capital growth by investing in is to produce long-term capital growth a deep value investment strategy in smaller the shares of Japanese companies, or by investing in traded securities and capitalisation Japanese equities in companies that generate a significant instruments, whilst applying a value based conjunction with proactive engagement amount of their revenues in Japan.
The fund pursues with portfolio company management.
fund applies a value based stock picking investment opportunities in all asset On average the fund holds 8-12 core long approach, investing in a concentrated classes on a fully global basis.
In addition positions accounting for 80-90 per cent portfolio of large, medium and small to standard cash equities and fixed income of assets under management.
instruments, the fund may take equity, fixed has the ability to short individual stocks income, currency, commodity and other and index futures generally Nikkei.
Syncona Limited 34 Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Majedie UK Maga Smaller Companies The S. W. Mitchell Equity Fund UCITS Fund European Fund Manager Manager Manager Majedie Asset Management Ltd Otus Capital Management Ltd S. W. Mitchell Capital LLP Value 32.2m Value 29.1m Value 27.2m % of the funds portfolio 5.5% % of the funds portfolio 5.0% % of the funds portfolio 4.7% % of NAV 3.6% % of NAV 3.3% % of NAV 3.0% Strategy Long bias Strategy Hedge Strategy Hedge Geographic focus UK Geographic focus Europe Geographic focus Europe Asset class Equity Asset class Equity Asset class Equity The Majedie UK Equity Fund aims to The objective of the Maga Smaller The S. W. Mitchell European Funds produce a return in excess of the FTSE Companies UCITS fund is to seek to investment objective is to generate absolute All-Share Index over the long term through provide investors with positive absolute returns for investors, primarily by investing investment in a diversified portfolio of returns over the long term primarily through both long and short in European equities.
The UK Equity investing in and gaining exposure to Fund is Majedies flagship fund and has the equities of smaller companies incorporated flexibility to invest up to 20 per cent of the in, or whose principal operations are in, net asset value in shares listed outside the the EEA or Switzerland.
Additionally, it has a dedicated allocation toUK smaller companies.
Sinfonietta Fund Tower Master Fund Polygon Convertible Opportunity Fund Manager Manager Manager Symphony Financial Partners Ten Five Capital Management, Ltd Polygon Global Partners LLP Singapore Pte.
Ltd Value 26.0m Value 24.5m Value 22.6m % of the funds portfolio 4.5% % of the funds portfolio 4.2% % of the funds portfolio 3.9% % of NAV 2.9% % of NAV 2.7% % of NAV 2.5% Strategy Hedge Strategy Hedge Strategy Hedge Geographic focus Asia Pacific Geographic focus Emerging Markets Geographic focus US & Europe Asset class Macro Asset class Equity Asset class Credit The Sinfonietta Fund seeks to generate The Tower Master Fund pursues The objective of the Polygon Convertible superior returns by investing in equity, investment opportunities in South Africa Opportunity Fund is to seek superior risk credit and currency instruments in the and sub-Saharan equities.
The fund runs adjusted returns through investments Asian market including Japan.
a concentrated portfolio with the top five directly or indirectly in, or relating to, investments averaging 50 per cent of their convertible securities.
The funds core competence made pursuant to various investment is in the mid-market.
strategies and on the basis of fundamental, quantitative, technical and other corporate, event or company specific research.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 35
