Synconas Group strategy Through our investment portfolio we seek to deliver superior shareholder returns by maximising the value Disciplined available from the successful approach to capital commercialisation of life science allocation technology and the delivery of transformational treatments to patients.
Our unique structure provides us with an evergreen, long-term funding base.
Weseek to allocate capital efficiently and effectively with a clear focus on delivering superior returns for shareholders.
Ourmarket leading funds portfolio achieves this by investing in long-only and alternative investment funds.
While being productively deployed, thiscapital base is available to invest in compelling life science investment opportunities, both new and follow-on investments, into our existing portfolio.
Thisstructure enables us totake a long-term view, which we believe will allow us to capture greater value for shareholders through the cycle and at the point of exit.
Syncona Limited 6 Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Focused and Building globally selective investment competitive healthcare strategy businesses Our leading, multi-disciplinary We seek to partner with thebest, brightest investment team has a proven track and most ambitious minds in science to record of creating value for stakeholders invest in andbuild globally competitive through focused investment strategies.
businesses capable of being successful long In life science, we take a high conviction term.
Building deep partnerships, we take approach to building a selective portfolio ahands-on approach to supporting of high quality healthcare businesses in our investee companies togrow and truly innovative areas of science with succeed over thelong term.
We seek to the potential to deliver dramatic efficacy maintain significant ownership stakes all for patients.
Our investment strategy the way to on-market patient treatment.
is underpinned by our funds portfolio, which seeks to capture over 70 per cent of the upswing and less than 40 per cent of the downside in equity markets through the cycle.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 7
