Funds portfolio review Investment Managers report The funds portfolio continued to build on its strong performance to date, generating a net total return of 11.8 per cent over the 12 months.
Since inception, the portfolio has delivered a net total return of 44.8percent, with annualised returns of 8.8 per cent, and low annualised volatility of 5.7 per cent.
Our portfolio seeks to deliver attractive Portfolio construction 1 risk-adjusted returns and aims to capture a focus on risk adjusted returns 70 per cent of the upswing of the FTSE We seek to invest with best in class 2 All Share Total Return, whilst limiting the managers across a broad selection of downside to 40 per cent of the fall of the strategies.
Portfolio construction is driven index through the cycle, with significantly by managers skill sets, and the degree to less volatility.
It has successfully delivered which these deliver performance that has on this approach since inception, having a low correlation to equity markets, rather 3 captured 82.9 per cent of the indexs than top-down weightings determined by performance and in the 10 worst months economic or financial market measures.
in the period when the index fell a total of Our overriding objective is to build a 34.2 per cent, the portfolio declined by portfolio that generates absolute returns only 8.0 per cent.
through macro-economic and financial market cycles and to date the portfolio At 31 March 2017, the funds portfolio was has delivered this.
valued at 582.4 million and was invested in 37 funds across 25 underlying The expansion of the Companys managers.
The net total return of 11.8 per investment policy during the year changed 1.
Thomas Henderson cent was driven by a broad cross section the parameters within which the funds Co-founder and of underlying funds.
In particular the portfolio operates.
Our overriding objective Chief Executive Officer, portfolio benefited from its exposure to and focus on generating attractive riskBACIT UK equities, as the majority of the underlying adjusted returns through the cycle remain managers in these strategies successfully unchanged.
However, now that capital may 2.
A rabella Cecil navigated through the significant volatility be called and generated by the life science Co-founder and and market disruptions triggered by a portfolio, investments will typically be more Chief Investment Officer, rapid revaluation of miners and resource liquid and have a less volatile profile.
BACIT UK companies early in the year, the EU We have begun the process of transitioning 3.
J ohn McDonald referendum in the UK in June and the the portfolio to reflect these changed Co-founder and elections in the US in November 2016. parameters and recent investments have Investment Professional, predominantly been in hedged listed BACIT UK equities.
In the short term, this transition has resulted in the number of investments in the portfolio increasing but, over the next five years, we will be transitioning the portfolio to concentrate on 15-20 leading managers across a more focused range of strategies and geographies.
Syncona Limited 24 Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Fund strategy Geographical focus We aim to limit the portfolios sensitivity Europe remains the portfolios largest 11.8% to market dislocations, and to that end exposure, accounting for 33.7% of assets, Total return at 31March 2017 60.1 per cent of assets with Global funds the next largest weighting.
were allocated to hedge funds.
These Exposure to equity markets funds have modest historical correlation to To date we have elected not to use macro equity markets, but at any given time may overlays on the portfolio, but have instead adjust exposure to the markets, depending Geographic focus relied on the underlying managers to on outlook and sentiment.
The remainder risk-adjust their exposures according to Europe 34% of the portfolio is weighted towards assets the environment.
Hedge fund managers Global 13% with a long only bias, predominantly in have more levers at their disposal than Japan 12% asset classes and geographies where long-biased managers, and we expect Emerging markets 10% hedging is either not practical or them to generate results which are Europe and US 9% not economic.
substantially protected from market cycles.
UK 9% Foreign exchange Asia-Pacic ex Japan 7% During the year, our underlying managers The Company is exposed to currencies US 6% outlook and relative confidence in equities within the underlying funds, but continues improved, and as a result, the portfolio to hedge out substantially all exposure 1 ended the year 57.0 per cent net long in to Euro denominated share classes.
This is at the top of the However, unhedged US Dollar exposure 37.0 to 57.0 per cent range since inception acquired by investing in US Dollar and compares to 48.0 per cent at denominated share classes has been 31March 2016. a part of portfolio construction since inception: the US Dollars inverse relationship to risk assets in times of market stress has, to date, dampened the volatility of returns, and historically when equities sell off around the world, the USDollar tends to strengthen.
Exposure Currency denomination of investments to US Dollar denominated share classes peaked at almost 60 per cent in early 2015.
US$ hedged 35% Since March 2016 we have reduced the Sterling 30% portfolios exposure to the US Dollar in a US$ unhedged 21% series of risk reduction exercises, so that Euro hedged 14% at 31 March 2017, 20.7 per cent of the value of the funds portfolio was invested in unhedged US Dollar denominated share classes.
As we report in Sterling, this had a positive influence on performance at the year end.
1 To estimate the Portfolios sensitivity to equity markets underlying funds positions are converted into equity equivalents and then aggregated.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 25 Funds portfolio review continued Portfolio strategies held in share classes where the currency m % of the funds % is hedged into Sterling or US Dollars.
Strategy value portfolio of NAV Ongoing corporate governance reforms Equity hedge funds 222.2 38.2 24.8 in Japan continued to drive the unwinding Equity funds 140.4 24.1 15.7 of cross shareholdings, and an increase Fixed income and credit funds 87.9 15.1 9.8 in dividend pay-outs and share buybacks.
Global macro funds 76.8 13.2 8.6 These dynamics, combined with continued Other strategies 34.5 5.9 3.8 buying under the Bank of Japans Commodity funds 20.6 3.5 2.3 Quantitative Easing programme, and the Government Pension Investment Plan, have resulted in equities moving closer to Equity hedge funds 2016, the EU referendum in the UK in June fair value.
Notwithstanding that, we share The portfolios exposure to equity hedge 2016 and the elections in the US towards the underlying managers views that funds is geographically broadly spread.
As mentioned above, the underlying In the UK, markets continued to report Equity funds managers in this strategy seek to protect strong returns, as equities benefited from Equity fund managers have few places their funds from market and global macro the depreciation of Sterling against all to hide in a crisis.
We expect our underlying events over which they have no control.
major currencies and short term concerns equity managers to outperform their Accordingly, while our view on the around the EU referendum receded as the respective benchmarks: nonetheless, underlying asset class plays an important year progressed.
The balance of funds in we recognise the volatility that those part in any investment decision, the this strategy is invested in Russian and benchmarks bring to the portfolio.
We underlying managers skill set in generating Global equities.
seek to mitigate this through manager uncorrelated returns is a core focus.
selection and the sizing of positions.
Fixed income and credit funds In aggregate, investments in this strategy Overall spreads generally tightened Against a backdrop of rising equity continued to contribute to positive during the year, providing a tailwind for markets, the underlying funds in this performance, reporting an aggregate gross the long-biased elements of this strategy.
strategy reported a gross total return of total return of 14.0 per cent in the year, However, there was considerable volatility 31.9 per cent and as a group outperformed as managers successfully pre-empted in European credit markets, particularly their respective benchmarks, most of them numerous challenges triggered by a following the UKs decision to leave the EU.
Japanese and UK equities number of geopolitical, currency and Despite this, all five funds in this group account for the bulk of investments under sector specific dislocations, including the made a positive contribution to progress this strategy.
Japanese investments are rapid rerating of the mining sector in early during the year.
Four of the funds are ungeared, one of which is a fixed term fund that will return capital to investors in the next 12 months.
The fund that does use gearing posted the fourth consecutive year of above benchmark returns.
The funds portfolio continued to build on its strong performance to date, generating a total return of 11.8 per cent over the 12 months.
Syncona Limited 26 Annual report and accounts 2017 Strategic report Read more Funds portfolio p. 28 Global macro funds Commentary on markets Thanks The underlying managers in this strategy after the year end The majority of the portfolios underlying invest long-short in equities, fixed income Since the year end, asset prices have managers provide the Company with and forex.
They endeavour to capture continued to rise with many capital markets access to their funds gross of any major market mispricing and have a history reaching all-time highs, despite the management and performance fees.
An active backdrop of record debt levels, continued This has, in turn, allowed the Company backdrop comprising the maturing of the political uncertainty and a decline in US to make significant charitable donations economic cycle and Quantitative Easing, leading indicators.
to The Institute of Cancer Research and 1 rising inflation, and mercurial political The BACIT Foundation over the last four Looking across the markets that our climates dominated during the year.
While years which, as the Chairman has underlying managers invest in, we are this might have been expected to provide described, continue.
We remain deeply encouraged by the beginnings of a genuine plenty of opportunity, the environment grateful for the continued support and recovery in parts of Europe.
However, we proved challenging to monetise for macro generosity of our underlying managers, are now eight years into the second-longest managers.
In this context, the underlying without whom none of this would have bull market of recent times and as we look portfolio managers successfully preserved been possible.
forward, the balance of probabilities is that capital and ended the year ahead in actual progress from here will be harder.
At the and relative terms against their index.
year end, the portfolio had a 60 per cent Other strategies weighting to hedge funds, and this 5.9 per cent of the portfolio is invested in exposure is expected to increase as we Other Strategies, which includes private continue to allocate to managers who have equity and credit, and infrastructure.
The long track records of generating returns commitments to our infrastructure and that are uncorrelated to equity markets.
private equity funds were made in 2013 Outlook and 2014, and to private credit in 2016.
The portfolio is now in its fifth year and Our infrastructure and private equity funds continues to deliver attractive risk-adjusted are now substantially invested and starting returns and we are confident in our to generate strong returns driven by underlying managers ability to continue positive performance from underlying to generate attractive returns through investments and realisations.
BACIT UK Ltd Commodity funds 5 July 2017 The portfolio is evolving into a more The portfolio has a small allocation to focused and liquid pool of assets, with globally-traded soft and industrial an even greater emphasis on containing commodities, as well as energy, and all volatility.
This reflects the changed investments made are long-short.
Following parameters of our investment mandate and three years of strong and uncorrelated liquidity requirements.
We look forward to returns, this was a challenging year for working alongside our new Syncona team managers in the space as historically members to deliver superior returns for dependable indicators proved unreliable.
shareholders in the years to come.
1 For onward distribution to nominated charities.
Syncona Limited Annual report and accounts 2017 27
