Strategic report|Latin America Latin America Total revenue from ongoing activities in Marketing Services Latin America was US$730m, with total Total and organic revenue at constant growth and organic revenue growth of exchange rates increased by 39%.
We made good progress in Marketing Services with particular strength Credit Services in targeting, driven by our digital At constant exchange rates, total and advertising initiatives and good demand organic revenue growth was 6%.
In for data quality services.
Brazil, growth reflected strategic new business wins, growth across counterWe are very pleased with Benchmark EBIT and EBIT margin cyclical products, including delinquency our performance.
We are Latin America Benchmark EBIT from notifications services, and good growth helping small and mediumongoing activities was US$251m, up 3% in the SME channel.
Spanish Latin sized enterprises reduce risk at constant exchange rates.
Benchmark America delivered another outstanding EBIT margin from ongoing activities was and grow their businesses, performance.
34.4% 2016: 35.8% reflecting investment were enabling larger lenders in new consumer offers in Brazil and to better manage their loan Decision Analytics dual running costs as we transferred portfolios, and were helping Total and organic revenue growth some operations to our new facility in consumers to learn more about was 34% at constant exchange rates So Carlos.
There was also a mix impact positive data and improve their as we expand across the region and relating to growth in lower margin access to credit.
secured new contract wins and strong counter-cyclical products.
Jos Luiz Rossi performances across software, analytics Managing Director, Latin America and fraud prevention services.
Total revenue growth % Revenue, Benchmark EBIT and Benchmark EBIT margin 9% 17 16 7% Total Organic 1 2 2 15 3% 2017 2016 growth growth Year ended 31 March US$m US$m % % 7% 14 Revenue 13 21% Credit Services 658 579 6 6 Decision Analytics 48 36 34 34 Organic revenue growth % Marketing Services 24 16 39 39 17 9% 7% Total Latin America 730 631 9 9 16 15 3% Benchmark EBIT 7% 14 Total Latin America 251 226 3 14% 13 Benchmark EBIT margin 34.4% 35.8% Revenue by activity 1 The results of CCM have been treated as discontinued and 2016 has been restated to reflect the transaction.
2 Growth at constant exchange rates.
Credit Services 90% Decision Analytics 7% See the Financial review for analysis of revenue, Benchmark EBIT and Benchmark EBIT margin by business segment and note 7 to the Group financial statements for definitions of non-GAAP measures.
Marketing Services 3% Benchmark EBIT US$m and Benchmark EBIT margin % 251 34.4% 17 16 restated 226 35.8% 15 313 36.6% 344 37.2% 14 13 343 35.7% Includes the performance of CCM.
34 Strategic report|Latin America Highlights 2017 % % m m 17 9 730 251 Contribution to Organic revenue Revenue EBIT US$ with Group revenue growth US$ 34.4% margin Our stories DATA AND ANALYTICS Building credit histories to help people afford their first home Building credit histories is the sort of thing we do every day at Experian.
Over the years, Experian has innovated with analysing traditional and alternative data sources, such as public records and magazine subscriptions, to create the most accurate and realistic picture of someones credit.
By unlocking the power of this data, we people looking to take advantage of the Working with Natalia and Alejandro are able to identify the data sets that can subsidy through Mi Casa Ya, he explained, for Mi Casa Ya over the past year has help lenders make better decisions when were considered 'credit invisible'.
been incredibly rewarding and our making loans, especially to people with work here isnt done!
Since I work in the That is, they had no viable credit history, thin credit files.
legal department at Experian, I am now thin or un-scoreable credit files, or they involved in reaching an agreement with About a year ago, my colleague simply had bad credit.
So banks had no the Ministry of Housing to help advance Natalia invited me to join her in a new choice but to reject them.
opportunity to help the Ministry of Natalia and I heard the frustration in Housing in Colombia.
The details are tricky and the process Alejandros voice, and we knew just how is tedious, but when I think about the The Ministry had created a new we could help.
We told Alejandro that people whose lives we have the ability to programme called Mi Casa Ya which if the Ministry could determine which transform, I just get excited.
means in English My Own Home Now individuals were being rejected by the to help people in Colombia own their banks, we could come in and build credit Because of our work, many more families firsthomes.
scores for them using Experians data.
in Colombia will be able to fulfill their dream of owning their own homes Excited and eager to lend a hand, Natalia thats huge.
and I introduced ourselves to Alejandro, the Director of the National Housing Fund Nicole Moulin Correal Building credit at the Ministry of Housing.
Alejandro Corporate Legal Director, histories is the told us how an unexpected roadblock Experian Colombia threatened the programme.
sort of thing we do every day at He had created Mi Casa Ya so that even Experian.
the poorest people in the country could get a government subsidy to purchase a home.
To get the subsidy, they just needed to qualify for a mortgage from a local bank.
In order to get the bank loan, applicants needed a strong credit history.
