Strategic report|Our strategy Our strategy - putting ambition into action We aim to be a trusted partner for consumers, businesses and other organisations, helping them to achieve their goals by providing them with the best tools to manage credit risk and protect against fraud.
We do this by combining data with analytics and software.
Our strategic ambition is to grow our presence across a number of industry segments and geographies by investing in these foundations.
Consumers Wish to understand and monitor their credit status and to protect against identity fraud.
They want a seamless digital experience which balances personal privacy concerns with convenience.
Data By contributing data to Experian, Data and services consumers may enhance their We help to enable consumers likelihood of being accepted for to make the most of their data the credit products best suited by creating flexible tools so they to them.
One Experian Our vision is to be the trusted exchange between consumers and businesses, a dynamic, positive force in consumers lives and first for client excellence.
Data and services Data We enhance the data and provide Businesses and other easy-to-use services which help organisations contribute data to our clients better serve their Experian.
We combine this data customers.
with additional data to create a range of innovative services.
Businesses and other organisations Have new ways of delivering their services which require speed and agility.
They seek new sources of data and want to control costs and automate processes.
Our vision for future data contribution 08 Strategic report|Our strategy Weve made significant progress implementing our strategy and investing back into the A more focused Investing in Improving Driving Optimising business: organisation growth performance efficiencies capital p26 Read more in the Chief Executives review.
Key growth Increasing engagement Accelerating innovation Broadening our impact initiatives in our plans We aim to enhance Were investing in a wide Well scale our presence in include: our relationships with array of new services: selected markets: consumers by: introducing capabilities small and medium-sized introducing a broader, to reduce friction in the businesses: enhanced range of lending process so that healthcare in the USA: products such as identity decision making can automotive: and protection, fraud detection, be faster, resulting in geographies where we pre-qualified credit offers an improved consumer have an existing presence.
and price comparison experience: tools: rolling out our fraud building new features detection platform: which will offer both free scaling our price and premium services: and comparison services for introducing new, easyconsumers: and to-use features and introducing new mobile mobile apps.
Our data Enhancing our assets and working as One Experian assets and sophisticated Were investing in new, unique and complementary Were embedding a culture of innovation across analytics are data assets, including alternative data and the Group.
at the core of consumer-contributed data.
Were combining our assets from across the whole what we do: Were investing in technology so we may of Experian to create products unrivalled in the deliver our products in easy-to-consume, marketplace.
We continue Strengthening our foundations to invest in the Disciplined foundations Our people Great client Cutting-edge Innovative A powerful allocation of that underpin and culture service technology products brand resources our success: 09
