Strategic report|Our business activities Our business activities We help organisations lend responsibly and the terms on which to lend.
These Credit and protect themselves and their organisations can quickly check whether customers from risk.
From our 17 a loan that a customer has asked for is Services consumer and 11 business information suitable for them and whether they can bureaux, we provide millions of credit afford to repay it.
reports every day, enabling lending This helps to ensure that customers are decisions to be made fairly, responsibly % treated more fairly when applying for 55 and quickly for people and businesses.
It also widens access to credit Contribution We collect data from thousands of across society, by providing an unbiased to Group sources in order to analyse the credit assessment of a customer.
This means revenue histories of people and businesses millions of people and businesses are sorting through information about the closer to getting the loan they need, at a credit they applied for, whether or not rate they can afford.
their applications were successful, and Revenue by region Market position were the number one how they repaid the credit.
We turn this or two operator in our key markets.
North America 56% information into a credit report.
Latin America Competitors include Equifax, 28% These credit reports are used by UK and Ireland 10% TransUnion and Dun & Bradstreet.
EMEA Asia Pacific 6% businesses such as banks, automotive Financial characteristics primarily dealers, healthcare providers and transactional, pricing is volume-tiered, retailers to help calculate credit scores per report delivered.
and make decisions about lending We help our customers to lend applies online for a bank loan.
This Decision effectively and to minimise the risk includes checking the persons credit of fraud by developing advanced status and their ability to repay the loan, Analytics software and models to analyse data.
applying the banks lending criteria, checking that applicants are who they We help our clients minimise risk to say they are and replying with an answer their organisation while delivering the - all within a matter of seconds for a % customer experience that people expect.
process that previously took days.
13 We help them to lend effectively, to detect and minimise fraud and to comply Our industry experts and data scientists Contribution with legal requirements.
We help them work collaboratively with our clients, to Group identify new opportunities, including identifying problems together and then revenue more efficient ways to run their business, helping to solve them using advanced meet customer needs and find better technologies such as machine learning.
ways to cross-sell their products.
Revenue by region Market position we hold leading We do this by combining our own data positions in our key markets.
North America 28% with data from our clients and third Competitors include Fair Isaac, IBM, Latin America 8% parties.
We then use advanced software UK and Ireland 37% SAS and smaller niche providers.
and analytics to access, organise EMEA Asia Pacific 27% Financial characteristics scores and analyse this data, turning it into and checks are sold on a transactional, meaningful information our customers volume-tiered basis.
system sales include implementation For example, our software automates fees, recurring licence fees and and drives the process when a person transactional charges.
06 Strategic report|Our business activities We manage our business by region and the performance of these is set out in the North America, Latin America, p32 UK and Ireland, and EMEA Asia Pacific sections.
We help businesses to understand People and their preferences are always Marketing their customers.
We use our strengths changing, and thats why were constantly in data management and analytics to checking and updating data, linking Services give our clients a clear picture of who records at the customer account level and each individual is and of their needs, enhancing customer records by combining so they can target relevant offers and their data with ours.
We update millions communications to each individual.
of customer profiles for our clients every % 10 year.
This way our clients can be sure We use our strengths in data their data is as accurate, up-to-date and Contribution management and analytics to create a relevant as possible.
to Group picture of what people want.
This picture revenue helps our clients understand what their Market position we hold leading customers are interested in, what theyre positions in targeting and data quality not interested in, and what they need in our key markets.
Revenue by region Competitors include Acxiom, Epsilon, Using this information, our clients can GB Group, Oracle and Trillium.
North America 51% plan, build and deliver their marketing Latin America 6% Financial characteristics transactional, campaigns.
They can increase customer UK and Ireland 34% data licences and subscription fees.
EMEA Asia Pacific 9% retention by rewarding loyalty, find new customers to interact with, build relationships with them, and measure how customers respond.
We empower people to take control peoples identities by scouring the Consumer of their credit helping them to internet in real time, monitoring websites, understand and better manage their blogs and chat rooms to identify the Services financial position, while protecting illegal trading of personal information, so themselves from identity theft andfraud.
we can notify people to take immediate action.
If people do become victims of Millions of people in the USA, the UK fraud, were on hand to help working % and Brazil can view their Experian credit with them to contact banks and 22 report and Experian score online.
This, organisations, and even freezing their along with our online tools and call centre Contribution credit until weve helped them reclaim experts, can help people understand their to Group their identity.
data, so they can use it to get access to revenue credit which suits their needs.
In Brazil, We also white label our services for our portal makes it easier for consumers businesses, allowing them to use these to see all their debts and click through to products to provide additional services Revenue by region obtain a service which will help to resolve to their customer base, helping them to outstanding debts.
obtain new customers and reduce churn.
North America 79% We believe the more people learn and Market position we hold leading UK and Ireland 21% understand about credit, the more positions in our key markets.
power they have to manage it and make Competitors include CallCredit, Credit themselves eligible for better credit Karma, Equifax, Fair Isaac, TransUnion deals.
We can also show consumers and other niche providers.
pre-approved credit card and personal Financial characteristics subscription loan offers, ranked in the order that best and transaction fees from consumers, matches their needs.
revenue or profit share on white-label Helping to protect identities partnerships, and commissions for preWe constantly monitor the information approved credit offers from financial in peoples credit reports for suspected services providers.
