Strategic report|Viability statement Viability statement The key assumptions in the latest These scenarios, which are based on Assessment of prospects financial forecasts, presented to the aspects of the principal risks highlighted The context for the assessment March 2017 Board meeting, reflect the above, represent severe but plausible Our business model and strategy are approved strategy and include: circumstances that we could experience.
central to understanding our prospects, and details can be found in those mid single-digit organic revenue The scenarios tested included: sections of the Strategic report.
We have and Benchmark EBIT growth at a regular cycle of strategic planning, loss or inappropriate use of data constant exchange rates: budgeting, and forecasting of current or systems leading to serious cash flow conversion in excess year business performance and future reputational and brand damage, legal of 95%: prospects.
This considers the Groups penalties and class action litigation: gearing ratio Net debt Benchmark revenue, Benchmark EBIT, cash flows, adverse and unpredictable financial EBITDA in the range of 2.0 to 2.5: dividend cover, committed and forecast markets or fiscal developments in one funding and liquidity positions and other broadly stable effective tax rates of our major countries of operation key financial ratios, including those over the medium term: and resulting in significant economic relevant to maintaining our investmentuse of excess cash for acquisitions deterioration, currency weakness or grade credit ratings.
Over the last three and shareholder returns.
restriction: and years, we have generated Benchmark new legislation or changes in free cash flow of US$3.1bn which we The table of principal risks in the regulatory enforcement, changing have principally used to fund dividends Strategic report summarises the risks how we operate our business.
of US$1.1bn, net share purchases of that could prevent the Group from US$1.1bn, and acquisitions of US$0.5bn.
As explained The results of this stress testing showed below, we have considered a number that, due to the Groups diversified nature, Our strategic aims are to focus on our of these risks as part of our assessment the resilience of the core business, its core areas of competitive strength of the Groups viability.
substantial free cash flows and a strong and develop growth opportunities in investment-grade rating, the Group would our key markets.
Our plans for the Assessment of viability be able to withstand the impact of these Groups core operations therefore The directors have concluded that scenarios occurring during the period of include organic strategic initiatives the most relevant time period for this the financial forecasts, by adjusting its and .
assessment is the three-year period of operating plans within the normal course our normal strategic planning cycle, the of business.
The assessment process period over which analysis of business and key assumptions conditions and market factors can be Viability statement We assess our prospects through reasonably assessed.
In making their Based on their assessment of prospects our planning process and review our assessment, the directors have taken and viability, the directors confirm that growth expectations and the external account of the strongly cash-generative they have a reasonable expectation that environment annually, as part of the nature of our business, our robust capital the Group will be able to continue in strategic planning process.
The Board solvency position, our ability to raise operation and meet its liabilities as they participates in this process, using the new finance in most market conditions, fall due over the three-year period ending January strategy meeting each year to and our key potential mitigating 31 March 2020.
The directors have focus on the Groups strategy.
We then actions of restricting acquisitions, considered whether they are aware of develop our annual budget and a further capital investment and, in considering any specific relevant factors beyond the two-year financial plan.
scenarios affecting viability, reducing three-year horizon and have confirmed dividendpayments.
that they are aware of none.
Although the strategic plan reflects the directors best estimate of the Groups future prospects, they have also tested the potential impact of a number of scenarios over and above those included in the plan, by quantifying their financial impact and overlaying this on the plans detailed financial forecasts.
22 Strategic report|Our stories Our stories DATA AND ANALYTICS Building a partnership with Banco Original Ive been working with Rodrigo at Banco Original for as long as Ive been at Serasa Experian.
Our two companies work really closely together and I remember when it started to feel like a partnership.
We had a meeting at their offices its We had a plan that would work for him I was really happy when you do a very cool building, very modern.
I was for more like five years building tools to something for others where youre actually in the middle of moving to a help him make decisions fast, to find new not thinking about yourself, you get new house at the time, and I spotted a customers, and lend to more of the right something back.
lampshade in the meeting room that people.
And it was cheaper than what he For me, that something wasnt just a would be perfect in my new dining room.
Wed had some tough ingreat feeling, but a lampshade, too.
The house negotiations to get to that point.
Anyway, Rodrigo told us he wanted a tool Banco Original team sent me an email to help him make better decisions about He was shocked, and really pleased.
after the meeting saying Heres where which customers to lend to.
Hed asked He said he was grateful that, instead we bought that lampshade you like.
other companies for this tool, but theyd of focusing on the money, or the tool That was funny.
Working with Banco all said no they wouldnt do it the way, he asked for, wed kind of mapped out Original is like building a partnership and for the price, he needed.
everything he needed and worked out and afriendship.
We were working We didnt say no, but we didnt say yes Nicole Sabbag in partnership.
He always says that, either.
Instead, we showed him that the Pre-sales consultant, without these tools and this partnership, product he wanted wasnt what would Serasa Experian Banco Original would never have got to help him most.
It would work for a year where they wanted to be.
or so, but then hed need something new.
Without these tools and this partnership, Banco Original would never have got to where they wanted to be.
