s c i t y l a M n a A r k n e o A t i i s n i g n c S e a e D l r v i y c e t s i c s e s s i h t a t i g v a t n i t e n Strategic report|Our business model Our business model We aim to place clients and consumers at the heart of everything we do.
We help them to make the most of their data and realise their ambitions by enabling quicker, smarter decisions using our analytics and software.
Underpinning our business is a set of competitive advantages and five Integrated Global guiding beliefs that approach reach shape the way we work, what we do, and our ambitions.
Clients and Consumers Innovative Unrivalled culture scale Robust financials Our strengths help us better serve clients and consumers...
Integrated approach Global reach We are transforming the way that we work together through a Operating in major economies around the world allows us to One Experian approach.
Were better connecting our expertise support and serve both local and global clients, and share best across our business activities and using our data, analytics and practice, technology and innovation across our regions.
This software to help consumers, businesses and organisations means that we can take the lessons from helping consumers solve their challenges and realise their goals.
Integration allows and clients in one market into other markets, helping them us to serve clients better, create more innovative products and solve similar problems quickly and more effectively.
joined-up solutions, and reduce costs.
We operate within a strict data security and risk management framework with policies, 04 r c a t S A d r D u r C O o u S n O s o u f m t e r w S s e e r a c i v i v r c r e e e s S t i d e r C Strategic report|Our business model We believe that... And make a real difference for... Data is central to how we all live.
It has the potential to Our clients and consumers transform all our lives for the better.
We help millions of consumers to: We can unlock the power of data to realise opportunities better access financial services: for people and organisations.
understand and improve their financial position: protect their identity: and It is how we can help that sets us apart.
We place the know that their data is correct.
power of data and our expertise in the hands of our clients.
We help thousands of businesses and organisations to: By helping people make the most of their data we can make a difference to society and our communities.
manage credit risk: prevent fraud: How we work is as important as what we do: we treat better understand their customers: and everyone fairly and their data with respect: we work better understand their markets and allocate resources.
We unlock opportunities for individuals, families, small and medium-sized businesses, large financial institutions, retailers, hospitals, physicians, the automotive industry, the We unlock the power of data... public sector, and telecommunications and utility providers.
Our people The breadth, depth and accuracy of data, combined with We provide jobs for 16,300 people in 37 countries.
The way analytics, help to drive informed and trusted decisions for our we work together is key to what we do, and we continue clients.
We hold and manage powerful data sets, including to nurture and foster our peoples passion and talent with credit data on 989 million people and 111 million businesses.
career progression, recognition, support and training.
The data we hold varies, for example from how you have Our communities repaid credit in the past, to whether a car has been in an As people become financially empowered, they can accident, to your eligibility for healthcare services in the USA, improvetheir lives.
As businesses do better, they can to how you like to respond to online advertising.
Our communities benefit directly Our industry experts collaborate with our data analysts and fromthis, as well as indirectly through the value that we scientists to create innovative analytics and software to help create for otherstakeholders.
solve our clients challenges, such as when: We support charitable causes and social innovation all A large lender wants to extend credit to people who around the world, from building new products that help to apply online improve financial inclusion, to donating funds directly into A new homeowner wants to improve their Experian the community, to encouraging our employees to volunteer credit score within their communities.
We ensure we make a difference A small business owner opens a new business and to society, and to the communities in which we live and work.
wants to manage their customer base Our shareholders Businesses seek to better understand and communicate We invest to create value for our shareholders, who with their customers benefit from our track record of sustainable growth and Local governments choose the best place to locate care favourable prospects.
services for older people Unrivalled scale Innovative culture Robust financials Through greater management and We embed innovation into our culture We are a highly cash-generative development of products centrally, with through investment in our employees business with low capital intensity.
local deployment, we can reduce costs, and new technologies.
Innovation lays the We carefully manage our productivity standardise products, and improve time foundation for developing new products and performance, reinvesting savings to market.
Our clients benefit from faster that help meet the changing needs of back into the business to support our access to more data, higher quality tools consumers and our clients, providing innovation and infrastructure.
This allows and flexible propositions that can be them with greater advantages.
This will us to generate and preserve value for integrated across their operations.
continue to be a key area of focus for us.
processes and controls, monitoring and testing.
We continually invest in information security.
