Governance|Directors' report Directors report The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2017.
The report has been prepared in line with the UK Companies Act 2006, and the Corporate governance report and the Shareholder and corporate information section form part of this Directors report.
The Strategic report contains certain information equivalent to that required in a report of the directors.
Financial and operational Financial risk management, The Board is satisfied that all directors information objectives and policies contribute effectively and demonstrate Descriptions of the use of financial commitment to their roles.
The Corporate Results and dividend instruments and Experians treasury and governance report contains further The Group income statement shows a risk management objectives and policies details of the evaluation process.
profit for the year ended 31 March 2017 are set out in the Financial review within of US$865m 2016: US$752m.
The Insurance and third-party the Strategic report and also in note 8 to directors have announced the payment of indemnification the Group financial statements.
a second interim dividend, in lieu of a final During the year and up to the date of dividend, of 28.5 US cents per ordinary Political donations approval of this Annual Report, the share 2016: 27.5 US cents to be paid Experian did not make any political Company maintained liability insurance on 21 July 2017 to shareholders on the donations during the year ended and third-party indemnification register of members on 23 June 2017.
31March 2017. provisions for its directors and officers.
A first interim dividend of 13.0 US cents per ordinary share was paid on 27 Going concern Appointment and removal January 2017, giving a total dividend for Details of the adoption of the going of directors the year of 41.5 US cents per ordinary concern basis in preparing the Group Both the Company, by ordinary resolution, share 2016: 40.0 US cents.
financial statements are set out in and the directors may elect any person to note 2 of the Group financial statements be a director.
The number of directors shall Research and development and are incorporated into this report not exceed the maximum number fixed Research and development plays a key by reference.
by the Companys articles of association.
role in supporting Experians activities.
Any person appointed by the directors Details of such activities are given in the Directors shall only hold office until the next AGM Strategic report.
Information on directors holding and shall then be eligible for election.
The office in the year office of a director shall be vacated on Acquisitions and disposals The directors names, biographical the occurrence of any of the events listed Information in respect of acquisitions details and skills and experience are in article 92 of the Companys articles and disposals made during the shown in the Board of directors section.
The Company may, in year is contained in note 40 and Caroline Donahue was appointed as a accordance with its articles of association, note 41 respectively to the Group non-executive director on 1 January 2017. remove any director from office and elect financialstatements.
Judith Sprieser retired as a non-executive another person in their place.
Registered branch director on 20 July 2016.
Annual General Meeting The Company has a branch registered in Particulars of directors remuneration, Ireland under branch number 905565.
The Companys 2017 AGM will be held at service contracts and interests in the TheMerrionHotel, UpperMerrion Street, Post balance sheet events Companys ordinary shares are shown in Dublin 2, D02 KF79, Ireland, at 9.30am on Details of events occurring after the end the Report on directors remuneration.
Shareholders of the reporting period are contained in There were no changes in the directors who are unable to attend may submit note 45 to the Group financial statements.
interests in the ordinary shares between questions beforehand via email to the end of the financial year and agmquestions@experianplc.
com or on Share capital 17May2017.
the prepaid card sent to shareholders Details of the Companys share capital with the notice of meeting.
The questions and changes during the year ended In line with the UK Corporate Governance will be addressed at the meeting, 31 March 2017 are set out in note O to Code, all directors, being eligible, will via the Companys website at the Company financial statements.
offer themselves for election or rewww.
com or individually election at the 2017 AGM.
The notice of meeting has of the performance of the Board, its been circulated to shareholders and can committees and individual directors was also be viewed on the Companys website.
carried out during the financial year.
110 Governance|Directors' report Certain restrictions on transfers of Unless the directors determine Share capital information shares may from time to time be otherwise, members are not entitled Rights and obligations imposed by, for example, insider to vote personally or by proxy at a The rights and obligations attaching to dealing regulations.
In certain shareholders meeting, or to exercise the ordinary and deferred shares are set situations, directors and certain any other members right in relation out in note O to the Company financial employees are required to seek to shareholders meetings, if the statements and in the Companys articles the Companys approval to deal in member fails to provide the Company of association, a copy of which can be itsshares.
with the required information obtained from the Experian website, concerning interests in those shares, Some of Experians share-based www.
The Companys within the prescribed period after employee incentive plans include articles of association may be amended being served with a notice under the restrictions on the transfer of shares, by passing a special resolution.
whilst the shares are subject to ADR programme theplan.
The Companys articles of The Company has a Level 1 American association state that, except for As described in the Report on Depositary Receipt ADR programme certain limited circumstances, if the directors remuneration, nonin the USA, for which Bank of New York number of shares in the Company executive directors receive a Mellon acts as depositary.
The ADRs are beneficially owned by residents of proportion of their fees in shares, until traded on the highest tier of the USA the USA exceeds a defined permitted the value of their shareholding equals over-the-counter market, OTCQX, with maximum and the directors give their annual fee.
These shares may each ADR representing one Experianplc notice to the holder s of such not normally be transferred during ordinary share.
Further details are shares, the shares do not give their their period of office.
given in the Shareholder and corporate holder s the right to receive notice Where participants in a share-based information section.
of, attend or vote at the Companys employee incentive plan operated by generalmeetings.
Substantial shareholdings Experian are the beneficial owners The Companys articles of association of the shares but not the registered Details of deadlines in respect of oblige shareholders to comply with owner, the voting rights are normally voting for the 2017 AGM are contained the notification obligations contained exercised by the registered owner at in the notice of meeting that has in the UK Disclosure Guidance and the direction of the participants.
been circulated to shareholders and Transparency Rules.
As at 17 May 2017, Shares carry no voting rights while which can also be viewed on the the Company had been notified of the they are held in treasury.
indirect interests below in its issued The deferred shares in the Company ordinary share capital or voting rights.
Unless the directors determine Restrictions on transfers of shares otherwise, members are not entitled and or voting rights to vote personally or by proxy at a The Company is not aware of any shareholders meeting, or to exercise agreements between shareholders that any other members right in relation may result in restrictions on the transfer to shareholders meetings, in respect of securities and or voting rights and, of any share for which any call or apart from the matters described below, other sum payable to the Company there are no restrictions on the transfer remainsunpaid.
of the Companys ordinary shares and or voting rights: Substantial shareholdings Number of ordinary Percentage of issued Date of notification Shareholder shares voting rights share capital voting rights 22 April 2016 Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 47,945,271 4.99% 18 July 2016 BlackRock, Inc. 48,209,700 5.03% 111 Governance|Directors' report Directors report continued Purchase, cancellation and Significant agreements Employment information holdings of own shares change of control Employment of people with The existing authority for the Company to The Group is party to a number of disabilities purchase its own shares was given at the agreements that take effect, alter, People with disabilities have equal AGM held on 20 July 2016.
It permits the terminate, or have the potential to opportunities when applying for Company to purchase 95,985,092 of its do so, upon a change of control of the vacancies.
In addition to complying with own shares in the market.
legislative requirements, the Group These agreements are as follows: has procedures to ensure that it treats On 11 May 2016, the Company announced disabled employees fairly and carefully its intention to repurchase shares, The Groups banking facilities contain manages their training and career through a US$400m share repurchase provisions which, in the event of a development needs.
During the year ended change of control, could result in their considered to operate effectively.
The 31March2017, the Company purchased renegotiation or withdrawal.
Group supports employees who become 18,221,921 of its own shares, at a cost The Groups Senior Notes and disabled during the course of their of US$336m with 2,804,506 shares Euronotes allow holders to require employment, by offering re-training or purchased before the 2016 AGM.
repayment of the notes, if a rating re-deployment, to enable them to remain 350,000 shares have been purchased agency re-rates the notes to below with the Group whenever possible.
by the Company since 31 March 2017. investment grade, following a change All shares purchased under this Employee involvement of control.
Experian is committed to employee All of Experians share-based involvement throughout the business.
employee incentive plans contain On 3 June 2016 and 1 November The Group is intent on motivating staff, provisions relating to a change of 2016, 720,794 and 84,723 ordinary keeping them informed on matters that control.
Outstanding awards and shares respectively in the Company concern them in the context of their options would normally vest and were transferred from treasury to employment, and involving them through become exercisable, subject to Global Shares Ireland Limited, the local consultative procedures.
Where satisfaction of any performance administrator of Experians share plans, there are recognition agreements with conditions at that time.
for nil consideration, to be used to meet trade unions, the consultation process obligations under employee share plans.
The Group is party to a limited number is established through national and local of operational arrangements which trade union representatives and through As at the date of approval of this Annual can be terminated or altered upon joint consultation committees.
Report, the Company 1 holds 62,358,805 a change of control of the Company, 2016: 63,164,322 of its own shares as but these are not considered to be Employees are kept well informed on treasury shares, and 2 had an unexpired individually significant to the Groups matters of interest and the financial and authority to purchase up to 80,217,677 of business as a whole.
In certain cases, economic factors affecting the Groups its own shares.
it is considered that their disclosure performance.
This is done through would be seriously prejudicial to management channels, conferences, Details of the new authority being theCompany.
meetings, publications and intranet sites.
requested at the 2017 AGM are contained More detail on employee engagement, The provisions in directors service in the circular to shareholders, which together with information on diversity, contracts relating to a change of either accompanies this Annual Report succession planning and talent control of the Company are and or is available on the Companys development, can be found in the Our described in the Report on website at www.
people section of the Strategicreport.
Details of the shares in the Company Experian supports employee share purchased by and held under ownership by providing, whenever  possible, employee share plan and The Experian UK Approved Allarrangements which are intended to Employee Share Plan are set out in noteP align employees interests with those to the Company financialstatements.
112 Governance|Directors' report taking such steps as are reasonably In addition, each of the directors Auditor information open to them to safeguard the assets considers that the Annual Report and Relevant audit information of the Company and the Group, and financial statements, taken as a whole, As at 17 May 2017, so far as each director to prevent and detect fraud and other is fair, balanced and understandable is aware, there is no relevant audit irregularities: and and provides the information necessary information, being information needed by for shareholders to assess the Groups the maintenance and integrity of the the auditor in connection with preparing position and performance, business statutory and audited information the audit report, of which the auditor is model and strategy.
Jersey unaware, and each director has taken all legislation and UK regulation steps that he or she ought to have taken By order of the Board governing the preparation and as a director in order to make himself dissemination of financial statements or herself aware of any relevant audit may differ from requirements in information and to establish that the Charles Brown other jurisdictions.
auditor is aware of that information.
Company Secretary In addition, the directors consider that, Independent auditor 17 May 2017 in preparing the financial statements: The auditor, KPMG LLP, has indicated its willingness to continue in office and a suitable accounting policies have been resolution that it be re-appointed as the selected and applied consistently: Companys auditor will be proposed at Corporate headquarters: judgments and estimates made have the AGM.
Newenham House been reasonable and prudent: Northern Cross Statement of directors' the Group financial statements comply Malahide Road responsibilities with IFRSs as adopted for use in the Dublin 17 The directors are responsible for: European Union: D17 AY61 Ireland the Company financial statements preparing the Annual Report comply with UK accounting standards including the Group and Company Registered office: including FRS 101 'Reduced financial statements and the Report 22 Grenville Street Disclosure Framework': and on directors remuneration, in St Helier it is appropriate that the Group accordance with applicable law Jersey and Company financial statements and regulations: JE4 8PX have been prepared on the going preparing financial statements which Channel Islands concernbasis.
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs at the balance sheet date, and The directors also confirm that, to the the profit or loss for the period then best of their knowledge, the financial ended of a the Group in accordance statements are prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted for use in the with the applicable set of accounting European Union, and b the Company standards, give a true and fair view of in accordance with UK Accounting the assets, liabilities, financial position Standards including FRS 101 'Reduced and profit of the Company and the Group Disclosure Framework' : taken as a whole: and the Strategic keeping proper accounting records report contains a fair review of the which disclose, with reasonable development and performance of the accuracy, at any time the financial business and the position of the Company position of the Group and the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together and enable them to ensure that the with a description of the principal risks Group financial statements comply that they face.
with applicable law: 113 114 Financial statements|Contents Financial statements See page Independent auditor's report 116 Group financial statements Group income statement 120 Group statement of comprehensive income 121 116 Group balance sheet 122 Independent Group statement of changes in total equity 123 auditors report Group cash flow statement 124 Notes to the Group financial statements 1 Corporate information 125 2 Basis of preparation 125 See page 3 Comparative information 125 4 Recent accounting developments 126 5 Significant accounting policies 126 120 6 Critical accounting estimates, assumptions and judgments 135 Group financial 7 Use of non-GAAP measures in the Group financial statements 136 8 Financial risk management 138 statements 9 Segment information 141 10 Foreign currency 147 11 Labour costs and employee numbers continuing operations 147 See page 12 Amortisation and depreciation charges 148 13 Fees payable to the Company's auditor 148 14 Exceptional items and Other adjustments made to derive 125 Benchmark PBT continuing operations 149 Notes to the Group 15 Net finance costs 151 16 Group tax charge 152 financial statements 17 Discontinued operations 154 18 Earnings per share disclosures 156 19 Dividends 157 See page 20 Goodwill 157 21 Other intangible assets 159 22 Property, plant and equipment 160 191 23 Investments in associates 161 24 Trade and other receivables 161 Company financial 25 Cash and cash equivalents 163 statements 26 Trade and other payables 164 27 Borrowings 165 28 Net debt non-GAAP measure 166 29 Financial assets and liabilities 168 30 Fair value methodology 170 31 Contractual undiscounted future cash flows for financial liabilities 171 32 Share incentive plans 172 33 Post-employment benefit plans and related risks 174 34 Post-employment benefits - IAS 19 information 175 35 Deferred and current tax 179 36 Provisions 181 37 Called up share capital and share premium account 182 38 Retained earnings and other reserves 182 39 Notes to the Group cash flow statement 184 40 Acquisitions 185 41 Assets and liabilities classified as held for sale 187 42 Commitments 187 43 Contingencies 188 44 Principal subsidiary undertakings and related party transactions 189 45 Events occurring after the end of the reporting period 190 Company financial statements Company profit and loss account 191 Company statement of comprehensive income 191 Company balance sheet 191 Company statement of changes in total equity 192 Notes to the Company financial statements 193 115
