Review of investments ESVAGT The cost reduction project started Management changes Performance in 2016 is resulting in material cost In October 2016, Rene Just was savings which we expect to maintain Cost appointed CFO.
Rene brings strong 111.1m following any market recovery.
financial management expertise Closing value 112.7m and a different perspective to the ESVAGT signed a binding agreement business, having previously been with Hess, a prominent independent Ownership 50% CFO at a private equity-owned energy company, to provide safety Date invested September 2015 Danish business.
and support services at the South Management Esbjerg, Denmark Arne eld in the Danish sector of team HQ In March 2017, Soren Karas was the North Sea for a period of 12 Country Denmark, Norway appointed Chief Commercial officer, years, continuing a successful 17-year and UK a newly created position.
Soren joins partnership at the eld.
ESVAGTs Currency DKK from Maersk Supply Services.
services will be performed by a new, Sector Natural Resources purpose-built vessel, scheduled for Energy delivery in 2018.
Developments in the year For further information about Off-shore wind business our investments, see our website The market conditions in which ESVAGT continues to make good www.
com ESVAGT operates remain challenging.
progress in the wind segment.
The low oil price environment has In addition to the new contract reduced production profitability and with MHI Vestas won in 2016, is negatively impacting exploration management is pursuing a number investment in the North Sea.
This of further contracts with other wind particularly affected ESVAGTs farm operators.
exploration associated revenues in Wind is expected to represent a the last quarter of 2016, albeit there growing share of ESVAGT revenues have since been signs of improvement in the future.
We view the current oil price environment as an opportunity for ESVAGT to streamline its cost base and consolidate its market leading position.
32 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017
