Review of investments Oystercatcher Developments in the year Renancing Performance Overall, the five terminals are During the year, part of the Cost performing well, with revenues in line Oystercatcher bank facility was 137.1m with or above budgeted levels.
Each renanced through a long dated Closing value 203.3m terminal has a strong market position private placement funding in as well as a highly regarded operator Singapore dollars.
As a result, capacity at extends Oystercatchers debt Date invested August 2007 and each location remains substantially maturity prole and provides June 2015 let and contract renewals are agreed a natural currency hedge for Management Various on good terms.
distributions from the terminal team HQ located in Singapore.
Country Netherlands, Belgium, In Singapore, continued growth in Malta and Singapore demand for oil products across Asia Opportunities for further Currency EUR underpins strong demand for the growth Sector Transportation storage facilities.
A new marine jetty Logistics We are considering a number of is being constructed at the terminal opportunities to invest further in and is due to come on line in summer upgrading facilities, alongside our 2017.
This will improve service levels partner Oiltanking.
For further information about our investments, see our website www.
com 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 29 Review of investments TCR TCR experiences a high level of TCR and its market Performance renewal of its contracts, which are TCR is a new investment which aligned with the ground handlers Cost completed in the year.
TCR is 150.9m contracts with the airlines and Europes largest independent asset Closing value 164.1m are typically three to five years in manager of airport ground support duration.
The business is present equipment GSE and operates Ownership 46% across 12 countries with a diverse at c. 100 airports.
Since inception, Date invested July 2016 contract and customer base.
TCR has dened the market for Management Brussels, Belgium leased GSE, providing high quality team HQ Developments since assets and a full service leasing, Country Active in 11 European acquisition maintenance and fleet management countries and in offering to its clients, which are Since the completion of the Malaysia predominantly independent ground transaction in July, the revenues and Currency EUR handling companies, airlines and EBITDA of TCR have been in line Sector Transportation airports.
The GSE that TCR provides with our investment case.
TCR made Logistics is critical infrastructure, without which good progress on its international some of Europes busiest airports expansion in the year, in particular could not operate.
Two senior hires have joined the business to Investment rationale help deliver TCRs strong pipeline of opportunities.
The acquisition debt TCR ts with the Companys facilities were syndicated successfully strategy of investing in companies and a management incentive plan with good asset backing, strong was put in place.
market positions and barriers to entry, yet with operational levers to achieve attractive returns for shareholders through engaged assetmanagement.
com 30 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Review of investments Cross London Trains XLT Developments in the year Additional investment Performance The Siemens train manufacturing The trains still to be manufactured by Cost programme remains on schedule.
Siemens will now be tted with wi 62.7m 76 trains have been manufactured, and seatback tables.
The Company Closing value 125.6m out of which 55 are in the UK has invested an additional 1 million undertaking mileage tests or have of equity to fund its share of the Ownership 33% been accepted.
As at 31 March 2017, costof the variation order, which Date invested June 2013 XLT had 42 trains accepted and will earn a return consistent with the Management London, UK running on the Thameslink network.
team HQ Minor performance issues have been Country UK reported, in line with expectations Currency GBP when introducing a new train fleet Sector Transportation to a network.
The programme For further information about Logistics aims to deliver the contracted fleet our investments, see our website 115trains by the end of 2018. www.
com 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 31
