Governance and accounts Accountability Report of the Audit and Risk Committee Committee remit During the year, the Audit and Risk Committee undertook its responsibilities in accordance with its Terms of Reference, as detailed on the Companys website.
Matters reviewed in the year The principal matters reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee during the year are described below.
Financial reporting The Committee reviewed and made recommendations to the Board regarding significant accounting matters and Steven Wilderspin the accounting disclosures in the Half-yearly report and Chairman Annual report and accounts of the Company.
The most significant recurring matters of judgment considered by the Committee were: The Committee has a focus on valuation of the Companys investment portfolio this financial reporting, risk management year, the areas examined included the level of discount and auditors independence and rates applied in valuation models and the calculation of terminal values, with a particular focus on those used objectivity to support the Company for economic infrastructure assets.
The Committee also in meeting its strategy.
reviewed changes to the assumed short-term ination rate used in the valuation model.
These matters were Number of meetings discussed with the Investment Adviser and the auditor, while a Committee including the auditors infrastructure valuation expert: Members member Attendance investment income recognition the Committee Steven Wilderspin 4 4 reviewed monthly management information for the Philip Austin 3 3 portfolio and individual portfolio companies to identify Doug Bannister 4 3 where variances of income from expectations required further exploration: Wendy Dorman 4 4 calculation of the advisory and performance fees Paul Masterton 4 4 payable to the Investment Adviser as well as All members served throughout the year, except the review of valuations, which drive advisory and for Philip Austin, who resigned as a Director of the performance fees, noted above, the Committee Company with effect from 31 December 2016.
The undertook a detailed review of each step in the qualications of the members of the Audit and Risk performance fee calculation.
The Committee also had Committee are set out in the biographical details of access to a review of the calculation of the performance the Directors on pages 56 and 57.
All the members fee carried out by the internal audit function of the of the Audit and Risk Committee are independent Investment Adviser and engaged the auditor to non-executive Directors.
The Board is satisfied perform additional work to agree that the advisory and that the Audit and Risk Committee chairman, performance fees were calculated in accordance with Steven Wilderspin, has recent and relevant financial the underlying Investment Advisory Agreement: and experience and is a Chartered Accountant.
investment entity considerations the Committee reviewed the assessment that the Company continues to meet the criteria of an investment entity.
As part of this exercise, the Committee assessed the new entities For Terms of Reference, see our website which were invested into during the year.
com are considered to be investment holding companies or project SPVs and therefore they are held at fair value through profit or loss.
64 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance and accounts The Committee considered the requirements of the UK Ernst & Young LLP has been the Companys auditor Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors since inception in 2007.
No contractual obligation exists Report Regulation 2013 with which it is complying to restrict the choice of auditor of the Company.
The voluntarily, in line with best practice reporting.
The Committee is cognisant of the requirement of governing Committee specifically reviewed the Annual report and the appointment of an external auditor, notably the accounts to conclude whether the financial reporting requirements of the Competition and Market Authority is fair, balanced, understandable, comprehensive and CMA in relation to the mandatory re-tendering of consistent with how the Board assesses the performance audit services every 10 years.
The Company confirms of the Companys business during the financial year, as that it has complied with the provisions of the CMA for required for companies with a Premium Listing under the the financial year under review.
As part of this review, the Committee considered The review of the effectiveness of the external audit if the Annual report and accounts provided the process during the year was considered as part of the information necessary to shareholders to assess the audit tender process.
Companys performance, strategy and business model and reviewed the description of the Companys Key The Committee monitors the external auditors Performance Indicators.
independence and objectivity, taking into consideration relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
In addition to the above matters, the Committee As part of this review, the Committee monitors the reviewed the following areas: Companys policy for non-audit services to ensure further segmental disclosure was added to the financial that the provision of such services by the external statements: and auditor does not impair the auditors independence or objectivity.
In order to safeguard auditor objectivity the Governance section of the Annual report was and independence, the chairman of the Audit and updated to provide greater clarity.
Risk Committee is required to approve all non-audit The Committee presented its conclusions on the work undertaken by the auditor for the Company and above areas to the Board and advised the Board that it its subsidiaries in advance, and as a general rule the considered the Annual report and accounts, taken as a auditor will not be engaged on investment-related work.
whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and that However, exceptions to this may be permitted if i the it provides the information necessary for the shareholders Company is acting in a consortium, ii the auditor is to assess the Companys performance, business model considered a specialist in the sector, or iii the auditor is and strategy.
best placed to undertake the work through its knowledge of the Companys financial systems, procedures and External audit internal controls.
During the year, the Committee oversaw a tender process in relation to the appointment of the external auditor.
By placing the audit out for tender, the Company was able to address the following objectives: statutory and regulatory compliance: appropriate technical capability and cost efficient audit.
The Committee discussed the Request for Proposal RFP and the key criteria for assessing the proposals received.
The RFP was issued on 24 October 2016 to six audit rms.
The audit rms were invited to attend workshops with members of the Committee and key stakeholders from the Investment Adviser in order to pitch for the audit and ask any questions needed to rene their proposal.
Following receipt and evaluation of the RFP responses, two audit rms were asked to make formal presentations to the Committee on 30 January 2017.
Following this process, the Committee recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be appointed as external auditor for the year ended 31 March 2018, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM in July 2017.
The Board confirms there are no matters in connection with Ernst & Young LLPs retirement as auditor which need to be brought to the attention of shareholders.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 65 Governance and accounts Accountability Report of the Audit and Risk Committee continued Ernst & Young LLP provided non-audit services to the Other matters consolidated Group for fees totalling 364,156 for Other matters reviewed by the Committee during the the year to 31 March 2017 2016: 5,000.
This related year were: to agreed-upon procedures on the advisory and the effectiveness of the internal control environment performance fees 6,000, due diligence costs in relation ofthe Company and the Companys compliance with to investment transactions 215,656 and work they its regulatory requirements: performed as Reporting Accountants for the capital raise 142,500.
In this financial year and previous years, in line the coverage of the proposed interim and final with the Companys policy, Ernst & Young LLP provided dividends, including a review of the Boards assessment non-audit services to support the transaction activity of the coverage of dividend payments through conducted by the Group during the year in relation to income generated by the Company, non-income cash certain non-consolidated investee companies.
However, distributions received from portfolio companies, net the fees received by Ernst & Young LLP did not represent capital profits generated from the sale of portfolio a significant portion of the total investment transaction assets and retained reserves: costs 2016: same.
The fees for these services are reporting obligations arising from the Companys ordinarily borne by the underlying investee companies authorisation under the Alternative Investment Fund or unconsolidated subsidiaries, and therefore are not Managers Directive during the capital raise: included in the expenses of the Group.
In assessing the auditors independence, the Committee reviews the the Companys compliance with its regulatory total amount of fees paid to the auditor in accordance obligations in Jersey, including a review of compliance with the stated policy on non-audit services, regardless with the Codes of Practice for Certied Funds: of whether they are borne by the Group or by the the Group structure with consideration being made to investee companies.
ensuring it was still appropriate for current legislation: Risk and During the year the Committee: the results of the Investment Advisers internal audit reviewed and updated the risk matrix, where and compliance work in respect of the Investment appropriate, to reect the Companys key risks: Advisers obligations to the Company.
conducted detailed risk reviews of BEPS and cyber The Committee reported to the Board on how it has security, as detailed in the Risk report on pages discharged its responsibilities and reported to the 48 and 49: and Board the key matters arising at each meeting.
All recommendations were accepted by the Board.
considered the presentation of risk-related matters inthe Annual report and accounts.
Steven Wilderspin Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee 10 May 2017 66 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance and accounts Accountability Report of the Nomination Committee The Committee is responsible for adopting a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors, including interviewing potential candidates.
Final decisions on nominations, however, are taken by the entire Board.
The Nomination Committee can use the services of external search consultancies when new directors are being recruited.
As well as seeking an appropriate balance of expertise and experience, especially in finance and infrastructure, the nominations process has to take account of the residence of directors, as the majority of directors have to be non-resident in the UK.
For practical reasons relating to the conduct of the Companys affairs, most directors are resident in the Richard Laing Channel Islands.
Chairman Matters reviewed in the year The Committee aims to ensure that The Committee has undertaken succession planning, to ensure that processes and plans are in place with regards the Board composition is balanced to Board appointments dealing with succession and and effective.
In particular, the Committee recommended the new Senior Independent Director and new Chair of the Number of meetings Remuneration Committee due to the retirement of Philip while a Committee Austin at the end of 2016.
Members member Attendance The Committee also reviewed its Terms of Reference to Richard Laing 2 2 ensure that the Committee is still operating effectively.
Wendy Dorman 2 2 Paul Masterton 2 2 In addition, there were several informal discussions held between the members in relation to matters agreed at the scheduled meetings.
For Terms of Reference, see our website www.
com 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 67 Governance and accounts Accountability Report of the Management Engagement Committee The Committee monitored the overall relationship with the Investment Adviser and among specic topics it: reviewed reports from industry analysts, comparing the performance of listed infrastructure investment companies, including an analysis of the terms of their advisory agreements and fees charged: monitored and reviewed the Investment Advisers performance against the Companys targets and general market conditions: reviewed the quality, timeliness, accuracy and Richard Laing relevance of the information provided to the Board, Chairman including reviews of portfolio company performance: and Management of the relationship with reviewed non-investment services provided by the Investment Adviser.
the Investment Adviser is key to the The Committee concluded that the continued performance of the Company.
appointment of 3i Investments plc as Investment Adviser Number of meetings is in the best interest of shareholders.
while a Committee Members member Attendance Richard Laing 4 4 Philip Austin 2 2 Doug Bannister 4 3 Wendy Dorman 4 4 Paul Masterton 4 4 Steven Wilderspin 4 4 All members served throughout the year, except for Philip Austin, who resigned as a Director of the Company with effect from 31 December 2016.
While the remit of the Committee is to manage all aspects of the relationship with the Investment Adviser, its principal function is to consider annually, and recommend to the Board, whether the continued appointment of the Investment Adviser is in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders and to give reasons for its recommendation.
The Committee also reviews the terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement.
com 68 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017
