Investment Advisers review Investment and realisation activity On 27 July 2016, the Company Investment Greeneld projects completed an investment of The Company invested a total of The Company announced on 189 million in TCR.
Headquartered 468.5 million in the year, comprising 29 April 2016 that it had committed in Brussels, TCR is Europes largest 458.5 million in four mid-market to invest approximately 5 million to independent owner of airport economic infrastructure businesses, acquire a significant majority stake in ground support equipment and a 0.9 million follow on investment in Coeur du Sud B. V. a vehicle created operates in over 100 airports.
The XLT and 9.1 million in two existing for the Hart van Zuid greeneld equipment that TCR provides to projects, Ayrshire College and A12, project in Rotterdam, Netherlands.
its clients is critical infrastructure, which became operational in the year.
The 200 million project involves the without which some of Europes renewal and revitalisation of the area In a competitive market, the busiest airports could not operate.
surrounding the Zuidplein and Ahoy new investments are a strong centres in Rotterdam.
On 12 September 2016, the endorsement of the Companys Company completed a 57 million investment strategy and the The Company announced on investment in the renewable Investment Advisers ability to source 5 October 2016 that it had development and operating investment opportunities that are committed to invest approximately company Valorem.
Headquartered capable of delivering attractive 7 million in the A27 A1 greeneld in Bgles, France, Valorem is a risk-adjusted returns, in line with project in the Netherlands.
This leading independent renewable the Companys objectives.
is a 220 million project for the energy development and operating reconstruction of the A27 motorway Economic infrastructure company, having developed over between Utrecht North and the businesses 480MW of capacity over the last Eemnes junction, as well as of the 10 years.
Valorem benets from a On 9 June 2016, the Company A1 motorway between the Eemnes critical mass of operating assets and completed the acquisition of junction and the Bunschotena strong pipeline of further projects a 36% economic interest in Spakenburg interchange.
at a well advanced development WIG, investing approximately stage.
The Company has committed 75 million.
WIG is an independent to provide 12 million of further communications infrastructure capital to support Valorems provider headquartered inScotland.
For further information on Innis, growthstrategy.
The business builds and operates please go to page 26. communication towers and On 8 December 2016, the Company For further information on TCR, other wireless infrastructure, completed the acquisition of please go to page 30. mainly in the UK, to enable the Innis for 185 million.
Innis is the For further information on XLT, connection between networks leading generator of electricity please go to page 31. and the communities that rely from landll gas in the UK.
Innis For further information on WIG, ontheirservices.
has 121 operating sites and seven please go to page 33. outsourced sites dispersed across For further information on Valorem, the UK with installed generation please go to page 34. capacity of over 300MW.
For further information on Hart van Zuid On 23 January 2017, the Company and A27 A1, please go to page 35. invested a further 0.9 million in XLT to support the installation of wi and seatback tables on new trains to be manufactured by Siemens.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 19
