Review of investments Projects portfolio A27 A1 is a PPP project involving the A12 is now fully operational and the Performance reconstruction, management and first distribution was received at the maintenance of the A27 motorway end of December 2016.
Operational Cost 109.8m between Utrecht North and the performance has been very good Closing value 153.3m Eemnes junction, as well as of the with no material issues.
A1 motorway between the Eemnes In the Companys greeneld New projects junction and the Bunschotenprojects portfolio, construction is Spakenburg interchange.
The project Hart van Zuid is a PPP project proceeding broadly to plan and includes the widening of the A27 with the Municipality of Rotterdam budget.
However, the construction from two to three lanes, as well as involving the renewal and timetable of the RIVM project has the widening of the A1 from two to revitalisation of the area surrounding been signicantly delayed due to four lanes.
Construction is due for the Zuidplein and Ahoy centres.
a technical issue with the original completion by the end of 2018 when The Ahoy convention centre will be design.
Construction has now the 25-year maintenance period will expanded to include an international started.
We are working with the commence.
conference centre, amusic hall, a SPV management team to agree cinema and a hotel.
Anart building contractual changes to extend the Developments in the year with a library and theatre will be construction timetable and address constructed on the new Plein op Zuid All assets in the operational PPP the financial consequences of delay, square.
In addition, the Zuidplein portfolio performed well during the together with the Authority and the shopping centre will be renovated period, delivering good levels of construction contractor.
and expanded and thenew Charlois income.
The discount rate used to swimming pool willbe incorporated value the Ayrshire College and A12 into the current city hall.
Furthermore, projects was reduced during the the metro and bus transportation year to reect their transition to fully For further information about hubs will be renewed.
our investments, see our website works commenced in the second Ayrshire College is now fully www.
com quarter of2016 and are due for operational with the college in completion in December 2019. use bystudents.
There is minimal snagging and the project is generating revenues in full.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 35 Review of investments 3i India Infrastructure Review of investments Fund Soma Enterprise is an infrastructure Portfolio Performance developer in India, which focuses The India fund portfolio is being mainly on BOT road projects, Cost managed for realisation over the next 76.5m but also on projects in the hydro few years.
The portfolio contains five Closing value 40.9m power, irrigation, railways, power remaining investments following the transmission and urban infrastructure realisation of Adani Power during the Ownership 20.9% sectors.
year and receipt of proceeds from Date invested March 2008 the sale of Ind-Barath Energy during GVK Energy is developing a Management Mumbai the previous year.
portfolio of power generation team HQ projects 4,047MW, diversied by Country India Krishnapatnam Port has a fuel type, stage of development concession to develop, operate and Currency US Dollars andgeography.
maintain the port of Krishnapatnam Sector Power and in the state of Andhra Pradesh.
transportation The India fund now represents only 2% of the Companys portfolio.
KMC Roads has a portfolio of build-operate transfer BOT road projects, comprising projects which are both operating and under construction, among the largest For further information about portfolios of its kind in India.
our investments, see our website www.
com Supreme Roads is building a portfolio of BOT road projects.
36 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Financial review, risk and corporate responsibility Financial review, risk and corporate responsibility Financial review 38 Risk report 46 Corporate responsibility 52 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 37
