Governance and accounts Effectiveness Investment Adviser Performance evaluation The Board has a Management Engagement Committee Board comprising all Board members, with the exception of The Company engaged Lintstock, a specialist Ian Lobley, the 3i Group nominee Director who served consultancy which is independent of the Company and throughout the year, which carries out the annual the Investment Adviser, during the year to undertake an evaluation of the Investment Adviser required under the evaluation of the performance of the Board of Directors Listing Rules and which manages the relationship with the and its Committees.
Investment Adviser on behalf of the Company.
During Lintstock engaged with the Chairman to set the context the year, the Committee assessed the performance of the for the evaluation and to tailor the content to the specic Investment Adviser.
Following its assessment, and based circumstances of the Company.
The Directors were on the good performance of the Investment Adviser, the then asked to complete an online survey addressing Directors believe that the continued appointment of the the performance of the Board, its Committees, and the Investment Adviser on the terms set out in Note 18 on Chairman, before two representatives from Lintstock page 99 is in the interest of shareholders.
conducted interviews with each Director to expand upon the issues raised in the surveys.
The Managing The Company Secretary Partner and Chief Financial officer, Infrastructure from The Company has appointed Capita Financial the Investment Adviser were also interviewed during the Administrators Jersey Limited as Company Secretary.
The anonymity of all respondents All Directors have access to the advice and services of was maintained throughout the process in order to the Company Secretary, who advise the Board, through promote the open and frank exchange of views.
the Chairman, on governance matters.
The Companys Lintstock subsequently produced a report for the Board Articles of Association the Articles and the schedule addressing the following: of matters reserved for the Board provide that the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary the composition of the Board, and the attributes would be a matter for the full Board.
required in new non-executive appointments: The Board reviewed the Company Secretarys the relationships between Board members including performance during the year and approved its continued the atmosphere of meetings: appointment.
the performance of and the Boards relationship with the Investment Adviser: Appointment and re-election of Directors the management and focus of the Board meetings, The appointment and replacement of Directors is and the quality of the information and support governed by the Articles, the Companies Jersey Law provided to the Board: 1991 and related legislation.
The Articles provide that at each Annual General Meeting of the Company all the Boards oversight of risk and strategy, and the the directors at the date of notice convening the annual overall effectiveness of the annual strategy day: general meeting shall retire from ofce and each director may offer himself or herself for election.
In addition, the Directors views of the top strategic issues facing under the Code, all directors of FTSE 350 companies the company: and should be subject to annual election by shareholders.
the performance of the Audit & Risk, Nomination and Asa result, all Directors will voluntarily retire and stand Remuneration Committees, the Chairman, and that of for election or re-election at the 2017 AGM.
The Board noted that the results of the review showed a high degree of overall satisfaction with the composition and expertise of the Board, and the dynamics between Directors.
The effectiveness of the Investment Adviser was also rated very highly.
The following recommendations were made following the review: to continue to address the future composition and succession requirements for the Board: and to continue to develop the relationship with the Investment Adviser, with ongoing improvement in the information provided to the Board, and a focus on risk management and strategic issues.
It is envisaged that the Board evaluation next year will follow up on the themes and recommendations from this review to ensure that progress is assessed and measured.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 59 Governance and accounts Effectiveness continued Following the formal appraisal process of Directors, The Chairman and in accordance with Section B.
7.2 of the Code, the The Chairman, Richard Laing, leads the Board in the Chairman will propose the election or re-election of all determination and implementation of its strategy.
Directors at the forthcoming AGM.
TheChairman is responsible for organising the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting Copies of the appointment letters are available from the its agenda.
The Chairman also acts as the Companys Company Secretary upon request.
appointed member to the Advisory Board for the The Directors appointments can be terminated, without 3iIndia Infrastructure Fund.
He receives no additional compensation for loss of ofce, in accordance with the remuneration for this role.
The Chairman facilitates the Articles.
Under the Articles, their appointments can inter effective contribution of all the Directors and constructive alia be terminated on notice from the other members of relations between the Companys advisers, including the the Board, and also on ceasing to be a Director if they Investment Adviser, and the Directors.
The Chairman fail to be re-elected at any Annual General Meeting.
maintains direct links with the Companys advisers and In addition to fullling their legal responsibilities as ensures that regular reports from them are circulated Directors, the non-executive Directors are expected to the Directors to enable the Directors to remain to bring an independent judgment to bear on issues aware of shareholders views.
The Chairman ensures, of strategy, performance, investment appraisal and with the co-operation of the Investment Adviser, that a standards of conduct.
They are also expected to ensure programme of effective communications is available for high standards of financial probity on the part of the shareholders, including with the Chairman and Senior Company.
As well as papers for Board meetings, the Independent Director, when shareholders so wish.
Directors receive monthly management accounts, reports and information which enable them to scrutinise the Senior Independent Director Companys performance against agreed objectives.
Paul Masterton is the Senior Independent Director, having replaced Philip Austin who resigned from the Directors independence Board on 31 December 2016.
In accordance with the All the Directors, with the exception of Ian Lobley, who Code, any shareholder concerns can be conveyed to the was appointed as the 3i Group nominee to the Board Senior Independent Director.
The contact details of the with effect from 6 May 2014, are considered by the Senior Independent Director are freely available on the Board to be independent for the purposes of the Code.
Companys website or through the Company Secretary.
The Board assesses and reviews the independence of each of the Directors at least annually, having regard to Directors the potential relevance and materiality of a Directors The Board comprises the Chairman and five non-executive interests and relationships.
The Board have assessed Directors.
Biographical details for each of the Directors the independence of Steven Wilderspin who has served are set out on pages 56 and 57.
All Directors served on the Board of the Company since September 2007 throughout the year under review, with the exception and continue to consider him independent.
No Director ofPhilip Austin, who served until 31 December 2016. was materially interested in any contract or arrangement subsisting during or at the end of the financial year in No Director has a service contract with the Company, relation to the business of the Company.
nor are any such contracts proposed.
The Directors were appointed as non-executive Directors by the subscribers As a non-independent Director who is not a member of to the Memorandum of Association of the Company or the Management Engagement Committee, Ian Lobley at subsequent Board meetings.
Each of the Directors has did not participate in the Boards evaluation of the an appointment letter which reects the best practice performance of the Investment Adviser.
guidelines published in December 2011 by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
60 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance and accounts Training and development Portfolio management and voting policy The Company has developed a framework within which In relation to unquoted investments, the Companys training for Directors is planned, with the objective of approach is to seek to add value to the businesses ensuring that the Directors understand the duties and in which it invests through the extensive experience, responsibilities of being a director of a listed company resources and contacts of the Investment Advisers team.
and the business environment of the Company.
All In relation to quoted equity investments, the Companys Directors are required continually to update their skills policy is to exercise voting rights on matters affecting the and maintain their familiarity with the Company and interests of the Company.
Presentations on different aspects of the Companys business are made regularly to the Board, Internal control usually by the Investment Adviser, but on occasion by The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups other advisers, including the Companys corporate system of internal control.
The Audit and Risk Committee brokers and financial adviser, and the Companys performed its annual review of the systems effectiveness legal advisers.
and reported its conclusions to the Board.
The internal control system, which has been in place throughout the On appointment, all Directors have discussions with year and up to the date of approval of the Annual report, the Chairman and Company Secretary, following which is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of appropriate briengs on the responsibilities of Directors, failure to achieve business objectives and can provide the Companys business, the Companys procedures and, only reasonable and not absolute assurance against where appropriate, briengs on the infrastructure market material misstatement or loss.
The Company provides opportunities for Directors to obtain a thorough understanding of the The Board has contractually delegated investment Companys business and the industry it operates in by advisory and support services to its key service providers meeting senior members of the investment advisory and their contractual obligations encompass the team who in turn can arrange, as required, visits to implementation of systems of internal control, including portfolio investments or support teams.
financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The Audit and Risk Committee of the This year, the Directors received presentations on aspects Company receives reports on the control systems and of the infrastructure market, including recent transactions their operation from its main service providers, and is and the returns available from investing in the economic responsible for reviewing these reports for determining infrastructure market, as well as the market opportunity the effectiveness of internal controls.
in greeneld projects in Europe.
The Board also received briengs in relation to changes to laws and regulations In addition, the Board regularly reviews the principal risks in Jersey and the UK, which included briengs on the faced by the Company and any entries in the Companys EUMarket Abuse Regulations and OECD Base Erosion risk log.
The Company has procedures for Directors to take independent legal or other professional advice about theperformance of their duties.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 61 Governance and accounts Effectiveness continued The Companys control policies and procedures, Principles and processes which are in accordance with the Financial Reporting The Company adopts a set of key controls including: Councils guidance on risk management, internal control and related financial and business reporting, have a planning framework which incorporates a Boardbeen inplace throughout the financial year and up to approved medium-term strategy: the datethis Report was approved.
Key controls are formal business and operating risk reviews which outlinedbelow: evaluate the potential financial impact and likelihood the Investment Advisory and UK Support Services of identied risks and possible new risk areas: agreements specifically define the roles and the setting of control, mitigation and monitoring responsibilities of the Investment Adviser and procedures and the review of actual occurrences, the service providers.
These agreements set out identifying lessons to be learned: information and reporting systems for monitoring the Companys investments and their performance: a comprehensive system of financial reporting to the Board, based on an annual budget with monthly the Board considers and approves the Companys reporting of actual results, analysis of variances, strategy and approves a budget on an annual basis: scrutiny of key performance measures and regular reports on the planning, forecasting and controlling reforecasting: of expenditure and the making of investments are regular treasury reports to the Board, which analyse regularly submitted to the Board and reviewed in the funding requirements, track the generation and detail: use of capital and the volume of liquidity and record the Investment Advisers procedures for evaluating the level of compliance with the Companys funding investments include detailed appraisals and objectives: due diligence that are reviewed by the Board as well dened procedures governing the appraisal appropriate: and approval of investments, including detailed the Investment Adviser and the service providers investment and divestment approval procedures, prepare valuations and management accounts which incorporating appropriate levels of authority and allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and regular post-investment reviews: and review its performance: an Audit and Risk Committee which considers the Investment Advisers compliance and internal significant control matters and receives relevant audit departments continually review the Investment reports from key service providers compliance Advisers operations.
The Audit and Risk Committee orinternal audit functions.
has access to relevant sections of their reports: the Investment Adviser and the service providers prepare the half-yearly and annual accounts of the Group and monitor all associated financial reporting processes that are reviewed by the Board as appropriate: and the Investment Adviser and the service providers notify the Board of any changes in accounting standards which may impact the Companys significant accounting policies or any other statutory requirements which may subsequently impact the financial statements.
The Company does not have a separate internal audit function as it is not deemed appropriate given the structure of the Company.
This is reviewed annually bythe Audit and Risk Committee.
62 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017
