Governance and accounts Relations with shareholders Approach to Investor Relations Institutional investor programme The Board recognises the importance of maintaining May a purposeful relationship with shareholders and the The Investment Adviser meets with existing and potential Company has a comprehensive Investor Relations investors as required following the release of the programme, devised and implemented by the Companys annual results.
The Investment Adviser held Investment Adviser, to help existing and potential regular meetings with existing and potential investors in investors to understand its activities, strategy and the UK and internationally to communicate the strategy financial performance.
The Chairman maintains a and performance of the Company.
These meetings dialogue with shareholders on strategy and corporate continue throughout the year, as required.
governance as required and shareholders are offered the opportunity to meet with the Chairman and with July the Senior Independent Director.
The Board receives The AGM is an opportunity for the Companys Directors updates from the Chairman and the Investment Adviser and members of the Investment Advisory team to meet following shareholder meetings, as well as updates from attending investors in person.
the Companys brokers on shareholder issues.
Directors November are invited to attend the Companys presentations to analysts and have the opportunity to meet shareholders Following the release of the Companys half-year results, at the AGM.
the Investment Adviser held meetings with existing and potential investors in the UK and internationally Board oversight tocommunicate the strategy and performance of the Company.
The Investment Adviser briefs the Board on a regular basis on the implementation of the Investor Annual and half-yearly results presentations Relations programme and on feedback received from analysts andinvestors.
Any significant concern The Chairman and Investment Adviser present the annual raised by shareholders in relation to the Company is and half-yearly results to a broad group of analysts.
Research reports published by investment banks on the Company are circulated to Individual investors the Board on a regular basis.
Individual investors are encouraged to engage with the Company and provide feedback through the Company The Board also receives periodic feedback from existing Secretary, who can be contacted at 3i@capita.
je or by shareholders and potential investors through the telephone on 44 0 1534 847 410.
Companys corporate brokers and advisers: JPMorgan Cazenove, RBC Capital Markets and Scott Harris.
Website Annual General Meeting The Companys website provides a description of its strategy and portfolio, as well as a full archive of The Company uses its AGM as an opportunity to news and historical financial information and details communicate with its shareholders.
At the Meeting, offorthcoming events for shareholders and analysts.
business presentations are generally made by the Chairman and the Investment Adviser.
The Senior Independent Director and chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee are also generally available to answer shareholders questions.
Business to be discussed at www.
com the Meeting is notied to shareholders in advance through the Notice of Meeting and covers matters such as the annual election of Directors, the appointment of the auditor and the dividend declaration.
During the Meeting, shareholders are also asked to approve the Financial statements and report of the auditor.
In addition, shareholders are asked to approve the Directors remuneration report.
The 2016 Notice of AGM was dispatched to shareholdersnot less than 20 working days before the Meeting.
At that Meeting, voting on each resolution was taken on a poll and the poll results were made available on the Companys website.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 63
