Investment Advisers review Review from the Managing Partner We successfully deployed all ofthe proceeds fromthe capital raise, further enhancing the quality and diversity inourportfolio.
The investment advisory team is About the Investment Adviser We have had a successful managed as a separate business 3i Investments plc 3i Investments, year, adding six new line within 3i Group and operates a wholly-owned subsidiary of 3i investments to the portfolio.
from ofces across 3is European Group plc 3i Group, acts as the The new investments, along network, focusing on both origination investment adviser the Investment and portfolio management.
The with the existing portfolio, Adviser to the Company through team of investment professionals has its infrastructure investment team areperforming well, driving significant experience of investing in, the investment advisory team.
growth in NAV and the and managing, infrastructure assets.
The investment advisory team The team also draws on 3i Groups continued progression provides advice to the Company on broader network of investment oftheCompanys income the origination and execution of new professionals and relationships to investments, on the management duringtheyear.
originate infrastructure investment of the portfolio and on realisations, opportunities.
The Investment as well as on funding requirements.
Adviser has a dedicated team in 3i Group was among the subscribers Mumbai to manage the assets to the Companys Initial Public in the India Infrastructure Fund Offering in 2007 and subsequent and 3i Group recently announced offer in 2008 and, most recently, the the launch of its North American 385 million capital raise completed infrastructure business.
3i Group owns approximately 34% of the equity in the Company.
The proles of the key members of the investment advisory team are on page 16.
Phil White Managing Partner, Infrastructure, 3i Investments plc 10 May 2017 12 Investment Advisers review During the year, the Company Our investment approach Implementation of our invested or committed 479 million, investment approach The Investment Adviser aims including the proceeds from the to provide the Company with In highly competitive markets, and capital raise, into its target markets.
access toattractive investment in line with the Companys strategic The majority of the investment in the opportunities focusing selectively on priorities, the Board and the year was into mid-market economic transactions that are value enhancing Investment Adviser focused on: infrastructure businesses: to the portfolio.
We implement Broadening the Companys our investment approachthrough 75 million into the independent portfolio with complementary theInvestment Advisers team communications infrastructure of approximately 25 dedicated investments in the Companys provider Wireless Infrastructure investment professionals based in key target markets, investing Group WIG : London and Paris, as well as through theproceeds from the recent 189 million into TCR, Europes its broader European network capital raise largest independent owner of ofofces.
The Investment Adviser has airport ground support equipment: continued to target attractive riskThis platform provides us with a 69 million into Valorem, the adjusted returns in mid-market comprehensive coverage of our renewable energy development economic infrastructure businesses target markets, as well as the asset and operating company: and as well as greeneld projects, management skills to drive value consistent with the Companys from our investment portfolio.
185 million to acquire Innis plc, investment focus outlined on the leading generator of electricity The Investment Adviser will: pages 6 to 9.
Where possible, the from landll gas in the UK.
engage with portfolio company Investment Adviser seeks to secure The Company also committed to management at board level to investments on a bilateral basis, invest approximately 5 million to define the strategic direction and minimising the transaction costs acquire a significant majority stake in business plan: forthe Company.
Coeur du Sud B. V. a vehicle created implement an efficient and We have benefited signicantly for the Hart van Zuid greeneld PPP prudent capital structure to from the strength and breadth of project in Rotterdam, Netherlands.
optimise funding costs and which 3i Groups network of ofces and The Company committed to invest is appropriate for the businesss relationships across Europe, which 7 million into 3Angle, a consortium risk prole: were inuential in securing several comprising the Company, Fluor ofthe new investments completed drive operational performance and Heijmans.
3Angle will design, this year, as well as providing and disciplined cash management build, manage, maintain and finance valuable support to our asset to support both income yield and the existing and new infrastructure management activities.
capital growth: of the A27 and A1 roads in the Netherlands.
invest in the underlying asset base to support profitable growth over These new investments have added the longer term: significant diversication to the Companys portfolio, which is now assess acquisitions if suitable much better balanced across a opportunities arise: range of countries, sectors and risk access its network of industry factors.
This should strengthen the specialists and senior management Companys ability to meet its return to bring in expertise and or bolster and dividend objectives over the management teams: and medium term.
apply a clear and comprehensive Responsible Investment policy which is embedded into its investment and portfolio monitoring processes.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 13 Investment Advisers review Review from the Managing Partner continued The Investment Adviser has Innis repaid its outstanding 7.0% Driving value from the economic continued to work closely with the senior notes due in 2019, utilising infrastructure portfolio management of Cross London a debt facility put in place by the The Companys portfolio continues Trains XLT, Siemens and GTR Investment Adviser at acquisition.
to perform in line with expectations.
to overcome the initial delays Consistent with the strategic Part of the Oystercatcher bank in the acceptance programme.
priorities outlined on page 6, the facility was renanced through The acceptance of units by GTR Investment Adviser has continued long dated private placement continued throughout the year, with to engage with portfolio company funding in Singapore dollars.
The 42 trains accepted and running on management teams to enhance the renancing extends Oystercatchers the Thameslink network as at the portfolios value.
debt maturity prole and provides end of March 2017.
The delivery a natural currency hedge for Elenia has continued its capital programme is scheduled to distributions from the terminal expenditure programme aimed at complete in 2018.
The Company also located in Singapore.
improving network reliability, with invested an additional 0.9 million of an emphasis on weather proong.
equity to fund its share of the cost The Investment Adviser continues The rate of underground cabling has of a variation order to t future trains to work with the Companys reached 38%, up from 23% at the being manufactured by Siemens with portfolio companies to assess new start of 2012.
The company has taken wi and seatback tables.
investment and capital expenditure advantage of its customer services programmes, as well as value ESVAGT signed a binding agreement capability by agreeing to provide accretive acquisitions.
with Hess, a prominent independent third-party customer services to a energy company, to provide safety neighbouring network operator.
and support services at the South Arne eld in the Danish sector of the North Sea for a period of 12 6 years, continuing a successful 17-year number of new partnership at the eld.
ESVAGTs 185m investments during the year services will be performed by a new, investment to acquire purpose-built vessel, scheduled the whole of Innis for delivery in 2018.
The ESVAGT Connector vessel will provide support to Hess until the new vessel is delivered.
Since the Companys investment, 57MW of Valorem-owned projects have been commissioned or entered construction, which will add to the 142MW in operation at the time of investment.
Valorem has continued to grow its pipeline of projects and has applied for permits and tariffs for 450MW of its wind pipeline under the French 2016 subsidy regime, following the approval of this regime by the EU Commission.
42 trains accepted and running on the Thameslink network 14 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Investment Advisers review Building the investment advisory Outlook teams capabilities to broaden The Company delivered a good return during the Companys access to the year, underpinned by the performance of the attractive investment portfolio and favourable exchange rate movements.
opportunities Although the full implications of the result of the EU The investment advisory team was Referendum remain unclear, increased market and expanded during the year through political uncertainty is continuing to drive capital the recruitment of a number of towards investments in both UK and continental investment professionals, focused European infrastructure assets.
With interest rates principally on the origination, remaining at all-time lows, demand for large core execution and management of economic infrastructure investments, in Europe investment opportunities to expand particularly, continues to be very strong with recent the coverage of the Companys key transactions providing further evidence of low target markets and enhance our projected returns.
This has continued to benefit asset management capability.
The Investment Adviser also the valuation of the Companys existing portfolio made additional hires into the of economic infrastructure investments.
market dynamics, we have retained our investment focus on areas of the infrastructure market which The majority of the new hires are offer more attractive risk-adjusted returns, such as based in London, but we also added mid-market economic infrastructure businesses, as to our Paris team and we have well as primary PPP projects.
recently made several new appointments in New York as the The new investments completed by the Company foundation of our North American in the year demonstrate our ability to continue to infrastructure business.
access attractive investments in our target markets.
By successfully investing the proceeds from the Continuing to manage the assets recent capital raise, the Company has increased its in the India Fund geographical and sector diversication.
The new The Investment Adviser aims to investments have made a good contribution to realise value from the assets in the portfolio income in the current financial year.
India Fund over the next few years and is making progress towards As our new team in North America starts to invest, that objective.
During the year, we will work with the Board to evaluate the suitability proceeds were received from the for the Company of broadening its geographic focus sale of Ind-Barath Energy and to include that market.
the Investment Adviser sold the We continue to see a good ow of new investment remaining shares in Adani Power.
opportunities, but we remain disciplined to invest selectively and focused on maintaining a balanced and attractive portfolio for shareholders.
56 strong investment advisory team 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 15
