Investment Advisers review Investment advisory team Proles of senior members Phil White James Dawes Managing Partner CFO Phil joined 3i in 2007 and is Managing Partner and James is Chief Financial officer for the 3i Infrastructure Head of 3is Infrastructure business and a member of business and joined in January 2016.
He manages the 3is Executive Committee, Investment Committee and operational, financial and reporting requirements for Group Risk Committee.
Prior to joining 3i, he was Division the Infrastructure business within 3i Group, as well as Director in Macquaries Infrastructure Funds business, performing CFO duties for 3i Infrastructure plc.
Prior to where he managed investments in the transport sector.
joining 3i, James was with Legal & General Investment Phil has over 20 years of infrastructure investment, Management, where he held a number of senior finance advisory and finance experience from earlier roles roles, including Finance Director of LGV Capital from at Barclays and WestLB.
Phil holds board positions 2007 to 2015. at Anglian Water Group, Elenia and the Oiltanking companies.
John Cavill Stphane Grandguillaume Partner Partner John joined 3i in November 2013, following 3is Stphane is a Partner in 3is Infrastructure team in Paris acquisition of Barclays Infrastructure Funds Management and joined 3i in November 2013, following 3is acquisition Limited BIFM.
He leads the of BIFM, which he joined in 2006.
Stphane leads 3is portfolio management activity for the projects portfolio infrastructure business in France and is responsible for and is responsible for: setting the strategy for asset origination and execution of investment opportunities management activities: overseeing implementation in projects across Europe.
Stphane led the recent of value protection and enhancement activities: and investment in Valorem.
Previously, Stphane was head overseeing performance reporting.
He works closely ofEgis Investment Partners.
with investee company non-executive directors and Infrastructure Managers Limited, the businesss main SPV management services provider.
Previously John was a Director at St Modwen Properties PLC, Land Securities Trillium and Vinci Investments, where he led PPP PFI bidding activity.
16 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Investment Advisers review Nigel Middleton Scott Moseley Partner Partner Nigel is a Partner in 3is Infrastructure team in London Scott joined 3i in 2007 and is a Partner in the and joined 3i in November 2013, following 3is acquisition Infrastructure team, and with Bernardo leads the teams of BIFM.
He joined that business in 2002, having new investment origination and execution platform.
previously been head of PFI PPP Advisory Services at He has 15 years experience in European Infrastructure, PwC.
Nigel led the involvement of that business in the spanning utilities, transportation and social infrastructure.
formation and management of Infrastructure Investors Scott led the investments in ESVAGT, Elenia and Cross 2 I, a pioneering secondary market infrastructure fund, in London Trains, as well as being a senior deal team which BIFM had a joint venture interest alongside Socit member on Eversholt.
He was also responsible for the Gnrale and 3i.
He was also instrumental in establishing, successfully exited junior debt investments in Arqiva, and continues to manage, BIIF, a long-term buy and Associated British Ports, Tldiffusion fide France, Thames 2 hold PPP fund which acquired I in 2009.
He is currently a Director on the boards of ESVAGT and Cross London Trains.
Bernardo Sottomayor Partner Bernardo is a Partner in 3is Infrastructure team in London and joined 3i in October 2015, and with Scott leads the teams new investment origination and execution platform.
He was a senior deal team member on the recent investment by 3i Infrastructure in TCR.
Bernardo was most recently a Partner at Antin Infrastructure, which manages funds investing in infrastructure opportunities across Europe.
Prior to Antin, Bernardo was Managing Director, Head of Acquisitions for Deutsche Banks European infrastructure fund.
His prior experience was in utilities, as Head of M&A at Energias fide Portugal, and in infrastructure advisory with UBS and Citigroup.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 17
