Governance and accounts Directors statement realisation of portfolio assets.
The Company will be Principal activity targeting a dividend for FY18 of 7.85 pence per share.
The Company is a closed-ended investment company that invests in infrastructure businesses and assets.
The Strategy, performance and principal risks Directors do not anticipate any change in the principal The Strategic report on pages 1 to 52 provides a review activity of the Company in the foreseeable future.
Its of the performance and position of the Company, unconsolidated subsidiaries are shown on page 100. together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Regulation The Company is incorporated in Jersey and is regulated Operations as a collective investment fund under the Collective The Company has a non-executive Board of Directors Investment Funds Jersey Law 1988.
It has a Premium and no employees.
The Board acts as the Companys Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Investment Committee and is responsible for the AIFMD determination and supervision of the investment policy The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive and for the approval of investment opportunities sourced theDirective entered into force on 22 July 2013. by the Investment Adviser.
The Company is a non-EU Alternative Investment Fund The Board also supervises the monitoring of existing AIF and is internally managed, which means that the investments and approves divestments and further Board of the Company also performs the functions of an nancing of portfolio assets.
Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM under the Advisory arrangements Directive and the AIF and the AIFM are the same entity.
As a non-EU AIFM, the Company is currently outside the 3i Investments plc 3i Investments, a whollyfull scope of the Directive, but is subject to a number owned subsidiary of 3i Group plc 3i Group, acts of the Directives requirements when it markets the as Investment Adviser to the Company through its Companys securities within the EU, depending on when Infrastructure business.
The investment advisory team and how such marketing of securities is performed.
provides advice to the Company on the origination and completion of new investments, on the realisation of NMPI investments, on funding requirements, as well as on the On 31 January 2014, the Company issued a statement management of the investment portfolio.
It provides noting the changes to the UK Financial Conduct its services under an Investment Advisory Agreement Authority FCA rules regarding the restrictions on the the IAA, which includes an investment exclusivity retail distribution of unregulated collective investment arrangement in respect of investment opportunities schemes and close substitutes non-mainstream pooled within the Companys investment policy.
investments, or NMPIs, which came into effect on 1 January 2014.
Other significant service arrangements In this statement, the Company asserted that its In addition to the arrangements described above, 3iplc shares are excluded from these rules and therefore the and 3i Investments, in relation to certain regulatory restrictions relating to NMPIs will not apply to its shares.
services, have been appointed by the Company to provide support services to the Group, including treasury It is the Boards intention that the Company will and accounting services, investor relations and other continue to conduct its affairs in such a manner that back ofce support services.
The amounts payable under theCompanys shares will continue to be excluded from these arrangements are described in more detail in the FCAs rules relating to NMPIs.
Results and dividends Capita Financial Administrators Jersey Limited acts as the Administrator and Company Secretary to the The Financial statements of the Company and its Company.
consolidated subsidiary together referred to as the Group for the year appear on pages 78 to 81.
Total Revolving Credit Facility comprehensive income for the year was 146.3 million 2016: 166.2 million.
An interim dividend of 3.775 pence In April 2016, the 300 million multicurrency Revolving per share 2016: 3.625 pence in respect of the year to Credit Facility term was extended by a year to 7 May 31 March 2017 was paid on 9 January 2017.
In April 2017, the term was extended by a further recommend that a final dividend of 3.775 pence per year to 7 May 2020.
The Facility is secured by a xed share 2016: 3.625 pence be paid in respect of the year and oating charge over the directly held assets of the to 31 March 2017 to shareholders on the register at the Company, and is subject to cancellation by the Company close of business on 16 June 2017.
The distribution of the or termination by the banks in certain circumstances, dividend payments between interim and final dividends which are market standard for such a facility, including if is evaluated by the Board each year, according to the there is a change of investment adviser to the Company.
Companys performance, portfolio income generation Under the Facility agreement, the Company has the and other factors, such as profits generated on the right to increase the size of the Facility by up to a further 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 71 Governance and accounts Directors statement continued 200 million on the same interest margin and other terms Directors authority to buy back shares and conditions, with the existing lenders having a right The Company did not purchase any of its own shares of first refusal.
The Company exercised this right and on during the year.
The current authority of the Company 25 April 2016 increased the Facility size to 500 million to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the on a temporary basis until 31 July 2016, with the increase issued ordinary share capital expires at the next Annual provided by existing lenders.
In April 2017 the Company General Meeting AGM, to be held on 6 July 2017 again increased the size of the Facility to 500 million the 2017 AGM.
The Company will seek to renew such until 30 March 2018. authority until the end of the AGM in 2018, specifying the maximum and minimum price at which shares can Share capital be bought back.
Any buyback of ordinary shares will be The issued share capital of the Company as at made subject to Jersey law and the making and timing 31 March 2017 was 1,026,549,746 ordinary shares of any buybacks will be at the absolute discretion of 2016: 793,216,413. the Directors.
Such purchases will also only be made in accordance with the Listing Rules of the FCA which Major interests in ordinary shares provide that the price paid must not be more than the higher of: i 5% above the average middle market Notications of the following voting interests in the quotations for the ordinary shares for the five business Companys ordinary share capital as at 31 March 2017 days before the shares are purchased: and ii the higher and 30 April 2017, which are disclosable in accordance of the last independent trade and the highest current with Chapter 5 of the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency independent bid on the London Stock Exchange at Rules, are as follows: such time.
Number of Number of ordinary % of ordinary % of Directors conicts of interests 1 1 shares as at issued shares as at issued Interest in 31March share 30 April share The Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conicts ordinary shares 2017 capital 2017 capital ofinterest with the Company.
The Companys Articles 3i Group plc ofAssociation enable the Directors to approve conicts and subsidiaries 346,892,428 33.79 346,892,428 33.79 of interest and include other conict of interest Schroders plc 79,572,182 7.75 78,654,730 7.66 provisions.
The Company has implemented processes to identify potential and actual conicts of interest.
Such 1 Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote.
conicts are then considered for approval by the Board, subject, if necessary, to appropriate conditions.
Directors interests In accordance with FCA Listing Rule 9.8.
6 R 1, Directors Directors indemnities interests in the shares of the Company in respect of The Companys Articles of Association provide that, which transactions are notiable to the Company under subject to the provisions of the Statutes, every Director FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rule 3.1.
2 R as at of the Company shall be indemnified out of the assets of 31 March 2017 are shown below: the Company against all liabilities and expenses incurred Directors interests by him or her in the actual or purported execution or Ordinary shares 1 and beneficial interests at 31 March 2017 discharge of his or her duties.
Statutes here refers to the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and every other Richard Laing 25,384 2 statute, regulation or order for the time being in force Philip Austin 14,000 concerning companies registered under the Companies Doug Bannister 12,500 Jersey Law 1991.
In addition, the Company has entered Wendy Dorman 24,000 into indemnity agreements for the benefit of its Directors Ian Lobley 0 and these remain in force at the date of this report.
Paul Masterton 20,513 The Company also had directors and ofcers liability Steven Wilderspin 31,730 insurance in place in the year.
1 No options have ever been granted since the inception of the Company.
In the period from 1 April 2017 to 30 April 2017, there were no changes in the interests of each serving Director.
72 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 Governance and accounts In accordance with the FCAs Disclosure and Statement of Directors responsibilities Transparency Rules, the Directors confirm to the best The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual oftheir knowledge that: report and accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations and those International Financial a the Financial statements, prepared in accordance with Reporting Standards IFRSs which have been adopted applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair by the European Union.
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group taken as a whole: and As a company listed on the London Stock Exchange, 3i Infrastructure is subject to the FCAs Listing Rules b the Annual report and accounts include a fair review and Disclosure and Transparency Rules, as well as to all of the development and performance of the business applicable laws and regulations of Jersey, where it is and the position of the Group taken as a whole, incorporated.
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company.
Jersey company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial period in The Directors of the Company and their functions are accordance with generally accepted accounting listed on pages 55 to 57. principles.
The Financial statements of the Group are The Directors have acknowledged their responsibilities required by law to give a true and fair view of the state in relation to the Financial statements for the year to ofaffairs of the Group at the period end and of the profit 31 March 2017. or loss of the Group for the period then ended.
In preparing these Financial statements, the Directors Going concern should: The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, select suitable accounting policies and then apply performance and position are set out in the Strategic them consistently: report on pages 1 to 52 and in the Financial statements make judgments and estimates that are reasonable: and related Notes on pages 87 to 101.
The financial position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position specify which generally accepted accounting principles and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial have been adopted in their preparation: and statements and related Notes on pages 87 to 101.
In prepare the Financial statements on the going concern addition, Note 9 to the Financial statements includes basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the the Companys objectives, policies and processes for Company will continue in business.
managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and The Directors are responsible for keeping accounting hedging activities, and its exposures to credit risk records which are sufficient to show and explain the andliquidity risk.
Groups transactions and are such as to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of The Company has liquid financial resources and a strong the Group and enable them to ensure that the Financial investment portfolio providing a stable and robust statements prepared by the Group comply with the income yield and an expectation of medium-term capital requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991. growth.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets the Group is well placed to manage its business risks of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps successfully and to cover its dividend in the next financial for the prevention and detection of fraud and other year.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a irregularities.
reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the The Directors are also responsible for preparing the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt Annual report and accounts and the Directors confirm the going concern basis in preparing the Annual report that they consider that, taken as a whole, the Annual and accounts.
report and accounts is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders By order of the Board to assess the Companys performance, business model Authorised signatory and strategy.
Capita Financial Administrators Jersey Limited Company Secretary 10 May 2017 Registered Ofce: 12 Castle Street St. Helier Jersey JE2 3RT Channel Islands 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 73
