Review of investments Valorem The energy transition has been Developments since Performance continuously supported by the acquisition French governments over the past Cost 47.9m The installed capacity continues to decade.
With in-house capabilities Closing value 50.0m develop well.
Since our acquisition, across the entire project cycle and 57MW of Valorem-owned projects astrong local footprint, Valorem is have been commissioned or entered Ownership 28.5% well positioned to benefit from this construction and will add to the Date invested September 2016 shift in energy mix.
142MW in operation at the time of Management Begles, France the acquisition.
The pipeline remains team HQ Investment rationale healthy with c. 150MW of projects Country France This investment diversies the at advanced development stage.
Currency EUR Companys portfolio with exposure InDecember 2016, Valorem applied Sector Utilities to a growing renewables business for permits and tariffs for 450MW in one of the most attractive ofits wind pipeline under the French European markets, and provides 2016 subsidy regime, following Valorem and its market recurring, ination-linked cash the approval of this regime by the Valorem is a new investment which owsunderpinned by a robust EUCommission.
a leading independent renewable Led by its experienced management energy development and operating team, Valorem is a best-in-class company.
It is one of the largest developer, being the fourth largest onshore wind developers in France, For further information about French wind developer and the our investments, see our website having developed over 480MW largest independent one.
com ofcapacity over the last 10 years.
significant pipeline of projects at an The French power market is advanced stage of development that experiencing a major transition as it expects to convert into operating it looks to reduce its reliance on assets, with further projects at nuclear generation and to increase earlier stages to bring through generation from renewable sources thedevelopment process.
of energy such as wind and solar.
34 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017
