Review of investments Wireless Infrastructure Group WIG The market outlook is favourable With its scalable platform and track Performance for tower companies as they record of building new infrastructure support network customers in their and making accretive acquisitions, Cost 74.7m projects to expand coverage in WIG is well placed to target further Closing value 78.4m rural areas and densify networks in growth in the UK and across Europe.
Policy Ownership 31%, 36% economic makers and mobile operators are Developments since interest becoming increasingly aware of the acquisition Date invested June 2016 benets of independently operated WIG is performing well operationally.
Management Bellshill, UK communications infrastructure and In particular, the core infrastructure team HQ the market share of the independent services business outperformed our Country UK tower sector continues to rise across base case as it supports customers Currency GBP Europe.
The independent tower network expansion projects.
sector is also set to play a major role Sector Communications in supporting the deployment of 5Gand the additional infrastructure WIG and its market this will require.
For further information about WIG is a new investment which our investments, see our website completed in the year.
WIG is the Investment rationale www.
com UKs second largest independent This investment diversies the tower company and the largest to Companys portfolio with exposure focus solely on telecom towers.
to a growing communications It operates c. 2,000 towers and infrastructure business.
other wireless infrastructure assets, Communication towers are critical representing c. 7% of the UK market.
pieces of infrastructure that are WIG is independent of any network largely agnostic to technological operator and invests in shareable change.
The cash ows generated infrastructure that is made available by the business are ination-linked to all networks.
The business and are underpinned by longhas recently expanded into the termcontracts.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2017 33
