STRATEGIC REPORT COMPANY OVERVIEW Our presence across Europe Number of routes operated from CEE countries as at 31 March 2017: Poland 136 Romania 129 Hungary 55 Bulgaria 32 Lithuania 28 Macedonia 25 Bosnia and Herzegovina 16 Serbia 16 Czech Republic 9 Latvia 9 Ukraine 9 Moldova 7 Georgia 6 Slovakia 4 Montenegro 2 Slovenia 2 Croatia 1 Central and Eastern Europe, or CEE, is a region comprised of Albania, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Georgia, Hungary, Kosovo, Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia, Moldova, Montenegro, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia and Ukraine.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 5 STRATEGIC REPORT COMPANY OVERVIEW CONTINUED History of the Group Wizz Air was founded in 2003 by its current Chief Executive Officer CEO Jzsef Vradi and five other individuals who recognised a demand for low-cost carriers in CEE driven in particular by the accession of ten new EU member states on 1 May 2004, eight of which are in CEE the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia, and the anticipated accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the EU in January 2007.
Wizz Air was established with bases in Budapest in Hungary and Katowice in Poland and its first flight took off from Katowice on 19 May 2004.
Significant milestones in the development of Wizz Air since its first flight have included: FY 2005 By the end of its first year of operation, Wizz Air had established bases in Hungary and Poland, and started flying to eight other European countries Belgium, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom, flying a total of 36 routes by March 2005.
On-board catering, hotel bookings, car rental services and airport agents were offered as ancillary services.
0.9 million passengers were carried and Wizz Air had six aircraft in its fleet at the year end.
FY 2006 A third base was established in Gdansk, Poland.
Wizz Airs first aircraft order was placed with Airbus to acquire twelve A320 aircraft.
2.1 million passengers were carried and Wizz Air had eight aircraft in its fleet at the year end.
FY 2007 A base was established in Sofia in Bulgaria, ahead of the country joining the EU in January 2007.
Wizz Air started flying to Croatia, Romania and the Netherlands, bringing the number of operated routes to 64 at the year end.
A second order was placed with Airbus to acquire a further 20 A320 aircraft.
Priority boarding was launched as an additional ancillary service.
3.1 million passengers were carried and Wizz Air had ten aircraft in its fleet at the year end.
FY 2008 A base was opened in Romania and Wizz Air started flying to Norway and operated 86 routes at the year end.
A third order was placed with Airbus to acquire a further 50 A320 aircraft.
Multi-currency pricing, extra legroom and travel insurance products were launched.
4.6 million passengers were carried and Wizz Air had 17 aircraft in its fleet at the year end.
FY 2009 Wizz Air Ukraine was established in July 2008, the countrys first low-cost carrier, and a base was opened in Kiev.
Wizz Air started flying to Finland and operated 124 routes at the year end.
6.2 million passengers were carried and Wizz Air had 22 aircraft in its fleet at the year end.
FY 2010 A base was opened in Prague in the Czech Republic and Wizz Air started flying to Latvia.
A fourth order was placed with Airbus to acquire a further 50 later reduced to 30 A320 aircraft.
A co-branded credit card was launched in Hungary, followed by similar programmes in Poland and Romania.
8.2 million passengers were carried and Wizz Air had 30 aircraft in its fleet at the year end.
FY 2011 Wizz Air started flying to Serbia and Turkey, operating a total of 194 routes at the year end, and subsequently opened a base in Belgrade in Serbia.
Wizz Air established a new head office in Geneva, Switzerland.
An online check-in option was launched and charges were implemented for airport check-in.
9.8 million passengers were carried and Wizz Air had 35 aircraft in its fleet at the year end.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 6 STRATEGIC REPORT COMPANY OVERVIEW CONTINUED History of the Group continued FY 2012 A base was established in Vilnius in Lithuania and Wizz Air started flying to Cyprus, operating a total of 217 routes at the year end.
Wizz Exclusive Club the predecessor to the Wizz Discount Club loyalty programme was launched.
Wizz Reserved Seat ancillary product, selling the first two rows of seats, was launched.
11.3 million passengers were carried and Wizz Air had 36 aircraft in its fleet at the year end.
FY 2013 A base was established in Macedonia and Wizz Air started flying to Georgia, Israel, Slovenia and Switzerland.
Wizz Air operated a total of 233 routes at the year end.
A new cabin baggage policy was introduced.
Wizz Air was the first EU airline to charge for large cabin baggage.
Re-launched and re-branded the loyalty programme as Wizz Discount Club.
A mobile sales channel was launched to enable bookings on iOS and Android mobile telephones.
12.3 million passengers were carried and Wizz Air had 40 aircraft in its fleet at the year end.
FY 2014 A base was established in Donetsk, Ukraine, and Wizz Air started flying to Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Malta, Moldova, Russia, Slovakia and the United Arab Emirates.
The Wizz Air flight simulator and training centre in Budapest, Hungary, opened.
Wizz Tours package holiday booking platform commenced sales in October 2013.
Part 145 maintenance organisation established enabling Wizz Air to perform certain in-house maintenance activities.
13.9 million passengers were carried and Wizz Air had 46 aircraft in its fleet at the year end.
FY 2015 Bases were opened in Riga, Latvia, in June 2014 and in Craiova, Romania, in July 2014.
The Donetsk, Ukraine, base was suspended in April 2014 due to a political crisis in the east of the country.
Wizz Air announced bases in Tuzla, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Kosice, Slovakia, with operations starting in June 2015.
Wizz Air commenced flights to Egypt, Portugal and Denmark.
Baggage fee discounts were offered to Wizz Discount Club members.
Two types of memberships of Wizz Discount Club were created, comprising a standard membership for two passengers and a group membership for up to six passengers.
Significant summer 2015 route expansion was announced for Wizz Airs core markets in CEE.
New destinations included Aberdeen, Belfast and Bristol United Kingdom, Billund Denmark, Hurghada Egypt, Iasi Romania, Kosice Slovakia, Lisbon Portugal, Maastricht and Groningen the Netherlands, Molde Norway, Nis Serbia, Nuremberg Germany, Ohrid Macedonia and Pescara Italy.
Wizz Air announced the closure of Wizz Air Ukraine and the consolidation of Ukrainian routes into the Wizz Air Hungary route network.
In March 2015 the Company completed an initial public offering IPO with a premium listing of its shares on the London Stock Exchange.
16.5 million passengers were carried and Wizz Air had 55 aircraft in its fleet at the year end.
FY 2016 In April 2015 Wizz Air announced the introduction of full allocated seating on all services.
In May 2015 a comprehensive re-branding, including new livery, was announced.
Network expansion continued with steady growth and the following new destinations were added: Reykjavik Iceland, Tenerife Spain, Chisinau Moldova, Birmingham United KIngdom, Palanga Lithuania, Bratislava Slovakia, Kaunas Lithuania, Ibiza Spain and Porto Portugal.
Stable growth requires a stable source of professional pilots and Wizz Air launched its Cadet Pilot programme in September to train and eventually hire new pilots for its growing fleet.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 7 STRATEGIC REPORT COMPANY OVERVIEW CONTINUED History of the Group continued FY 2016 continued New bases were opened in Tuzla Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosice Slovakia in June 2015, Lublin Poland in September 2015, and Debrecen Hungary in December 2015.
The Company concluded a purchase agreement with Airbus for 110 A321neo aircraft, with deliveries commencing in 2019.
Wizz Air reached the cumulative 100 million passengers carried milestone.
Wizz Tours online tour operator business unit, which was previously outsourced was brought in house.
In November 2015 the first A321ceo aircraft was delivered to the fleet followed by a further three aircraft by the end of March 2016, taking the Companys fleet to 67 by the end of the financial year.
FY 2017 Wizz Air announced new bases in London Luton United Kingdom and Varna Bulgaria with commencement dates in June 2017 and July 2017 respectively.
New bases were opened in Sibiu Romania in July 2016, Iasi Romania in August 2016, Kutaisi Georgia in September 2016 and Chisinau Moldova in March 2017, taking the total number of operating bases to 26 by the end of the financial year.
The eighth Polish airport, Olsztyn-Mazury, was added to the already extensive Polish network.
Wizz Air announced the start of operations from Lviv, its second Ukrainian airport, commencing April 2017, consolidating its position as the pioneer and largest low-cost carrier operating in Ukraine.
After already being the second largest airline operating from London Luton, Wizz Air announced the launch of operations from London Gatwick airport, with a flight to Bucharest, connecting the Romanian capital with both the South London and South England catchment areas.
Wizz Air won a public tender process issued by the Hungarian state to launch five unserved routes between the Western Balkans and Budapest.
com website was launched across all platforms, which was the first airline website to introduce the three click express booking function for registered customers.
Wizz Air was the proud supporter of the Polish and Hungarian national football teams and launched charter flights bringing the fans to several European Championship games.
Pratt & Whitneys new technology geared turbofan engines were selected to supply the order of 110 Airbus A321neo aircraft with deliveries commencing in 2019.
Wizz Air launched a new cadet programme in co-operation with flight schools in Europe as part of its programme to ensure the future flow of highly qualified pilots entering the Company.
A second simulator, this time an A320 fixed base simulator, was installed in Budapest, together with additional in-house training facilities for the Wizz Air crew.
Wizz Air received the Low Cost Airline of the Year award from CAPA a leading specialist aviation consulting firm and was named the Value Airline of the Year 2016 by Air Transport World.
Wizz Air was registered under the International Air Transport Association IATA Operational Safety Audit IOSA, the global benchmark in airline safety recognition.
An additional twelve A321ceo aircraft joined the Companys fleet, taking the total to 79 aircraft at the end of the financial year.
FY 2018 to date Wizz Air added Astana in Kazakhstan as a destination increasing its network to 42 countries.
Emphasising its position as Bulgarias largest airline, Wizz Air announced its title sponsorship of the Sofia Marathon on the eleventh birthday of its Sofia, Bulgaria, base.
Wizz Air launched the WIZZ Youth Challenge, a business case-study challenge for students, attracting almost 400 entries from across Europe and beyond, with the final 40 teams attending a two-day final in Budapest.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2017 8
