Secondaries Case Studies Absolute Private Equity Key facts Complex Absolute Private Equity was aSwiss-listed fund-of-funds September 2011 Secondary vehicle trading on the Swiss SIX exchange Date of completion Deal type HVPE invested a total of $97 million: $85 million through a secondary co-investment alongside HarbourVest funds $97m Global and $12million through HVPE investment Geography HarbourVest funds Total investment: $85 million co-investment and Absolute portfolio purchased $12 million through HarbourVest funds ata 30% discount to NAV Portfolio well diversified and consisting of 80 partnerships 1.5x 80 and over 1,000 companies Gross HVPE Total Value Total Underlying Partnerships Cost at 31 December 2016 Gross return to HVPE 46 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Supplementary Data Public-to-private transactions are highly complex and Transaction Profile carry a significant degree of execution risk.
HarbourVest Absolute Private Equity Absolute was a Swiss-listed specialises in such complex secondary deals and was fund-of-funds vehicle trading on the SIX exchange.
Due one of the few market participants able to provide to a significant portion of the Absolute shareholder base asolution for Absolutes shareholders.
The acquired seeking accelerated liquidity, in 2011 the Board came portfolio was of a high quality and proved to be under pressure to find a liquidity solution for these cash-generative.
By March 2015, HarbourVest had shareholders.
The offer from HarbourVest, which equated recovered its original cost in cash, with a further 0.4x to a 30% discount to the prevailing NAV, was recommended cost remaining as unrealised value.
by the Board as the best available solution.
HarbourVest funds launched a tender offer to acquire all the shares.
Performance Ultimately, 98.7% ofall shareholders tendered in the offer, The Absolute portfolio is now almost fully realised, and and Absolute was fide-listed in February 2012. has delivered a gross return of 1.54x cost over a period The deal was completed by several HarbourVestof five years, generating a gross IRR of 15.0%.
This return managed funds - the largest of which was the Dover was achieved on a highly diversified portfolio of 80 Street VII secondary fund.
HVPE had exposure through partnerships and, ultimately, more than 1,000 underlying itsexisting commitment to that fund.
In addition to this, portfolio companies.
Existing HarbourVest relationships however, HVPE chose to participate alongside Dover with the underlying general partners helped the team to Street VII as a co-investor, thereby increasing its exposure evaluate the quality of the underlying portfolio and materially.
The HVPE Board took the decision to utilise approach the Board of Absolute with a credible offer.
apart of the Companys $500 million credit facility to Once acquired, the portfolio was placed into managed finance the investment.
The terms on this facility which wind-down, with the portfolio being run off over the were, at the time, unchanged from the original 2007 course of the last five years.
package were very attractive, and hence the interest charge was minimal and the debt was repaid quickly.
Infinis above, a renewable energy company, was the largest company in the Absolute portfolio HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 47 Secondaries Case Studies continued Motion Equity Partners Key facts Complex Complex secondary transaction in which HarbourVest April 2014 Secondary restructured a European buyout fund Date of completion Deal type The transaction entailed theacquisition of 49 existing limited partnership interests $17.3m Europe One of the first large whole HVPE investment Geography fund liquidity solutions completed in Europe 1.6x 10 Gross HVPE Total Value Total Number of Underlying Cost at 31 December 2016 Companies Gross return to HVPE 48 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Supplementary Data This transaction was one of the first large whole fund Transaction Profile liquidity solutions completed in Europe and in completing This deal is an example of a successful complex this high profile transaction, HarbourVest demonstrated secondary transaction which involved HarbourVest its experience in leading transactions of this type structuring a whole fund liquidity solution for European andcomplexity.
buyout fund Motion Equity Partners Fund II Motion II, a2005 vintage European buyout fund managed by Performance Motion Equity Partners Motion or the Manager.
HarbourVests experience allowed Motion to develop a In mid-2013, Motion engaged an adviser to identify creative and flexible solution that met the needs of the potential liquidity options for existing limited partners.
various stakeholders involved and ultimately consummate Atthis time, Motion II had under-performed original the transaction.
The portfolio is now almost fully realised, expectations with many of the original team departing with six of the seven portfolio companies held within thefranchise, certain of the remaining investments being Motion II exited within the three years since closing.
valued below cost and no further capital available to Mostnotably 42% of the investment was returned within theManager for additional investments.
Whilst not an less than six months of closing through the sale of Diana existing investor, HarbourVest was familiar with the Group to Symrise, and a further success came from Motion II portfolio and was able to further leverage thesaleof Arcaplanet to Permira in 2016, which yielded theHarbourVest platform to gain access to industry asignificant 5x gross return on cost.
This has helped contacts for additional due diligence on the assets.
The theinvestment in Motion II to deliver a gross return of portfolio included mature, lowly levered, andin certain 1.74x cost ineuro terms over a period of three years, instances market-leading companies that showed generating a gross IRR of 37.5%.
Factoring in the capital resiliency through the last economic downturn, and the deployed through the extension vehicle, the overall team felt these companies had strong potential for future grossreturn on this transaction is1.85x cost in euro value creation.
After extensive referencing and terms with over 160% of capital returned through duediligence, HarbourVest also formed the view that realisations to date.
This return was achieved through theremaining Motion team running the assets was good, aconcentrated portfolio which ultimately comprised and therefore HarbourVest saw this as an opportunity.
HarbourVest presented a comprehensive solution to limited partners which satisfied the objectives of the broad majority, as well as the Manager, and was consequently selected as preferred party.
The transaction entailed the acquisition of existing limited partnership interests in Motion II at a small discount to net asset value.
HarbourVest transacted with 49 limited partners, representing 54.1% of Motion IIs committed capital, and simultaneously created an extension vehicle with new capital partly funded through recycling to augment the Managers incentivisation programme.
Arcaplanet above, an Italian pet-shop chain held in the Motion II fund, was sold to Permira in April 2016 for 5x cost and was the largest source of proceeds from this deal in 2016 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 49
