92 93 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS Director since 26 August 2002 Director since 20 May 2008 Josef ElRaghy Trevor Schultz Chairman and CEO until January 2015 Nonexecutive director since 1 May 2014 Board meetings attended 4 5 Board meetings attended 5 5 Josef has been responsible for overseeing the Trevor has made an invaluable contribution to the transition of the Company from small explorer, establishment of Sukari as a globally significant Experience Experience through construction and into production.
gold mining operation, and in particular for his Josef holds a Bachelor of Commerce degree from With more than 40 years experience at executive recent role in overseeing the construction of the the University of Western Australia and subsequently and board level, Trevor has an MA in Economics from Stage 4 process plant.
He was executive director became a director of both CIBC Wood Gundy and Cambridge University, an MSc degree in mining from of operations from 20 May 2008 to April 2014.
Josef is also Chairman of AIC the University of the Witwatersrand and has Resources Limited effective 1 December 2017. completed the Advanced Management Program at Committee membership Harvard University.
HSES committee chair Remuneration committee for part of the year CEO since 1 February 2015 Andrew Pardey Nomination committee Chief executive officer since February 2015 Board meetings attended 5 5 Andrew was appointed CEO and director of the Experience Alison Baker board of Centamin plc on 1 February 2015.
Andrew Alison is a former audit partner at Independent nonexecutive director Experience served as general manager of operations at the  LLP PwC and Board appointment effective 5 February 2018 Andrew was a major driving force in bringing Sukari Sukari Gold Mine before his previous appointment as Ernst & Young LLP, with nearly 25 years into production and was instrumental in the Alison spent much of her time at PwC working with chief operating officer in May 2012. experience, providing audit, capital markets and the natural resources team, advising FTSE 350 and successful transition of the operation through advisory services.
Alison is also a nonexecutive construction and into production.
AIM companies on transactions, M&A and director at KAZ Minerals plc.
An advocate of building trust Andrew holds a BSc in Geology and has over through integrated reporting and having worked 25 years experience in the mining and exploration Committee membership with a wide range of clients, including those in the industry, having previously held senior positions with HSES committee effective 5 February 2018 emerging markets, Alison has developed a strong Guinor Gold Corporation, AngloGold Ashanti and cultural sensitivity and awareness of wider Nomination committee effective 5 February 2018 Kalgoorlie Consolidated Gold Mines.
stakeholder requirements including governments and local communities.
Experience Ross Jerrard Before joining Centamin, Ross was lead audit partner Chief financial officer since 18 April 2016 Director since 24 February 2011 Mark Bankes with Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Perth, Australia.
Prior Board appointment effective 5 February 2018 Independent nonexecutive director to moving to Australia he spent three and a half years Board meetings attended 5 5 Ross was appointed chief financial officer of Mark is an international corporate finance lawyer.
in Egypt, based in Cairo, acting for multinational Centamin in April 2016.
Since then, Ross has Mark specialises in international securities, companies operating in the region.
Ross is a member assembled and led an excellent finance team Experience mining policy and agreements, mergers and of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia, between Jersey, Sukari and West Africa.
Ross has Mark has an MA from Cambridge University and acquisitions and international restructurings for the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Zimbabwe been responsible for leading efficiency objectives joined Norton Rose in 1984.
He worked in both the resource sector.
and the Australian Institute of Company Directors.
such as the successful implementation of improved London and Hong Kong and was a partner at Norton cost control and monitoring measures, Rose LLP from 1994 to 2007 before starting his own Committee membership improvements to reporting systems and the delivery business, Bankes Consulting EURL, in October 2007.
Compliance and corporate governance committee of accelerated reporting timetables of accounts.
chair HSES committee Director since 23 March 2011 Edward Haslam Audit and risk committee Deputy chairman and senior independent Remuneration committee Board meetings attended 5 5 nonexecutive director appointed on 1 August 2017 In addition to his role as senior independent director, Experience Edward has carried out additional corporate Director since 24 February 2011 Mark Arnesen Edward has been a nonexecutive director and governance functions over the past few years for chairman from June 2007 to April 2012 of the LSE Independent nonexecutive director Centamin, while the roles of CEO and chairman Board meetings attended 5 5 listed Talvivaara plc since 1 June 2007 and from Mark has extensive expertise in the structuring and were combined.
1 May 2004 to April 2016 has been a nonexecutive negotiation of finance for major resource projects.
Experience director of Aquarius Platinum Ltd.
In 1981, Edward Mark is a chartered accountant with over 20 years Committee membership Mark was appointed CEO of ASX listed Nzuri Copper joined Lonmin: he was appointed a director in 1999 experience in the resources industry and holds Remuneration committee chair Limited formerly Regal Resources Limited in August and chief executive officer in November 2000 before Bachelor of Commerce and Bachelor of Accounting Nomination committee chair 2016 and is also the sole director of ARM Advisors retiring in April 2004.
Edward is a Fellow of the degrees from the University of the Witwatersrand.
Audit and risk committee Proprietary Limited.
He has also served on the board Institute of Directors UK.
Compliance and corporate governance committee of Gulf Industrials Limited.
Committee membership HSES committee Audit and risk committee chair Compliance and corporate governance committee Remuneration committee Board resignations Nomination committee As announced on 11 January 2018, Josef ElRaghy informed the board that he intends to retire as executive chairman by the end of 2018, and has served notice under the terms of his contract of employment.
The nomination committee will guide the completion of an orderly nonexecutive chairman succession process, which will commence immediately, with the intention of announcing a successor by the end of June 2018.
An independent recruitment consultant will evaluate all candidates and report directly to the nomination committee.
