Board of Directors Sir Michael Bunbury Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Director, appointed October 2007 Sir Michael Bunbury age 70 is an experienced director of listed and private investment, property andfinancial services companies.
He is currently theChairman of BH Global Limited, a former Director of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust plc which has been an investor in numerous HarbourVest funds, including funds in which the Company is invested, and Director of Invesco Perpetual Select Trust plc.
SirMichael began his career in 1968 at Buckmaster &Moore, a member of The Stock Exchange, before joining Smith & Williamson, Investment Managers and Chartered Accountants, in 1974 as a Partner.
He later served asDirector and Chairman and retired as a consultant tothe firm in May 2017.
Keith B. Corbin Alan C. Hodson Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Independent Non-Executive Director, appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee, appointed April 2013 October 2007 Keith Corbin age 64 is an Associate of the Chartered Alan Hodson age 55 is a Director of JP Morgan Elect Institute of Bankers A. C. I.
1976 and Member of the and Woodford Patient Capital Trust.
Alan joined Rowe Society of Trust and Estate Practitioners T. E. P. and Pitman subsequently SG Warburg, SBC and UBS 1990.
He has been involved in the management of in 1984 and worked in a range of roles, all related to listed international financial services businesses in various equity markets.
He became Global Head of Equities in international centres during the last 34 years.
Keith April 2001 and was a member of the Executive Committee iscurrently the Group Executive Chairman of Nerine of UBS Investment Bank and of the UBS AG Group International Holdings Limited, Guernsey, which also Managing Board.
He retired from UBS in June 2005 has operations inthe British Virgin Islands, Hong Kong, andhas since held positions on a variety of commercial India, and Switzerland.
He serves as a non-executive and charity Boards.
Director onthe board of 3W Power S. A. and various regulated financial services businesses, investment funds, and other companies.
62 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Supplementary Data Andrew W. Moore Jean-Bernard Schmidt Independent Non-Executive Director, appointed Independent Non-Executive Director, appointed October 2007 October 2007 Andrew Moore age 62 is Group Chairman of Cherry Jean-Bernard Schmidt age 71 is a former Managing Partner Godfrey Holdings Limited, Chairman of Sumo Limited and of Sofinnova Partners, a leading European venture capital a director of Sumo Acquisitions Limited.
Andrew joined firm based in Paris.
Jean-Bernard joined Sofinnova in 1973 Williams & Glyns Bank, which subsequently became as an investment manager.
In 1981 he became President TheRoyal Bank of Scotland, after obtaining a diploma in ofSofinnova Inc. in San Francisco, managing Sofinnovas business studies.
He moved to Guernsey to establish and USventure capital funds until 1987, when he returned to act as Managing Director ofatrust company for The Royal Paristohead the Sofinnova group.
He then began focusing Bank of Scotland in 1985.
During his career, Andrew held a on Sofinnovas investments in Europe and on technology range of senior management positions, including acting as andearly stage projects in information technologies and head of corporate trust and fund administration businesses lifesciences.
In 1989, he launched the first Sofinnova for The Royal Bank of Scotland in Guernsey, Jersey, and Capitalfund.
Jean-Bernard retired from Sofinnova group in Isle of Man, which provided services to many offshore September 2010.
He is a past and current board member of investment structures holdinga wide variety of asset many technology companies in the US and France.
Andrew has over30years of experience as both 1998 and 2001, he was a board member of AFIC, the French an executive andnon-executive Director of companies Venture Capital Association.
From June 2003 to June 2004, including investment funds and banks.
he was Chairman of EVCA the European Private Equity and Venture Capital Association, now Invest Europe.
JeanBernard is a graduate of Essec Business School in Paris andholds an MBA from Columbia University in New York.
Peter G. Wilson D. Brooks Zug Non-Executive Director, appointed May 2013 Non-Executive Director, appointed October 2007 Peter Wilson age 54 joined HarbourVests London-based Brooks Zug age 71 is a senior managing director subsidiary in 1996.
He is a member of HarbourVests ofHarbourVest Partners, LLC and a founder of Executive Management Committee and co-leads HarbourVest.
As Senior Managing Director, Brooks HarbourVests secondary investment activity in Europe.
continuing responsibilities include advising the current He serves on the advisory committees for partnerships generation of managing directors and interacting with managed by Baring Vostok Capital Partners, CVC Capital HarbourVests most important global clients, including Partners, Holtzbrinck Ventures, Index Venture Management, HVPE.
He joined the corporate finance department of Nordic Capital, and Paragon Partners.
Prior to joining John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company in 1977, HarbourVest, Peter spent three years working for the and, in 1982, co-founded Hancock Venture Partners, European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which later became HarbourVest Partners.
Brooks is a where he originated and managed two regional venture past Trustee of Lehigh University and a current Trustee capital funds in Russia.
He served as founding Chairman ofthe Boston Symphony Orchestra.
He received a BS of the Board of Trustees of City Year London.
Peter also from Lehigh University in 1967 and an MBA from Harvard spent two years at The Monitor Company, a strategy Business School in 1970.
Brooks received his CFA designation in 1977. consulting firm based in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Hereceived a BA with honours from McGill University in 1985 and an MBA from Harvard Business School in1990.
HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 63
