82 83 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT INTRODUCTION Process plant at Sukari Decision to reappoint knowledge to assist the boards C. 1.3.
Going concern directors Trevor Schultz to the board oversight of the Companys operations responsibilities statement and and chairing the HSES committee, assumptions in the audit and risk The board considered in detail the which is responsible for making critical report : reasons for the votes against the recommendations to the board on all reappointment of Trevor Schultz C. 1.2. Business model and delivery matters in connection with issues of Resolution 4.4 at the 2017 AGM and of strategy strategic report the environment, workplace health and believed at the time and since, having including the business model : safety and the sustainable engagement met with proxy advisers and major C. 2.1.
Robust assessment of with communities and stakeholders.
shareholders, that the primary reason principal risks directors Trevor made an invaluable contribution for votes against his reappointment responsibilities and assumptions in to the establishment of Sukari as a related to the decision to appoint risk management report : Josef ElRaghy globally significant gold mining Trevor Schultz to the remuneration Chairman C. 2.2.
Such a major construction committee in September 2016.
This management report : and project, which was completed with appointment followed the resignation C. 2.3.
Monitoring and review of Our board is committed to achieving minimal cost and time overruns, is of Kevin Tomlinson, an independent effectiveness of risk management testament to Trevors strong leadership nonexecutive director and member of the highest standards of corporate governance.
and internal control systems audit and experience.
An explanation for the and risk report.
reasons Trevor was appointed to the In 2018, Trevor Schultz, as chairman 2017 has been another excellent year, committee, notwithstanding that of the HSES committee, will provide with further improvements in Trevor was not independent within the board level oversight of the proposed operational efficiency and a strong meaning of the Code, was provided in solar project.
This ambitious project financial performance.
We enter 2018 the 2016 annual report.
The board Dear shareholders of our shareholders and proxy advisory Board rotation will aim to reduce diesel fuel with a knowledgeable board, a strong understands the requirement for the groups and the board is committed to Following these appointments, we will consumption at Sukari, reduce Centamin delivered another excellent management team and a clear remuneration committee to have three achieving the highest standards of continue to look for opportunities to emissions and fuel costs over the year for shareholders, delivering on strategy to deliver sustained returns to independent members and Trevor was corporate governance.
In particular, refresh the board to ensure we have longer term.
production and keeping control over shareholders.
The appointment of new considered to be a valued member of board composition and committee the right range of backgrounds and costs and thereby generating significant board members in 2018 and the the remuneration committee due to Our board composition and approach membership has been a key agenda experience to see Centamin through free cash flow, which allowed the prospect of a new chairman later in the his wealth of experience operating in to leadership are set out in detail on item at both board and nomination to the next stage of growth.
board to declare dividend payments year provides shareholders with Egypt and his understanding of the page 85 to 86.
Within the directors committee meetings.
As a result of of over US$144 million for 2017. assurance of continuity as well as Committee composition challenging environment for report and, where applicable, the these meetings and discussions with staged and progressive refreshment The composition of all mandated executives and senior management.
strategic report, the directors provide shareholders, I am pleased to confirm As set out in our guidance for 2018, of the board.
committees are fully compliant within A detailed explanation was given in the required governance and the following: we look forward to a record year of the meaning of the Code.
Following the 2016 annual report, applying the regulatory assurances.
production in 2018 with the promise of Independent chairman the AGM, the composition of the principle of comply or explain for any Josef ElRaghy more growth to come.
Sukaris long Through the financial reporting and As announced in January of this year, remuneration committee was altered, noncompliance with the Code: term sustainability was reconfirmed by Chairman budgeting process, together with the I will be retiring at the end of 2018 and with Trevor Schultz stepping down however, we now recognise that this the reserve and resource update which review of operational activity, the will ensure that due process is carried from the committee immediately and explanation was not considered 31 January 2018 demonstrated our ability to replace board has considered the short and out by our nomination committee to subsequently replaced by Mark sufficient by many of our shareholders.
highgrade underground reserves and longer term strategic focus areas set identify a successor to fill the role of Bankes please see a note below on the 20year life of the open pit.
Longer The nomination committee, out in the strategic report, as well as independent chairman to the board.
the boards decision to reappoint term, exploration projects in West in the absence of Trevor Schultz, the principal risks, risk appetite and This process will aim to identify a new Trevor Schultz to the board after the Africa continue to be promising, with recommended the reappointment resulting business objectives.
Alison Baker, the newly further progress at our project in of Trevor Schultz to the board.
In turn, appointed independent nonexecutive The key areas of Code compliance can Burkina Faso and the discovery of new Board composition the board unanimously resolved to director will join the nomination be found in the following areas of the resources in Cte dIvoire.
and succession planning appoint Trevor to the board as a committee and the HSES committee 2017 annual report and accounts: We welcome Alison Baker and nonexecutive director, immediately Regarding the Companys corporate on appointment in February 2018.
Ross Jerrard, who will join the board following the AGM in 2017.
Fair, balanced and governance and in light of the on 5 February 2018.
These new was reappointed to his existing roles understandable applied across the exceptional year we achieved in 2016, members bring a wealth of experience as chairman of the HSES committee strategic, directors and financial the result of the AGM this year was within their fields and, in the case of and member of the nomination report with the confirmation disappointing, with shareholders Ross, also from within the Company.
committee but did not rejoin the statement in the directors electing to vote against the Andrew Pardey will shortly complete remuneration committee.
responsibilities statement and reappointment of our nonexecutive his third year as CEO and will be assumptions in the audit and risk director, Trevor Schultz, for reasons of The board took this decision in light supported in 2018 by the newly report : code compliance which were fully of the vital role that Trevor plays for the appointed member of the senior explained in the 2016 annual report.
Company, bringing his deep technical management team, Mark Morcombe However, we recognise the concerns as chief operating officer.
