Strategic Asset Allocation New commitments to HarbourVest funds are made with reference to HVPEs agreed Strategic Asset Allocation, reviewed annually by the Board of directors.
Strategic Asset Allocation Targets Annual Commitment Plan Process HVPE takes a long-term view in building and maintaining In November each year, the HVPE Board of Directors its private markets programme.
This reflects the approves a plan for making new commitments to Investment Manager and Boards perspective on HarbourVest funds over the subsequent 12 month thebest means of achieving long-term NAV growth.
This plan is prepared by the Investment Manager, This translates into a set ofrolling five-year portfolio HarbourVest Partners, with a view to optimising returns construction targets Strategic Asset Allocation for HVPE shareholders over the long-term.
The total defined with reference to NAV by investment stage, commitment amount for the year is informed by the geography, and strategy.
These targets are reviewed Investment Managers base case forecast for cash flows annually, and were last revised in November 2016. and investment returns, while the breakdown by fund Theagreed changes were as follows: isdecided with reference to the agreed Strategic Asset Allocation targets described before.
Investment Stage Once approved by the Board, the commitment plan is Specific allocation of 5% for real assets and executed in such a way as to maximise the benefit of mezzanine investments anyearly-closing fee discounts available on the selected Geography HarbourVest funds, whilst also metering the pace of Increase allocation to US from 60% to 65% commitments in-line with a set of agreed balance sheet ratios.
New commitments to HarbourVest funds are Increase allocation to Asia and Rest of World profiled in HVPEs monthly NAV update reports, released from15%to17% to the market around the 15th calendar day each month Reduce allocation to Europe from 25% to 18% and available on the Companys website at www.
These changes were made with reference to macroeconomic and geopolitical considerations, the available opportunity set in private markets, historic performance attribution in the private equity market globally and, finally, HarbourVests specific areas of expertise.
The targets are monitored regularly and willbe reviewed by the HVPE Board of Directors in November 2017.
This review will include a re-appraisal of investment performance by each of the agreed sub-categories.
30 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Supplementary Data HVPE Portfolio Construction Targets Vs Actual by NAV By Stage By Geography By Strategy Target Target Target US 65% Primary 60% Buyout 65% Europe 18% Secondary 25% Venture and Growth Equity 30% Asia Pacific 12% Direct 15% Mezzanine and Real Assets 5% Rest of World 5% Actual Actual Actual Buyout 64% US 62% Primary 45% Venture and Growth Equity 30% Europe 20% Secondary 31% Mezzanine and Real Assets 6% Asia Pacific 12% Direct 24% Rest of World 6% Geography Strategy Stage The US was the birthplace of private equity Primary investing is the bedrock of The story of HarbourVest began with investing and remains the largest private HarbourVests business model, based venture capital investing in the early 1980s, equity market globally.
The private equity onmaintaining strong relationships and the firm remains committed model is well proven in the US, and has withestablished managers as well as toinvesting in this exciting area.
Today, delivered consistently impressive long-run supporting talented new teams.
Investing HarbourVest has relationships with some returns.
US venture capital, in particular, in new funds as they are raised offers of the top-performing venture capital has delivered some of the most impressive thepotential for attractive returns whilst managers stretching back more than and well-known entrepreneurial success providing an important contribution to the thirtyyears, and is able to access new stories of the past 20 years.
As such, the success of the HarbourVest secondary funds that are effectively closed to other US remains HarbourVests home base, and direct co-investment funds.
Venture and Growth Equity and will continue to form the majority of this is an information advantage, whereby therefore forms a key component of HVPEs portfolio.
Europe has delivered the HarbourVest secondary team is better HVPEs portfolio and will continue to do attractive returns to private equity able to evaluate new opportunities with so.
The buyout market remains the core investors, but has tended to be affected reference to the firms relationships and of global private equity investing and inrecent years by currency weakness experience of investing on a primary basis.
provides a larger opportunity set for new against the US dollar.
Geopolitical Another key benefit is deal flow.
Again, HarbourVest has uncertainty and continued structural co-investment funds are able to access strong relationships with some of the problems are a cause for concern, yet awide range of potential opportunities best-performing managers in the space, HVPE continues to allocate significant offered by private equity managers as well as specialist names with impressive capital to the region based on the supported by HarbourVest via its primary track records focused on particular niches attractive opportunities available to fund commitments.
The precise allocation within the market.
Mezzanine and Real investwith top-performing managers.
to each strategy is determined by the size Assets funds, meanwhile, offer additional Meanwhile, the private equity industry in of the market opportunity, the different diversification and the potential for returns Asia Pacific and other emerging economies return profiles on offer, and HarbourVests that are lessclosely correlated to the continues to develop, prompting HVPE competitive advantage in each.
toincrease its allocation to specialist example, HVPE is overweight secondary managers in these markets.
investments relative to the broader private equity market due to HarbourVests proven track record in completing large and complex transactions.
HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 31
