Investment Portfolio Diversification HVPE has built a well-diversified, global portfolio of privateequity assets at various stages of maturity.
Theportfolio is carefully selected with the aim of optimisingvalue growth over the long term.
attheir best at different stages in process, with the aim of ensuring Why is HVPE so theeconomic cycle.
Furthermore, that the resulting investments are Diversified?
awell-diversified portfolio ensures ofthe highest possible quality.
With more than 7,000 underlying that the downside risk arising from Theresult is that HVPEs portfolio portfolio companies, HVPE is any single investment is very limited, captures approximately 5% of the themost diversified listed private whilst still offering the potential for available market, with a focus on equity investment company notable gains resulting from the proven managers with whom intheLondon market.
Careful HarbourVest has built strong and diversification is essential to investment selection, therefore, enduring relationships through achieving consistently strong remains critical.
Eachnew fund multiple fund cycles.
returns from the asset class, as commitment orcompany investment the various sub-categories within undergoes a rigorous screening private markets tend to perform At 31 January 2017 Investment stage Geography Strategy Buyout 64% US 62% Primary 45% Venture and Growth Equity 30% Europe 20% Secondary 31% Mezzanine and Real Assets 6% Asia Pacific 12% Direct 24% Rest of World 6% 28 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Supplementary Data Private Equity Portfolio Strategy Secondary Primary Direct BuildingBlocks HVPEs portfolio is assembled with reference to a number of key parameters, Vintage Year 2015 2016 2017 ensuring that each new investment provides differentiated exposure to theasset class.
Geography US Europe Asia RoW Mezzanine and Stage Buyout Venture Real Assets Size Small Mid Large Investment Manager Industry Strategy Vintage Year % of Investment Portfolio Year of Investment % of Investment Portfolio HVPEs vintage year diversification is measured HVPE also measures diversification over time by the year using the year of the initial capital call for primary funds ofinitial investment into the underlying portfolio companies.
15 and direct co-investment funds and the year offormation Thisis more representative when judging HVPEs real of underlying partnerships .
exposure to the market in agiven year.
Diversification by stage, strategy, phase and geography is based on Phase Industry the estimated net asset value of partnership investments within HVPEs fund-of-funds and company investments within HVPEs co-investment funds.
Industry diversification is based on the reported value of the underlying company investments for both fund-of-funds and co-investment funds.
Some of the funds held in HVPE have not been fully Investment 38% Consumer-Financial 32% invested.
By phase, investment includes vintage years 2013 to 2017, growth includes 2008 to 2012 and mature, pre-2007.
Growth 29% Technology-Telecom 31% Mature 33% Industrial-Other 20% Medical-Biotech 17% HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 29
