Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Supplementary Data Direct Co-investments Direct Co-investments form HVPEs third and final underlying privatemarkets strategy, representing 24%ofthe Investment Portfolio at 31 January 2017.
The dominant vehicle for accessing private markets Stronger relationships with top-tier GPs remains the commingled fund.
This is a blind pool of Direct co-investing enables HarbourVest to foster capital structured as a limited partnership.
Increasingly, deeper relationships with GPs and gain a better however, the managers of private equity funds known understanding of their investment strategies and as general partners, or GPs are offering co-investment processes.
This is essential for gaining access opportunities to their investors known as limited tofuturedeal flow.
These are investments directly into Access to pre-qualified deals operating companies, where the LP invests alongside The opportunities made available to co-investors the GP rather than through the fund.
In a single aretypically pre-screened by the lead manager company co-investment, an LP invests in a private who performs extensive due diligence and vetting company alongside, and typically at the invitation of, toensure that the highest quality deals are selected.
The lead manager is generally responsible for Asa result, the opportunities that a co-investor is managing the portfolio company, and may be offering offered tend to be high-quality transactions.
the co-investment opportunity in order to bring additional skills and resources to the investment.
Direct co-investments are generally complex, require extensive resources, involve multiple steps from deal Why Direct Co-investments?
sourcing to post-investment monitoring and often need HarbourVest believes that co-investing can enhance to be completed in a short period of time.
HarbourVest aprivate markets portfolio by providing: has longstanding relationships with top-tier fund managers, and therefore provides access to unique Added control over capital deployment pacing global opportunities through its direct co-investment Direct co-investments provide the ability to programme.
To-date HarbourVest has invested $6 billion efficientlydeploy capital to deals in a specific in360 companies as at 31 December 2016. region, industry, or manager.
Outperformance potential Access to top-tier GPs helps to ensure that HarbourVest sees a large number of high quality opportunities.
These are then subjected to arigorous selection process, further enhancing thepotential for outperformance.
Lower fees Direct co-investments typically provide a less expensive fee structure, with lower management and performance fees compared to traditional private equity funds.
HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 17
