Secondary Investments Secondary investments secondaries form HVPEs second-largest underlying private markets strategy, representing 31% of the Investment Portfolio at 31 January 2017.
A secondary investment is the purchase of a primary Purchasing at a discount fund stake part-way through its life.
This is an Private equity assets are illiquid by nature and generally increasingly important part of the global private sold in private, negotiated transactions.
Some sellers equitymarket, providing liquidity to institutional inneed of liquidity may be willing to sell for less than investors whilst presenting attractive opportunities the appraised value of the investments in exchange forexperienced secondary purchasers.
forthe ability to quickly monetise their private equity assets i. e. at a discount to appraised value.
Immediate portfolio diversification HarbourVest believes that investing in the secondary Secondary funds typically provide diversification market can provide several benefits, including: across stage, industry, and geography.
These funds A compelling risk reward profile are also unique in their ability to provide investors with This is due to the shorter duration, quicker payback access to underlying partnerships with vintage years period, diversification, and lack of blind pool risk that are five to 10 years old, or more, giving investors typically associated with these investments relative who are new to the asset class immediate exposure to other strategies.
toa seasoned private equity portfolio.
Accelerated capital deployment While secondary investments are compelling, the Secondary funds tend to have a more compressed challenge lies in sourcing and selecting attractive drawdown period relative to primary funds, since opportunities, which requires access to information larger pools of capital are often required to fund the aboutthe existing portfolio.
HarbourVests longstanding purchase of entire portfolios on day one, rather relationships and experience mean it has deep knowledge than the slower drawdowns typical of primary of private equity managers and significant access to fundinvesting.
opportunities, insights, and trends which thesecondary team can leverage.
The firms approach isto target less Near-term liquidity efficient areas of the market that offer opportunities to Given the maturity of the underlying assets in most unlock hidden value, structure innovative transactions, secondary transactions at the time of purchase, and generate attractive returns.
The secondary team secondary investments often have the potential isskilled at navigating challenging market conditions togenerate early distributions.
andexecuting a wide range of complex transactions.
J-curve mitigation Todate, HarbourVest has committed $16 billion to Unlike primary investments, secondary investments morethan 400 transactions as at 31 December 2016. may have thepotential to generate strong performance in their early years as a result of the unrealised gains that can be associated with buying assets at a discount, as well as the maturity of the underlying assets.
16 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017
