94 95 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT SENIOR MANAGEMENT Operations Finance and corporate Youssef ElRaghy Mark Morcombe Chris Boreham Mark Smith Riaan Nel Heidi Brown General manager Egyptian operations Chief operating officer General manager Sukari Group financial controller Group accountant Subsidiary director since 1 March 2017 and company secretary An officer graduate of the Egyptian Police Mark was most recently COO at Acacia Mark joined Centamin as group FC in Before joining Centamin, Riaan held Academy, Youssef held senior Mining plc and prior to that Senior Vice Chris holds a BEng Mining degree from August 2015 and brings to the role a previous appointments at a hedge fund Heidi is a Fellow Chartered Secretary management roles within the Egyptian President at AngloGold Ashanti.
He has the University of Sydney and a Graduate wealth of experience in sitebased and at , both in FCIS, FGIA and GAICD.
Heidi holds a police force for more than ten years, having more than 25 years of mining industry Diploma of Business, First Class Mine commercial and corporate finance across Jersey.
Riaan holds a B. Com Accounting Graduate Certificate of Applied Finance attained the rank of captain prior to joining experience of which ten years have been in Managers Certificate in WA, Queensland exploration, feasibility, construction and Sciences and a B. Com Honours Accounting and Investment and a Diploma of Financial the group.
He has extensive contacts various countries in Africa.
As a mining operations in both open pit and Sciences degree from the University of and New South Wales.
He is a member of Advising from the Financial Services within the government and industry and engineer, Mark has spent much of his AusIMM and has 30 years experience in underground mining environments.
Mark Pretoria and completed his training at Institute of Australasia.
Heidi was the maintains excellent working relationships career to date specialising in gold projects the mining industry, having worked has worked previously for a variety of other Grant Thornton South Africa where he company secretary of Centamin from 2004 with all of the Companys stakeholders across Africa and Australia, successfully publicly listed companies including BHP, specialised in the manufacturing and predominantly in gold and copper mines.
until 2012, and continues to act as within Egypt.
operating open pit and underground Chris significant experience in the design Red Back Mining Inc, African Minerals Ltd mining industries.
Riaan is a member of the company secretary and director of mines, from development and expansion and operation of hard rock mining extends and Endeavour Mining Corporation.
South African Institute of Chartered Centamins Australian subsidiaries.
Mark holds to managing personnel, risk mitigation and Accountants and the Institute of Chartered a Bachelor of Engineering Mining operational health and safety.
Accountants in England and Wales.
Engineering and a Masters of Engineering Chris was promoted to general manager Science Mining Geomechanics from at Sukari in March 2017, previously holding Curtin University in Australia.
the position of underground mine manager at Sukari.
Since January 2010 Since 8 January 2018 Since 13 April 2006 Since 17 August 2015 Since 6 February 2017 Since 23 January 2003 Norman Bailie Ibrahima Danso Doaa Abou Elailah Jonathan Stephens Alexandra Carse Darren Le Masurier Group exploration manager Manager, West Africa Group sustainability Chief development officer Head of investor relations Company secretary and business development manager Norman joined Centamin in January 2017 Ibrahima joined Centamin in June 2016 Jonathan joined Centamin on Alexandra joined Centamin in Darren is a fellow of the Association of and brings to the role over 25 years and brings to the role over 20 years Doaa has worked closely with Centamin 27 February 2017 as chief development December 2017 from Petropavlovsk PLC, Chartered Certified Accountants and has industry experience in providing professional experience, notably with officer.
Jonathan brings 20 years where she was head of investor relations.
over 18 years experience in corporate for ten years, initially as an adviser, before exploration and resource consultancy to AngloGold Ashanti in Guinea and joining the Company in 2013.
Doaa has investment banking experience at top tier Prior to this, Alexandra has over 12 years administration, governance and offshore all levels of exploration and mining Democratic Republic of Congo DRC, more than 18 years of experience as a firms including Deutsche Bank, JP Morgan, experience as a sellside corporate regulation in Jersey.
Prior to joining companies in West, East and Central Alcoa in Ghana, Guinea and Jamaica, and consultant in health and safety, CIBC World Markets and RBC Capital broker, specialising within the natural Centamin, Darren worked at the fiduciary Africa and South America.
Norman is Newcrest Mining in Cte dIvoire.
Areas of environment and community affairs.
Doaa Markets, where he was a managing director resource sector.
Alexandra holds a BA and law firm Ogier in Jersey for over ten an accredited Chartered Professional expertise include leading small, medium has provided technical support to in the global mining team.
degree in Economics and Statistics from years, providing professional company Geologist and Manager through the and largescale mining operations from numerous industries and facilities in Egypt the University of Vermont.
secretarial, accounting, administration and A mining sector specialist since 2003, Geol Soc UK and AusIMM, and a fellow feasibility study stage to development and director services for a diverse range of and the Middle East across a broad range Jonathan has delivered financial and of IOM3 UK and SEG USA as well as a operations.
Ibrahima is highly of sectors including mining, oil and gas, corporate clients and structures.
strategic advice on merger and acquisition competent person under JORC knowledgeable in dealing with African industrial production, infrastructure and transactions, capital raisings and regulatory 43101 criteria.
governments to secure exploration and tourism.
Doaa holds MSc and BSc honours matters to a broad range of mining mining permits, conceptualising and degrees in Chemical Engineering from the companies including Centamin, AngloGold executing strategic community investment University of Cairo.
Ashanti, Rio Tinto, Acacia Mining and First programs in the host country as well as Quantum.
Jonathan has a first class M. A. conflict resolution and dealing with key in Natural Sciences and an M. Phil in stakeholders to maintain our social licence Management Studies, both from to operate.
Since 26 January 2017 Since June 2016 Since 1 May 2013 Since 27 February 2017 Since 4 December 2017 Since 8 July 2013
