Directors Report The directors present their report and financial Company consolidated its listing on the Main Market of statements for the year ended 31 January 2017. the London Stock Exchange and its shares were delisted from Euronext Amsterdam.
Subsequent to the delisting A description of important events which have occurred from Euronext, shareholders who obtained their shares during the financial year, their impact on the performance through Euronext Amsterdam will continue to be able to of the Company as shown in the Audited Consolidated trade these shares on the London Stock Exchange.
Financial Statements beginning on Page 84 and adescription of the principal risks and uncertainties Please refer to Note 1 in the Audited Consolidated Financial facing the Company, together with an indication of Statements for information regarding voting rights.
important events that have occurred since the end Investment Objective and Investment Policy ofthe financial year and the Companys likely future The Companys investment objective is to generate development is given in this Report, the Chairmans superior shareholder returns through long-term capital Statement and the Notes to the Audited Consolidated appreciation by investing primarily in a diversified portfolio Financial Statements and are incorporated here of private equity investments.
The Company may also byreference.
make investments in private market assets other than Principal Activity private equity where it identifies attractive opportunities.
The Company is a closed-ended investment company The Company seeks to achieve its investment objective incorporated in Guernsey on 18 October 2007 with an primarily by investing in investment funds managed unlimited life.
The Company has one class of shares byHarbourVest, which invest in or alongside third the Ordinary Shares and its shares are admitted party-managed investment funds HarbourVest totrading on the Main Market of the London Funds.
HarbourVest Funds are broadly of three types: StockExchange.
i Primary HarbourVest Funds, which make limited Until 9 September 2015, the Company had two classes partner commitments to underlying private market funds of shares in issue being Class A shares of no par value prior to final closing: ii Secondary HarbourVest Funds, Class A shares and Class B shares of no par value which make purchases of private market assets by Class B shares.
On 6 December 2007 the Class A acquiring positions in existing private market funds or shares were admitted to listing and trading on Euronext byacquiring portfolios of investments made by such Amsterdam by NYSE Euronext.
On 12 May 2010, private market funds: and iii Direct HarbourVest theClass A shares were admitted to trading on the Funds, which invest into operating companies, Specialist Fund Market of the London Stock Exchange.
projectsor assets alongside other investors.
On 27 August 2015 the Companys Articles of In addition, the Company may, on an opportunistic basis, Incorporation Articles were amended to permit the make investments generally at the same time and on repurchase and cancellation of all Class B shares in substantially the same terms alongside HarbourVest issue and on 9 September 2015 all Class B Shares Funds Co-investments and in closed-ended listed were repurchased for a value of $1 per Class B Share private equity funds not managed by HarbourVest Third and immediately cancelled.
Co-investments made by the Company may, inter alia, include investments in transactions The transition from the Specialist Fund Market of the structured by other HarbourVest vehicles including, London Stock Exchange to the Main Market of the butnot limited to, commitments to private market funds London Stock Exchange took effect on 9 September or operating companies in which other HarbourVest 2015 and the Company joined the FTSE 250 index funds have invested.
Cash, at any time not held in such longer term Effective 25 October 2016, in order to reduce investments is, pending such investment, held in administrative and legal costs and complexity, the cash, cash equivalents, and money market instruments.
64 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Supplementary Data The Company uses an over-commitment strategy in other circumstances affecting every holder of the orderto remain as fully invested as possible, consistent relevant asset : with the investment guidelines.
To achieve this objective, any commitment to a single Co-investment which the Company has undrawn capital commitments to exceeds 5%.
of the Companys NAV calculated at the HarbourVest Funds and Co-investments which exceed its time of making such commitment shall require prior liquid funding resources, but uses its best endeavours to Board approval, provided however that no commitment maintain capital resources which, together with anticipated shall be made to any single Co-investment which, at the cash flows, will be sufficient to enable the Company to time of making such commitment, represents more satisfy such commitments as they are called.
or, in the case of aCo-investment that is an investment into an entity which is not itself a collective Diversification and Investment Guidelines investment undertaking aDirect Investment, 5%.
of The Company will, by investing in a range of HarbourVest the aggregate of: a the Companys NAV at the time of Funds, Co-investments and Third Party Funds, seek to the commitment: and b undrawn amounts available to achieve portfolio diversification in terms of: the Company under any credit facilities: geography: providing exposure to assets in the United the Company will not, without the prior approval of the States, Europe, Asia and other markets: Board, acquire any interest in any HarbourVest Fund stage of investment: providing exposure to investments from a third party in a secondary transaction for at different stages of development such as early stage, apurchase price that: balanced and late stage venture capital, small and i exceeds 5% of the Companys NAV: or middle market businesses or projects, large capitalisation investments, mezzanine investments and special ii is greater than 105% of the most recently reported situations such as restructuring of funds or net asset value of such interest adjusted for distresseddebt: contributions made to and distributions made by such HarbourVest Fund since such date.
strategy: providing exposure to primary, secondary anddirect investment strategies: Save for cash awaiting investment which may be invested in temporary investments, the Company will invest only in vintage year: providing exposure to investments made HarbourVest Funds either by subscribing for an interest across many years: and during the initial offering period of the relevant fund or by industry: with investments exposed, directly or acquiring such an interest in a secondary transaction, indirectly, to a large number of different companies inco-investments or in third party funds.
across a broad array of industries.
Companys Right to Invest in HarbourVest Funds In addition, the Company will observe the following Pursuant to contractual arrangements with HarbourVest, investment restrictions: the Company has the right to invest in each new with the exception, at any time, of not more than HarbourVest Fund, subject to the following conditions: oneHarbourVest Fund or Co-investment to which unless the Board agrees otherwise, no capital upto 40%.
of the Companys Gross Assets may be commitment to any HarbourVest Fund may, at the committed or in which up to 40%.
of the Companys timeof making the commitment, represent more than Gross Assets may be invested, no more than 20%.
of the aggregate total capital ofthe Companys Gross Assets will be invested in or commitments to such HarbourVest Fund from all committed at any time to a single HarbourVest Fund itsinvestors: orCo-investment: unless HarbourVest agrees otherwise, the Company no more than 10%.
of the Companys Gross Assets will shall not have a right to make an investment in or be invested in aggregate in Third Party Funds: acommitment to any HarbourVest Fund to which the Investment Manager will use its reasonable 10orfewer investors investors who are associates endeavours to ensure that no more than 20% ofthe being treated as one investor for these purposes Companys Gross Assets, at the time of making the makecommitments.
commitment, will be committed to or invested in, Leverage directly or indirectly, whether by way of a Co-investment The Company does not intend to have aggregate or through a HarbourVest Fund, to a any single leverage outstanding at Company level for investment ultimate underlying investment, or b one or more purposes at any time in excess of 20%.
of the Companys collective investment undertakings which may each NAV.
The Company may, however, have additional invest more than 20%.
of the Companys Gross Assets borrowings for cash management purposes which may in other collective investment undertakings ignoring, persist for extended periods of time depending on for these purposes, appreciations and depreciations in market conditions.
the value of assets, fluctuations in exchange rates and HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 65 Directors Report continued Results Directors Interests in Shares The results for the financial year ended 31 January 2017 2016 2017 are set out in the Consolidated Statements of Sir Michael Bunbury 22,863 22,863 Operations within the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements that begin on page 84.
In accordance with Keith Corbin 25,000 25,000 the investment objective of the Company, the directors Alan Hodson 30,000 30,000 did not declare any dividends during the year under review and the directors do not recommend the Andrew Moore 14,400 14,400 payment of dividends as at the date of this report.
Jean-Bernard Schmidt 28,500 25,000 Directors Peter Wilson 25,000 Nil The directors as shown beginning on page 62 all held office throughout the reporting period and at the date There has been no change in Directors interests between of signature of these financial statements.
Brooks Zug 31 January 2017 and the date of signing of this report.
is Senior Managing Director of HarbourVest Partners, Shareholder Information LLC, an affiliate of the Investment Manager.
Peter Wilson The Company announces the estimated net asset value is Managing Director of HarbourVest Partners U. K. of an Ordinary Share on a monthly basis together with Limited, a subsidiary of HarbourVest Partners, LLC.
commentary on the investment performance provided Jean-Bernard Schmidt is a former Managing Partner bythe Investment Manager.
These monthly statements of Sofinnova Partners, which manages partnerships are available on the Companys website.
The last traded price of Ordinary Shares is available on During the year under review, Andrew Moore was Reuters, Bloomberg, and the London Stock Exchange.
adirector of HarbourVest Structured Solutions II GP Acopy of the original Prospectus of the Company is Ltd. which acts as the general partner of a limited available from the Companys registered office and on partnership managed by the Investment Manager.
Inthe course of holding this position, Mr. Moore was ina minority on the Board of the general partner.
All Ordinary shares may be dealt in directly through Mr. Moore tendered his resignation as director of astockbroker or professional adviser acting on HarbourVest Structured Solutions II GP Ltd effective aninvestors behalf.
The buying and selling of 25 February 2016.
Mr. Moore received $10,000 per Ordinaryshares may be settled through CREST.
annum inrespect of his position on the board of HarbourVest Structured Solutions II GP Ltd.
The Board Relations with Shareholders unanimously considers that there was no conflict of The Board recognises that it is important to maintain interest between Mr. Moores directorship and the appropriate contact with major shareholders to understand limited partnership due to the alignment between the their issues and concerns.
Members of the Board have interests of the limited partnership and the interests of had the opportunity to attend meetings with major the Company.
shareholders, and the Board accesses major shareholders views of the Company via, among other methods, direct Save as disclosed in these financial statements, the face-to-face contact and analyst and broker briefings.
Company is not aware of any other potential conflicts The Chairman and other independent directors regularly ofinterest between any duty of any of the directors meet with shareholders.
owed to it and their respective private interests.
In addition, the Investment Manager maintains dialogue Alldirectors, other than Mr. Zug and Mr. Wilson, with institutional shareholders, the feedback from which areconsidered to be independent.
Mr. Corbin is is reported to the Board.
The Company has also appointed theSenior Independent Director.
J. P. Morgan Cazenove and Jefferies Hoare Govett as its joint corporate brokers to enhance communications with 66 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017
