Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Supplementary Data shareholders.
Scott Harris and Edison have both been Disclosures Required Under LR 9.8.
4R engaged to report on and to liaise with shareholders.
requires that the Company include Inaddition, Scott Harris also arrange shareholder meetings certain information in a single identifiable section of the for the Investment Manager.
Annual Report or a cross reference table indicating where the information is set out.
The directors confirm that there The Board monitors the Companys trading activity on are no disclosures to be made in this regard.
Investment Manager The Company reports formally to shareholders twice A description of how the Company has invested its ayear.
In addition, current information is provided to assets, including a quantitative analysis, may be found shareholders on an ongoing basis through the Companys onpages 1 to 58 of this report, with further information website and monthly newsletters.
Shareholders may contact disclosed in the Financial Statements and the Notes the directors, including the Chairman and the Senior tothe Financial Statements on pages 92 to 99.
Independent Director through the Company Secretary.
TheBoard have considered the appointment of the Substantial Shareholders Investment Manager and, in the opinion of the directors As of 10 May 2017, insofar as is known to the Company, the of the Company, the continuing appointment of the following shareholders were interested, directly or indirectly, Investment Manager on the terms agreed is in the in 5% or more of the total issued Ordinary Shares: interests of its shareholders as a whole.
% of Total % of Total In considering this appointment, the Board have Shares May Shares May 2017 2016 reviewed the past performance of the Investment Manager, the engagement of the Investment Manager State Teachers Retirement with Shareholders and the Board, and the strategic plan System of Ohio 13.57 13.57 presented to the Board bythe Investment Manager.
Prudential Portfolio The Investment Manager is HarbourVest Advisors L. P. Management Group 10.30 6.08 and the principal contents of the Investment Management Old Mutual Global Agreement are as follows: Investors UK Ltd. 9.08 5.24 to manage the assets of the Company subject Lazard Asset alwaysto supervision by the Board and subject to Management LLC 6.41 4.77 boththe investment policy of the Company and any Lothian Pension Fund 5.72 5.72 restrictions contained in any prospectuses published by theCompany : Washington State Investment Board 5.59 11.11 to assist the Company with shareholder liaison: Total 50.67% 46.49% to monitor compliance with the Investment Policy onaregular basis: Corporate Responsibility to nominate up to two Board representatives The Board of the Company considers the ongoing forelection by shareholders at the Companys interests of investors on the basis of open and regular AnnualGeneral Meeting.
dialogue with the Investment Manager.
The Board receives regular updates outlining regulatory and The Investment Manager is not entitled to any statutory developments and responds as appropriate.
directremuneration save expenses incurred in theperformance of its duties from the Company, instead Bribery deriving its fees from the management fees and carried The Directors have undertaken to operate the business interest payable by the Company on itsinvestments inan honest and ethical manner and accordingly take inunderlying HarbourVest Funds.
Theinvestment azero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
management agreement, which wasamended Thekey components of this approach are implemented andrestated on 27 August 2015 the Investment as follows: Management Agreement, may be terminated by the Board is committed to acting professionally, eitherparty by giving 12 months notice.
In the event of fairlyand with integrity in all its business dealings termination within ten years and three months of the date andrelationships: of the listing on the Main Market, the Company would be required to pay a contribution, which would have been the Company implements and enforces effective $7.1 million at 31 January 2017 and $6.9 million as at procedures to counter bribery: and 27April 2017, as reimbursment of the Investment Managers the Company requires all its service providers and remaining unamortised IPO costs.
In addition, the advisors to adopt equivalent or similar principles.
Company would be required to pay a fee equal to the aggregate of the management fees for the underlying investments payable over the course of the 12-month HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 67 Directors Report continued period preceding the effective date ofsuch termination meetings, the agenda, and supporting documents and to the Investment Manager.
were able tocomment on the matters to be raised at the proposed meeting.
Inaddition to the formal quarterly, Delegation of Responsibilities strategy, andad-hoc meetings, the Board also receives Under the Investment Management Agreement, detailed updates from the Investment Manager via theBoard has delegated to the Investment Manager update calls.
substantial authority for carrying out the day-to-day Below is a summary of the director attendance at the management and operations of the Company, quarterly and strategic Board meetings held in the including making specific investment decisions, financial year: subject at all times to the control of, and review by, theBoard.
In particular, the Investment Management Attendance at Quarterly and Strategic Board Agreement provides that the Board and the Investment Meetings Manager shall agree a strategy mandate which sets Sir Michael Bunbury 5 5 out a five-year plan for the Company.
Mr. Brooks Zug 5 5 Board Responsibilities Mr. Peter Wilson 5 5 The Board meets at least five times a year, and between these scheduled meetings there is Mr. Keith Corbin 5 5 regularcontact between directors, the Investment Mr. Alan Hodson 5 5 Manager and the Company Secretary, including aformal strategy meeting and scheduled Board Mr. Andrew Moore 5 5 update calls.
As a result of the changes in the UK Mr. Jean-Bernard Schmidt 4 5 Finance Act, on 12 August 2014, the Company amended its Articles to permit the Board to meet Committees of the Board intheUK.
However, the Board continues to hold On 24 November 2015, the Board announced that it had themajority of its meetings outside the UK.
resolved to establish a Service Provider Review Committee The directors are kept fully informed of investment and and a Nomination Committee, in addition to the existing financial controls and other matters that are relevant Audit Committee.
Prior to the establishment of these tothe business of the Company.
Such information is committees the work undertaken by the new committees brought to the attention of the Board by the Investment was performed by the Board as a whole.
Manager and by the administrator in their quarterly The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr. Corbin and details reports to the Board.
The directors also have access of its activities and membership can be found on page 74 where necessary, in the furtherance of their duties, to of this report.
professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The Service Provider Review Committee equivalent In the financial year ended 31 January 2017, the Board toamanagement engagement committee is chaired held five scheduled Board meetings, two of which bytheChairman of the Company and its members are were meetings devoted solely tostrategic issues, the Mr. Schmidt, Mr. Hodson and Mr. Moore.
The other directors remaining three of which were focused on the review of the Company may attend by invitation of the committee.
of investment performance and associated matters The Service Provider Review Committee held two meetings such as gearing, asset allocation, marketing investor in the year under review and all members of the committee relations, peer group information and industry issues.
The Terms of Reference for An additional four meetings were heldat short notice to this committee may be found on the Companys website.
consider limited objectives: these meetings were attended by those directors available inthe jurisdiction In the course of the year under review, the committee to constitute a meeting at the relevant time on limited reviewed the Companys contracts of engagement with notification.
All directors received notice ofthe the Investment Manager, Secretary, and other service 68 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Supplementary Data providers and concluded that they were operating In order to retain corporate knowledge and achieve an satisfactorily so as to ensure the safe and accurate orderly succession the Board identified that an additional management and administration of the Companys affairs director should be appointed.
Clear criteria were drawn and business and were competitive and reasonable for up by the Board and Cornforth Consulting was appointed the shareholders.
Cornforth Consulting does not have any other relationship with the Company.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman Following this process, Francesca Barnes was appointed of the Company and its members are Mr. Corbin, as a director of the Company on 3 April 2017.
Mr. Hodson, Mr. Moore and Mr. Schmidt.
The mandate of the Nomination Committee is to consider issues related Directors Indemnity to Board composition and the appointment of directors.
Under the Companys Articles, the Directors, Secretary The Nomination Committee held its first meeting on and officers are indemnified out of the Companys assets 11February 2016 and all members of the committee and profits from and against all actions expenses and attended this meeting.
The Terms of Reference for this liabilities which they may incur by reason of any contract committee may be found on the Companys website.
entered into or any act in or about the execution of their respective offices or trusts except as incurred by their Board Evaluation own negligence, breach of duty orbreach of trust.
The Board undertakes a formal annual evaluation of its performance and the performance of the Investment Risk Review Manager and the Secretary.
Each directors performance The Board has an ongoing process in place for identifying, is reviewed annually by the Chairman, and the performance evaluating, and managing the significant risks faced by of the Chairman is assessed by the remaining directors the Company.
A description of the principal risks and by way of a performance evaluation questionnaire and uncertainties facing the Company is given beginning on asubsequent scheduled interview.
As part of the review, page 59.
As part of the process for evaluating risks, the succession planning, the scope of the directors role Board undertakes a review of its risk matrix.
The risks including any committee memberships, any training and reviewed are grouped into four categories: Financial development requirements, and the ability ofthe director Risks, Operating Risks, Strategic and Investor Relations to devote sufficient time to the Company are considered.
Risk and Governance and Regulatory Risk.
Risks are assessed and classed according to their probability In addition to this annual evaluation, in recognition of ofoccurring and the likely impact upon the Company.
theCompanys move to the Main Market of the London Risks are then categorised based on priority, being Stock Exchange, the Board commissioned an external grouped into Primary and Secondary risks which are appraisal by Board Alpha Limited to review its operation reviewed accordingly.
The conclusions of this report have been presented to the Board and were During the financial year, the Board focused on generally positive, and cited in particular the independence consolidation of the governance changes implemented of the Board, the quality of debate, and the degree of pursuant to the Main Market listing in the previous engagement with shareholders.
In addition the Board considered currency included a review of the Boards composition including risk and how it might impact future returns: potential askills audit, which has since been carried out.
future liquidity requirements based on scenario analysis by the Investment Manager: and how to maintain the Board Composition Companys NAV and share price growth.
In general, The Board has a balance of skills, experience and length theBoard noted that those risks where the probability of service relevant to the Company, and the directors and impact remained high post-mitigation were outside believe that any changes to the Boards composition can of the Companys control and would affect global be managed without undue disruption.
With any new markets as a whole.
director appointment to the Board, the new director will participate in an appropriate, structured induction process.
International Tax Reporting The Company is subject to Guernsey regulations and Further to reviewing the conclusions of the Board guidance based on reciprocal information sharing evaluation, the Board carefully considered its inter-governmental agreements which Guernsey has composition, with specific reference to the fact that entered into with a number of jurisdictions.
The Board SirMichael Bunbury, Mr. Corbin, Mr. Moore, Mr. Schmidt has taken the necessary actions to ensure that the and Mr. Zug had served on the Board for nine years Company is compliant with Guernsey regulations inOctober 2016.
The Board is of the view that these andguidance in this regard.
directors can continue beyond a tenure of nine years, noting that they will be subject to continuing scrutiny as Going Concern to their effectiveness and independence, and to annual After making enquiries and mindful of the closed-ended re-election.
The Board confirms that Sir Michael Bunbury, nature of the Company with no fixed life and thenature Mr. Corbin, Mr. Moore and Mr. Schmidt remain ofits investments, the directors are satisfied that it is independent of the Manager, notwithstanding their nine appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern years service.
HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 69 Directors Report continued basisin preparing the Audited Consolidated Financial As part of its strategic planning, the Board considered Statements, and, after due consideration, thedirectors amodel scenario that replicated the impact of the global consider that the Company is able to continue for a financial crisis on the Companys portfolio, which caused period of at least the next 12 months.
Inaddition, the large NAV declines and a material reduction in realisations Board monitors and manages the ongoing commitments from underlying company investments.
This severe via the criteria set out on page 64.
When considering downside scenario included projected returns and cash the criteria, the Board reviews detailed reports from flows based on certain assumptions at least as significant the Investment Manager detailing ongoing commitments as HVPEs experience during 2008 and 2009.
The Board and the Investment Pipeline.
Furthermore, the Board, concluded that new commitments would need to be as part of its regular review of the Consolidated materially reduced under this scenario, but that the Statement of Assets and Liabilities and debt position, Companys cash balance and available credit facility considers model scenario outputs that are based on would be sufficient to cover any capital requirements alook-through to the anticipated underlying fund and asit was during the global financial crisis.
ofthese model scenarios showed that the Company would be able to withstand the impact of these Viability Statement scenariosoccurring over the three year period.
Pursuant to provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate The Board considers that a three-year period to 31January Governance Code 2014 and Principle 21 of the 2020 is a more appropriate period of time toassess the AIC Code, the Board has assessed the viability Companys viability as this reflects greater predictability of of the Company over a three-year period from the Companys cash flow and new commitments over that 31 January 2017.
Whilst the Board has no reason time period, and also reflects the term of the Companys tobelieve that the Company will not be viable over revolving credit facility, which is a significant component alonger period, it has chosen this period as this falls in supporting the Companys over commitment strategy.
within the Boards strategic horizon and within the This three year period of time is further supported by Companys expected investment lifecycle.
theRolling Coverage Ratio metric that the Investment The Companys investment objective is to generate Manager uses, as explained further on page 54. superior shareholder returns through long-term capital The Board, in assessing the viability of the Company, has appreciation by investing primarily in a diversified also paid particular attention to the principal risks faced portfolio of private equity investments.
The majority by the Company as disclosed on page 59.
In addition, ofthe Companys investments are in HarbourVesttheBoard has established a risk management framework, managed private equity fund-of-funds, which have reviewed on a quarterly basis, which is intended to identify, fund lives of 10-14 years as discussed on page 15. measure, monitor, report and, where appropriate, While the Companys investment lifecycle spans a time mitigate the risks to the Companys investment objective, period of ten years or more, the Board focuses on a including any liquidity or solvency issues.
The Board five-year time horizon when considering the strategic does not consider any other risks to be principal risks planning of the Company, as discussed on page 30. asdefined in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The strategic planning focuses on building a portfolio Based on its review, the Board has a reasonable of long-term assets through capital allocation into a set expectation that the Company will be able to continue of rolling five-year portfolio construction targets defined inoperation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over by investment state, geography, and strategy.
While athree year period to 31 January 2020. reviewed and updated annually, this rolling five-year process allows the Board a medium-term view of Financial Risk Management potential growth, projected cash flow and potential The Company is wholly funded from equity balances, future commitments under various economic scenarios.
comprising issued ordinary share capital as detailed in Note 1 to the financial statements and retained earnings.
The 70 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Supplementary Data Company has access to borrowings pursuant to the Credit the information required by the Listing Rules and the Facility of up to $500 million.
The Board does not intend to Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the have aggregate leverage outstanding at the Company level Financial Conduct Authority together the Rules.
at any time in excess of 20% of Company NAV other than Theyare also responsible for ensuring that the Company inrespect of borrowings for cash management purposes, complies with the provisions of the Rules which, with which may be held for extendedperiods of time.
regard to corporate governance, require the Company to disclose how it has applied the principles, and complied The Companys financial risk management objectives with the provisions, of the corporate governance code and policies are outlined in the Audit Committee report applicable to the Company.
beginning on page 74 and the Risk Review section of this report beginning on page 69.
The Companys policy on Disclosure of Information to the Auditor hedging is considered under NAV risks in the Principal So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no Risks section of this report beginning on page 59. relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware, and each has taken all the steps he The Investment Manager and the Directors ensure that ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware all investment activity is performed in accordance with of any relevant audit information and to establish that the the investment guidelines.
The Companys investment Companys auditor is aware of that information.
activities expose it to various types of risks that are associated with the financial instruments and markets Responsibility Statement inwhich it invests.
Risk is inherent in the Companys The Board of Directors, as identified at pages 62 and activities and it is managed through a process of ongoing 63, jointly and severally confirm that, to the best of identification, measurement and monitoring.
The financial theirknowledge: risks to which the Company is exposed include price this report includes a fair review of the development risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk and these risks are and performance of the business and the position of explained in greater detail in the Principal Risks section the Company and the undertakings included in the ofthis report beginning on page 59. consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description Statement of Directors Responsibilities of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: in Respect of the Financial Statements the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance The directors are required to prepare financial statements withUS GAAP, give a true and fair view of the assets, for each financial year which give a true and fair view of liabilities, financial position and profits of the Company the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss and its undertakings: of the Company in accordance with US GAAP at the end of the financial year and of the gain or loss for that period.
the Annual Report and Audited Financial Statements In preparing those financial statements, the directors are taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable required to: and provide the information necessary for Shareholders to assess the Company and its undertakings select suitable accounting policies and apply performance, business model and strategy: and themconsistently: the Annual Report and Audited Financial Statements make judgements and estimates that are reasonable includes information required by the UK Listing and prudent: Authority for the purpose of ensuring that the Company state whether applicable accounting standards have and its undertakings comply with the provisions of been followed subject to any material departures theListing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern By order of the Board basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable Sir Michael Bunbury accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company Chairman and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 as amended.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and otherirregularities.
Keith Corbin The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Chairman of the Audit Committee Annual Report and Audited Financial Statements include 11 May 2017 HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 71
