18 19 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS MODEL Value chain Strategic enablers key relationships We believe good corporate governance provides Our value chain continues from early stage explorer Fundamental to our business are relationships with the foundation of our business model.
through to gold production and is driven by our employees, governments, suppliers, local communities and investment, employees and business culture.
RESOURCES RELATIONSHIPS Strategic focus areas Sukari and Engagement with SHAREHOLDERS EMPLOYEES West Africa stakeholders We have identified four Investor roadshows and analyst site visits Daily pre-start and toolbox meetings core pillars paramount Capital markets day and investor meetings Training programmes and professional See pages 65 to 69 Find more on page 44 development Annual general meeting held with key to the success of our directors in attendance Site safety, welfare and facilities business model: Meetings with proxy advisory groups and Performance reviews and appraisals major shareholder stewardship teams Information sharing GOVERNMENTS NGOs Formal meetings including general assembly and Formal meetings and correspondence regular correspondence Materiality assessment 1 EMRA representatives onsite and engagement Dedicated engagement officers through audits and routine inspections Materiality assessment to ensure objectives are aligned Sustainability Long term Profit sharing and royalty payments Direct job creation and indirectly through the sustainability supply chain Investment in exploration to 2 expand and replenish Stakeholder LOCAL COMMUNITIES WORKERS REPRESENTATIVES underground reserves Regular communication between head Materiality assessment returns Prioritising of security, public relations department, Unions participate in mine management and to identify, assess group head of sustainability meetings stakeholder returns and advance longer term Materiality assessment Union staff based onsite growth opportunities, To maintain a strong balance Grievance procedures report through the head of security beyond the existing sheet with a stringent focus on established largescale, bulk free cash flow generation, tonnage 20year open pit mine Growth supporting a disciplined at Sukari.
valuedriven growth approach CONTRACTORS SUPPLIERS towards future investment and a Induction and ongoing training Local suppliers, government suppliers, sustainable dividend stream.
contracts and imports Contractor management protocols 3 Responsibility Tendering and procurement procedures Materiality assessment Materiality assessments Tendering and procurement procedures Optimal growth Code of conduct, improvement in standards, welfare and human rights 4 Maximising the return on investment through operational excellence.
Ensuring the optimal blend of highgrade underground Social responsibility tonnes and open pit tonnes to the plant at Ensuring the safety of our workforce and MEDIA REFINERS Sukari and resource development in West Africa.
developing skills: conducting our business in a Press releases and market statements Refining and grade of commodities responsible manner and contributing positively Interviews and site visits Exports and shipments to the local economy and environment.
From Conferences and dedicated PR personnel exploration to extraction, construction to closure, sustainability is a vital consideration at all stages of the mine cycle and in preserving our social licence to operate.
Delivering sustainable returns 20 21 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS MODEL continued Our strategy is set against the key risks, performance indicators and targets for 2018.
STRATEGIC FOCUS AREAS SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPAL RISKS OBJECTIVES KPIs REPORTED IN 2017 KPIs SET FOR 2018 Ability to invest in community Stable production with Cash cost of production of US$554 per Targeted US$555 cash cost of Single project dependency 1 development projects.
opportunities for further increases ounce, an improvement below guidance of production per ounce.
Targeted US$770 per ounce allin Capacity to quickly and Maintaining a low cost operation.
Allin sustaining cost of US$790 per ounce in sustaining cost.
appropriately respond to social Gold price and currency exposure Long term or environmental incidents.
Targeted production of 580,000 Political risk Egypt sustainability 544,658 ounces produced above guidance of ounces of gold.
Ensure legacy and closure Reserve and resource estimates 540,000. obligations can be met.
Exploration development Production estimates Litigation Dividend returns, with free cash Free cash flow at 31 December 2017 Annual dividend of at least 30% Protection against long term risk Single project dependency 2 such as climate change.
flow to fund the next stage of US$142 million.
free cash flow after sustaining Joint venture growth.
capital and profit share and before Total dividend in 2017 of 12.5 US cents per Increased returns through exploration expenditure outside Dividends take first priority on use share, equating to approximately Prioritising Gold price and currency exposure operational ecoefficiency.
US$144 million and representing 100% of free Jurisdictional tax exposure stakeholder cash flow after sustaining capital and profit Share price performance relative Political risk Egypt share and before exploration expenditure to peers.
Reserve and resource estimates Exploration development Production estimates Litigation Legal compliance meeting all Identify highgrade underground Resource reserve replacement and expansion Highgrade underground production Single project dependency 3 permitting requirements.
growth potential from Cleopatra Gold price and currency exposure decline development access and Improve plant throughput rates Process plant throughput of 12.0Mtpa, a 4% Community development ongoing resource definition drilling and openpit mining rates at increase on the prior year.
Exploration investments in infrastructure, Political risk Egypt Optimal as the orebody remains open at health and education.
programme over licence areas in Burkina Political risk West Africa growth depth and along strike.
Resource definition in West Africa.
Local and national employment Reserve and resource estimates Forecasted ramp up in plant Exploration programme over licence areas in M&A activity for greenfield or developing strong and stable throughput with the installation of Cte dIvoire.
Litigation Explore to develop highly prospective district scale West African land package.
Transparent payments to Engaging with key stakeholders to LTIFR of 0.26 per 200,000 man hours, above Zeroharm safety record Political risk Egypt 4 government.
understand internal and external our zeroharm target global rate of 0.22 per throughout the groups operations.
Political risk West Africa sustainability priorities.
Feasibility study to install a 15MW Economic diversification Maintaining a safe environment to Reporting greenhouse gas emissions and solar power plant onsite at Sukari.
Exploration development Social building a modern mining industry work, with opportunities for our water data to the international environmental for Egypt.
Building local and Identify any improvements as we Litigation responsibility employees to train and develop body CDP.
develop standards of reporting in skills.
Sustainability reporting developed to line with GRI requirements.
Local and national employment international Global Reporting Initiative Review of site policies and HR building a strong and stable GRI standards.
Community development investments in infrastructure, education and health.
Represent the areas of risk closely related to the strategic focus area.
23 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC FOCUS STRATEGIC REPORT PAGE TITLE continued 1 How we deliver Large-scale, bulk tonnage, long-life mine We look forward to delivering solid sustainable returns High margin producer growth in 2018 with gold production Long term PROJECT DELIVERY Excellent high grade underground reserve replacement potential guidance of 580,000 ounces.
Track record: investment No debt or hedging obligations and construction phase at sustainability Sukari complete.
During 2017, the Sukari operation continued to deliver substantial free cash flow of US$142 million.
The mine performed as expected, by producing 544,658 Production: 2018 guidance ounces, slightly outperforming guidance of 540,000.
MAXIMISING PRODUCTIVITY record year for material moved and ore processed.
FOCUS ON COST CONTROL AND MAINTAINING ONE Sukaris sustainability remains anchored by the 20year life of mine, bulk Capex: Sukari staged OF THE INDUSTRYS tonnage, open pit operation, with growth driven from the expanding highgrade construction delivered on LOWEST COST PROFILES underground operation.
The updated mineral reserve and resource statement budget.
further supports the expectation for ongoing replacement of underground Low cash cost of production: reserves over the coming years as development continues to extend along strike target of US$555 oz in 2018.
Large-scale, bulk tonnage, long-life mine and at depth, as Centamin remains focused on unlocking Sukaris true potential.
Low allin sustaining cost: High margin producer target of US$770 oz in 2018.
Centamin has no debt or hedging and has US$418 million of cash and liquid 1 OPTIMISING PRODUCTION assets at the year end 2017.
The Company is therefore financially robust, is well Excellent high-grade underground positioned to benefit from a further recovery in the gold price, and has the Upside: potential for production reserve replacement potential financial flexibility to grow organically across its asset base and through growth and cost reduction No debt or hedging potential strategic acquisitions.
obligations Reserve growth: grew KPIs reported during the year: underground reserves in excess production of 544,658 ounces: of mine depletion.
cash cost of production of US$554 per ounce: Capex: no requirement for allin sustaining cost of US$790 per ounce: further significant capital revenues of US$675.5 million were down 2% yearonyear with a 0.4% expansion.
increase in realised gold prices and a 1% decrease in gold sales.
The STABLE FINANCES AND movement is also net of a US$6.1 million reallocation from revenue against SHAREHOLDER RETURNS capitalised costs related to Cleopatra: Cash: maintaining appropriate 0.8Moz Au at 4.5g t of underground proven and probable reserves, including cash reserves.
0.6Mt of development ore at a grade of 0.9g t reserves excluding Dividend: sector leading development ore total 0.8Moz Au at 5.1g t, a 51% increase in ounces: and dividend policy with substantial 4.7Mt of underground reserve tonnes, a 74% increase.
Our KPIs reported for 2017 are set out below: Debt free: no interest payments or hedging obligations.
Q4 2017 Q4 2016 2017 2016 Long life: Sukari has a mine life of Production ounces 154,298 136,787 544,658 551,036 approximately 20 years on Cash cost of current reserves.
production US$ per ounce 453 536 554 513 NEXT STAGE OF GROWTH Allin sustaining Cash flow: postdividend cash cost of sales US$ per ounce 744 720 790 694 flows are used to fund growth.
Revenue US$000 190,413 158,307 675,510 687,387 Near term: highgrade underground reserve growth KPIs set for 2018: potential at Sukari.
forecast production of 580,000 ounces: New project generation: targeted US$555 cash cost of production per ounce: and exploration projects in Cte targeted US$770 allin sustaining cost per ounce.
Acquisitions: financial flexibility to acquire value accretive projects.
1 Includes cash and cash equivalents, bullion on hand, gold sales receivables and availableforsale financial assets.
Please see the financial review for details of nonGAAP measures.
25 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC FOCUS STRATEGIC REPORT PAGE TITLE continued 2 Centamin is committed to Full year dividend of 12.5 US cents per prioritising stakeholder returns share representing a payment of Prioritising 1 Total dividend for 2016 100% of free cash flow for 2017. stakeholder returns 15.5 US cents Centamins board of directors is pleased to propose a final dividend for 2017 of per share 10 US cents per share, which will be paid on 6 April 2018 to shareholders on the FOCUS ON CASH GENERATION register at the record date of 23 March 2018 following approval at the AGM on 26 March 2018.
Total dividend for 2017 In 2017, free cash flow generation, after the first full year of profit share payments of US$112 million to EMRA, our Egyptian government stakeholders, 12.5 US cents was US$142 million.
per share KPIs reported during the year: Robust balance sheet, committed subject to approval at the AGM direct payments to the governments including: to maintaining fiscal discipline an entitlement of US$112 million profit share for 2017: and Dividend policy to pay royalty payments totalling US$20 million for 2017.
1 at least 30% of free cash flow total dividend 12.5 US cents per share for 2017 totalling approximately US$112 Ongoing value-driven US$144 million : and approach towards 1 total payout of 100% of free net cash flow, significantly above the dividend million future investment policy of at least 30%.
profit share for 2017 Market data 100% free float with strong liquidity circa 14 million shares traded per day.
Royalty payments totalling KPIs set for 2018: 1 annual dividend of at least 30% of the Companys free cash flow : US$20 maintaining government relations: and stakeholder engagement through active communication of corporate million strategy.
for 2017 1 After sustaining capital and profit share to EMRA and before exploration expenditure outside of Sukari.
FREE CASH FLOW BRIDGE 2016 TO 2017 250 242 12 4 19 19 93 13 10 200 150 142 100 50 0 Free cash Decrease Increase Relative Decrease Increase Decrease Increase Free cash flow in in group working in tax, in capital in in profit flow FY2016 revenue operating capital finance expenditure exploration share FY2017 costs movements and other spend payments changes Free cash flow in a non-GAAP measure defined as net cash generated by operating activities, less net cash used in investing activities, less EMRA profit share paid cash.
US$ million 27 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC FOCUS STRATEGIC REPORT PAGE TITLE continued 3 Centamin is focused on its drive for productivity and efficiency at the Sukari Gold Mine, and undertakes a growth strategy aimed at enhancing shareholder 12.0Mtpa returns over the long term.
Optimal Plant throughput Our strategy for growth is summarised in the table below.
at Sukari Gold Mine NEAR TERM 12 YEARS growth 4% Optimise growth from existing operations by increasing highgrade increase on the prior year underground mining rates and processing plant upgrades.
FOCUS ON EXPLORATION Evaluate potential for additional sources of highgrade underground TO DRIVE PRODUCTION GROWTH ore at Sukari.
AND ENHANCE Continue to replace highgrade underground reserve at Sukari.
70.9Mt Resource expansion and project evaluation in Burkina Faso and SHAREHOLDER VALUE Cte dIvoire.
Total open pit material movement at Sukari Gold Mine Continue to evaluate selective M&A opportunities with the potential to develop lowcost projects.
Targeting high-grade underground 14% reserve growth to drive further MEDIUM TERM 35 YEARS increase on the prior year production increases at Sukari Maximise sustainable production profile at Sukari by fully exploiting underground potential.
Resource growth in Development and first production in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire, West Africa assuming positive project evaluation.
Exploration of West Africa highly prospective LONG TERM 5 YEARS Resource development across ABC Project Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire Continue to expand group reserves and production through exploration.
Become a multiasset gold producer maintaining lowcost profile.
Continue to evaluate selective M&A opportunities with the potential to develop lowcost projects.
KPIs reported during the year: resource reserve replacement and expansion at Sukari: record processing plant throughput of 12.0Mtpa, a 4% increase on the prior year: increased total material moved to 70.9Mt, a 14% increase on the prior year: exploration programme over licence areas in Burkina Faso: and exploration programme over licence areas in Cte dIvoire.
KPIs set for 2018: expand underground operation to 1.3Mt total underground ore scheduled to be mined at a grade of 7.2g t, comprising a 65:35 split respectively between stoping and development ore: expand processing plant throughput to 12.3Mtpa, with the installation of the fourth secondary crusher increasing capacity: ongoing decline development and exploration at Cleopatra, to access the highgrade western contact, a key near term growth catalyst: ongoing underground decline development at Amun and Ptah, to access the Horus, Bast and Osiris zones, which are key drivers of medium term growth: four exploration rigs allocated to focus on underground reserve replacement and resource expansion drilling as the orebody remains open in multiple directions: further resource development in West Africa, with resource definition continuing in Burkina Faso and across the border at the Doropo Project in northeast Cte dIvoire: and followup exploration work continues after encouraging first pass drill results Exploration drill rig in Cte dIvoire from the ABC Project in western Cte dIvoire.
29 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC FOCUS STRATEGIC REPORT PAGE TITLE continued 4 Centamin is committed to working with the highest level of respect for its employees and the communities and environments in which it operates.
Solar power Social Key themes in the sustainability report are as follows: Feasibility study underway to sustainability reporting developed to international Global Reporting Initiative assess the viability of a 15MW GRI standards: solar plant at Sukari Gold Mine responsibility reporting greenhouse gas emissions and water data to international environmental body CDP formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project : strong commitment to managing and minimising health and safety risks: THE ENVIRONMENT, a commitment to developing a highly skilled workforce: WORKPLACE HEALTH c. 2,500 preparation of a feasibility study to assess for the installation of a 15MW solar AND FOCUS ON total workforce power plant on site at Sukari as a lower cost alternative for diesel fuel: and including contractors less than EMPLOYEE SAFETY commitment to human rights and ongoing work to further develop human 1% expatriate employees rights policies over time.
What Centamin does for Egypt, beyond the direct profit share and royalty Improvements in MTIFR payments to government contribution: and low levels of LTIFR approximately US$3 billion investment to date including capital and 44% Striving for a operational expenditure : and Egyptian suppliers zero-harm workplace job creation an average of circa 1,350 Egyptian employees 71 expatriates to Sukari Gold Mine and over 320 Egyptian companies supplying Sukari.
Progressive training for employees What Centamin does for Burkina Faso contribution: job creation circa 40 permanent employees plus casual workers from villages around the operations: 0.22 LTIFR purchases from local suppliers: and Global LTIFR across Sukari, annual payments on customs duties and related taxes.
Cte dIvoire and Burkina Faso per 200,000 working hours What Centamin does for Cte dIvoire contribution: job creation circa 65 permanent employees plus casual workers from the neighbouring villages: purchases from local suppliers: and customs duties and related taxes.
Recreational activities at Sukari Engineer at Sukari Gold Mine
