Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Supplementary Data Primary Investments Primary investments primaries form HVPEs largest underlying private markets strategy, representing 45% ofthe Investment Portfolio at 31 January 2017.
Primary investing is the practice of committing capital Access to top managers to newly-formed funds as they are being raised by The top managers should continue to have access private equity managers.
The key to this strategy tosome of the best investment opportunities.
HarbourVest aims These managers are proven company builders toidentify and invest with the best private equity with skills and networks that are integral to their managers who are capable of creating value through investment strategies.
Investing with the best multiple fund cycles.
Manager selection is especially private equity managers those most likely to critical in private equity as the dispersion of returns outperform the public markets and their peers between the best and worst performers can be is a key component of a successful private markets greater than in other asset classes.
Access to such managers is often best achieved by means of a primary investment.
Ability to customise a portfolio HarbourVests primary funds invest across a number Primary funds allow for proactive portfolio of private equity managers, effectively creating a construction, designed to meet investment fund-of-funds structure.
Fund-of-funds have played an objectives.
Capital can be allocated to specific integral role in the evolution of the private equity industry investment strategies, geographies, vintage years, by providing investors with the following benefits: orinvestment trends in a targeted manner.
A diversified private equity programme Primary investing has been a part of HarbourVests A fund-of-funds provides access to many private strategy since the team began making private markets equity managers through one investment.
Through these years, fund investments enable investors to gain exposure HarbourVests team has refined its knowledge and ability to a variety of private companies which are often toaccess strong primary investments on a global basis.
segmented by stage: buyout, venture capital, When it comes tochoosing investments, HarbourVest growthequity, and special situations.
Relationships ishighly selective, investing in approximately 5% of with managers, built through core primary fund theopportunities evaluated each year.
As a result, commitments, may also lead to secondary HarbourVest believes that its primary fund Investment investment and direct co-investment deal flow Portfolios offer investors access to some of the worlds seepages 16 and 17 respectively.
most attractive private market opportunities.
HarbourVest has committed $34billion to primary funds since inception as at 31 December 2016.
HVPE Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15
