82 83 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT INTRODUCTION Process plant at Sukari Decision to reappoint knowledge to assist the boards C. 1.3.
Going concern directors Trevor Schultz to the board oversight of the Companys operations responsibilities statement and and chairing the HSES committee, assumptions in the audit and risk The board considered in detail the which is responsible for making critical report : reasons for the votes against the recommendations to the board on all reappointment of Trevor Schultz C. 1.2. Business model and delivery matters in connection with issues of Resolution 4.4 at the 2017 AGM and of strategy strategic report the environment, workplace health and believed at the time and since, having including the business model : safety and the sustainable engagement met with proxy advisers and major C. 2.1.
Robust assessment of with communities and stakeholders.
shareholders, that the primary reason principal risks directors Trevor made an invaluable contribution for votes against his reappointment responsibilities and assumptions in to the establishment of Sukari as a related to the decision to appoint risk management report : Josef ElRaghy globally significant gold mining Trevor Schultz to the remuneration Chairman C. 2.2.
Such a major construction committee in September 2016.
This management report : and project, which was completed with appointment followed the resignation C. 2.3.
Monitoring and review of Our board is committed to achieving minimal cost and time overruns, is of Kevin Tomlinson, an independent effectiveness of risk management testament to Trevors strong leadership nonexecutive director and member of the highest standards of corporate governance.
and internal control systems audit and experience.
An explanation for the and risk report.
reasons Trevor was appointed to the In 2018, Trevor Schultz, as chairman 2017 has been another excellent year, committee, notwithstanding that of the HSES committee, will provide with further improvements in Trevor was not independent within the board level oversight of the proposed operational efficiency and a strong meaning of the Code, was provided in solar project.
This ambitious project financial performance.
We enter 2018 the 2016 annual report.
The board Dear shareholders of our shareholders and proxy advisory Board rotation will aim to reduce diesel fuel with a knowledgeable board, a strong understands the requirement for the groups and the board is committed to Following these appointments, we will consumption at Sukari, reduce Centamin delivered another excellent management team and a clear remuneration committee to have three achieving the highest standards of continue to look for opportunities to emissions and fuel costs over the year for shareholders, delivering on strategy to deliver sustained returns to independent members and Trevor was corporate governance.
In particular, refresh the board to ensure we have longer term.
production and keeping control over shareholders.
The appointment of new considered to be a valued member of board composition and committee the right range of backgrounds and costs and thereby generating significant board members in 2018 and the the remuneration committee due to Our board composition and approach membership has been a key agenda experience to see Centamin through free cash flow, which allowed the prospect of a new chairman later in the his wealth of experience operating in to leadership are set out in detail on item at both board and nomination to the next stage of growth.
board to declare dividend payments year provides shareholders with Egypt and his understanding of the page 85 to 86.
Within the directors committee meetings.
As a result of of over US$144 million for 2017. assurance of continuity as well as Committee composition challenging environment for report and, where applicable, the these meetings and discussions with staged and progressive refreshment The composition of all mandated executives and senior management.
strategic report, the directors provide shareholders, I am pleased to confirm As set out in our guidance for 2018, of the board.
committees are fully compliant within A detailed explanation was given in the required governance and the following: we look forward to a record year of the meaning of the Code.
Following the 2016 annual report, applying the regulatory assurances.
production in 2018 with the promise of Independent chairman the AGM, the composition of the principle of comply or explain for any Josef ElRaghy more growth to come.
Sukaris long Through the financial reporting and As announced in January of this year, remuneration committee was altered, noncompliance with the Code: term sustainability was reconfirmed by Chairman budgeting process, together with the I will be retiring at the end of 2018 and with Trevor Schultz stepping down however, we now recognise that this the reserve and resource update which review of operational activity, the will ensure that due process is carried from the committee immediately and explanation was not considered 31 January 2018 demonstrated our ability to replace board has considered the short and out by our nomination committee to subsequently replaced by Mark sufficient by many of our shareholders.
highgrade underground reserves and longer term strategic focus areas set identify a successor to fill the role of Bankes please see a note below on the 20year life of the open pit.
Longer The nomination committee, out in the strategic report, as well as independent chairman to the board.
the boards decision to reappoint term, exploration projects in West in the absence of Trevor Schultz, the principal risks, risk appetite and This process will aim to identify a new Trevor Schultz to the board after the Africa continue to be promising, with recommended the reappointment resulting business objectives.
Alison Baker, the newly further progress at our project in of Trevor Schultz to the board.
In turn, appointed independent nonexecutive The key areas of Code compliance can Burkina Faso and the discovery of new Board composition the board unanimously resolved to director will join the nomination be found in the following areas of the resources in Cte dIvoire.
and succession planning appoint Trevor to the board as a committee and the HSES committee 2017 annual report and accounts: We welcome Alison Baker and nonexecutive director, immediately Regarding the Companys corporate on appointment in February 2018.
Ross Jerrard, who will join the board following the AGM in 2017.
Fair, balanced and governance and in light of the on 5 February 2018.
These new was reappointed to his existing roles understandable applied across the exceptional year we achieved in 2016, members bring a wealth of experience as chairman of the HSES committee strategic, directors and financial the result of the AGM this year was within their fields and, in the case of and member of the nomination report with the confirmation disappointing, with shareholders Ross, also from within the Company.
committee but did not rejoin the statement in the directors electing to vote against the Andrew Pardey will shortly complete remuneration committee.
responsibilities statement and reappointment of our nonexecutive his third year as CEO and will be assumptions in the audit and risk director, Trevor Schultz, for reasons of The board took this decision in light supported in 2018 by the newly report : code compliance which were fully of the vital role that Trevor plays for the appointed member of the senior explained in the 2016 annual report.
Company, bringing his deep technical management team, Mark Morcombe However, we recognise the concerns as chief operating officer.
84 85 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT INTRODUCTION continued Governance and Code compliance at a glance Board overview Set out below is the board, committee and management structure of Centamin plc.
LEADERSHIP EFFECTIVENESS ACCOUNTABILITY REMUNERATION SHAREHOLDERS Separate roles At least half the board External auditor changed Simple but effective Engagement with key CENTAMIN PLC undertaken by the are independent in 2014 audit partner remuneration structure.
shareholders and proxy EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NONEXECUTIVE DIRECTORS chairman and CEO.
Senior independent Staged refreshment of Increased role and scope Shareholder approved AGMs held with key BOARD COMMITTEES nonexecutive director the board.
of the internal auditor restricted share plan directors in attendance.
and deputy chairman since the appointment approved in 2015.
Health, safety, Remuneration Compliance Corporate Operational environmental Regular meetings of the Ensuring a diverse board Defined strategic Claw back provisions in Full disclosure of AGM Audit and risk and and corporate management management and nomination governance board and committee in all respects.
objectives and long term employment contracts results on day of sustainability and exemplary business viability.
Continuous Nonexecutive director All directors stand for Defined risk strategy and Separate shareholder Investor meetings, disclosure meetings held during the reelection at each AGM.
resolutions for approval capital markets day year without executives of remuneration policy presentation.
OPERATIONAL HEADS OF DEPARTMENT present.
How the board of directors operates on behalf of the shareholders by Board composition and attendance Compliance statement nonexecutive chairman within the It is noted that the disclosures whom they are elected and to whom The board provides leadership to the At the date of this report the board is meaning of the Code as he was contained in the directors The Company is incorporated in they are accountable.
In carrying out group and sets the groups values and made up of a chairman, CEO, three previously an executive of the remuneration report exceed the Jersey, Channel Islands.
The its responsibilities, the board standards to ensure that its obligations independent nonexecutive directors Company.
Additional measures obligations of a nonUK company.
Company is, by virtue of the Listing undertakes to serve the interests of to its shareholders are met and the and one nonexecutive director.
See remain in place whereby Edward However, the Company considers such Rules, subject to the 2016 Corporate shareholders, employees and the group complies with both regulatory directors details on pages 92 and 93 Haslam deputy chairman and enhanced disclosure is appropriate to Governance Code the Code broader community honestly, fairly, and governance requirements.
The which include the appointments of senior independent nonexecutive allow shareholders to compare the issued by the UK Financial Reporting diligently and in accordance with board guides and monitors the two new directors which take effect on director takes an active role to Company with UK incorporated Council and therefore the Company applicable laws.
business and affairs of the Company 5 February 2018. ensure the boards ongoing FTSE 250 listed companies.
It has also must confirm that it has complied with effectiveness in all respects: and incorporated many additional and all relevant provisions of the Code or The following table sets out the number of board and committee meetings held during the year and the number of voluntary disclosures in its strategic to explain areas of noncompliance.
the Code requires three meetings attended by each director.
The Code can be found on the independent nonexecutives to be Health, safety, Compliance Financial Reporting Councils website, appointed to the remuneration Audit environmental and corporate The Company has applied the main www.
committee: however, following the Board and risk and sustainability governance Remuneration Nomination principles set out in the Code see withdrawal of Trevor Schultz from table above, with further details in this Executive In addition, the Company is required the remuneration committee after section of the annual report enabling to follow the principles of corporate Josef ElRaghy C. 4 the 2017 AGM, the committee had shareholders to evaluate how the governance set out in the best two members both of whom were Andrew Pardey 5 principles have been applied.
practice recommendations of the independent nonexecutive Toronto Stock Exchange, in particular Nonexecutive directors until the appointment of The Companys diversity policy is set those recommendations in National Mark Bankes on 1 August 2017, out in the nomination committee Edward Haslam 5 6 3 3 C. 2 C. 2 Policy 58201 Corporate Governance when the committee became fully report, noting that the Companys Trevor Schultz 5 C. 3 2 Guidelines NP 58201. compliant within the meaning of the policy considers the composition of Mark Arnesen 5 C. 6 3 2 2 Code.
During the period where the board and the pipeline of talent Throughout the year ended Mark Bankes 5 6 3 C. 3 2 only two members were on the within the organisation, having regard 31 December 2017, the Company was committee, only one written to gender, ethnicity, age and C. Chairing the meeting and or chairperson of the board or committee.
Josef ElRaghy was absent from one meeting due to medical reasons.
in full compliance with the provisions resolution was passed by the educational and professional set out in the Code with the exception The table excludes meetings held by written resolutions or subcommittees and reflects membership during 2017.
The committee to facilitate grants and backgrounds.
of the following matters: board met nine times during the year, with four meetings held by way of written resolution.
The business conducted is set vesting under the Companys share out overleaf.
the Code and best practice plans, which were administrative in recommendations favour that the nature and applied the scheme chairman be an independent rules and remuneration policy as director on appointment.
Josef disclosed in full in the 2016 annual ElRaghy is not an independent report and accounts.
86 87 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT INTRODUCTION continued Board composition and reelection The chairman: Details of the senior management The board has delegated certain matters to its committees and their reports are presented within the strategic or team are set out on pages 94 and 95. directors reports as explained in the table below.
It is proposed at the date of this leads the board to ensure it annual report that all directors will operates effectively: Health, safety, environmental and sustainability committee CSR report Detailed knowledge of the groups be put forward for reelection at the sets the agenda and ensures all strategic report pages 40 to 62. see the HSES committee report on page 40. activities is essential and each year AGM.
All directors are subject to matters are given due consideration the board visits Sukari where they Audit and risk committee Risk and control environment annual reelection.
and that directors have the directors report page 130. see audit and risk committee report on page 130. are shown the underground operation, opportunity to contribute to board open pit site and the operations Leadership Remuneration committee Directors remuneration report discussions: plant, accompanied by the heads of directors report pages 102 and 103. see pages 102 to 129.
This report sets out the key areas the communicates with shareholders in department based at Sukari.
In board has focused on during the year, Nomination committee Succession planning relation to the Companys strategic addition to regular site visits to together with details of the roles of the directors report page 98. see the nomination committee report on page 99. aims and policies: and Sukari, the senior members of the key board members and an assessment Compliance and corporate governance Compliance statement with the corporate governance code represents the group before key management team and executives of the effectiveness of the board.
directors report pages 96 and 97. see page 84. stakeholders including government visit the exploration sites in Burkina The board sets and implements the officials including EMRA.
Faso and Cte dIvoire to ensure Board independence strategic aims and values of the the activities in these regions are The chief executive officer: When determining whether a director is independent, the board has established a directors Test of Independence Policy, Company, providing strategic aligned with the corporate objectives develops and implements short, which is based on the Code and the definitions of independence in the Canadian Securities Administrators National direction to management.
medium and long term corporate Instrument 52110 Audit Committees.
The Company remains compliant with the provisions of the Code, whereby at details in the strategic report.
strategies: least half the board comprises nonexecutive directors who are determined by the board to be independent.
The board delegates certain of its The chairman, Josef ElRaghy, is is responsible for daytoday responsibilities directly to the Key activities of the board in 2017 responsible for ensuring the business management of the business and committees see section below.
STRATEGIC is run in accordance with the boards the implementation of the boards Board committees SUKARI ACTIVITIES ACTION strategy.
The CEO, Andrew Pardey, strategic aims: and Sustainability production Setting budgets, production and cost guidance for Approval and announcement of guidance in The board committees are a valuable has the responsibility for implementing promotes the highest standards of guidance and cost estimates the year.
January 2017. part of the Companys corporate strategy and overseeing the daytoday safety, corporate compliance and Sustainability Review proposals for contract tendering and systems Tendering of significant contracts.
The workload of running of the business.
adherence to codes of conduct.
the board committees is far greater Cost control measures, system improvements in The non-executive directors: The management team and board are inventory handling.
than the table of scheduled meetings relatively few in number and are challenge and help develop the would indicate, as adhoc meetings Prioritising stakeholder returns Review of budgets and forecasts and capital Declaration of halfyearly and final dividends.
therefore aware and actively involved groups strategy: dividend policy expenditure proposals.
and communications occur frequently in all the major activities of the group.
participate as members of the Review of cost recovery model and profit share between the directors and They can therefore ensure the arrangements.
board on their respective management.
The board is in receipt Companys actions are aligned with committees: Optimal growth exploration Review data and results from updated reserve and Approval of capital expenditure budgets.
of detailed financial and operational the strategic aims of the group.
monitor the performance of monthly reports as well as the Review proposals for underground development and management: quarterly and annual financial The responsibilities of the board and capital expenditure.
The terms of reference need to be satisfied as to the key roles within the organisation are Social responsibility health Sukari operational review, health and safety statistics Risk review and response to incident reporting.
for each board committee are adequacy and integrity of financial set out below: and safety and monthly reporting.
Project implementation in Egypt, Marsa Alam available on the Companys website and other reporting: Review of existing projects and maintenance including the purchase of a CT scanner.
determine appropriate levels of programmes.
Review existing human rights policies and develop remuneration for executive Develop policies towards GRI compliance.
directors: and WEST AFRICA EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES ACTION raise any concerns with the board Growth strategy Approval of capital expenditure and exploration Drilling programmes and acquisition of land or with management.
packages in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
Review exploration budgets and relative spend and Ensure allocation of resources across the results.
prospects and targeted exploration programmes.
Review of updated resource statement.
Social responsibility Integrated reporting of HSES statistics.
Additional detail provided in monthly reporting to health and safety the board.
88 89 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT INTRODUCTION continued Key activities of the board in 2017 continued CASE STUDY: GOVERNANCE IN ACTION STRATEGY DAY CORPORATE, LITIGATION AND RISK ACTIVITIES ACTION The board met during the year with a specific focus on reviewing the Companys strategy, its strategic aims over the medium to long Optimal growth Strategic review of business development Strategy day and adhoc meetings to review term and evaluating potential growth opportunities.
opportunities including potential M&A and opportunities.
The agenda for the day covered a number of key areas, which included: JV acquisitions.
key deliverables to shareholders: Corporate Review Code and policy requirements, diversity Board and committee appointments.
investor perspective on the Company and growth opportunities: policy, governance trends and reforms.
Approve scope of external legal advisers, and peer review and comparisons: Compliance with local laws and regulations.
M&A criteria including financial parameters, stage of development, scale and location: and Litigation updates on the Companys ongoing Confirm litigation strategy and approve court risk factors including country and political risk, business and mining environment and fiscal regimes.
court hearings details of which can be found in submissions.
The strategy day was interactive, involving presentations and Q&A from senior members of the management team, including the groups exploration manager and chief development officer.
The board agreed the meeting provided value to both reinforce the Risk and internal controls Review of the Companys principal risks, risk appetite Updates to the risk register, internal existing strategic aims of the group and develop them further in order to identify opportunities.
Annual strategy days will be held and linkages to long term viability.
communication of the Companys risk appetite and setting out the linkages between longer term going forward with full board attendance and involvement of the senior management team.
The board, through the CEO, Review of the internal control environment and risks and the ongoing viability of the business.
communicated the business strategy and objectives to the business through the heads of department and senior personnel.
Approve the scope and plan of the internal and external auditors and monitor progress.
PERSONNEL ACTIVITIES ACTION Areas of focus for the board in 2018 the business.
A continued priority in to help bring about efficiencies and Appointments nomination Personnel requirements at board and senior Approval of appointment of Alison Baker and 2018 will be to communicate the improve controls within the business, Strategic planning the board committee recommendations management levels.
Companys strategic goals and BDO LLP have helped develop our regularly reviews and approves Approval of appointment of Ross Jerrard CFO to develop a safetyconscious culture procurement and contract strategic plans and initiatives put the board.
management, key financial processes, forward by management and the Succession nomination Review of succession planning, diversity and board Appointment of the new COO, providing inventory management and IT security.
executives, including growth proposals committee recommendations performance and evaluation.
additional depth to the management team.
Risk assessment the board has and efficiency initiatives.
Details of the Agreement on timing priorities for succession primary responsibility for identifying Reporting and audit the board, strategic objectives to ensure stability planning for key roles and improving board the principal risks in the Companys through the audit and risk committee, effectiveness.
and continuity of the business, business and to ensure the has reviewed and implemented maintaining shareholder returns, Remuneration remuneration Review of KPIs for the executive directors and senior Approval of awards, vesting criteria and bonus implementation of appropriate upgrades to the accounting systems.
committee recommendations management and reviewing performance appraisals.
growth prospects and opportunities systems to manage these risks.
System upgrades and newly and ensuring we maintain our social The board will continue to review developed software will be considered It is noted that throughout the year the board of directors had access to independent professional advice, at the licence to operate can be found in the its processes for risk identification as part of a programme to further Companys expense, and the services and advice of the company secretary.
Areas of focus will and evaluation, improving internal streamline processes and support relate to the exploration programmes communication and external reports the growth of the business.
in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire and in this area.
the next stages towards prefeasibility Relationship with stakeholders studies.
Internal control the board, with the board will continue to maintain, assistance from the audit and risk develop and monitor relationships with Communications the board committee, oversees the groups key stakeholders including EMRA in oversees the Companys public internal control and management relation to Sukari and other communications with shareholders information systems.
The board will governmental bodies in Burkina Faso and other stakeholders and will continue to work with the internal and Cte dIvoire.
continue to ensure systems remain auditor in 2018 to identify the next appropriate to meet the demands of scoping phase.
Now in their third year 90 91 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 Centamin plc Annual report 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT INTRODUCTION continued Board effectiveness It is noted that none of the With these new appointments, staged During the year, the Company It was noted that the review and Environmental compliance recommendations and subsequent rotation and refreshment of the board conducted an assessment of the subsequent recommendations to Each committee carries out a The directors are aware of their actions were seen as weaknesses in has begun.
A thorough review has been control environment of the group, improve the internal control selfassessment evaluation of its commitment to environmental, existing procedures or reporting and carried out of the skills and expertise of taking into account the work of both environment were not seen as effectiveness over the year.
This review community and social responsibility, represented improvements to existing our existing board members to ensure the internal and external auditors.
significant failings or weaknesses, but compares the responsibilities and details of which can be found in the processes and procedures.
we have the right range of backgrounds The key headings for this review can were reflective of the detailed review objectives of the committee against CSR report.
The group is currently and experience to see Centamin be summarised as follows: that was undertaken.
the activities carried out during the complying with relevant environmental As a direct result of the internal through to the next stage of growth.
This evaluation is submitted to regulations in the jurisdictions in which evaluation process, the board agreed corporate governance framework: Employees the board for review.
The internal it operates and has no knowledge of that all independent nonexecutive Managing risks and internal controls Information relating to employees is management reporting framework: annual performance evaluation of the any environmental orders or breaches directors continued to demonstrate The board is responsible for satisfying contained in the CSR report, together material contracts and contract board was completed in January 2018 against the group.
The group their independence and objectivity itself that management has developed with details of the number of management: for the year ended 31 December 2017. engaged environmental consultants in all respects and provided and implemented a sound system of employees at Sukari.
The Company procedures for forecasting and Digby Wells to develop the groups continued value on the committees The nonexecutive directors meet at risk management and internal controls.
abides by antidiscrimination budgeting: reporting standards to international in which they served.
least annually, without the chairman or Assisted by the audit and risk legislation in all jurisdictions in which external reporting obligations and Global Reporting Initiative GRI CEO present, and evaluate their committee, management reports to it operates.
These principles are also procedures: standards.
In addition, the group will The nomination committee and the performance during the year.
The the board on the groups principal set out in the Companys code of be reviewing existing human rights board discussed during the year the information technology board is assisted by the nomination risks and the extent to which it conduct which sets out the framework policies to ensure these are aligned need for any new appointments to environment: and committee on its evaluation of the believes these risks are being in which the Company expects all staff with best practice.
the board, either through the process corporate and operational principal nonexecutive directors.
The next appropriately managed and mitigated.
of succession planning or external risk assessment.
scheduled review of the boards Political donations appointments.
These discussions Full details of the risk environment can For a summary of the social conditions effectiveness by an external facilitator At the recommendation of the The Company does not make culminated in the appointment of be found in the risk management in Egypt and the Middle East and an is due to take place in 2019.
The committees, the board evaluated the donations to any organisations with Alison Baker as an independent report on pages 30 to 37. explanation as to the gender balance recommendations following the 2016 existing control environment and stated political associations.
nonexecutive director and promotion in the workforce, please see the CSR review have been implemented, which approved recommendations for The board is pleased to confirm that to board level for Ross Jerrard CFO.
Supplier and payment policy covered proposals for formalising the further systems development, the the Company remains in compliance The recommendation for the It is the Companys policy that, subject succession planning process with scope of the internal auditor, allocation with best practice guidelines, with the appointment of a new independent to compliance with trading terms by consideration to diversity, formalising of roles and responsibilities across the Code and relevant Canadian nonexecutive director was the supplier, payments are made in the induction process and definition of management team and the scope and requirements, and the systems in implemented by the chairman of the accordance with terms and conditions roles, particularly between the CEO engagement of external legal, place to manage risk and the internal nomination committee, Edward Haslam.
agreed in advance with the supplier.
control environment have been in Further details on trade creditors are place for the year under review, up to provided in note 16 to the financial the date of approval of the annual statements.
