Report of the Directors Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 The Directors hereby submit the Annual Report and Audited Share Capital Financial Statements for the Company for the year ended At incorporation on 23 May 2013, the Company issued one 31 December 2017.
This Report of the Directors should be founder Ordinary Share of no par value.
On 29 October 2013, read together with the Corporate Governance Report on the Company issued 71,032,057 Ordinary Shares of no par pages 33 to 39. value at 10 per Ordinary Share in an initial public offering raising a total of $1,138 million.
General Information KFI, one of the Cornerstone Investors in the Company, Riverstone Energy Limited is a company limited by shares, paid for and acquired 10 million Ordinary Shares in two which was incorporated on 23 May 2013 in Guernsey with equal tranches of 50 million.
The first tranche was paid on an unlimited life and registered with the Commission as a Admission and the second tranche of 5 million Ordinary Registered Closed-ended Collective Investment Scheme Shares was paid on 26 September 2014. pursuant to the POI Law.
It has been listed on the London On 11 December 2015, the Company raised 67.6 million Stock Exchange since 29 October 2013.
The registered office 1 $102.3 million through the issuance of 8,448,006 new of the Company is Heritage Hall, PO Box 225, Le Marchant Ordinary Shares at 8.00 per Ordinary Share.
Street, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 4HY, Channel Islands.
Following admission of the new Ordinary Shares, the share capital of the Company is 84,480,064 Ordinary Shares Principal Activities in aggregate.
The principal activity of the Company is to act as an The Company has one class of Ordinary Shares.
The investment entity through the Partnership and make issued nominal value of the Ordinary Shares represents privately negotiated equity investments in the energy sector.
of the total issued nominal value of all share The Companys investment objective is to generate capital.
Under the Companys Articles of Incorporation, long-term capital growth by investing in the global energy on a show of hands, each Shareholder present in person sector, with a particular focus on opportunities in the or by proxy has the right to one vote at general meetings.
global exploration and production and midstream energy On a poll, each Shareholder is entitled to one vote for every sub-sectors.
Shareholders are entitled to all dividends paid by the Business Review Company and, on a winding up, provided the Company has satisfied all of its liabilities, the Shareholders are entitled A review of the Companys business and its likely future to all of the surplus assets of the Company.
The Company development is provided in the Chairmans Statement and has not declared or paid dividends from inception to in the Investment Managers Report on pages 10 to 21.
31 December 2017, and has no intention to do so.
The Ordinary Shares have no right to fixed income.
Listing Requirements Since being admitted on 29 October 2013 to the Official List 1 Gross of share issuance costs of $3.6 million of the UK Listing Authority, maintained by the FCA, the Company has complied with the applicable Listing Rules.
Results and Dividend The results of the Company for the year are shown in the audited Statement of Comprehensive Income on page 48.
The Net Asset Value of the Company as at 31 December 2017 was $1,743 million 31 December 2016: $1,699 million.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017 31 December 2016: $Nil.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Shareholdings of the Directors Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares The Directors with beneficial interests in the shares of At the AGM on 23 May 2017 in St Peter Port, Guernsey, the the Company as at 31 December 2017 and 2016 are Company renewed the authority to make market purchases detailed below: of up to a maximum of 14.99 per cent.
of the issued share capital of the Company.
Any buy back of the Companys Ordinary Per cent.
Ordinary Shares will be made subject to Companies Law and Shares held Holding at Shares held Holding at within any guidelines established from time to time by the 31 31 31 31 December December December December Board.
The making and timing of any buy backs will be at the Director 2017 2017 2016 2016 absolute discretion of the Board and not at the option of the 1 Shareholders.
Purchases of the Companys Ordinary Shares Richard Hayden 10,000 0.012 10,000 0.012 will only be made through the market for cash at prices 1 2 Peter Barker 5,000 0.006 5,000 0.006 2 3 below the prevailing Net Asset Value of the Companys Patrick Firth 8,000 0.009 4,000 0.005 Ordinary Shares as last calculated where the Directors 4 Pierre Lapeyre 50,000 0.059 50,000 0.059 4 believe such purchases will enhance Shareholder value.
David Leuschen Such purchases will also only be made in accordance with 4 Ken Ryan 1 the Listing Rules which provide that the price to be paid Jeremy Thompson 3,751 0.004 must not be more than 5 per cent.
above the average of the 1 5 Claire Whittet 2,250 0.003 middle market quotations for the Companys Ordinary Shares for the five business days before the shares are 1 Non-executive Independent Director purchased unless previously advised to Shareholders.
2 Ordinary Shares held jointly with spouse 3 In accordance with the Companys Articles of Senior Independent Director 4 Incorporation and Companies Law, up to 10 per cent.
of the Mr Lapeyre, Mr Leuschen and Mr Ryan, as well as other Riverstone senior management, have a beneficial interest in REL Coinvestment, LP, Companys Ordinary Shares may be held as treasury shares.
which as at the year end held 5,000,000 Ordinary Shares, and The Company did not purchase any shares for treasury or Riverstone Energy Limited Capital Partners LP, which as at the year cancellation up to the date of this report.
end held 675,814 Ordinary Shares 5 Ordinary Shares held indirectly with spouse Directors and Officers Liability Insurance In addition, the Company also provides the same information The Company maintains insurance in respect of directors as at 16 February 2018, being the most current information and officers liability in relation to their acts on behalf of available.
Shares held Holding at 16 February 16 February Substantial Shareholdings Director 2018 2018 As at 31 December 2017, the Company had been notified, 1 Richard Hayden 10,000 0.012 in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure Guidance 1 2 Peter Barker 5,000 0.006 and Transparency Rules, of the following substantial voting 2 3 Patrick Firth 8,000 0.009 rights as Shareholders of the Company.
Nature of David Leuschen Shareholder Shareholding Holding Holding 4 Ken Ryan 1 1 Jeremy Thompson 3,751 0.004 AKRC Investments LLC 23,264,259 27.54 Indirect 1 5 Claire Whittet 2,250 0.003 Kendall Family 1 Investments LLC 10,000,000 11.84 Direct 1 Non-executive Independent Director Old Mutual Global 2 Ordinary Shares held jointly with spouse Investors 6,139,239 7.27 Indirect 3 REL Coinvestment, LP 5,000,000 5.92 Direct Senior Independent Director 4 Mr Lapeyre, Mr Leuschen and Mr Ryan, as well as other Riverstone senior management, have a beneficial interest in REL Coinvestment, LP, 1 Held by a Cornerstone Investor which as 16 February 2018 held 5,000,000 Ordinary Shares and Riverstone Energy Limited Capital Partners LP, which as at 16 February 2018 held 675,814 Ordinary Shares 5 Ordinary Shares held indirectly with spouse Report of the Directors continued Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 In addition, the Company also provides the same information Non-mainstream Pooled Investments as at 16 February 2018, being the most current information The Board has concluded that the Companys Ordinary available.
Shares are not non-mainstream pooled investments for Per cent.
Nature of the purposes of the FCA rules regarding the restrictions on Shareholder Shareholding Holding Holding the promotion to retail investors of unregulated collective 1 AKRC Investments LLC 23,264,259 27.54 Indirect investment schemes and close substitutes, meaning that Kendall Family the restrictions on promotion imposed by the FCA rules 1 Investments LLC 10,000,000 11.84 Direct do not apply.
It is the Boards intention that the Company Old Mutual Global conducts its affairs so that these restrictions will continue Investors 6,168,531 7.30 Indirect to remain inapplicable.
REL Coinvestment, LP 5,000,000 5.92 Direct AIFMD 1 Held by a Cornerstone Investor REL is regarded as an externally managed non-EEA AIF under the AIFM Directive.
RIL is the Investment Manager The Directors confirm that there are no securities in of the Company as its non-EEA AIFM.
The AIFMD outlines issue that carry special rights with regards to the control the required information which has to be made available to of the Company.
investors in an AIF and directs that material changes to this The Companys issued share capital consists of information be disclosed in the Annual Report of the AIF.
Under the Companys Articles All information required to be disclosed under the AIFMD of Incorporation, on a show of hands, each Shareholder is either disclosed in this Annual Report or is detailed in present in person or by proxy has the right to one vote at the Appendix entitled AIFMD Disclosures on page 178 in general meetings.
On a poll, each Shareholder is entitled RELs latest Prospectus which can be obtained through the to one vote for every share held.
The AIFM has no remuneration within the current or prior year that falls within the scope of Article 22 of the Directive.
Independent External Auditor RIL provides AIFMD compliant management services Ernst & Young LLP has been the Companys external auditor to REL.
The AIFM acting on behalf of the AIF, has appointed since incorporation.
The Audit Committee reviews the Estera Depositary Company UK Limited to provide appointment of the external auditor, its effectiveness and its depositary services to the AIF.
The appointment of the relationship with the Company, which includes monitoring Depositary is intended to adhere to, and meet the conditions the use of the external auditor for non-audit services and the placed on the Depositary and the AIFM under Article 21 and balance of audit and non-audit fees paid.
Following a review other related articles of the AIFMD.
The Depositary shall of the independence and effectiveness of the external auditor, only provide depositary services to the AIF should it admit a resolution will be proposed at the 2018 Annual General one or more German and or Danish investors following Meeting to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP.
Each Director marketing activity towards them.
At that time, the Depositary believes that there is no relevant information of which the shall observe and comply with the Danish and German external auditor is unaware.
Each has taken all steps regulations applying to the provision of depositary services necessary, as a Director, to be aware of any relevant audit to a non-EEA AIF marketed in Denmark or Germany, as the information and to establish that Ernst & Young LLP is made case may be, by a non-EEA AIFM.
aware of any pertinent information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 249 of the Companies Law.
Further information on UCITS Eligibility the work of the external auditor is set out in the Report of the The Investment Manager is a relying adviser of Riverstone Audit Committee on pages 40 to 42.
Riverstone Investment Group LLC is registered as an investment adviser with the SEC under Articles of Incorporation the U. S. Investment Advisers Act.
As such, the Investment Manager is subject to Riverstone Investment Group LLCs The Companys Articles of Incorporation may only be supervision and control, the advisory activities of the amended by special resolution of the Shareholders.
Investment Manager are subject to the U. S. Investment Advisers Act and the rules thereunder and the Investment Manager is subject to examination by the SEC.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Accordingly the Company has been advised that its Ordinary Going Concern Shares should be transferable securities and, therefore, The Companys Financial Statements are prepared in should be eligible for investment by authorised funds in accordance with the AIC Code and presented on a going accordance with the UCITS Directive or NURS on the concern basis.
As further disclosed in the Corporate basis that: Governance Report on pages 33 to 39, the Company is a the Company is a closed end investment company: member of the AIC and complies with the AIC Code.
The Directors have assessed the financial prospects of the the Ordinary Shares are admitted to trading on the Company for the next twelve months from the date of approval Main Market of the London Stock Exchange: and of the Financial Statements and made an assessment of the Ordinary Shares have equal voting rights.
the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company However, the manager of the relevant UCITS or NURS has adequate resources to continue in operational existence should satisfy itself that the Ordinary Shares are eligible for the next twelve months, as explained below.
for investment by the relevant UCITS or NURS.
The Company retained $11.5 million of cash in the IPO and Placing and Open Offer, and received distributions AEOI Rules of $5.5 million and $1.1 million from the Partnership in Under AEOI Rules the Company continues to comply with Q1 2016 and Q1 2017, respectively, of which $0.8 million both FATCA and CRS requirements to the extent relevant to remains at 31 December 2017 31 December 2016: the Company.
This cash balance is sufficient to cover the Companys existing liabilities at 31 December 2017 of $0.6 million, but the Company will require a distribution of General Partners Performance Allocation $3.3 million to cover its forecasted annual expenses for 2018 of approximately $3.5 million.
In accordance with section and Management Fees 4.1 a of the Partnership Agreement, in the event of the The General Partners Performance Allocation is equal to Company requiring additional funds for working capital, it is 20 per cent.
of all realised pre-tax profits without regard to entitled to receive another distribution from the Partnership.
realised losses as disclosed in the Companys Prospectuses.
As at 31 December 2017, the Partnership, including In particular, taxes on realised gains from ECI investments, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, REL US Corp and REL US as shown in the Investment Managers Report, can be Centennial Holdings, LLC, had $147 million of uninvested substantial at rates up to 27.5 per cent.
The Company is not funds held as cash and money market fixed deposits an umbrella collective investment undertaking and therefore 31 December 2016: $268 million, and has no material going has no gross liability.
In the normal course of business, concern risk.
Although the Companys commitments, through REL may form wholly-owned subsidiaries, to be treated as the Partnership, exceed its available liquid resources, it is not C Corporations for U. S. tax purposes.
The C Corporations expected that all commitments will be drawn due to a variety serve to protect RELs public investors from incurring U. S. ECI.
of factors, such as a portfolio company being sold earlier than The C Corporations file U. S. corporate tax returns with the anticipated or a targeted investment opportunity changing U. S. IRS and pay U. S. corporate taxes on its taxable income.
In addition, the board of each underlying The General Partners Performance Allocation is portfolio company, more often than not controlled by calculated under the terms of the Partnership Agreement Riverstone, has discretion over whether or not that capital and as described in the Prospectuses.
Moreover, RELs arrangements with Riverstone allow excess commitments to be amended by the The Performance Allocation is calculated on a quarterly Investment Manager with consideration from the Board.
basis, which is taken into account when calculating the fair value of the Companys investment in the Partnership, as In light of the above facts, the Directors are satisfied that described in Note 10.
The fair value of the Companys it is appropriate to apply the going concern basis in preparing investment in the Partnership is after the calculation of the Financial Statements.
In reaching this conclusion, the Management Fees, as described in Note 10.
Board has considered budgeted and projected results of the business, projected cash flow and risks that could impact The financial effect of the General Partners Performance the Companys liquidity over the next twelve months.
Allocation, Management Fees and any taxes on ECI investments is shown in Note 6.
The Investment Management Agreement continues into perpetuity post the seventh year anniversary.
Viability Statement As required by the AIC Code, the Directors have assessed the Change of Control prospects of the Company over a longer period than required by the going concern provision.
The Board chose to conduct There are no agreements that the Company considers a review for a period of three years to 31 December 2020 as significant and to which the Company is party that would it was determined to be an appropriate timeframe based on take effect, alter or terminate upon change of control of the the historical investment cycle of the Companys investments Company following a takeover bid.
through the Partnership and its financial planning processes.
Report of the Directors continued Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 On a rolling basis, the Directors evaluate the outcome of the If factors apart from capital deployment rate remain investments and the Companys financial position as a whole.
constant, accelerating the capital deployment rate by While an unprecedented and long-term decline in global 20 per cent.
from 36 months to 30 months, would result oil and gas consumption would threaten the Companys in the Company being directed by the Board, and the performance, it would not necessarily threaten its viability.
Investment Manager recommending, to preserve working capital and postpone future investments after 24 months, In support of this statement, the Directors have taken rather than 27 months: unless a financing or capital raise into account all of the principal risks and their mitigation was completed.
In both scenarios, the Company is forecasted as identified in the Principal Risk and Uncertainties section to maintain sufficient working capital for the three year period.
of the Corporate Governance Report, the nature of the Company's business: including the cash reserves and money Based on the aforementioned procedures and the market deposits at the Partnership, the potential of its existing internal controls of the Company and Investment portfolio of investments to generate future income and Manager, the Board has concluded there is a reasonable capital proceeds, and the ability of the Directors to minimise expectation that the Company will be able to continue in the level of cash outflows, if necessary.
The most relevant operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the potential impacts of the identified Principal Risks and three-year period of the assessment.
Uncertainties on viability were determined to be: An investments capital requirements may exceed the Financial Risk Management Policies Companys ability to provide capital: and and Objectives The Company may not have sufficient capital available to Financial Risk Management Policies and Objectives are participate in all investment opportunities presented.
disclosed in Note 11 on pages 63 to 67.
Each quarter, Directors review threats to the Companys viability utilising the risk matrix and update as required Principal Risk and Uncertainties due to recent developments and or changes in the global market.
The Board relies on periodic reports provided by Principal Risk and Uncertainties are discussed in the the Investment Manager and Administrator regarding risks Corporate Governance Report on pages 33 to 39. faced by the Company.
When required, experts are utilised to gather relevant and necessary information, regarding tax, Subsequent Events legal, and other factors.
Subsequent Events are disclosed in Note 15 on page 69.
The Investment Manager made financial commitments to each portfolio company.
However, the Company evaluates the ongoing suitability of each investment prior to funding Annual General Meetings and may or may not agree to fund an investment.
In the event the Company is unable, or elects, not to fund an existing The AGM of the Company will be held at 10.30 am BST on 22 May 2018 at The Old Government House Hotel, St Anns investment, Riverstone may seek other funding alternatives.
Place, St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands.
Details of The Investment Manager considers the future cash the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, together with requirements of the Company before funding portfolio explanations, will appear in the notices of meetings to be companies.
Furthermore, the Board receives regular updates distributed to Shareholders listed on the register as at from the Investment Manager on the Companys cash 31 December 2017 together with this Annual Report.
As a position, which allows the Board to maintain their fiduciary matter of good practice, all resolutions will be conducted responsibility to the Shareholders and, if required, limit on a poll and the results will be announced to the market funding for existing commitments.
However, Management as soon as possible after the meeting.
fees may not be deferred per the terms of the Investment Members of the Board, including the Chairman and the Management Agreement.
Chairperson of each Committee, will be in attendance at the The Board considered the Companys viability over the AGM and will be available to answer Shareholder questions.
three year period, based on a working capital model prepared by the Investment Manager.
The working capital model By order of the Board forecasts key cash flow drivers such as capital deployment rate, investment returns, Management Fees and operating expenses.
In connection with the preparation of the working capital model, dividend payments and or share repurchases Richard Hayden were assumed to not occur during the three year period, Chairman unless already predetermined.
In addition, the Board 27 February 2018 reviews credit market availability, but no such financing has been assumed.
