Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 The Company invests in public or private securities, Investment Restrictions may hold controlling or non-controlling positions in its investments and may make investments in the form of The Company is subject to the following investment equity, equity-related instruments, indebtedness or restrictions: derivatives or a combination of any of them.
The Company does not permit any investments to be the subject of for so long as required by the Listing Rules, it will at stock lending or sale and repurchase of shares.
all times seek to ensure that the Investment Manager invests and manages the Companys and the Partnerships assets in a way which is consistent with Diversification the Companys objective of spreading risk and in Save for the Companys investment in Hammerhead, accordance with the Companys investment policy: which may represent up to 35 per cent.
of the Companys for so long as required by the Listing Rules, it must gross assets, including cash holdings, measured at the not conduct a trading activity which is significant in time the investment is made, no one investment made by the context of the Company and its Investment the Company, through the Partnership, may at the time Undertakings: of the relevant investment represent more than 25 per cent.
of the Companys gross assets, including cash for so long as required by the Listing Rules, not more holdings, measured at the time the investment is made.
of the value of its total assets will be The Company utilises the Partnership and its subsidiary invested in other UK-listed closed-ended investment undertakings or other similar investment holding funds, except for those which themselves have structures to make investments and this limitation does published investment policies to invest not more than not apply to its ownership interest in any such subsidiary 15 per cent.
of their total assets in other UK-listed undertaking nor, for the avoidance of doubt, to the closed-ended investment funds: and Companys interest in the Partnership.
any investment restrictions that may be imposed by Guernsey law although no such restrictions Gearing currently exist.
The Company can, but is not required to, incur Currency and interest rate hedging transactions will indebtedness for investment purposes, to the extent that only be undertaken for the purpose of efficient portfolio such indebtedness is a precursor to an ultimate equity management and these transactions will not be investment, working capital requirements and to fund undertaken for speculative purposes.
own-share purchases or retentions up to a maximum of 30 per cent.
of the last published NAV as at the time of the borrowing unless approved by the Company by an ordinary resolution.
This limitation does not apply to portfolio level entities in respect of which the Company is invested but it does apply to all subsidiary undertakings utilised by the Company or the Partnership for the purposes of making investments.
The consent of a The Company invests in the majority of the Companys Directors shall be required global energy sector, which for the Company or the Partnership to enter into any credit or other borrowing facility.
is undergoing significant The Company must at all times comply with its published investment policy.
For so long as the Ordinary transformation driven in Shares are listed on the Official List, no material change may be made to the Companys investment policy other large part by a revolution than with the prior approval of both the Companys Shareholders and a majority of the independent Directors in horizontal drilling and of the Company, and otherwise in accordance with the Listing Rules.
