Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors statements Under applicable law and regulations, the Statement of Directors Statement of responsibility Directors are also responsible for preparing responsibilities in respect of the We confirm that to the best of our a Directors Report, a Strategic Report, a knowledge: Annual Report and financial Remuneration Report and a Corporate statements the financial statements prepared in Governance Statement that comply with accordance with the applicable set of The Directors are responsible for preparing that law and those regulations.
accounting standards, give a true and fair the Annual Report and the Group financial The Directors are responsible for the view of the assets, liabilities, financial statements in accordance with applicable maintenance and integrity of the corporate position and profit or loss of the Group: law and regulations.
and financial information included on the the Directors Report, including content Company law requires the Directors to Companys websites.
contained by reference, includes a fair prepare the Group financial statements Legislation in the UK and Jersey governing review of the development and for each financial year.
Under that law, they the preparation and dissemination of performance of the business and are required to prepare the Group financial financial statements may differ from the position of the Group taken as a statements in accordance with International legislation in other jurisdictions.
whole, together with a description of the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as principal risks and uncertainties that they adopted by the EU and applicable law.
Statutory statement as to face: and disclosure to auditor Under company law, the Directors must the Annual Report and financial not approve the financial statements unless The Directors who held office at the date of statements, taken as a whole, is fair, they are satisfied that they give a true and approval of these Directors statements balanced and understandable and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group confirm that: provides the information necessary and its profit or loss for the period.
In so far as they are each aware, there is no for shareholders to assess the Groups preparing each of the Group financial relevant audit information of which the position and performance, business statements, the Directors are required to: Groups auditor is unaware: and model and strategy.
select suitable accounting policies each Director has taken all the steps that and then apply them consistently: he ought to have taken as a Director in By order of the Board make judgements and estimates that order to make himself aware of any MARK DIXON relevant audit information and to are reasonable and prudent: CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER establish that the Groups auditor is for the Group financial statements, state aware of that information.
DOMINIK fide DANIEL whether they have been prepared in CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER These financial statements have been accordance with IFRSs as adopted by AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER approved by the Directors of the Company.
the EU: and The Directors confirm that the financial 6 March 2018 prepare the financial statements on statements have been prepared in the going concern basis unless it is accordance with applicable law and inappropriate to presume that the regulations.
Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups transactions and which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
