Board of Directors Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Richard Hayden 72, Peter Barker 69, Chairman and Non-executive Independent Director Non-executive Independent Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2013 and appointed as Chairman in September 2013 in May 2016 Experience: Mr Barker was California Experience: Mr Hayden serves as nonChairman of JPMorgan Chase & Co. executive Chairman of TowerBrook Capital a global financial services firm, from Partners Advisory Board and member September 2009 until his retirement of the Investment Committee.
Prior to on 31 January 2013, and a member of joining TowerBrook in 2009, Mr Hayden its Executive Committee in New York.
was Vice Chairman of GSC Group Inc and Mr Barker was also an Advisory Director of Global Head of the CLO and Mezzanine Debt Goldman, Sachs & Co. from December 1998 business.
Previously, Mr Hayden was with Goldman Sachs from 1969 until his retirement in May 2002, and a Partner of Goldman, Sachs & Co. to 1999.
Mr Hayden held a variety of senior positions during his time from 1982 to 1998, heading up Investment Banking on the West Coast, at Goldman Sachs, including Deputy Chairman of Goldman Sachs having joined Goldman, Sachs & Co. in 1971.
Mr Barker is President of International Ltd and Chairman of the Global Credit Committee.
the Fletcher Jones Foundation and has held numerous directorships.
Mr Hayden has served on a number of corporate and advisory boards He is currently on the board of Fluor Corporation, Avery Dennison and is currently a non-executive Director of CQS.
Mr Hayden is also on Corporation, the W. M. Keck Foundation, the Irvine Company, Franklin the Finance and Investment Committee of the Childrens Investment Resources, Inc. and the Automobile Club of Southern California.
Mr Hayden is a UK resident.
Mr Barker is also a Trustee of Claremont McKenna College, having formerly been its Chairman, and was previously Chair of the Los Committee Membership: Audit Committee Member: Nomination Angeles Area Council of the Boy Scouts of America.
Mr Barker is a Committee Chairman: Management Engagement Committee Member U. S. resident.
Committee Membership: Audit Committee Member: Nomination Committee Member: Management Engagement Committee Member Patrick Firth 56, Pierre F. Lapeyre 55, Non-executive Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board Appointment: Appointed to the Board in in May 2013 and appointed as Senior May 2013 Independent Director in May 2016 Experience: Mr Lapeyre is a Founder and Experience: Mr Firth qualified as a Chartered Senior Managing Director of Riverstone.
Accountant with KPMG Guernsey in 1991 and He is based in New York.
Prior to founding is also a member of the Chartered Institute Riverstone, Mr Lapeyre was a Managing for Securities and Investment.
He has worked Director of Goldman Sachs in its Global in the fund industry in Guernsey since joining Energy and Power Group.
Mr Lapeyre joined Rothschild Asset Management CI Limited Goldman Sachs in 1986 and spent his in 1992 before moving to become Managing 14-year investment banking career focussed Director at Butterfield Fund Services Guernsey Limited subsequently on energy and power, particularly the midstream, upstream and energy Butterfield Fulcrum Group Guernsey Limited, a company providing service sectors.
Mr Lapeyres responsibilities at Goldman Sachs third party fund administration services, where he worked from April 2002 included client coverage and leading the execution of a wide variety of until June 2009.
He is a non-executive Director of a number of investment mergers and acquisitions, IPO, strategic advisory and capital markets funds and management companies, including GLI Finance Limited, financings for clients across all sectors of the industry.
ICG Longbow Senior Secured UK Property Debt Investments Limited, While at Goldman Sachs, Mr Lapeyre served as sector captain for the JZ Capital Partners Limited and NextEnergy Solar Fund Limited.
midstream and energy services segments, led the groups coverage of Mr Firth is a resident of Guernsey.
Asian energy companies and was extensively involved in the origination Committee Membership: Audit Committee Chairman: Nomination and execution of energy private equity investments on behalf of the firm.
Committee Member: Management Engagement Committee Member Mr Lapeyre was responsible for managing Goldman Sachs leading franchise in master limited partnerships.
He was also asked to lead the groups agency and principal investment effort in energy power technology.
At Goldman Sachs Mr Lapeyre had relationship and deal execution responsibilities for a broad range of energy clients.
Mr Lapeyre serves on the boards of directors or equivalent bodies of a number of portfolio companies in which Other Riverstone Funds have investment interests.
Mr Lapeyre is a U. S. resident.
Committee Membership: None Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 David M. Leuschen 66, Ken Ryan 45, Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2013 May 2016 Experience: Mr Leuschen is a Founder and Experience: Mr Ryan is a Partner of Senior Managing Director of Riverstone.
Riverstone and is responsible for corporate He is based in New York.
Prior Riverstone, Mr Leuschen was a Partner and to joining Riverstone in 2011, he worked for Managing Director at Goldman Sachs and Gleacher & Company Gleacher Partners in founder and head of the Goldman Sachs both London and New York, most recently Global Energy and Power Group.
Mr Leuschen as Managing Director and Co-head of joined Goldman Sachs in 1977, became Investment Banking.
Prior to Gleacher, head of the Global Energy and Power Group in 1985, became a Partner he worked for Goldman Sachs in the European Financial Institutions of that firm in 1986 and remained with Goldman Sachs until leaving to Group in London, the U. S. Financial Institutions Group in New York, found Riverstone.
Mr Leuschen has extensive mergers and acquisitions, and the European Advisory Group.
He received a law degree from financing and investing experience in the energy and power industry.
University of Dublin, Trinity College.
Mr Leuschen was responsible for building the Goldman Sachs energy Mr Ryan also serves on the boards of directors or equivalent bodies of and power investment banking practice into one of the leading franchises a number of portfolio companies in which Other Riverstone Funds have in the global energy and power industry.
During this period, Mr Leuschen investment interests.
and his team participated in a large number of the major energy and Committee Membership: None power mergers and acquisitions transactions worldwide.
Mr Leuschen also was a founder of Goldman Sachs leading master limited partnership franchise.
Mr Leuschen also served as Chairman of the Goldman Sachs Energy Investment Committee, where he was responsible for screening potential capital commitments by Goldman Sachs in the energy and power industry and was responsible for establishing and managing the firms relationships with senior executives from leading companies in all segments of the energy and power industry.
Mr Leuschen also serves on the boards of directors or equivalent bodies of a number of portfolio companies in which Other Riverstone Funds have investment interests.
Mr Leuschen is a U. S. resident.
Committee Membership: None Jeremy Thompson 62, Claire Whittet 62, Non-executive Independent Director Non-executive Independent Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board Appointment: Appointed to the Board in in May 2016 May 2015 Experience: Mr Thompson has sector Experience: Mrs Whittet has 40 years of experience in Finance, Telecoms, experience in the financial services industry.
He acts as an After obtaining a MA Hons in Geography independent non-executive directorship for from the University of Edinburgh, she joined both listed, including DP Aircraft 1 Limited, the Bank of Scotland for 19 years and and PE funds.
Prior to that, he has worked undertook a wide variety of roles including in private equity and was CEO of four running two city centre offices.
She moved autonomous global businesses within Cable to Guernsey in 1996 and was Global Head & Wireless Plc operating in both regulated and unregulated markets, of Private Client Credit for Bank of Bermuda before joining the Board and earlier held CEO roles within the Dowty Group.
He currently serves of Rothschild Bank International Limited in 2003, initially as Director of as chairman of the States of Guernsey Renewable Energy Team and Lending and latterly as Managing Director and Co-Head until May 2016 is a commissioner of the Alderney Gambling Control Commission.
when she became a non-executive Director.
Mrs Whittet is an ACIB He is also an independent member of the Guernsey Tax Tribunal panel.
member of the Chartered Institute of Bankers in Scotland, a Chartered He is a graduate of Brunel B. Sc, Cranfield MBA and Bournemouth Banker, a member of the Chartered Insurance Institute and holds an M. Sc Universities and was an invited member to the UKs senior IoD Diploma in Company Direction.
She is a non-executive Director of defence course Royal College of Defence Studies.
He is a member of five other listed funds, being BH Macro Limited, Eurocastle Investment the IoD and holds the IoDs Certificate and Diploma in Company Direction, Limited, International Public Partnerships Limited, Third Point Offshore is an associate of the Chartered Institute of Arbitration and a chartered Investors Limited and TwentyFour Select Monthly Income Fund Limited.
Mr Thompson is a resident of Guernsey and has Mrs Whittet is a Guernsey resident.
previously lived and worked in the UK, USA and Germany.
Committee Membership: Audit Committee Member: Nomination Committee Membership: Audit Committee Member: Nomination Committee Member: Management Engagement Committee Chairman Committee Member: Management Engagement Committee Member
