Directors report For the year ended 31December2017 Introduction Health, safety, environment & communities HSEC This Annual Report is presented by the Directors on the An overview of health, safety and environmental affairs of Glencore plc the Company and its subsidiaries performance and community participation is provided the Group or Glencore, together with the financial in the Sustainable Development section of the Strategic statements and auditors report, for the year ended report.
The work of the HSEC Board committee 31December2017.
The Directors report includes details iscontained in the Corporate Governance report.
of the business, the development of the Group and likely future developments as set out in the Strategic Taxation policy Report, which together form the management report Our Tax Policy: www.
com group-tax-policy for the purposes of the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys and our second payments to Governments report: Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR 4.1.
com  concerning forward-looking statements is set out at the set out the Companys approach to tax and transparency end of the Annual Report.
and disclose the payments made by the Group on acountry-by-country and project-by-project basis.
Corporate structure Glencore plc is a public company limited by shares, Exploration and research and development incorporated in Jersey and domiciled in Baar, Switzerland.
The Groups business units carry out exploration and Its shares are listed on the London and Johannesburg research and development activities that are necessary Stock Exchanges.
On 31 January 2018 the Company to support and expand their operations.
delisted its shares from the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
Employee policies and involvement Financial results and distributions Glencore operates an equal opportunities policy that aims The Groups financial results are set out in the financial to treat individuals fairly and not to discriminate on the statements section of this Annual Report.
basis of sex, race, ethnic origin, disability or on any other basis.
Applications for employment and promotion are A distribution of US$0.07 per share was paid in 2017. fully considered on their merits, and employees are given The Board is recommending two distributions totalling appropriate training and equal opportunities for career US$0.20 per share in respect of the 2017 financial year development and promotion.
as further detailed on page 58.
Where disability occurs during employment, the Group seeks to accommodate that disability where reasonably Review of business, future developments and post possible, including with appropriate training.
balance sheet events A review of the business and the future developments The Group places considerable value on the involvement of the Group is presented in the Strategic Report.
of its employees which is reflected in the principles of its Code of Conduct and its related guidance, which requires A description of acquisitions, disposals, and material regular, open, fair and respectful communication, zero changes to Group companies undertaken during the year, tolerance for human rights violations, fair remuneration is included in the Financial review and in note 24 to the and, above all, a safe working environment.
Employee communication is mainly provided by the Financial instruments Groups intranet and corporate website.
A range of Descriptions of the use of financial instruments and information is made available to employees including all financial risk management objectives and policies, policies applicable to them as well as information on the including hedging activities and exposure to price risk, Groups financial performance and the main drivers of its credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are included business.
Employee consultation depends upon the type in notes 25 and 26 to the financial statements.
and location of operation or office.
Further information on our people is set out on pages 36 and 39.
Corporate governance A report on corporate governance and compliance Directors conflicts of interest with the UK Corporate Governance Code is set out Under Jersey law and the Companys Articles of in the Corporate Governance report and forms part Association which mirror section 175 of the UK of this report by reference.
Companies Act 2006, a Director must avoid a situation in which the Director has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Company.
The duty is not infringed if the matter has been authorised by the Directors.
Under the Articles, the Board has the power to authorise potential or actual conflict situations.
The Board maintains effective procedures to enable the Directors to notify the Company Glencore Annual Report 2017 106 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information of any actual or potential conflict situations and for Share capital and shareholder rights those situations to be reviewed and, if appropriate, As at 1 March 2018, the issued ordinary share capital to be authorised by the Board.
Directors conflict of the Company was $145,862,001 represented by situations are reviewed annually.
A register of 14,586,200,066 ordinary shares of $0.01 each, of which authorisations is maintained.
161,459,158 shares are held in treasury and 127,711,907 shares are held by Group employee benefit trusts.
Directors liabilities and indemnities The Company has granted third party indemnities to each Major interests in shares of its Directors against any liability that attaches to them As at 31 January 2018 Glencore had been notified of the in defending proceedings brought against them, to the following interests representing 3% or more of the issued extent permitted by Jersey Law.
In addition, Directors and ordinary share capital of the Company: Officers of the Company and its subsidiaries are covered Percentage of by directors & officers liability insurance.
Number Total Voting Name of holder of shares Rights Directors and Officers Qatar Holding 1,221,497,099 8.47 The names of the Companys Directors and Officers Ivan Glasenberg 1,211,957,850 8.40 who were in office at the end of 2017, together with BlackRock Inc 820,422,580 5.69 their biographical details and other information, are Harris Associates 545,706,610 3.78 shown on page 82.
Daniel Mat 454,136,143 3.15 Aristotelis Mistakidis 450,175,134 3.12 Directors interests Details of interests in the ordinary shares of the Company Share capital of those Directors who held office during 2017 are The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, given below: being the only share class of the Company, are set out Number of Percentage in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, Glencore of Total Voting which can be found at www.
com who-we-are Name Shares Rights board-of-directors governance-downloads.
Subject to Executive Directors Jersey law, any share may be issued with or have attached Ivan Glasenberg 1,211,957,850 8.40 to it such preferred, deferred or other special rights and Non-Executive Directors restrictions as the Company may by special resolution Peter Coates 1,585,150 0.01 decide or, if no such resolution is in effect, or so far as the Leonhard Fischer resolution does not make specific provision, as the Board 1 Martin Gilbert 50,000 0.00 may decide.
Peter Grauer 129,792 0.00 No such resolution is currently in effect.
Subject to the Anthony Hayward 244,907 0.00 recommendation of the Board, holders of ordinary shares 2 William Macaulay 200,000 0.00 may receive a distribution.
On liquidation, holders of John Mack 750,000 0.00 ordinary shares may share in the assets of the Company.
Patrice Merrin 43,997 0.00 Holders of ordinary shares are also entitled to receive the Companys Annual Report and Accounts or a 1 Appointed to the Board on 5 May 2017.
2 Retired from the Board on 14 April 2017.
Figures provided at date of retirement.
summarised version and, subject to certain thresholds being met, may requisition the Board to convene a general meeting GM or the proposal of resolutions No Director has any other interest in the share capital at AGMs.
None of the ordinary shares carry any special of the Company whether pursuant to any share plan rights with regard to control of the Company.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and No changes in Directors interests of those in office speak at GMs of the Company and to appoint one or at the date of this report have occurred between more proxies or, if the holder of shares is a corporation, 31December2017 and 1 March 2018. a corporate representative.
On a show of hands, each holder of ordinary shares who being an individual is present in person or being a corporation is present by a duly appointed corporate representative, not being himself a member, shall have one vote and on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received not later than 48 hours before a GM.
A holder of ordinary shares can lose Glencore Annual Report 2017 107 Directors report For the year ended 31December2017 continued the entitlement to vote at GMs where that holder has The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles and been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide that the Board may exercise all the powers of the provide the Company with information concerning Company including to borrow money.
The Company may interests held in those shares.
Except as 1 set out above by ordinary resolution authorise the Board to issue shares, and 2 permitted under applicable statutes, there are and increase, consolidate, sub-divide and cancel shares in no limitations on voting rights of holders of a given accordance with its Articles and Jersey law.
percentage, number of votes or deadlines for exercising voting rights.
Purchase of own shares At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a under a shareholders resolution passed on 24 May 2017, certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that to purchase through the market up to 10% of the therefusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the Companys issued ordinary shares.
No purchase was Company from taking place on an open and proper made by the Company during 2017.
The Directors basis or where the Company has a lien over that share.
will seek a similar authority at the Companys AGM The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of to be held in 2018. a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is: i lodged, duly stamped if necessary, at the registered Going concern office of the Company or any other place as the Board The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, may decide accompanied by the certificate for the liquidity position and borrowing facilities are set out share s to be transferred and or such other evidence in the Strategic Report.
Furthermore, notes 25 and 26 to as the Directors may reasonably require as proof of title: the financial statements include the Groups objectives or ii in respect of only one class of shares.
and policies for managing its capital, its financial risk Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out management objectives, details of its financial using CREST and the Directors can refuse to register instruments and hedging activities and its exposure a transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with to credit and liquidity risk.
Significant financing activities the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
that took place during the year are detailed in the Financial review section.
The Directors may decide to suspend the registration The results of the Group, principally pertaining to its of transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register industrial asset base, are exposed to fluctuations in both of shareholders.
The Directors cannot suspend the commodity prices and currency exchange rates whereas registration of transfers of any uncertificated shares the performance of marketing activities is primarily without obtaining consent from CREST.
physical volume driven with commodity price risk There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary substantially hedged.
shares in the Company except: 1 certain restrictions may The Directors have a reasonable expectation, having from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations made appropriate enquiries that the Group has adequate for example insider trading laws : 2 pursuant to the resources to continue its operational existence for the Companys share dealing code whereby the Directors and foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to certain employees of the Company require approval to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial deal in the Companys shares: and 3 where a shareholder statements.
The Directors have made this assessment with at least a 0.25% interest in the Companys issued after consideration of the Groups budgeted cash flows share capital has been served with a disclosure notice and related assumptions including appropriate stress and has failed to provide the Company with information testing of the identified uncertainties being primarily concerning interests in those shares.
There are no commodity prices and currency exchange rates and agreements between holders of ordinary shares that are undrawn credit facilities, monitoring of debt maturities, known to the Company which may result in restrictions and after review of the Guidance on Risk Management, on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting 2014 as published by the UK Financial The rules for appointment and replacement of the Reporting Council.
Directors are set out in the Articles.
Directors can be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution at a GM or by the Board upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
The Company can remove aDirector from office, including by passing an ordinary resolution or by notice being given by all the other Directors.
The Company may amend its Articles by special resolution approved at a GM.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 108 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Longer-term viability In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will In accordance with paragraph C2.2 of the Code, the be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
Directors have assessed the prospects of the Groups However, the Directors are also required to: viability over a longer period than the 12 months required properly select and apply accounting policies by the going concern assessment above.
A summary of the assessment made is set out on page 44 in the present information, including accounting policies, Principal risks and uncertainties section.
in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information Based on the results of the related analysis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able provide additional disclosures when compliance with to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to due over the four-year period of this assessment.
They also enable users to understand the impact of particular believe that the review period of four years is appropriate transactions, other events and conditions on the having regard to the Groups business model, strategy, entitys financial position and financial performance principal risks and uncertainties, and viability.
make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern Auditor Each of the persons who is a Director at the date The Directors are responsible for keeping proper of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant enable them to ensure that the financial statements audit information of which the Companys auditor comply with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They is unaware: and are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the b the Director has taken all the steps that he ought prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
to have taken as a director in order to make himself The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and aware of any relevant audit information and to integrity of the corporate and financial information establish that the Companys auditor is aware included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the of that information.
UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue financial statements may differ from legislation in office as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will in other jurisdictions.
be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Signed on behalf of the Board Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for the Company for each financial year.
John Burton The financial statements are prepared in accordance Company Secretary with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued 1 March 2018 by the International Accounting Standards Board and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the European Union together IFRS.
The financial statements are required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991. International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 109 Directors report For the year ended 31December2017 continued Information required by Listing Rule LR 9.8.
4C In compliance with UK Listing Rule 9.8.
4C the Company discloses the following information: Listing Rule Information required Relevant disclosure 9.8.
4 1 Interest capitalised by the Group See note 7 to the financial statements 9.8.
4 2 Unaudited financial information as required LR 9.2.
18 See Chief Executive Officers review 9.8.
4 5 Director waivers of emoluments See Directors remuneration report 9.8.
4 6 Director waivers of future emoluments See Directors remuneration report 9.8.
4 12 Waivers of dividends See note 17 to the financial statements 9.8.
4 13 Waivers of future dividends See note 17 to the financial statements 9.8.
4 14 Agreement with a controlling shareholder LR 9.2.
2A Not applicable There are no disclosures to be made in respect of the other numbered parts of LR 9.8.
Confirmation of Directors responsibilities We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations as adopted by the European Union, International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and the Companies Jersey Law 1991, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and income of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: the management report, which is incorporated in the Strategic Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face: and the Annual Report and consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair and balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the performance, position, strategy and business model of the Company.
The consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2017 were approved on the date below by the Board of Directors.
Signed on behalf of the Board: Anthony Hayward Ivan Glasenberg Chairman Chief Executive Officer 1 March 2018 Glencore Annual Report 2017 110 Financial statements 112 Independent Auditors Report 122 Consolidated statement of income 123 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 124 Consolidated statement of financial position 125 Consolidated statement of cash flows 127 Consolidated statement of changes of equity 128 Notes to the financial statements Glencore Annual Report 2017 111 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the affairs of Glencore plc and its subsidiaries together the Group affairs as at 31 December 2017 and of the Groups income for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB : and have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
We have audited the financial statements of the Group which comprise: the consolidated statement of income the consolidated statement of comprehensive income the consolidated statement of financial position the consolidated statement of cash flows the consolidated statement of changes of equity, and the related notes 1 to 33 The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as issued by the IASB.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We are independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRCs Ethical Standard as applied to listed entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Summary of our audit approach Key audit matters The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: Impairments Revenue recognition Fair value measurements within the marketing operations Classification of financial instruments Credit and performance risk Taxation, and Katanga Mining Limited Katanga Restatements Our assessment of the Groups key audit matters is broadly consistent with 2016.
Capital preservation Debt reduction plans is no longer considered a key audit matter as a result of the Group completing the capital preservation and debt reduction plan announced in 2015.
We identified Katanga Restatements as a current year key audit matter following the announcement of the completion of an internal review of certain of Katangas historic accounting practices.
Materiality We determined materiality for the Group to be $200 million, based on a normalised 3-year average pre-tax profit.
Scoping We focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 47 components, representing the Groups most material marketing operations and industrial assets.
These 47 components account for 93% of the Groups net assets, 97% of the Groups revenue and 89% of the Groups adjusted EBITDA as set out in Note 2.
Significant changes Aside from the changes in key audit matters noted above, there were no significant changes to our in our approach audit approach when compared to 2016.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 112 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement Going concern We confirm that we have We have reviewed the directors statement in note 1 to the financial statements about whether nothing material to report, they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them add or draw attention to in and their identification of any material uncertainties to the Groups ability to continue to do so respect of these matters.
over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Principal risks and viability statement We confirm that we have Based solely on reading the directors statements and considering whether they were consistent nothing material to report, with the knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained add or draw attention to in in the evaluation of the directors assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, respect of these matters.
we are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the disclosures on pages 42 51 that describe the principal risks and explain how they are being managed or mitigated: the directors confirmation on page 90 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, solvency or liquidity: or the directors explanation on page 44 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
We are also required to report whether the directors statement relating to the prospects of the Group required by Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3 is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud that we identified.
These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 113 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc continued Impairments Description of key audit matter How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter The carrying value of the Groups non-current assets, which We reviewed managements assessment of impairment risk and includes intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, loans their assessment of the indicators of impairment and challenged and advances, and investments in associates and joint ventures, the significant assumptions used.
amounted to $85,867 million at 31 December 2017.
We sought to identify additional potential indicators of The volatility in expected future prices of certain commodities key impairment through our review of operational performance to the Group particularly oil, copper, cobalt, zinc and coal, foreign and financial results as well as the impact of any significant exchange rates, production levels, operating costs, discount rates regulatory changes.
and macro-economic developments require management to Where significant indicators of impairment or impairment closely monitor non-current asset carrying values.
reversals were identified, we utilised Deloitte extractive industry Given the nature of the Groups industrial assets, developments valuation specialists to assess the appropriateness of concerning geology, production or distribution of the Groups managements underlying model inputs and significant products may also trigger a need to consider impairment.
For loans, advances and other investments, assessing In performing our challenge, we considered the risk of counterparty risk, solvency and liquidity can be highly subjective.
management bias in the assumptions and estimates.
Wechallenged the significant inputs and assumptions used Management completes an impairment review on all of the inimpairment and impairment reversal testing for intangible Groups significant investments annually, as part of the Groups assets, property, plant and equipment, associates and budgeting process.
The outcome of impairment assessments could vary significantly Our challenge included comparing inputs and significant were different assumptions applied.
Refer to Key sources of assumptions as noted above, to third party forecasts and estimation uncertainty within note 1, notes 4, 5 and 9 as well Deloitte developed discount rates.
Production assumptions as the Audit Committee Report on pages 96 98. were compared to life of mine or hydrocarbon extraction plans In total impairments amounting to $871 million were recognised where applicable as well as reserves and resources estimates.
in the year ended 31 December 2017 primarily relating to Operating costs and production levels were also compared oil assets as a result of commodity prices and operational to the current period actual results, management approved developments.
This was offset by $243 million of impairment budgets and life of mine models.
Further, we assessed whether reversals within oil assets following production plan optimisation macro assumptions had been applied on a consistent basis and cost efficiency identification.
We challenged managements sensitivity analysis by performing independent sensitivity analyses on selected assets, including those which were not identified as having indicators of impairment but have a higher risk of impairment due to lower available headroom in fair value models, volatility in key pricing assumptions, or the existence of operational circumstances which may indicate potential for impairment.
For impairment reversals, we reviewed the audit evidence relating to the reversal of conditions previously leading to the impairment and the models supporting the reversal.
With respect to loans and advances of $2,976 million, our procedures included challenging their recoverability by reviewing supporting agreements and obtaining evidence ofcurrent performance to identify potential indicators ofimpairment.
We assessed the adequacy of impairment related disclosures in the financial statements, including the key assumptions used and the sensitivity of the financial statements to these assumptions.
Key observations Based on the results of our testing, we concluded that managements assessment of impairment indicators was appropriate.
Where there were impairment indicators, our procedures found that the impairment models were in line with the underlying mine and hydrocarbon extraction plans and supported by appropriate inputs and assumptions.
We concluded that the key pricing and discount rate assumptions were in line with third party evidence and our experts acceptable ranges.
We found managements disclosures on key assumptions and impairment sensitivities to be appropriate.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 114 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Revenue recognition Description of key audit matter How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Revenue for the year was $205,476 million 2016: $152,948 million, We have reviewed Glencores revenue recognition policies for and the identification as a key audit matter primarily relates to compliance with the requirements of IAS 18 Revenue IAS 18. the following: For marketing operations we: Marketing operations: evaluated the design, implementation and tested the We identified a risk that the capture of trades within the trade operating effectiveness of key controls surrounding the book is incomplete or inaccurate impacting the timing and completeness and accuracy of trade capture and the revenue quantum of revenue recognition for commodity sales with and trade cycle deliveries occurring on or around year-end.
tested the operating effectiveness of general IT controls Judgement is required to determine when risks and rewards surrounding major technology applications and critical have transferred under certain contractual arrangements with interfaces involving revenue recognition and the completeness third parties, especially on or around year-end.
and accuracy of trade capture As a majority of the Groups trades are measured at fair value agreed, on a sample basis, deliveries occurring on or around through profit and loss, a complete and accurate trade capture 31 December 2017 to supporting documentation to assess process that includes all specific and bespoke terms within the whether the IFRS revenue recognition criteria were met for commodity contracts is critical for accurate financial reporting recorded sales and monitoring of trade book exposures and performance.
obtained third party confirmations where relevant to check Marketing related activities depend on the reliability of the completeness and accuracy of trade books, and trade capture systems and their IT infrastructure environment.
performed cut-off testing of trades entered into the trade Industrial assets: book system around the reporting date Substantially all output from industrial assets is sold by the Groups marketing divisions.
Where third party sales occur, the For industrial assets we: key risks relate to provisional pricing terms, metal concentrate assessed the design and implementation of controls around estimates and the consideration of embedded derivatives in the methodology adopted by management to identify the sales contracts.
provisional pricing terms and the determination of estimates Judgement must be exercised to determine when risks and of metal in concentrate sold to third parties: rewards have transferred under bill and hold and other nonobtained third party confirmations to verify the completeness standard contract arrangements.
and accuracy of third party sales: and We presume a risk of material misstatement due to fraud reviewed key contracts for the existence of embedded related to revenue recognition.
Refer to note 1 for the revenue derivatives and performed valuation testing as appropriate.
We also performed testing on journal entries using computer assisted profiling techniques to address the risk of management override of internal controls related to revenue recognition.
Key observations Based on the results of our testing, we are satisfied that the revenue recognition policies are in line with IFRS and were appropriately applied throughout the period.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 115 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc continued Fair value measurements within the marketing operations Description of key audit matter How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Determination of fair values of marketing inventories, financial We evaluated the design and implementation and tested assets and liabilities is a complex and subjective area often operating effectiveness of key internal controls over requiring significant estimates, particularly where valuations managements processes for determining inputs to fair value utilise unobservable inputs e. g. credit risk assessments, market measurements and performed detailed substantive testing volatility and forecast operational estimates.
At 31 December on a sample basis of the related fair value measurements.
2017, total Level 3 Other financial assets and liabilities amounted Using financial instrument specialists embedded within to $356 million and $705 million respectively.
the audit team with experience in commodity trading, As the Groups marketing inventories and other financial assets we specifically tested the evidence supporting significant and liabilities are measured at fair value at each reporting date, unobservable inputs utilised in Level 3 measurements these fair value measurements significantly impact the Groups in the fair value hierarchy as outlined in note 27 to the results.
financial statements, which included reviews of independent price quotes, recent transactions and Refer to Key sources of estimation uncertainty within note 1 other supporting documentation.
Key observations Based on the results of our testing, we are satisfied that the level 3 fair value measurements are supported by reasonable assumptions in line with recent transactions and or externally verifiable information.
We found the financial statement disclosures on fair value measurements in note 27 to be adequate.
Classification of financial instruments Description of key audit matter How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Glencore trades a diverse portfolio of commodities and utilises a We obtained an understanding of the trading strategies and wide variety of trading strategies in order to profit from volatility associated product flows within the Groups marketing in market prices, differentials and spreads whilst maximising departments using financial instrument specialists embedded flexibility and optionality.
within the audit team with experience in commodity trading.
The classification of contracts relating to the Groups marketing We evaluated the design and implementation and tested operations is a judgemental area, particularly distinguishing sales operating effectiveness of key controls around monitoring contracts where the Group physically delivers its own production exposures by the risk management department.
to a third party own use, from those which form part of the We analysed the trade books to understand unusual or complex Groups marketing operations.
The majority of the Groups trades derivatives open at year-end.
We also analysed the trading results are measured at fair value through profit and loss.
for portfolios designated as own use for evidence of any net Differences in classification affect recognition of associated gains settlements, which may indicate potential tainting of the and losses as contracts which are own use are exempt from IAS 39 own use criteria.
We challenged managements judgement and conclusions Transactions for the sale or purchase of commodities may contain associated with classification and accounting for new significant a financing element and or embedded derivatives, which arrangements and significant changes to existing arrangements.
may require judgement in determining the most appropriate We assessed the adequacy of related disclosures in the financial classification, presentation and accounting treatment.
statements in accordance with the requirements of IFRS.
Key observations Based on the results of our testing, we are satisfied that all significant assumptions applied in respect of the classification of financial instruments are appropriate and that disclosures given around financial instruments are in accordance with the requirements of IFRS.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 116 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Credit and performance risk Description of key audit matter How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter The Group is exposed to credit and performance risk arising We undertook internal control testing of the Groups centralised from the Groups global production and marketing operations, and local credit and performance risk monitoring procedures.
particularly in markets demonstrating significant price volatility We challenged managements assessment of the recoverability with limited liquidity and terminal markets.
of aged and overdue receivables, loans and advance payments This risk is heightened in times of increased price volatility, with delayed or overdue deliveries, considering historical patterns where suppliers may be incentivised to default on delivery of trading and settlement as well as recent communications and customers are unable to make payments.
with the counterparties and other post balance sheet dateevidence.
At 31 December 2017, total advances and loans and accounts receivable amounted to $2,976 million and $20,359 million In addition, we challenged the valuation of significant fixed price respectively.
positions in commodities across the Group at year-end given the high price volatility during the year, particularly with respect Refer to notes 10, 12 and 25 and the Audit Committee Report to base metals and coal where the risk of non-performance on pages 96 to 98. ishigher.
Key observations We concluded that the Groups provisioning in relation to counterparty and performance risk was appropriately assessed.
Taxation Description of key audit matter How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter There is significant judgement around accounting for income We undertook a specific assessment of the material components taxes particularly in light of the number of jurisdictions in which impacting the Groups tax expense, balances and exposures the Group operates, including judgements concerning presence and performed detailed audit procedures in relation to these.
of key corporate operations and holding companies, provisioning We considered the appropriateness of managements for tax exposures, application of transfer pricing rules, the assumptions and estimates to support the recognition of recognition of deferred income tax assets and the taxation deferred tax assets with reference to forecast taxable profits impacts of any corporate restructurings.
and the consistency of these forecasts with the Groups budgets.
This gives rise to complexity and uncertainty in respect of We reviewed and challenged managements assessment the calculation of income taxes and deferred tax assets and of uncertain tax positions and conclusions on complex tax consideration of contingent liabilities associated with tax years arrangements such as transfer pricing through discussions open to audit.
with the Group taxation department, reviewing correspondence As at 31 December 2017, the Group has recorded net deferred with local tax authorities, reviewing third party expert tax tax liabilities of $7,024 million and net deferred tax assets of opinions and utilising Deloitte tax specialists, where appropriate, $1,733 million.
Additionally, the Group has $6,574 million of gross to assess the adequacy of associated provisions and disclosures.
tax losses carried forward and deductible temporary differences, We challenged management on the disclosures in the for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised.
financial statements in relation to taxation, specifically on the Theassessment of tax-related contingent liabilities has been requirement for adequate assessment of uncertainties and disclosed in note 21. contingent liabilities.
Refer to Key sources of estimation uncertainty within note 1 and additionally notes 6 and 21, and the Audit Committee Report on pages 96 to 98.
Key observations The results of our testing were satisfactory and we concur that the level of tax provisions and disclosures are appropriate.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 117 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc continued Katanga Restatements Description of key audit matter How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Katanga is a Canadian listed copper and cobalt producer in the The additional audit procedures performed by the Group and Democratic Republic of Congo which is controlled by Glencore relevant component audit teams in response to the Katanga and therefore a consolidated subsidiary.
During the year, the Independent Review included the following: non-executive directors of Katanga initiated an independent The use of Deloitte forensic experts at Group and component review into the accounting practices of Katanga covering the level to understand and challenge both the scope and financial years ended December 2014, 2015 and 2016 competency of the independent accounting expert engaged Independent Review.
by the non-executive directors assisting with the Katanga This review concluded that as a result of inappropriate Independent Review as well as the audit procedures accounting practices and significant weaknesses in Katangas performed by the Group audit team internal control environment around financial reporting and A review of the report prepared by the independent inventory valuation and recording, including management accounting expert from the Katanga Independent Review override of internal controls, various financial line items were to understand the nature of the misstatements, including misstated in 2014, 2015 and 2016.
The cumulative restatements findings with respect to internal controls, including resulted in a net reduction in total assets liabilities and equity of management override of internal control $60 million net of income tax credits of $18 million which was accounted for as a current year adjustment in Glencores 2017 Additional audit work with respect to the correcting entries financial statements.
These adjustments do not have a material required to restate the Katanga financial statements adverse effect on the consolidated income, financial position Meeting with the Glencore Board of Directors and senior or cash flows of Glencore.
management to understand the scope and findings of the The Glencore plc Board of Directors convened a board Glencore Review, including consideration of the risk of committee to assess the implications of the findings from the management override at other Glencore assets and Katanga Independent Review on Glencore Groups internal specifically within the African copper assets controls the Glencore Review.
This was to assess the matter Communicating the increased risk of management override including the possibility of similar issues existing at other of controls to component auditors with similar risk profiles Glencore operations, and determine the appropriate measures to Katanga, requesting additional audit procedures be to improve the control environment and the disciplinary action conducted, such as the involvement of Deloitte technical to be taken against Glencore personnel involved in misstating mining experts in the component audit procedures, and past financial statements.
Consideration of the implementation of recommendations Our audit work, at Group and the relevant component level, made by experts engaged to assist in this matter and other included additional procedures considering the impact actions by the Katanga and Glencore boards to determine of the findings from the Katanga Independent Review whether misstatements involving management override and the Glencore plc board committee.
could exist at other components Please refer to page 92 and 97 for the boards discussion on the matter and note 4 for the cumulative impacts of the above adjustments in Glencores financial statements.
Key observations We concur that the cumulative impact of the adjustments recorded in Glencores consolidated financial statements are fairly stated in all material respects in accordance with IFRS.
Based on the results of our testing, no additional reportable misstatements involving management override were identified from our audit.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 118 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Our application of materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced.
We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group materiality $200 million 2016: $150 million The applied materiality is approximately 7% of normalised 3-year average pre-tax profit 2016: 7%, and equates to less than 1% 2016: 1% of equity.
$m Maximum allowed Audit Committee Group materiality component materiality reporting threshold 200 150 100 90 75 2017 10 10 2016 Basis for determining Consistent with the methodology in the prior year, we have determined materiality by using a materiality percentage of a normalised 3-year average 201517 of pre-tax profits.
The selected materiality is 3% of current year normalised results without the effect of averaging.
These normalising items are outlined in notes 3 and 4 to the financial statements.
Rationale for the The pre-tax profits for the 201517 years have been normalised in determining materiality to exclude benchmark applied items which, due to their variable financial impact and or expected infrequency of the underlying events, are not considered indicative of continuing operations of the Group.
These items do not form part of the Groups internally or externally monitored primary key performance indicators, and which if included, would distort materiality year-on-year.
We consider this approach of using a 3-year average to be more appropriate than an assessment based on current year results alone given the nature of the mining industry which is exposed to cyclical commodity price fluctuations and to therefore provide a more stable base reflective of the scale of the Groups size and operations.
We note that the maximum allowed component materiality for industrial assets has increased to $100 million in the current year on the basis that the contribution to pre-tax profit by industrial assets has significantly increased throughout the normalised 3-year average period used in the determination of our materiality.
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of $10 million 2016: $10 million, as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements.
An overview of the scope of our audit Our Group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level.
Based on our continuing assessment, we focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at 47 components 2016: 45 components, representing the Groups most material marketing operations and industrial assets, and utilised 23 component audit teams 2016: 21 component audit teams in 20 countries 2016: 18 countries.
27 of these were subject to a full scope audit 2016: 29 components, and 20 were subject to specified audit procedures where the extent of our testing was based on our assessment of the risk of material misstatement and of the materiality of the Groups operations at those locations 2016: 16 components These 47 components account for 93% of the Groups net assets 2016: 92%, 97% of the Groups revenue 2016: 95% and 89% of the Groups adjusted EBITDA 2016: 89%.
Glencore Annual Report 2017 119 Marketing Ind asset Independent Auditors Report to the members of Glencore plc continued Net assets Revenue Adjusted EBITDA 3 7 2 11 9 34 59 Coverage % 80 95 Full scope audit specified audit procedures Analytical procedures Components are scoped based on their contribution to financial metrics revenue, EBIT and Adjusted EBITDA, production and qualitative criteria, such as being a significant development project or exhibiting particular risk factors.
Detailed audit instructions were sent to the auditors of these in-scope components.
These detailed audit instructions specified areas of audit focus, identified the risks of material misstatement assessed by the Group audit team and set out the information to be reported back to the Group audit team.
The Group audit team continued to follow a programme of regular on-site meetings with components that has been designed so that the Group Audit Partner or another senior member of the Group audit team periodically meets with local management and the component audit team on a rotational basis.
In 2017, the Group audit team held in-person meetings with 21 components 2016: 13 components.
Additionally for all in-scope components, the Group audit team was involved in the audit work performed by the component auditors through a combination of our global planning conference call meetings, provision of referral instructions, review and challenge of related component inter-office reporting and of findings from their work which included the audit procedures performed to respond to risks of material misstatement, attendance at component audit closing conference calls and regular interaction on any related audit and accounting matters which arose.
At the parent entity level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances.
Other information The directors are responsible for the other information.
The other information comprises the information We have nothing included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditors report thereon.
to report in respect of these matters.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required todetermine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.
In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: Fair, balanced and understandable the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit, or Audit committee reporting the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee, or Directors statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the parts of the directors statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
10R 2 do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code Glencore Annual Report 2017 120 Strategic Report Governance Financial Additional Statements Information Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Councils website at: www.
This description forms part of our auditors report.
Use of our report This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law, 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state tothem in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Opinion on other matter prescribed by our engagement letter In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 as if that Act had applied to the company.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Jersey Law, 1991 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have nothing to report in respect we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or of these matters.
proper accounting records have not been kept by the parent company or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us, or the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns Other matters Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the Board of Directors on 22 August 2011 to audit the financial statements of Glencore plc for the year ending 31 December 2011 and subsequent financial periods.
The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm as auditors of Glencore plc is 7 years, covering the years ending December 2011 to December 2017.
Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs UK.
Matthew Sheerin, ACA CA AUS for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Recognised Auditor London, UK 1 March 2018 Glencore Annual Report 2017 121
