International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS MODEL DELIVERING INVESTOR RETURNS 1.
On the Initial Public Offer issue price of 100 pence per ordinary share.
There are many factors that may influence the actual achievement of long-term cash flows to the Company.
These include both internal as well as external factors and investors should not treat the chart as being more than an indicative profile and not a projection, estimate or profit forecast.
The actual achieved profile will almost certainly be different and may be higher or lower than indicated.
See pages 28 to 29 for information relating to the Companys use of sensitivity analysis.
See pages 24 to 30 for the methodology used to determine NAV.
Future profit projection and dividends cannot be guaranteed.
Projections are based on current estimates and may vary in future.
Share price plus dividends assumed to be reinvested.
Assets under management represents See footnote 2 and Company Overview, INPPs proportional ownership of each page 2 for full data INPP projected cash projects Total Development Value at flow profile inception 8 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS MODEL DELIVERING INVESTOR RETURNS 9 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE AGAINST STRATEGIC PRIORITIES INPPs strategy covers three interlinked areas of focus.
This three-pronged approach helps us to manage our assets and finances throughout the investment cycle and also to identify new opportunities that meet our investment objectives.
We link Key Performance Indicators to these Strategic Priorities and review our performance against these KPIs twice a year.
We also assess the risks relating to each KPI as identified in the Risk Management section of this Report.
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES DESCRIPTION - VALUE-FOCUSED PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT - Make new investments that enhance prospects for future value INVEST IN ASSETS THAT ENHANCE PORTFOLIO growth RETURNS RELATIVE TO RISK AND MAINTAIN A WELL-BALANCED INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO - Make additional acquisitions off-market or through preferential access e. g. sourced through pre-emption rights or via Amber Hunt - Manage portfolio composition with complementary investments, in line with the Companys Investment Policy and enhancing at least one of the following aspects: Blend of risk to return Inflation linkage Cash flow profile Capital attributes such as construction risk and residual value growth potential - ACTIVE ASSET MANAGEMENT - Focus on delivery of target returns from existing investments ACTIVE AND EFFECTIVE MANAGEMENT OF - Maintain high levels of public sector client satisfaction and asset ASSETS performance - Deliver additional value from existing assets through management of construction risk and delivery of operational improvements to meet client requirements - Enhance prospects for capital growth by investing in construction phase assets where available EFFECTIVE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT - Provide efficient management of cash holdings and debt facilities EFFECTIVE MANAGEMENT OF COMPANYS available for investment and appropriate hedging policies FINANCES - Efficient management of INPPs overall finances, with the intention to reduce ongoing charges where possible - Manage portfolio in a cost-efficient manner 10 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE AGAINST STRATEGIC PRIORITIES CONTINUED KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PERFORMANCE IN 2017 - - Value of new investments - Continued investment into the Thames Tideway Tunnel, Victoria Schools, Gold Coast Light Rail and Offenbach Police Centre which are currently under construction - Proportion of investments in construction - 12% of portfolio currently under construction - Value of additional investments acquired off market or - Acquisitions totalling 92.2 million secured through prethrough preferred access emption rights including additional stakes in the Wolverhampton BSF, Reliance Rail and Gold Coast Light Rail Phase 2 projects - Appointed as the preferred bidder for the Dudgeon Offshore Transmission Project OFTO in the U. K. - Improvement of risk return, inflation linkage and - Investments in Australia and Germany adding to geographical diversification of cash flows, including geographical diversification diversification - All assets acquired exhibited robust cash flow profiles - Investment into projects including Cadent in the U. K. enhance inflation linkage within the portfolio - Overall portfolio value inflation linkage increased from 0.78% to 0.79% for every 1.00% p. a. increase over assumed inflation rates calculated by running a plus 1.00% inflation sensitivity for each investment and solving each investments discount rate to return the original valuation.
The inflation linkage is the increase in the portfolio weighted average discount rate - - Availability for all controlled investments at 98% or - Availability for investments at 99.6% or greater above - returns from investments in line with expectations - Performance deductions below 3% for all projects - Performance deductions below 1% for all projects - Number of change requests from existing contracts - Over 900 change requests undertaken - Management of investments during the course of - Majority of construction projects managed on time and to construction projects in line with overall delivery budget.
Costs of small project delays absorbed by construction timetable partners - Cash dividends paid to investors 1.2 times covered by operating - Dividends paid to investors covered by operating cash cash flow before one off costs flow - All investments in 2017 funded through excess cash in priority - New investments made from available cash after to the corporate debt facility payment of dividend ahead of using corporate debt - Market tested cash deposit rates - Competitive cash deposit rates - 54.6 million of foreign exchange forward contracts in place to - Use of appropriate hedging strategies mitigate short-term foreign exchange cash flow volatility - Ongoing charges 1.15% p. a.
2016: 1.13% - Management of ongoing charges 11 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY DIFFERENTIATION OF THE OPERATING MODEL Our key differentiator is that the Companys Investment Adviser, Amber, supports INPP and its investment portfolio entities with project origination and financial and asset management services to deliver the best value for its shareholders.
Amber employs over 100 experienced professionals focused on development, financing and investment in public infrastructure.
Collectively, we identify, develop and originate investment opportunities that meet INPPs risk-return profile.
Amber can research and track investment opportunities from conception through to development and consultation stages, often in advance of an investment formally coming to market.
In managing the whole lifecycle of the Companys investment in any one asset, Amber delivers a consistent level of oversight and control over the projects the Company invests in.
In addition, Ambers experience and ability in forming partnerships with other long-term investors, both U. K. and international, enables INPP to participate in large scale infrastructure projects providing access to opportunities which broaden the base for new investments.
Under the terms of the Investment Advisory Agreement with Amber, INPP has the right of first look at investments that are being realised by Amber, including opportunities identified by Hunt Companies a U. S. based group and 50% shareholder in Amber that meet INPPs investment criteria.
INPP CONTINUED ABILITY TO SOURCE ATTRACTIVELY VALUED CORE INFRASTRUCTURE ASSETS As part of the Companys diversification and move away from traditional PFI models, INPP has grown its exposure within the portfolio to regulated assets, including Cadent.
INPP is part of a consortium, including other leading U. K. and international investors, which acquired a 61% interest in Cadent, a gas distribution company formerly wholly owned by National Grid plc.
The Company invested 272.5 million into the project for a 4.4% stake with the remaining risk capital funded by consortium partners.
Cadent spans over four gas distribution networks GDNs each with the right to distribute gas in the East and North West of England, North London and the West Midlands, respectively.
The networks service approximately 50% of the countrys connected households through 130,000km of gas pipeline.
The GDNs are well-established, predictable and strongly cash yielding business whose characteristics are consistent with and complementary to other regulated and non-regulated assets in the Companys portfolio.
The key attributes include: Stable, RPI linked revenues deriving from a regulated asset base with long-term cashflows expected to enhance the degree of inflation linkage inherent in the Companys overall portfolio: Critical elements of the U. K. s infrastructure base: Proven, well established, highly stable and transparent regulatory regime overseen by Ofgem: A mature underlying asset base with an established operating history and no exposure to commodity or consumer demand risk: and An experienced management team and a strong minority shareholder partner in National Grid INPPs investment in GDNs, through Cadent, strengthens the Companys focus on regulated assets which deliver long-term, sustainable, inflation-linked revenues.
This began with INPPs ongoing investment programme investing in the offshore transmission OFTO sector and continued with INPPs investment into the Tideway project in 2015.
These assets operate in an established, highly respected and predictable regulatory regime, overseen by Ofgem and Ofwat, respectively.
12 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW VALUE-FOCUSED PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT New investments that meet the Companys Investment Policy are made after assessing their risk and return profile relative to the existing portfolio.
In particular, we seek investments to complement the existing portfolio through enhancing long-term, predictable cash flows and or to provide the opportunity for higher capital growth.
Early stage investor e. g. the Company is an early stage investor in a new asset developed by Amber 4.
Preferential access e. g. sourced through pre-emptive rights or through the activities of our Investment Adviser 5.
Enhanced capital attributes e. g. potential for additional capital growth through construction fide-risking or the potential for residual terminal value growth During the year to 31 December 2017, INPP invested a record 464.0 million.
The majority of these projects were sourced by Amber, the Investment Adviser, either from the start of the project i. e. early stage developments in response to an initial government procurement process through increasing its interest in existing assets: or as part of a larger consortium, building on the Companys experience and credibility to participate in multi-billion pound regulated infrastructure transactions.
These three procurement approaches are INPPs preferred route to market: as they avoid bidding in the competitive secondary PPP market.
Details of investment activity during 2017 are provided below.
PROJECT LOCATION KEY ATTRIBUTES OPERATIONAL STATUS INVESTMENT INVESTMENT DATE 1 2 3 4 5 Cadent gas distribution network U. K. Operational 272.5 million 31 March 2017 Under Thames Tideway Tunnel U. K. 78.2 million Various construction Wolverhampton Building Schools U. K. Operational 1.5 million 5 May 2017 for the Future 1 Gold Coast Light Rail Phase 2 Australia Operational 3.9 million Various 1 Victoria Schools Project Australia Operational 20.8 million Various 1 Reliance Rail Australia Operational 86.8 million 28 November 2017 2,3 Other investments 0.3 million 2,3 464.0 million 1 GBP translated value of investment.
2 A subsidiary affiliated with the project construction contractor will assume responsibility for financing the construction of the Offenbach Police Centre.
As such INPPs financial commitment is not due until satisfactory construction completion, anticipated to occur in mid-2020.
0.1 million was invested at financial close.
3 An investment commitment of up to 45.0million was made to the National Digital Infrastructure Fund.
During the period 0.2 million pre-investment was called by the fund.
In addition, up to 225 million of investment commitments or binding offers were made during the period including into the Offenbach Police Centre, Germany, the National Digital Infrastructure Fund, Dudgeon OFTO and a further investment in the Cadent gas distribution networks.
Further details for each of these transactions are provided below.
13 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED CADENT GAS DISTRIBUTION NETWORK, U. K. The Company is part of a consortium which includes other leading U. K. and international institutional investors which acquired a 61% interest in Cadent owner of gas distribution networks GDNs.
In 2017, the Company invested 272.5 million into the project for a 4.4% stake with the remaining risk capital funded by consortium partners.
In addition to the 61% interest acquired by the consortium, a further 14% interest in the GDNs has been negotiated with the National Grid and is subject to put and call options between National Grid and the consortium.
The consortium also has pre-emption arrangements over the residual 25% investment that National Grid will continue to hold after the exercise of the 14% option.
The investment demonstrates the Companys performance in originating regulated assets with long-term, sustainable, inflation linked revenues.
THAMES TIDEWAY TUNNEL, U. K. The Tideway investment relates to the design, build and operation of a 25-kilometre super-sewer under the River Thames in London.
The Company is part of a consortium committed to investing 4.2 billion in developing this asset which is regulated by Ofwat.
Construction of the Thames Tideway Tunnel is continuing with work having started ahead of schedule at the key drive sites and overall construction completion is scheduled for 2022.
During the period an additional 1,050 million of long-term financing was successfully raised by Tideway to support its construction activities bringing total long-term financing raised since the project reached financial close to 2.2 billion.
During 2017, the Company invested a further 78.2 million into the project, completing the c. 207 million investment commitment it made when the consortium was awarded the licence to own and finance the project in 2015.
ADDITIONAL INVESTMENT IN BUILDING SCHOOLS FOR THE FUTURE BSF PROJECTS, U. K. BSF is a former U. K. Government programme for the redevelopment of secondary schools in the U. K. financed using a combination of design and build contracts and private finance type arrangements.
The programme for further developments was cancelled in July 2010.
In 2017, the Company acquired an additional interest in the Wolverhampton BSF schools project committing a further 1.5 million to acquire a further 8% indirect investment in the scheme.
As a result, the Companys existing 82% investment in the project grew to 90%.
ADDITIONAL INVESTMENT IN GOLD COAST LIGHT RAIL, AUSTRALIA In April 2016, the Company committed to invest c. 4.8 million into the second stage of the Gold Coast Light Rail PPP concession project in Queensland, Australia, the first stage of which was already part of the portfolio.
3.9 million of investment was made directly into the project during the period with an additional 0.7 million supported by letter of credit.
Construction of the 7.3km extension reached completion ahead of schedule and opened for passenger services in December 2017, in time for the opening of the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games in April 2018.
VICTORIA SCHOOLS PROJECT, AUSTRALIA In October 2015, the Company as part of a consortium, was selected to design, build, finance and maintain the New Schools Public Private Partnership Project in Victoria, Australia.
The project comprises the delivery of 15 schools across 12 sites.
The Company provides 100% of the project risk capital and in 2017, 20.8 million of investment was made into the project and construction completed in December 2017.
ADDITIONAL INVESTMENT IN RELIANCE RAIL, AUSTRALIA The Reliance Rail Project is a public private partnership with Transport for New South Wales, an executive agency of the New South Wales government relating to the provision of rolling stock.
In November 2017, INPP invested c. A$154 million 86.8 million and now owns a 33% interest in the project.
INPP has held a small minority interest in the project since 2006, but since 2012 this has been carried at nominal value only.
Whilst the operational performance of the project has been excellent, equity value had been suppressed by the complexity of the projects original structure.
The 2017 investment and associated refinancing restores the original value of the Companys existing investment, and on a blended basis of the new and existing capital is expected to provide the Company with an attractive return in comparison with other operational PPP projects in the portfolio.
14 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED OFFENBACH POLICE CENTRE, GERMANY The Company has committed to invest in the new public private partnership police centre of South-East Hesse in Offenbach which is approximately 5km from Frankfurt, Germany.
It is anticipated that the project will take two and a half years to construct after which it will have a 30-year operational term.
INPP has committed to invest c. 8 million for a 45% shareholding in the project.
A subsidiary affiliated with the projects construction contractor will assume responsibility for financing during the construction period.
As such, aside from a small initial investment, INPPs financial commitment is not due until satisfactory construction completion, anticipated to occur in mid-2020.
DIGITAL INFRASTRUCTURE, U. K. The Company committed jointly with HM Government to make an investment in digital infrastructure and particularly fibre optic broadband connections through the National Digital Infrastructure Fund NDIF, a vehicle also managed by Amber.
The Company sees the prospect of long-term parallels between the essential nature of broadband connectivity to the home and workplace, and the established businesses of gas and electricity distribution and transmission with which it already has experience.
INPP has committed up to 45 million into NDIF, with HM Government committing up to 150 million.
DUDGEON OFFSHORE TRANSMISSION PROJECT OFTO, U. K. Transmission Capital Partners, the consortium comprising INPP, Amber Infrastructure and Transmission Investment was appointed in November 2017 as preferred bidder for the long-term licence and operation of its seventh OFTO project.
The project relates to the transmission cable connection to the offshore wind farm located 32km off the coast of Cromer in North Norfolk, U. K. The Company takes no exposure to electricity production or price risk but is paid a pre-agreed, availability-based revenue stream over 20 years which is fully linked to U. K. inflation RPI.
The Company expects to invest c. 50 million, with financial close estimated in the second quarter of 2018.
15 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CURRENT MARKET ENVIRONMENT AND FUTURE OPPORTUNITIES UNITED KINGDOM The U. K. Government remains committed to the development of public infrastructure as a key component of its long-term economic policy.
The U. K. Government recognises infrastructure as a central pillar of its Industrial Strategy, and in 2017 it updated the National Infrastructure and Construction Pipeline NICP.
The NICP details 460 billion of planned infrastructure investment across the public and private sectors, projecting total public and private investment in U. K. infrastructure to be around 600 billion over the next ten years.
This is enhanced by the U. K. Government increasing the National Productivity Investment Fund to 31 billion at the end of 2017 which will support private sector investment in transport, housing and digital infrastructure, in particular.
In December 2017, the Infrastructure and Projects Authority IPA launched the Transforming Infrastructure Performance TIP programme to help improve the delivery and performance of social and economic infrastructure and boost construction sector productivity.
A ten-year programme, the TIP is designed to enhance the way infrastructure is designed, procured, delivered and operated to help drive efficiency and productivity gains.
This is not only about benchmarking capital efficiency which the Company and its Investment Adviser, as long-term investors, have always been actively engaged in and how to drive better asset performance over the whole lifecycle but what role technology can also play in maximising the benefits of public infrastructure in daily life.
Whilst infrastructure spending and procurement has remained a constant policy objective, it has increasingly become a political imperative, too.
The Company notes the increasing public attention paid to the assessment of the value for money private sector investment in U. K. public infrastructure provides.
Whilst the greater volume of commentary has been levelled at historical PFI projects associated with large, acute hospitals in the U. K. to which the Company has no exposure the Company continues to believe that PFI PF2 brings significant benefits to the projects public sectors partners, and ultimately their end-users.
These include the benefits of contracts covering the whole of the life of the asset and the risk transfer to the private sector arising through detailed payment mechanisms imposing penalties where standards fall below those required by the project contracts.
Such arrangements have demonstrated the effectiveness of incentives for the private sector to build new infrastructure on time and to budget and to lower the overall cost of capital through the competitive procurement process.
Whilst political uncertainty will likely continue to pose potential economic risk and potential market-wide challenges, the strength of the Companys geographically and sector diversified portfolio gives the Board confidence in its position as a long-term custodian on public infrastructure projects in the face of enhanced public scrutiny in the U. K. As it invests into differentiated areas of infrastructure including regulated assets, the Company notes that as at 31 December 2017 only 8% of its assets were PFIs in the UK with a further 16% having similar characteristics but were developed under different programmes.
More information on the Companys evolution into regulated assets is set out in the Case Study on page 12.
EUROPE EXCLUDING UNITED KINGDOM Investment into European infrastructure continues to be strong and is supported by broader EU frameworks.
As part of the Investment Plan for Europe, known as the Juncker Plan, which was announced in November 2014, the European Fund for Strategic Investment was launched by the European Investment Bank and the European Commission.
Its initial focus was on infrastructure, including energy, digital, transport and social infrastructure with a current investment target to the end of 2020 of 500 billion.
Demand for the PPP asset class also remains strong, with steady volumes of transactions in the European market.
In 2017, the European PPP Expertise Centre reported 42 PPP transactions had reached financial close in the European market including the U. K., totalling investment of 14.4 billion.
While the U. K. is the largest market in Europe by number of transactions, Germany and France continue to see substantial deal flow.
In Europe excluding the U. K., INPP is focusing on stable and well-structured Northern European economies including Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany, Austria and Ireland.
These jurisdictions offer a steady flow of new primary market opportunities across a range of sectors, including accommodation, schools, police facilities and transportation.
Benelux, Germany and Austria are particularly attractive investment opportunities, given INPPs expertise and relationships with likely partners in those markets.
Moreover, existing investments in central Europe allow for attractive and partly exclusive secondary opportunities, providing an additional source of growth to strengthen INPPs position in those markets.
16 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CURRENT MARKET ENVIRONMENT AND FUTURE OPPORTUNITIES CONTINUED Future success will depend on securing opportunities through bid processes in primary and secondary markets, while ensuring that every opportunity fits within the Companys risk and reward parameters.
AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND Australia has a history of private sector organisations providing and financing public sector infrastructure.
It has a well-developed market for infrastructure investment and debt finance, with an active pool of domestic and overseas investors and banks.
Over the medium to long-term, much of Australias infrastructure development will be undertaken within the strategic and policy framework of Infrastructure Australias Australian Infrastructure Plan updated February 2017.
Australias population is expected to grow to more than 30 million people by 2031 and this plan has become the reference point for the most important infrastructure investments over the next 15 years, with a total capital value of around A$60 billion.
Many are large-scale multi-billion A$ transport projects, responding to population growth in Australias biggest cities.
This projected growth in major transport projects is consistent with the current trends in Australia with A$3.0 billion of PPP transport projects closed in 2016 and A$7.8 billion during 2017.
Australian states are also developing smaller scale social infrastructure projects in health, social housing and education sectors.
In keeping with policy recommendations in the Infrastructure Plan, some states are also adopting infrastructure procurement models that outsource operator services to the private sector, as well as seeking private sector capital to develop the asset.
New Zealand remains an important market although the recent change in government is expected to limit the number of PPP projects and government privatisations.
Amber, the Investment Adviser, continues to monitor projects as they come to market, and would resource the pursuit of these opportunities from its Australian offices should they offer enhanced returns.
INPP is positive about the prospects for further investments in the region and, whilst mindful of the recent improvement in the value of Sterling since the announcement of Brexit, will continue to monitor currency volatility in respect to new transactions.
Although INPP remains cautious of the refinancing risk prevalent within Australias current primary PPP market, there is an increasing appetite in the debt markets for longer tenor debt compared to previous years.
NORTH AMERICA Infrastructure in the U. S. continues to come under pressure and is significantly underfunded.
The American Society of Civil Engineers ASCE gave Americas infrastructure a grade D on its 2017 report card, falling to twelfth in the world according to the World Economic Forum, estimating that the United States needed to spend US $4.6 trillion by 2025, with a funding gap of US $1.5 trillion, to rebuild the United States public infrastructure from its current state of disrepair.
To address this, infrastructure has been flagged as a top priority and an agenda item of the 2018 budget, as part of President Donald Trumps Rebuild Americas Infrastructure plan seeking reforms for how infrastructure projects are regulated, funded, delivered and maintained.
Over the next 10 years, the Presidents target is to invest US$1.5 trillion into national infrastructure including US$200 billion of federal funding commitment with the remainder to be funded by state and local governments and private investors.
There are also initiatives to shorten the process for approving projects to two years or less White House Infrastructure Proposal, 2018.
The funds will be allocated to various projects to not only address traditional infrastructure but other needs such as drinking and wastewater systems, waterways, resources, energy, rural infrastructure, public lands and veterans hospitals.
Increasing private investment to reach the targets proposed is a theme that runs throughout the Infrastructure Plan in addition to incentives and amendments to existing limitations to encourage private investment.
The plan encourages a move away from financing the countrys infrastructure through government and tax-advantage schemes to using public private partnerships as the principal method of funding.
The ability for the private sector to participate in more U. S. infrastructure projects provides INPP with a broad variety of investment opportunities.
It is well-positioned to capitalise on these developments through its relationship with Hunt described in more detail on page 3, where it has right of first look over investment opportunities in the U. S. originated or sold by Hunt, which meet the Companys investment criteria.
17 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT CURRENT MARKET ENVIRONMENT AND FUTURE OPPORTUNITIES CONTINUED Canada has a strong track record of infrastructure investment and in 2017, they expanded on the commitments made in the 2016 budget and the 2016 Fall Economic Statement by proposing an additional C$81 billion through to 2027-28 in public transit, green and social infrastructure, transportation infrastructure to support trade and rural and northern communities.
The Investing in Canada longterm infrastructure plan expects C$180 billion of infrastructure investment to be made over 12 years.
One element of the 2017 budget will be delivered through integrated bilateral agreements between the federal government and each of the provinces and territories across four funding streams: public transit, green infrastructure, community, culture and recreation infrastructure and rural and northern communities.
INPP has an ongoing presence in the country through two operational projects.
The continued focus on expanding the infrastructure plan over the next decade allows INPP to capitalise on this opportunity and develop the already existing relationships.
18 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 CURRENT PIPELINE INPPs performance does not depend upon additional investments to deliver projected returns.
Further investment opportunities will be judged by their anticipated contribution to overall portfolio returns relative to risk.
Selected opportunities that may be considered for investment in due course as identified by Amber are outlined below.
KNOWN COMMITTED LOCATION ESTIMATED INVESTMENT EXPECTED INVESTMENT STATUS OPPORTUNITIES CONCESSION LENGTH 1 Dudgeon OFTO U. K. c. 50m c. 20 years Preferred bidder Subject to put and call Commitment as part of a consortium Operational option expected to be Cadent U. K. to acquire additional 14% interest business exercised during 2019 Commitment to National Digital Infrastructure Fund, investment opportunities 1 Digital U. K. Up to 45m Various being reviewed by Amber Investment commitment Offenbach Police made.
Expected to be 2 Headquarters Germany c. 7m 30 years funded mid 2020 SECTOR OF INVESTMENT LOCATION ESTIMATED PROJECT CAPITAL COMMITMENT EXPECTED INVESTMENT STATUS OPPORTUNITY VALUE CONCESSION LENGTH Various Regulated opportunities Other, including including including in energy and Regulated operational waste sectors at varying 3 investments U. K. c. 4.5bn businesses stages 3 OFTO U. K. c. 1.7bn c. 20 years Shortlisted on 4 OFTOs 3 Education U. K. Europe c. 240m Various Opportunities through variations to existing PPP contracts and through 3 Health Australia c. 230m Various Amber's wider relationships Australia, Includes follow-on 3 Transport Europe c. 590m Various opportunities Variety of opportunities U. K. Europe, mainly PPP-style 3 Accommodation U. S. Australia c. 680m Various investments 1 Represents the current estimate total future investment commitment by the Company.
2 Project has reached financial close.
Commitment to invest once construction has completed, expected to be mid 2020.
3 Represents the estimated current unaudited value of the project and includes both debt and equity.
The above includes commitments and potential opportunities currently under review by the Investment Adviser including current bids, preferred bidder opportunities and the estimated value of opportunities to acquire additional investments including under preemption first refusal rights.
There is no certainty that these will translate to actual investment opportunities for the Company.
The value referenced in relation to the pre-emption opportunities represents the estimated potential investment value which reflects the current estimate of the total likely acquisition value at that time.
In relation to opportunities where the current estimated gross value of the relevant project is given which includes an estimate of both debt and equity, the estimates provided are not necessarily indicative of the eventual acquisition price for, or the value of, any interest that may be acquired.
19 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED ACTIVE ASSET MANAGEMENT The Companys focus has, and will continue to be, to procure and manage assets which carry little demand-based risk, however increasingly the Company has shifted away from pure availability based assets recognising the value in risk-adjusted returns regulated assets can drive.
The delivery of expected outcomes for all parties to our investments is critical, whether this is a courthouse cleaned to the specified contractual standards or the delivery of a super sewer under London on time and within budget.
Through Amber, as a long-term, responsible private investor, we closely monitor relationships between our service providers and our clients, the Regulator and the operating business, and the operating business and the end user.
Amber has the flexibility and experience to quickly respond to the changing requirements of all its clients and counterparties.
We are not a passive investor and where possible manage project origination, financial and asset management in-house through our Investment Adviser.
We are actively involved in managing service providers and operating businesses to deliver the expected outcomes and in the event the assets under our management require remedial or improvements works, we work collectively with our service providers, operating businesses and clients to ensure end-users receive the outcomes they expect.
OPERATIONAL PORTFOLIO DEVELOPMENT Amber continues to engage with its public sector clients to manage variations to the existing scheme to support positive business change.
During 2017, INPPs public sector clients commissioned over 903 contract variations in its projects resulting in over c. 8.6 million of additional project work, with individual variations ranging in value from 200 to over 1 million.
These project variations were overseen by Amber as part of its day-to-day asset management activities, in conjunction with the relevant project facilities manager and each public sector client.
Amber assesses each case on its individual merits and ensures there is no material change to the risk profile or financial return, whilst assisting their client to achieve their operational or facilities objectives.
Amber seeks to actively manage and add value to the portfolio where it is able to do so.
For instance, the Company undertook two debt refinancings of its education assets under the BSF programme in 2017, with others planned over the course of 2018.
The refinancings generate improved financial returns which are shared with the public sector counterparty and demonstrate an important pillar of our active asset management approach - delivering benefits to our clients and the end-users, whilst not increasing the charge paid by the public sector.
Amber works with its public sector counterparties to deliver ongoing value and operational savings.
In 2017, nine benchmarking exercises were performed in its social accommodation projects, which included reviewing facilities management services delivered on the projects in order to assess value for money for the public sector.
Amber also continued to focus on energy efficiency, resulting in savings to public sector counterparties.
Safety is at the core of Ambers approach to asset management.
Following the tragic events at the Grenfell Tower in June 2017, Amber carried out a review of INPPs portfolio of assets to assess whether it had construction elements of a similar nature.
This review focussed on whether the INPP facilities were clad and insulated in the same materials as the Grenfell Tower.
The findings of the review confirmed that the specific combination of cladding and insulation material used at Grenfell Tower was not present on any of the assets managed on behalf of INPP.
The review also considered the height of facilities, whether the facilities have more than one means of escape, times of use of the facilities, and whether the facilities had sprinklers.
The outcome of the review indicated that the facilities INPP invests in are suitable for their intended use.
As noted in the Chairmans letter, the Company has paid particular attention to the portion of the portfolio where subsidiaries of Carillion plc provided construction and or facilities management services: 3% of the portfolio across 24 projects received construction facilities management services from Carillion.
Following the collapse of Carillion in January this year, Amber implemented its contingency plan to transition projects to new providers and manage broader project-level relationships.
17 of these projects have now been transitioned to new facilities managers on an interim basis.
Full transition is expected to occur over the following six months and will be on substantially the same terms as the original Carillion contracts and all on-site ex-Carillion personnel will be offered continuity of employment on the same terms.
20 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED PROJECTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION Four projects, representing approximately 12% of the Companys portfolio were under construction at 31 December 2017.
Tideway continued to make good progress in line with its scheduled construction programme.
Works commenced in April 2017 to enable the tunnel boring machines TBMs to be located ahead of the tunnelling commencing in 2018.
One of the drive sites, Chambers Wharf, once completed will create the largest new public outdoor area in London for over a decade.
During 2017 the construction works on the New Schools PPP Project in Australia Victorian Schools 2 progressed in line with expectations with the remaining seven schools achieving construction completion during 2017.
The seven kilometre Gold Coast Phase 2 light rail project extension reached completion and opened for passenger services on 17 December approximately two weeks earlier than the planned completion date.
Construction on the first three of the Priority Schools Building Programme projects are complete although some post completion works remain.
While all the new schools on the fourth batch were completed by September 2017, a sports hall at one of the schools is due to 2 be completed towards the end of 2018.
Batch five is on schedule to complete construction in April 2018.
Projects under construction as at 31 December 2017 are set out in the table below.
ASSET LOCATION CONSTRUCTION DEFECTS COMPLETION STATUS % OF FAIR VALUE COMPLETION DATE DATE OF INVESTMENT Priority School Building U. K. 2018 2019 Modest delays.
No financial 0.9% 1 Aggregator Programme impact on the Company batch 4 & 5 Thames Tideway Tunnel U. K. 2024 2027 On Schedule 10.8% Offenbach Police Headquarters Germany 2020 2025 On Schedule 0.0% 1 Two batches are behind schedule at 31 December 2017.
INPP is a debt only provider and the programme is largely determined by equity providers and their management supply chain.
2 Subject to a new construction provider being appointed to replace Carillion.
21 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED EFFECTIVE FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT The Company aims to manage its finances effectively by minimising its unutilised cash holdings, while maintaining the financial flexibility to pursue new investment opportunities.
This is achieved through active monitoring of cash held and generated from operations, appropriate hedging strategies, and prudent use of the Companys corporate debt facility CDF.
SUMMARY OF CASH FLOWS SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW YEAR TO 31 DECEMEBER 2017 YEAR TO 31 DECEMEBER 2016 MILLION MILLION Opening cash balance 71.0 72.4 Cash from investments 118.9 94.7 Operating costs recurring 21.5 16.1 Net financing costs 4.1 2.3 Net cash before non-recurring operating costs 93.3 76.3 Non-recurring operating costs 10.3 4.0 1 Net operating cash flows 83.0 72.3 Cost of new investments 464.0 209.9 Net movement of corporate debt facility 17.8 - Proceeds of capital raisings net of costs 404.4 198.1 Distributions paid 76.2 61.9 Funds advanced to affiliate entities 2.1 - Net cash at period end 33.9 71.0 Cash dividend cover 1.2x 1.2x 1 Net operating cash flows as disclosed above c. 83.0 million include net repayments from investments at fair value through profit and loss c. 25.8 million, and finance costs paid c. 4.1 million which are not included in the net cash inflows from operations c. 61.3 million as disclosed in the statutory cash flow statement on page 74 of the financial statements.
SUMMARY OF CORPORATE EXPENSES AND ONGOING CHARGES CORPORATE EXPENSES YEAR TO 31 DECEMEBER 2017 YEAR TO 31 DECEMEBER 2016 MILLION MILLION Management fees 19.4 14.4 Audit fees 0.3 0.3 Directors fees 0.3 0.3 Other running costs 1.5 1.1 Operating costs ongoing 21.5 16.1 ONGOING CHARGES YEAR TO 31 DECEMEBER 2017 YEAR TO 31 DECEMEBER 2016 MILLION MILLION 1 Annualised Ongoing Charges 21.5 16.1 2 Average NAV 1,865.0 1,421.8 Ongoing Charges 1.15% 1.13% 1 The Ongoing Charges ratio was prepared in accordance with the Association of Investment Companies AIC recommended methodology, noting this excludes non-recurring costs.
2 Average of published NAVs for the relevant period.
The Companys cash balance of 33.9 million at 31 December 2017 was 37.1 million lower than the cash held at 31 December 2016 of 71.0 million.
This reflected the volume of investment activity in the year, as opening cash included proceeds from capital raised of 41.7 million that were used to part-fund investment during the first quarter of 2017.
In comparison, the 31 December 2017 cash balance included only 1.2 million remaining from the December 2017 capital raising.
22 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED Cash receipts from investments increased by 24.2 million, reflecting the further growth of the portfolio.
This was partially offset by higher ongoing charges and net financing costs.
Management fees paid to the investment adviser totalled 19.4 million 2016: 14.4 million, with increases over the prior year amount driven mainly by portfolio growth as well as a contractual alignment of the timing of fee payments in the year see also below.
The Company was able to achieve a 17 million positive increase in operating cash flows before non-recurring operating costs compared with 2016.
Higher net financing costs reflect higher investment activity and a larger corporate debt facility following an increase in November 2016 from 300 million to 400 million.
The benefits of the larger facility were seen during the year, as the Company was able to part-fund the investment in Cadent whilst continuing to support investment commitments under letters of credit.
The facility is intended to be drawn only as a short-term arrangement to fund acquisitions, and in line with this policy, the facility was repaid following the Cadent investment.
This was achieved by utilising proceeds of a 330 million before issues costs capital raise in May 2017, whilst a further capital raising of 80 million before issue costs in December 2017, enabled the Company to repay further amounts that had been drawn to part-fund cash investments during the second half of the year.
During 2017 the timing of management fee payments was aligned with the contractual quarterly payment cycle rather than the previous biannual payment practice.
This resulted in a 2.9 million additional payment being made during 2017 to accommodate this change.
This differential is shown within non-recurring operating costs given it reflects a one-off adjustment year with five quarterly payments rather than four.
The one-off costs in 2017 did not impact the reported cash dividend coverage of 1.2x.
Other non-recurring operating costs were predominantly transaction costs, 6.8 million 2016: 3.2 million settled during the year related to new investments, with total non-recurring costs amounting to 10.3 million 2016: 4.0 million.
Cash investments made during 2017 detailed in note 12 totalled 464.0 million 2016: 209.9 million.
Funds advanced to affiliate entities 2.1 million relate to monies used to fund investments that reached financial close around the year end.
Cash dividends paid in the year of 76.2 million 2016: 81.9 million were in respect of the six-month periods ended 31 December 2016 and 30 June 2017, the reduction being due to higher scrip uptake by investors in the current year.
INPP seeks to generate dividends paid to investors through its operating cash flows, and in all periods shown above cash dividends were at least 1.2 times covered by the Companys net cash flow from operations before non-recurring operating costs.
The Company remains confident of its ability to continue to grow dividends going forward as demonstrated through its forward guidance of 7.00 pence in 2018 and 7.18 pence in 2019.. 23 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED INVESTOR RETURNS INPP has continued to deliver consistent dividend growth, NAV growth and inflation linkage from underlying cash flows.
DIVIDEND GROWTH AND PERFORMANCE INPP targets predictable and, where possible, growing dividends.
During the year, the Company delivered a 6.82 pence per share dividend 2016: 6.65 pence and forecasts to pay 7.00 pence per share and 7.18 pence per share for 2018 and 2019 respectively.
Since inception, the Company has delivered a c. 2.5% per annum average dividend increase.
INPPs dividend growth is illustrated in the chart on page 2.
Profit before tax was 106.4 million, reduced from the previous year 2016: 175.3 million which saw one-off valuation gains mainly as a result of foreign exchange movements following the U. K. referendum to leave the European Union.
Earnings per Share were 8.36 pence 2016: 17.18 pence.
Returns from portfolio investments investment income in the year were 139.8 million 2016: 206.8 million including fair value movements, dividends and interest.
These returns were partially offset by operating expenses including finance costs of 34.0 million 2016: 24.6 million and other operating income of 0.6 million 2016: other operating expense of 6.8 million as shown in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN INPPs Total Shareholder Return share price growth plus reinvested distributions for investors since its Initial Public Offering IPO in November 2006 to 31 December 2017 is 165.4% 9.2% on an annualised basis.
This compares to a FTSE All-Share index total return over the same period of 97.1% 6.3% on an annualised basis.
INPP has exhibited relatively low levels of volatility compared to the market, as evidenced by the graph below showing the Companys share price since IPO against the price performance of the major FTSE indices.
INPP Share Price Performance INFLATION LINKED CASH FLOWS In an environment where investors are increasingly focused on achieving long-term real rates of return on their investments, inflation protection is an important consideration for the Company.
At 31 December 2017, the majority of assets in the portfolio had some degree of inflation linkage and, in aggregate, the weighted average return of the portfolio before fund-level costs would be expected to increase by 0.79% per annum in response to a 1.00% per annum increase in the currently assumed inflation rates across the whole 1 portfolio.
1 Calculated by running a plus 1.00% inflation sensitivity for each investment and solving each investments discount rate to return the original valuation.
The inflation linkage is the increase in the portfolio weighted average discount rate 24 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED NET ASSET VALUATION AND NAV PER SHARE The Company reported a 27.1% increase in NAV, up to 2,038.3 million at 31 December 2017 2016: 1,603.7 million.
This represented an increase of 2.0% in the NAV per share, increasing to 145.0 pence at 31 December 2017 2016: 142.2 pence.
The NAV represents the fair value of the Companys investments plus the value of cash and other net assets held within the Companys consolidated group.
The key drivers of the change to the NAV between 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2017 are highlighted in the graph that follows and are described in more detail below.
Net Asset Value Movement m 1 Represents movements in the forward rates used to translate forecast non-GBP investment cash flows and the spot rates used to translate non-GBP cash balances.
2 The NAV return represents amongst other things, i variances in both realised and forecast investment cash flows, ii the unwinding of the discount factor applied to those cash flows, and iii changes in the Companys net assets.
During 2017: - Over 400 million of new capital was raised before costs.
The proceeds of the capital raisings were used to repay the cash drawn balance of the corporate debt facility and acquire new investments - Government bond yields increased in all countries in which INPP holds investments, with the exception of Italy and the U. S. resulting in a net negative impact on NAV.
This was more than offset by an unwinding of the investment premia, reflecting a lack of observable market-based evidence to justify revaluing the investments in line with the net increase in government bonds and a reduction in the risk profile of certain investments - The portfolio also benefited from a reduction in discount rate risk premia applied to assets that moved out of the construction defects liability phase and into full operations - Sterling weakened against the Australian dollar and the euro but strengthened against the Canadian and U. S. dollars.
The net impact was a positive impact on NAV, with the most significant impact on euro-denominated investments - In line with forward guidance provided previously, two cash dividends were paid to INPP shareholders totalling 76.2 million The NAV Return of 90.3 million captured the impact from the following: - Unwinding of the discount factor the movement of the valuation date and the receipt of forecast distributions - Optimisation of cash flows actual distributions received above the forecast amount due to active management of the Companys portfolio, including negotiating and optimising investment cash flows and utilisation of Group tax loss relief - Updated cash flow forecasts updated operating and macroeconomic assumptions to reflect current expectations of future cash flows - Movements in the Companys working capital position INVESTMENT VALUATION PROJECTED FUTURE CASH FLOWS The Companys investments are expected to continue to exhibit predictable cash flows.
As the Company has a large degree of visibility over the forecast cash flows of its current investments, the chart below sets out the Companys forecast investment receipts from its current portfolio before fund-level costs.
The majority of the forecast investment receipts are in the form of dividends or interest and principal payments from senior and subordinated debt investments.
25 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED The Companys portfolio comprises both investments with finite lives determined by concession or licence terms and perpetual investments including, for example ownership, interests in regulated trading companies, that may be held for a much longer term before being sold.
Over the life of concession-based investments, the Companys receipts from these investments represent a return of capital as well as income.
The fair value of the Companys concession-based investments is expected to reduce to zero over time.
INPP Projected Cash Flow Note: There are many factors that may influence the actual achievement of long-term cash flows to the Company.
These include both internal as well as external factors and investors should not treat the chart above as being more than an indicative profile and not a projection, estimate or profit forecast.
No new investments other than those committed as at 31 December 2017 have been included.
PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE AND RETURN The valuation of the Companys investment portfolio is determined by the Board, with the benefit of advice from the Investment Adviser and review by the Companys auditors.
It is considered quarterly for approval by the Companys Directors.
Investments at fair value as at 31 December 2017 were 2,005.3 million, an increase of 32.3% since 31 December 2016 1,515.2 million.
Investments at Fair Value Movements m 1 The Portfolio Return represents, amongst other things, i variances in both realised and forecast investment cash flows and ii the unwinding of the discount factor applied to those future investment cash flows.
2 Represents movements in the forward rates used to translate forecast non-GBP investment receipts and the spot rates used to translate non-GBP cash balances.
The Portfolio Return of 108.7 million represents a 5.8% increase in the rebased Investments at fair value and can be attributed to: - Unwinding of the discount factor the movement of the valuation date and the receipt of forecast distributions - Optimisation of cash flows actual distributions received above the forecast amount due to active management of the Companys portfolio, including optimising investment cash flows and utilisation of Group tax loss relief - Updated cash flow forecasts updated operating and macroeconomic assumptions to reflect current expectations of future cash flows 26 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED In addition, there was: - An increase of 464.0 million in the Investments held at Fair Value owing to new investments made during the year - A decrease of 118.9 million due to investment cash flows that were paid out of the portfolio as distributions of interest, principal and dividends - A net decrease in the weighted average discount rates across jurisdictions in which the Company invests, leading to a 11.5 million increase in the fair value of investments - An increase of 18.6 million which reflects the changes made to the macroeconomic assumptions - A net increase of 4.1 million due to foreign exchange rate movements in all four currencies the Company is exposed to MACROECONOMIC ASSUMPTIONS The Company reviews the macroeconomic assumptions underlying its forecasts on a regular basis and, following a thorough market assessment during the period, certain adjustments have been made to some of the assumptions used to derive the Companys portfolio valuation.
The key assumptions used as the basis for deriving the Companys portfolio valuation are summarised below with further details provided in note 11.
Across the portfolio, the weighted average long-term inflation assumption as at 31 December 2017 was 2.60% 2016: 2.58% and the weighted average deposit rate assumption was 2.11% 2016: 2.07%.
The Net Asset Valuation section above provides further details on the impact of these assumptions on the valuation during the period.
2 The Companys U. S. investments are in the form of subordinated debt and therefore not directly impacted by inflation, deposit and tax rate assumptions.
3 The reduction in U. K. tax rates reflects the latest substantively enacted rates at 31 December 2017 and therefore captures the reduction to 17.00% from 1 April 2020.
DISCOUNT RATES The discount rate used to value each investment comprises the appropriate long-term government bond yield plus an investmentspecific risk premium.
The risk premia take into account the perceived risks and opportunities associated with each investment.
The majority of the Companys portfolio 91% comprises Risk Capital investments comprising equity and subordinated debt investments, with the remaining portfolio 9% comprising senior debt investments.
To provide investors with a greater level of transparency, the Company publishes both a Risk Capital weighted average discount rate and a portfolio weighted average discount rate, which captures the discount rates of all investments including the senior debt interests.
The weighted average discount rates are presented in the table below.
These rates need to be considered against the assumptions and projections upon which the Companys forecast cash flows are based.
27 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED MOVEMENT 31 DECEMBER 2016 METRIC 31 DECEMBER 2017 30 JUNE 2017 31 DECEMBER 2016 -31 DECEMBER 2017 Weighted Average Government Bond Yield Nominal 1.83% 1.74% 1.55% 0.28% Portfolio Weighted Average Investment Premium over 5.69% 5.72% 5.82% 0.13 % Government Bond Yield Nominal Portfolio Weighted Average Discount rate Portfolio 7.52% 7.46% 7.37% 0.15% 1 Weighted Average Discount rate Risk Capital only 7.87% 7.86% 7.90% 0.03 % NAV per share 145.0p 144.7p 142.2p 2.8p 1 Risk Capital includes both equity and subordinated debt investments.
In the Companys view, comparisons of average discount rates between competitor investment portfolios or funds are only meaningful if there is a comparable level of confidence in the quality of forecast cash flows and assumptions the rates are applied to: the risk and return characteristics of different investment portfolios are understood: and the depth and quality of asset management employed to manage risk and deliver expected returns are identical across the compared portfolios.
As such, assumptions are unlikely to be homogenous, and any focus on average discount rates without an assessment of these and other factors would be incomplete and could therefore derive misleading conclusions.
For transparency and to aid comparability, the Companys approach to such cash flows is set out below.
PORTFOLIO LEVEL CASH FLOW ASSUMPTIONS UNDERLYING NAV CALCULATION The Company is aware that there are subtle differences in approach to the valuation of portfolios of investments among different infrastructure funds.
INPP regards its key cash flow and broad valuation assumptions and principles as: - Key macroeconomic variables outlined in the section above continue to be applicable - Concession contracts under which payments are made to the Company and its subsidiaries remain on track and are not terminated before their contractual expiry date - Any deductions suffered under such contracts are fully passed down to subcontractors - Lifecycle costs risks are either not borne by the Company and are passed down to a third party such as a facilities management contractor or where borne by the Company are incurred per current expectations - Cash flows from and to the Companys subsidiaries and the infrastructure asset-owning entities in which it has invested will be made and are received at the times anticipated - Where assets are in construction they are either completed on time or any costs of delay are borne by the contractors not the Company - Where the operating costs of the Company or the infrastructure asset-owning entities in which it has invested are fixed by contract such contracts are performed, and where such costs are not fixed, that they remain within projected budgets - Where the Company or the infrastructure asset-owning entities in which it has invested owns the residual property value in an asset that the projected amount for this value is realised - Foreign exchange rates remain consistent with 31 December 2017 four-year forward rates - There are no tax or regulatory changes in the future which negatively impact cash flow forecasts - Perpetual investments are assumed to have a finite life and therefore residual terminal value SENSITIVITIES FOR KEY MACROECONOMIC ASSUMPTIONS AND DISCOUNT RATES The Companys NAV is based on the factors outlined above including discount rates.
The Company has also provided sensitivity analysis showing an indication of the impact on NAV per share from changes in key assumptions and discount rates, as set out below.
Further details can be found in note 11.
This analysis is provided as an indication of the likely impact of these variables on the NAV per share on the basis that they apply uniformly across the portfolio whereas in practice the impact is unlikely to be uniform.
These sensitivities should be used only for general guidance and not as accurate predictors of outcomes.
28 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED Impact of Changes in Key Variables to 31 December 2017 NAV 145.0p per Share INFLATION Forecasting the impact of possible future inflation deflation on projected returns and NAV in isolation cannot be relied on as an accurate guide to the future performance of the Company as actual inflation is unlikely to follow any of these scenarios exactly and invariably, many other factors and variables will combine to determine what actual future returns are available.
The analysis provided above should therefore be treated as being indicative only and not as providing any form of profit or dividend forecast.
Additional inflation sensitivities by region are provided in note 11.5 of the Financial Statements.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE The Company has a geographically varied portfolio and therefore revenues are subject to foreign exchange rate risk.
The impact of a 10% increase or decrease in these rates is provided for illustration.
The Company does not hedge exposure to foreign exchange rate risk on long-term cash flows and therefore changes in NAV are to be expected from changes in the foreign exchange forward curve against euros, Australian dollars, Canadian dollars and U. S. dollars.
DEPOSIT RATES The long-term weighted average deposit rate assumption across the portfolio is 2.11% per annum.
While operating cash balances tend to be low given the structured nature of the investments, project finance structures typically include reserve accounts to mitigate certain costs and therefore variations to deposit rates may impact the portfolio.
The impact of a 1% increase or decrease in these rates is provided for illustration.
TAX RATES The Company has a geographically varied portfolio and therefore post-tax investment cash inflows are impacted by tax rates across all relevant jurisdictions.
Other potential tax changes are not covered by this scenario.
LIFECYCLE SPEND There is a process of renewal required to keep physical assets fit for use and at the standard required of them under the agreements with the relevant public sector bodies.
The proportion of total cost that represents this lifecycle spend will depend on the nature of the asset.
To enhance the certainty around cash flows, and excluding the Companys regulated investments, around 76% of the Companys assets by value are currently structured such that lifecycle cost risk is taken by a subcontractor for a fixed price isolating equity investors from such downside risk.
As a result, the impact of any changes to the Companys lifecycle cost profile is relatively small.
29 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATING REVIEW CONTINUED Regulated assets, such as Tideway and Cadent are treated differently, due to the protections offered by the regulatory regime under which they operate.
Regulated assets have their revenues determined for a known regulatory period and each settlement includes revenue sufficient to allow the owner to undertake the efficient lifecycle of its assets due in that regulatory period.
It is common practice to employ reputable subcontractors to undertake lifecycle work under contracts which include incentive and penalty regimes aligned with equitys own regulatory targets.
This approach ensures an alignment of interest and helps to mitigate the risk of increased lifecycle costs falling on the equity investor.
FUTURE GROUP TAX LOSS RELIEF Under current U. K. group tax loss relief rules, losses within the U. K. group companies can be, subject to U. K. tax law, offset against taxable profits in other U. K. group companies including controlled project entities.
This group tax loss relief can reduce the overall tax charge across the portfolio and potentially reduce taxable profits substantially below the levels currently modelled by the Company.
The Company has taken a conservative approach to the valuation of future tax losses and, to date, has not incorporated these into the NAV.
Changes to U. K. tax loss relief rules came into force retrospectively from April 2017, limiting the amount of loss carry forward but increasing the ability to utilise losses across the Group.
We have not needed to adjust our portfolio valuation approach for this.
By order of the Board Rupert Dorey John Whittle Chairman Senior Independent Director 20 March 2018 20 March 2018 30
