International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT INTRODUCTION The Directors present their Annual Report on the performance of the Company and Group for the year ended 31 December 2017.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY The Company is a limited liability, , authorised closed-ended investment company under Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
The Companys shares have a premium listing on the Official List of the U. K. Listing Authority and are traded on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
The Chairmans Letter and Strategic Report contain a review of the business during the year.
A Corporate Governance Report is provided on pages 48 to 57.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES The Company has made qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors, which were made during the period and remain in force at the date of this report.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS As at 31 December 2017, the Company had been notified, in accordance with Chapter five of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in 5% or more of the Companys Ordinary Shares to which voting rights are attached: NAME OF HOLDER % ISSUED CAPITAL NO.
OF ORDINARY SHARES DATE NOTIFIED Schroder plc 12.574% 169,424,308 17 May 2017 Investec Wealth & Investment Limited Ltd 10.07% 135,727,396 24 May 2017 As at 20 March 2018, being the most current information available, the following additional notices had been received: NAME OF HOLDER % ISSUED CAPITAL NO.
OF ORDINARY SHARES DATE NOTIFIED Investec Wealth & Investment Limited Ltd 11.02% 154,836,590 19 March 2018 DIRECTORS AUTHORITY TO BUY BACK SHARES AND TREASURY SHARES The Company did not purchase any shares for treasury or cancellation during the year.
The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the issued Ordinary Share Capital expires on 7 June 2017.
The Company will seek to renew such authority at the Annual General Meeting to take place on 11 June 2018.
Any buyback of Ordinary Shares, will be made subject to Guernsey law and within any guidelines established from time to time by the Board and the making and timing of any buy backs will be at the absolute discretion of the Board.
Purchases of Ordinary Shares will only be made through the market at prices below the prevailing NAV of the Ordinary Shares as last calculated where the Directors believe such purchases will enhance shareholder value.
Such purchases will also only be made in accordance with the Listing Rules of the U. K. Listing Authority, which provide that the price to be paid must not be more than 5% above the average of the middle market quotations for the Ordinary Shares for the five business days before the shares are purchased unless previously advised to shareholders.
No such shares were bought back by the Company in the period from 2 June 2016.
Up to 10% of the Companys shares may be held as treasury shares.
GOING CONCERN The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 8 to 40.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing are described in the financial statements from page 71.
62 International Public Partnerships Annual Report and financial statements 2017 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Directors have considered significant areas of possible financial risk and comprehensive financial forecasts have been prepared and submitted to the Board for review.
The Directors have, based on the information contained in these forecasts and the assessment of the committed banking facilities in place, formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
After consideration, the Directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
DIRECTOR DECLARATION Each person who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's external auditor is unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 249 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
By order of the Board Rupert Dorey John Whittle Chairman Senior Independent Director 20 March 2018 20 March 2018 63
