Board of Directors David MacLellan, Theresa Grant appointed May 2017 Helen Green appointed April 2014 Chairman appointed August 2010 David MacLellan, a resident of the Theresa Grant, a resident of the United Helen Green, a resident of Guernsey, United Kingdom, is the founder and Kingdom, has been Chief Executive at has been employed by Saffery currently Chairman of RJD Partners, Trafford Council since 2011.
She is a Champness, a top 15 rm of chartered a midmarket private-equity business career public servant with 40 years accountants since 1984.
She qualied focussed on the services and leisure experience in Local Government across in 1987 and became a partner in the sectors.
Previously, Mr MacLellan was the UK and Ireland.
Ms Grant has London ofce in 1997.
Since 2000, an executive director of Aberdeen spent several of these years working she has been based in the Guernsey Asset Managers plc following its with the private sector and was ofce where she is client liaison acquisition in 2000 of Murray Johnstone seconded to the 2002 Commonwealth director responsible for trust and where he was latterly Chief Executive Games Organisation for three years.
Mrs Green having joined the company in 1984. is a non-executive director of Acorn Mr MacLellan has served on the Income Fund Limited of which she Ms Grant is Lead Chief Executive for boards of a number of companies and has been chairman since 2012, the Employment & Skills portfolio for is currently a non-executive director UK Mortgages Limited, Aberdeen the Greater Manchester Combined of J&J Denholm Limited.
He is a past Emerging Markets Investment Authority GMCA Region, she is also council member of the British Venture Company Limited and City Natural GMCA Lead for Procurement and Capital Association and is a member of Resources High Yield Trust Plc, all of Elections and a member of the the Institute of Chartered Accountants which are listed on the London Stock Manchester Airport Enterprise Zone of Scotland.
She is also Collaboration Board.
a non-executive director of Landore Ms Grant holds a MBA and is a Trustee Resources Limited, which is listed of both the Irish World Heritage Centre on the London Stock Exchanges Charity in Manchester and of the Alternative Investment Market.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2017 21.
Talmai Morgan appointed Christopher Spencer appointed Guido Van Berkel appointed August 2010 August 2010 August 2010 Talmai Morgan, a resident of Guernsey, Christopher Spencer, a resident of Guido Van Berkel, a resident of qualied as a barrister in 1976.
He Guernsey, qualied as a chartered Luxembourg, started his career in the holds a MA in Economics and Law accountant in London in 1975. financial industry more than 40 years from Cambridge University.
He moved Following two years in Bermuda, he ago and has held various senior to Guernsey in 1988 where he worked moved to Guernsey.
Mr Spencer, who positions with Bank Sarasin, Rabobank, for Barings and then for the Bank of specialised in audit and duciary work, Robeco Group and Citibank.
From 1999 to 2004, he was was Managing Partner Director of course of his career, he has worked in Director of Fiduciary Services and Pannell Kerr Forster Guernsey Limited The Netherlands, Jersey, Switzerland, Enforcement at the Guernsey Financial from 1990 until his retirement in May Luxembourg and Scandinavia.
Mr Spencer is a member of financial regulatory agency where he the AIC Offshore Committee, a past From 2001 until 2007, Mr Van Berkel was responsible for the design and President of the Guernsey Society of was active on the Executive Board of subsequent implementation of Chartered and Certied Accountants Bank Sarasin in Switzerland and as Guernseys law relating to the regulation and a past Chairman of the Guernsey such, he acted as chairman of various of duciaries, administration businesses Branch of the Institute of Directors.
Sarasin entities across Europe and and company directors.
He was also Mr Spencer also sits on the board of Asia.
Currently Mr Van Berkel is an particularly involved in the activities of Directors of JPEL Private Equity Limited independent director in a number of the Financial Action Task Force and the and SQN Asset Finance Income Fund Luxembourg, British, Channel Islands Offshore Group of Banking Supervisors.
Limited, each of which is listed on the and Dutch investment funds and London Stock Exchange, and Summit from the beginning of 2012 until Germany Limited, which is listed on For the last 13 years, Mr Morgan has mid-2015 was chairman of BlackRock the London Stock Exchanges been the non-executive chairman or a Luxembourg SA and BlackRock Fund Alternative Investment Market.
non-executive director of a number of Management S.. r. l in Luxembourg as publicly-listed investment companies.
well as chairman of BlackRock Fund He is presently Chairman of NB Private Netherlands BV.
Equity Partners Limited, Sherborne Investors Guernsey B Limited and Sherborne Investors Guernsey C Limited.
