In-line products A robust portfolio of leading brands Immunology Immunoglobulin sales Growth in hemophilia and Global leadership The Immunology franchise growthin 2017 was driven inhibitor therapy products, and expertise in includes immunoglobulin IG bystrong performance of primarily driven by increased therapies which are used to GAMMAGARD liquid our demand for our rFVIII high-need treat a number of conditions flagship IG brand and also products, in particular our including primary byour recently launched recently launched extended therapeutic areas immunodeficiencies PI, a subcutaneous IG products half-life product, ADYNOVATE group of more than 300 genetic HYQVIA and CUVITRU Neuroscience disorders in which part of the HAE sales also continued to Shires in-line Neuroscience bodys immune system is grow, driven by increased portfolio is focused on ADHD, missing or failing, as well as patients on therapy for both aneurodevelopmental disorder certain autoimmune conditions.
CINRYZE and FIRAZYR, that manifests as a persistent We have also incorporated our despite a temporary supply pattern of inattention and or therapies for HAE, a rare chain disruption for CINRYZE  that genetic condition characterized in Q3 interferes with functioning or by episodic, potentially Hematology development.
life-threatening swelling attacks, Shires in-line Hematology into the Immunology franchise portfolio is primarily focused in order to benefit from the onhemophilia, a rare bleeding significant overlap in treating disorder that results from physicians and researchers.
reduced activity or lack of clotting factor VIII FVIII: hemophilia A or IX FIX: Immunology hemophilia B.
Sales Hematology Sales $4,370m Neuroscience Sales $3,786m $2,664m 22 Shire Annual Report 2017 VYVANSE continues to Key growth drivers in 2017 affect children, and have Ophthalmics perform strongly, with growth included continued market potential to severely impact XIIDRA, the only product driven by increased penetration and consequent quality of life and reduce life approved in the U.
S to treat thesigns and symptoms of penetration into the growing increase in patients on expectancy if not controlled.
dryeye disease DED, is the U. S. adult segment, as well therapy for both GATTEX Growth driven primarily by foundational product for our as contributions from U. S. andNATPARA anincrease in the number Ophthalmics franchise.
DED pricing and continued market Growth offset by LIALDA ofpatients diagnosed and isa highly prevalent condition growth internationally sales decline due to new treated inwhich the eye does not Positive uptake of MYDAYIS generic competition in 2017 produce an adequate volume following U. S. launch Oncology Genetic Diseases oftears or when the tears are Our in-line Oncology portfolio Internal Medicine Our in-line portfolio in Genetic not of the correct consistency, includes treatments for rare and Our Internal Medicine IM Diseases includes enzyme leading to irritation, blurry difficult-to-treat cancers franchise is focused on rare and replacement therapies for three vision, and potentially including acute lymphoblastic specialized conditions such as lysosomal storage disorders cornealdamage.
leukemia and metastatic short bowel syndrome SBS, a LSDs : Hunter syndrome pancreatic cancer.
While XIIDRA continued rare and potentially fatal  II, todemonstrate growth in condition in which patients Gaucher disease ONCASPAR continues to commercial insurance, lack struggle to maintain adequate glucocerebrosidase enzyme perform well in the U. S. : of access to Medicare Part D nutrition and hydration, and deficiency, and Fabry disease further growth continues market has tempered hypoparathyroidism, a rare alpha-galactosidase A enzyme internationally, as European performance disorder of the endocrine deficiency.
These are rare, approval of lyophilized International expansion is system responsible for genetic diseases that mainly ONCASPAR was granted under way with Canadian regulating electrolyte levels, atthe end of 2017 approval granted in 2017 and especially calcium.
Successful launch of regulatory submissions in ONIVYDE through Europe process in Israel, Europe and in2017 other international markets Internal Medicine Sales Genetic Diseases Sales $1,670m $1,438m Oncology Sales $262m Ophthalmics Sales $259m Shire Annual Report 2017 23 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
