Pipeline spotlight: SHP643 for Hereditary Angioedema One program in particular that saw great progress in 2017 isSHP643 lanadelumab for the prevention of hereditary angioedema attacks in patients with HAE.
This program was awarded breakthrough therapy designation in 2015 by the U. S. FDA.
HAE is a rare, genetic disorder estimated to affect Efficiency approaching about 1 in 10,000 to 1 in 50,000 people worldwide.
attack free The condition results in recurrent, localized edema swelling.
The areas of the body most commonly affected are the extremities, gastrointestinal tract, 87% andupper airways.
The swelling can be debilitating andpainful, potentially impacting both work and Reduction education for people living with HAE.
Swelling of the over 26 weeks throat can be life-threatening due to asphyxiation.
Over the past several years, Shire has developed abroad portfolio of products for HAE, including acute and prophylactic treatments FIRAZYR and CINRYZE, and sought out this latest compound through our acquisition of Dyax in early 2016.
Whilethe decision to acquire Dyax was based on arelatively small amount ofpreclinical and clinical data, the team was convinced that lanadelumab hadthe potential to be a meaningful advance in thetreatment of patients with HAE.
We are hopeful aboutthe possibility ofapproaching attack-freeefficacy with this product.
26 Shire Annual Report 2017 Lynsey Living with HAE Lynsey advocates for being an active participant inyour treatment plan with your physician.
Through this relationship she has been able tomanage her HAE and participate in fitness training and become a massage therapist.
Shire developed the Phase 3 program in conjunction We expect to launch SHP643 in the U. S. this year, with legacy Dyax and recruited the largest HAE study subject to regulatory approval.
in the fastest time ever 125 patients recruited in Lanadelumab has the potential to significantly improve approximately six months.
Currently-marketed Shire announced the Phase 3 topline trial results in May prophylactic treatments require multiple injections every 2017, which showed that patients taking lanadelumab week.
Lanadelumab, on the other hand, is expected every two weeks achieved an 87 percent reduction in the torequire only two low-volume, self-administered mean attack rate over 26 weeks.
A deeper look into the subcutaneous injections per month.
Weanticipate that data showed that once patients that took lanadelumab this will significantly reduce the treatment burden on once every two weeks achieved steady state days HAE patients, and hope that thiswill lead to improved 70-182 of the trial, they experienced greater than 90 therapeutic outcomes.
percent attack reduction and 77 percent of those patients were attack-free.
For patients that had attacks, the severity of attacks was significantly reduced.
Based on this data, and pending FDA approval, we are hopeful about the possibility of approaching attack-free efficacy with lanadelumab.
Shire Annual Report 2017 27 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
