Technology spotlight: Intersection of health andtechnology to enable patient-centric care Although each rare disease affects a relatively small number of people, together they are one of the largest underserved patient populations in the world and a population that is uniquely positioned to benefit from technological innovation in healthcare.
At Shire, we believe that the technologies that will be most impactful in the future will be those that empower patients to be active participants in their own treatment and we are working diligently to incorporate these technologies into all that we do.
One of the ways we embrace technological OnePath Virtual Assitant advancesto benefit patients is by seeking the best Today, Shire is moving towards a patient-centric complementary minds in technology to enhance our connected care model, utilizing virtual assistants digital capabilities.
Through these partnerships, we powered by artificial intelligence AI as part of our push the boundaries of what is possible and improve OnePath environment for patients living with type outcomes for patients.
For instance, Shire has formed 1Gaucher, HAE, Hunter syndrome, hypoparathyroidism partnerships with digital incubators to scan the market and short bowel syndrome.
The OnePath Virtual for disruptive innovations that can help accelerate Assistant, the result of collaboration between Shire, diagnostic capabilities, create efficiencies within Accenture and Microsoft, makes it easy for patients to clinicaltrials, and improve patient efficacy and safety get common questions answered at a time and place outcomes.
In addition to our partnerships with smaller thats convenient for them, without the need to interact companies, Shire collaborates with some of the leading directly with a Shire patient services representative if technology organizations in the world to help us noone is available at the exact time of need.
develop ground-breaking solutions to support patients myPKFiT struggling with a rare disease.
Shires breadth of We also emphasize individualized care for patients.
experience, coupled with the technology, market reach, Forexample, for our hemophilia patients, a one-sizeand global resources ofthese organizations, creates fits-all treatment approach does not meet their unique apowerful force on behalf of patients and caregivers.
needs, so we developed myPKFiT, a validated Whether large or small, all of our partnerships fuel softwaremedical device that provides personalized ourmission to create a digitized Shire that supports pharmacokinetic PK estimates and supports the patients through every step of their journey.
development of personalized dosing regimens for usewith ADVATE, the most prescribed FVIII therapy in the world.
In December 2017, myPKFiT was granted clearance in the U. S. by the FDA and is currently used 30 Shire Annual Report 2017 Graeme Living with hemophilia Reflecting on growing up with hemophilia, Graeme is now able to have a more positive outlook on life and his treatment options.
myPKFiT currently used by 24 Countries outside the U. S. One of the areas where technology can potentially by more than 400 healthcare providers in 24 countries have a tremendous impact is in diagnosis.
In the UK outside the United States.
In the future, Shire plans and the U. S. for example, the average time to obtain toextend the utility of myPKFiT to another one of a correct diagnosis for a rare disease patient is five ourhemophilia therapies, ADYNOVATE.
Patients see an average of 7.3 progresses, we are becoming more aware of the physicians duringthis journey.
In an effort to improve benefits of precision medicine and devices for this process, healthcare providers are using new achieving the best outcomes for patients.
As a result, technologies and tapping large data sets to better we are investigating opportunities to provide more identify symptoms andexpedite diagnoses.
They are customized experiences in other therapeutic areas also using this information todevelop treatments that using quantitative pharmacology and machine learning are personalized to theindividual or small patient to enable data driven healthcare.
Shire strives to be a data-driven organization in At Shire, we believe these new technologies everything we do.
Last year, Shire launched a suite willplaya key role in the work of the Global ofintelligence tools that enhances our understanding Commission to End the Diagnostic Odyssey ofhow patients access our therapies.
The suite is forChildren with a Rare Disease.
Co-chaired by powered by advanced analytics and a robust ourCEO, along with Microsoft and EURORDIS-Rare dashboard tool that analyzes current data for better Diseases Europe, this new Global Commission will real-time decision making, while creating predictive harness the power of technology asthey consider data models to guide future efforts.
This is already one how to shorten the often multiple year journey for of the most advanced analytics stacks in the industry patients and families to arrive at an accurate and our plan is to continue to expand our capabilities diagnosis.
Working with a multi-sector group of toinclude cognitive and deep learning services so that raredisease experts from patient advocacy groups, additional patients can benefit from Shires therapies, academic research institutions, hospitals and health as appropriate.
systems, policy organizations, technology and Technology will continue to revolutionize the ways biotechnology companies, together they are creating inwhich we support the understanding of rare diseases an actionable roadmap to break down barriers to within the medical community.
In 2018 we willlaunch diagnosis and expect to publish their report early anaugmented reality experience to help educate in2019.
physicians on rare disease progression and impact.
By focusing on all phases of the patient journey, from symptom identification to diagnosis, treatment initiation, and living with the disease, Shire isemploying the right technologies at the right time toserve our patients.
Shire Annual Report 2017 31 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
