Governance Executive Committee Flemming Ornskov, MD, MPH 60 Thomas Dittrich 54 Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointed: January 2, 2013 Anticipated appointment: March 19, 2018 For biographical details, see page 56.
For biographical details, see page 56.
Andreas Busch, PhD 54 Joanne Cordeiro 60 Bill Mordan 48 Head of Research and Development and Chief Human Resources Officer General Counsel and Company Secretary Appointed: August 21, 2017 Appointed: October 1, 2015 Chief Scientific Officer Appointed: January 1, 2018 Joanne joined Shire in 2011 and serves as Bill joined Shire in 2015 and serves as General ChiefHuman Resources Officer.
She previously Counsel and Company Secretary.
He previously Andreas joined Shire in 2018 and serves as held various Human Resources management and served as General Counsel and Company Headof Research and Development and executive search roles at Teradyne Inc. Covansys Secretary at Reckitt Benckiser Group plc in ChiefScientific Officer.
He previously served Corporation, Avid Technology, Inc. andSybase theUK, prior to which he held various roles at asHead of Drug Discovery and a member of Inc. Joanne holds a Bachelors degree Procter & Gamble in the U. S. Mexico and Brazil.
Prior to that, inMarketing from Northeastern University.
Earlier in his career, Bill served as a clerk in the Andreas was Global Head of Cardiovascular U. S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.
He Research at Hoechst and Sanofi-Aventis.
He holds a Juris Doctor degree from the University received his PhD in Pharmacology from the of North Carolina.
Perry Sternberg 49 Kim Stratton 55 Matt Walker 54 Head of U. S. Commercial Head of International Commercial Head of Technical Operations Appointed: June 3, 2016 Appointed: July 1, 2016 Appointed: June 3, 2016 Perry joined Shire in 2013 and is Head of U. S. Kim joined Shire in 2013 and is Head of Matt joined Shire in 2016 and is Head of Commercial.
He was previously Vice President International Commercial.
She was previously Technical Operations.
Previously he worked &General Manager, U. S. & Canada Global Head of Group Country Management & atPfizer for over 20 years in engineering and Pharmaceuticals at Bausch & Lomb.
Prior External Affairs for Novartis.
Prior to that, Kim operations roles within the supply organization tothat, Perry held various roles at Novartis held various roles of increasing responsibility at his last two positions being Operations Lead Ophthalmics, Novartis Pharmaceuticals and Merck Novartis, Bristol Myers Squibb and AstraZeneca.
for Sterile Injectables and Operations Lead for & Co. Inc.
He holds a Bachelors degree inAnimal She qualified as a State Registered Nurse at the Biologics Vaccines.
Prior to Pfizer, Matt worked Bioscience from Pennsylvania State University.
Royal North Shore Hospital, Australia.
as a Project Director for John Brown Engineering and Construction.
He holds a Bachelors degree in Chemical Engineering from Tufts University.
Shire Annual Report 2017 59 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
