Key industry trends More focused expertise Across the biopharmaceutical industry, there is an increasing emphasis on more focused scientific, clinical, and commercial expertise and capabilities.
This is largely in response to the unique set of opportunities and challenges that companies in the sector are facing.
intensifying competition from high-quality Political volatility Trends at the macro level in-market products as well as expected The current political environment, in Innovation launches of innovative new therapies in particular the evolving policy dynamics in We are in an era of unprecedented many disease areas.
Given the availability the U. S. and the uncertainty associated innovation, driven by new scientific with Brexit in the UK, has increased of data and the ease of accessing discoveries and supporting technologies.
ambiguity regarding the direction of the information about new medications, Academic institutions, start-ups, teaching pharmaceutical market.
This potentially patients are more informed than ever.
hospitals, technology companies, and impacts a range of business factors Moreover, the scope of clinical trials is biopharmaceutical companies are including talent acquisition, regulatory expanding with greater emphasis on collaborating in new ways.
Advances in frameworks, and supply chain patient-focused endpoints such as quality ourknowledge of human biology and the considerations.
Additionally, unfavorable of life measures.
As a result, new therapies molecular basis of disease are generating press coverage on topics such as drug must compete to demonstrate an increasingly diverse range of potential pricing and marketing practices continues improvements against ever-rising therapeutic treatments, including gene to attract scrutiny from regulators, and has standards.
In tandem, competition from therapy and cell therapy.
Technological negatively impacted public sentiment lower-cost alternatives, such as generics advances are amplifying our ability to towards the industry.
and biosimilars, will erode market share capitalize on this emerging science.
Inparticular, the amount of accessible The industrys response Evolving customer landscape medical information has grown significantly Biopharmaceutical companies are Globally, health systems continue to evolve in the past few years and many companies responding to these challenges by focusing toward increasingly sophisticated and have begun to take advantage of this on specific categories, and developing frequently more centralized models for resource using data to support the high-impact therapies for high-need patient providing high-quality, coordinated care.
In diagnosis and treatment of patients.
segments, where new therapies can the U. S. in particular, the physician practice Forexample, advanced analytical demonstrate significant value.
landscape has rapidly shifted from the techniques are being applied to extract traditional individual or small group practice new insights from genetic and clinical Focused business models model to large group and employmentdata.
Similarly, new devices, ranging from Biopharmaceutical companies are looking based models.
These changes have companion diagnostics to mobile health to streamline their operations and portfolios introduced new commercial dynamics for apps to wearable monitors, will be through divestments or asset swaps to biopharmaceutical manufacturers, including increasingly prominent in the next wave focus on targeted areas where they have, an increasing role for institutional bodies in oftherapeutic advances.
Please see or can build, unique expertise.
The shaping treatment protocols and buying pages30 and 31 for information on Shires emphasis is now on category leadership, decisions.
In addition, the payer, pharmacy effortsas they relate to advances in and the advantages it brings, including benefit manager, and distributor landscape healthtechnologies.
being the hub in a network of innovation is undergoing major changes with, for expertise in that category.
This increases Demographics example, the integration of OptumRx with the ability of biopharmaceutical companies There continues to be a demographic shift Catamaran, and the proposed merger of to develop market-changing therapies by indeveloped markets, such as the U. S. the pharmacy group CVS Health with insurer combining their extensive know-how in European Union and Japan, where people Aetna.
The recent announcement of the regulatory affairs, clinical trial execution and are aging and, as a result, require more partnership between Amazon, Berkshire lifecycle management with the cutting-edge prescription medicines.
In the rest of the Hathaway, and JPMorgan Chase may also science from innovative early-stage world too, access to, and spending on, have an impact on this space.
By 2021, total global above, patients continue to take an pharmaceutical spend is anticipated to increasingly hands-on role in managing their reach $1.5 trillion a growth rate of 4 to 7 health and medical care, supported by new percent from 2016, with more than 30 capabilities emerging from the convergence percent coming from emerging and of healthcare and technology.
Healthcare 1 1 Source: Outlook for Global developing markets.
apps and wearable sensors, for example, Medicines through 2021. are playing a more prominent role, leading Report by the QuintilesIMS Rising expectations and competition Institute.
December 2016 technology companies e. g. Apple, Google, Patient groups, regulators, and payers are Amazon to increase their healthcare assessing the clinical and economic value investments.
As a result of these changes in medicines offer with increasing rigor, the customer landscape, biopharmaceutical looking for real-world evidence to companies today require new capabilities to demonstrate clinical benefit and costaddress a broader range of stakeholders.
The expectation of excellence is also heightened by the 10 Shire Annual Report 2017 High-impact, high-need ofBaxalta, we have established an including recent investments focusing on Therapeutic focus is important not only unmatched platform to accelerate the immunology and antibody technologies.
fordeveloping expertise, for example in development and commercialization of Inaddition, we have acquired, licensed, oncology or specialty care, but also for raredisease therapeutics, maximizing our and formed partnerships to gain access ensuring a focus on patients with the ability to reach patients in need.
Our unique toexternal assets at various stages of highest need, for whom new therapies and valuable leadership position in this development: this approach has allowed canhave the most impact.
Products can attractive sector provides a foundation usto lever our deep clinical development have a particularly high impact on the lives forcontinued leadership in delivering and regulatory expertise to advance a of patients when they not only demonstrate innovative therapies to previously larger number of potential therapies improvements in safety and efficacy, but overlooked or underserved rare disease through the pipeline.
As a consequence, also in measures such as quality of life, patient populations.
our leading pipeline comprises a blend of including the ability to maintain both internally-generated and externally- 2.
O ur relentless focus on patients independence.
Theincreasing volume and sourced programs.
Across our disease areas, we are availability of medical data is also enabling committed to supporting and collaborating 4.
O ur strong brands and franchises a shift toward more individualized care, with with patients, caregivers, healthcare that enable leadership new therapies increasingly targeting clearly providers and advocacy groups to Our philosophy is to establish leadership defined sub-segments of a patient accelerate diagnosis and ensure access inthe therapeutic areas where we population, rather than attempting to be toappropriate, tailored therapy.
The deep compete, and we have a rich history of abroad solution for all patients with a relationships we build help us more using our leadership positions to develop, particular disease.
This focus requires effectively understand and respond to expand, and shape these markets, while theability to understand the range of patient needs in many areas, ranging delivering high-value therapies to patients.
pathologies and biological pathways fromproviding reimbursement support This has resulted in a robust portfolio present within a disease category, group todeveloping the next generation of anchored by products that are largely either patient populations through diagnostics, biopharmaceutical products and devices.
We target our demonstrate the benefits in specific patient We also continue to generate evidence investment to maintain these leadership types, and educate the market on newly thatdemonstrates the efficacy and safety positions, focusing resources on activities emerging treatment paradigms.
of our products, as well as the impact on such as differentiating our products with patient-centric measures such as quality of post-marketing data, developing advanced Shire is well-positioned to life.
Through innovation we continually seek delivery devices, and identifying nextaddress these trends opportunities to bring therapies to patients generation products.
Across therapeutic Shire strategic positions with significant unmet needs.
areas, we partner with providers, 1.
O ur long-term vision and commitment governments, patient groups and other 3.
O ur commitment to internal and to rare diseases institutions to raise awareness, accelerate external innovation In 2013, we laid out our vision to become diagnosis and advance standards of care.
We focus on the impact we can have for aleader in rare diseases.
Since then we patients, rather than where innovations have achieved high, sustained growth and originate.
We have established deep profitability through investments in internal internal expertise in key research areas, R&D, external innovation, and business development.
Through strategic investments in our portfolio and global capabilities, including the acquisition 100 relationships with patient advocacy organizations 70% of clinical programs focused on rare diseases 50% of pipeline programs involve external collaboration 7 franchises with market-leading products Shire Annual Report 2017 11 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
