Investment Policy Geographic focus The following describes JLIFs investment The Directors believe that attractive opportunities for JLIF to policy, which was changed at the enhance returns for shareholders are likely to arise in areas of the Companys AGM in May 2017 to expand world where PPP is a practiced route for delivering infrastructure investments.
The Company will seek to mitigate country risk by the geographic limits.
concentrating on investment opportunities in jurisdictions where the Investment Adviser advises that contract structures and their enforceability are reliable, where to the extent applicable the General Investment Adviser advises that public sector or governmentbacked obligations carry a satisfactory credit rating and where The Companys investment policy is to invest predominantly financial markets are relatively mature.
The Company may, in the equity and subordinated debt issued with respect to therefore, make investments globally in accordance with the infrastructure projects that are predominantly PPP projects.
above criteria, and anticipates that its investment will The Fund will predominantly invest in projects that have predominantly be in the European Union, other European completed construction and that are in their operational phase.
countries, Canada, the United States of America, the Asia Investment capital in projects that remain under construction Pacic region or any other country which is a member of the will be limited to 30% of the Total Assets of the Fund Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development calculated at the time of investment.
at the time of investment.
The Fund will predominantly invest in projects whose revenue The Company will ensure that over 50% of the Companys Total streams: Assets, measured by value, will be in respect of projects based in are public-sector or government-backed: and the UK although this will not require JLIF to dispose of Investment are predominantly availability-based where payments Capital in respect of non-UK projects if this limit is breached as a received by the Project Entities do not generally depend on result of changes in value of the Investment Portfolio.
the level of use of the asset, other projects being demandbased where payments received by the Project Entities Single investment limit and diversity of clients and suppliers depend on the level of use of the project assets.
A project When any new acquisition is made, JLIF will ensure that the is considered availability-based for these purposes if the investment or, in the event of an acquisition of a portfolio of Investment Adviser deems that 75% or more of payments investments, each investment in the portfolio acquired does received by the relevant Project Entity do not generally not have an acquisition value or, if it is an additional stake in depend on the level of use of the project asset.
an existing investment, the combined value of both the existing stake and the additional stake acquired is not greater than 25% Whilst it is envisaged that further acquisitions will be of operational of JLIFs Total Assets at the time of investment.
In selecting new PPP projects with availability-based revenues, it may be possible investments to acquire, JLIF will seek to ensure that its Portfolio that a limited number of projects in construction and or with comprises a range of public-sector clients and supply chain demand-based revenue mechanisms may be acquired.
contractors, in order to avoid over-reliance on any single client Investment capital in projects that are considered to be or contractor.
demand-based will be limited to 15% of the Total Assets of the Fund calculated at the time of investment.
For the purposes of Gearing this restriction, the shadow toll mechanisms for the investments JLIF intends to make prudent use of leverage held in JLIF Limited in the M40 and M6 M74 motorway projects and the A55 road Partnership for nancing acquisitions of investments and project are not regarded as carrying demand risk due to their working capital purposes.
Under the Companys Articles, and in relative insensitivity to trafc movement.
accordance with JLIFs Investment Policy, JLIFs outstanding In addition, the Company may invest up to 10% of its Total Assets borrowings, excluding intra-group borrowings and the debts of calculated at the time of investment in infrastructure assets that underlying Project Entities, but including any financial guarantees are not government-backed PPP assets but that have substantially to support subscription obligations, will be limited to 35% of the same risk prole and characteristics as PPP assets.
JLIF may borrow in currencies other than Sterling as part of its currency hedging strategy.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2017 25.
Origination of investments Potential disposals of investments The Fund, through its Investment Adviser, will seek out and Whilst the Directors may elect to retain Investment Capital in review acquisition opportunities from both John Laing Group plc the Portfolio and any other further investments made by JLIF and the wider market.
JLIF, through its Investment Adviser, will, over the long-term, the Investment Adviser will regularly monitor where appropriate, carry out the necessary due diligence and, the valuations of such projects and any secondary market if in the opinion of the operator of the Partnership, the risk opportunities to dispose of Investment Capital and report to the characteristics, valuation and price of the Investment Capital in Directors accordingly.
The Directors only intend to dispose of the project or projects for sale is acceptable and is consistent Investments where upon the advice of the Investment Adviser with the Companys investment policy, then subject to the Fund they consider that it would be in the best interest of shareholders.
having sufficient sources of working capital an offer will be Proceeds from the disposal of investments may be reinvested made save as set out below in relation to acquisitions from John or distributed at the discretion of the Directors.
Laing Group, without seeking the prior approval of Directors or Shareholders and, if successful, the Investment Capital in the Currency and hedging policy relevant project or projects will be acquired by the Fund.
A portion of JLIFs underlying investments may be denominated in currencies other than Sterling.
For example, currently some The Fund has the contractual right of first offer in accordance of the Portfolio is denominated in Canadian Dollars, Euros and with the Amended Existing FOA and the New FOA for relevant US Dollars.
However, any dividends or distributions in respect Investment Capital in UK, European and Canadian accommodation of the Ordinary Shares will be made in Sterling and the market and road projects and rail projects of which John Laing Group prices and Net Asset Value of the Ordinary Shares will be companies wish to dispose and that are consistent with the reported in Sterling.
It is envisaged that John Laing Group companies will periodically make available for sale Currency hedging will only be carried out to seek to provide further portfolios of Investment Capital in infrastructure projects protection to the level of Sterling dividends and other distributions although there is no guarantee that this will be the case.
that JLIF aims to pay on the Ordinary Shares, and in order to Subject to due diligence and agreement on price, the Fund will reduce the risk of currency uctuations and the volatility of seek to acquire those projects that t the investment objective returns that may result from such currency exposure.
involve the use of foreign currency borrowings to finance foreign currency assets, or forward foreign exchange contracts for up Each of the investments comprising the Investment Portfolio to three years to hedge the income from assets that are exposed have similar characteristics to those set out above and further to exchange rate risk against Sterling.
investments will only be acquired if they also satisfy these criteria.
It is therefore expected that further investments may also include Interest rate hedging may also be carried out to seek to provide investments that have been originated and developed by protection against increasing costs of servicing any debt drawn members of John Laing Group and may be acquired from them.
down by the Company to finance investments.
This may involve the use of interest rate derivatives and similar derivative instruments.
Given the current investment adviser to the Company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of John Laing Group plc, the Company Currency and interest rate hedging transactions will only be has established procedures to deal with any potential conicts undertaken for the purpose of efficient Portfolio management and of interest that may arise in relation to any acquisition of assets these transactions will not be undertaken for speculative purposes.
These procedures include: Amendments to and compliance with the Investment Policy complete segregation of JLCM, acting on behalf of JLIF, and the John Laing sell side team: Material changes to JLIFs Investment Policy may only be made in accordance with the approval of the shareholders by way of a requirement to conduct asset due diligence through third ordinary resolution and for so long as the Ordinary Shares are party suppliers acting directly for JLIF, and for an opinion listed on the ofcial list in accordance with the UKLA Listing Rules.
from an independent expert on the Fair Market Value of the Investment Capital to be obtained: and The investment restrictions detailed above apply at the time of a requirement for JLIF board approval prior to submitting an the acquisition of Investment Capital.
In the ordinary course of offer to John Laing and prior to execution of the Sale and business, JLIF will not be required to dispose of Investment Purchase Agreement.
Capital and to rebalance its investment Portfolio as a result of a change in the respective valuations of Investment Capital.
Any proposed acquisition of assets by the Fund from the John Minor changes to the Investment Policy must be approved by Laing Group that falls within the investment parameters set by the JLIF Board, taking into account advice from the Investment the Company, including in relation to funding, will be subject to Adviser where appropriate.
approval by the Directors, who are independent of John Laing.
In view of the procedures above, and the fact that it is a key part of the Companys investment policy to acquire assets that have been originated by and from the John Laing Group, the Company will not seek the approval of Shareholders to acquisitions of assets from the John Laing Group in the ordinary course of the Companys investment policy.
The RCIS rules require that any arrangements between a relevant person as dened in the RCIS Rules and the Company are at least as favourable to the Company as would be any comparable arrangement effected on normal commercial terms negotiated at arms length between the relevant person and an independent party.
