Our strategy Focusing on four strategic drivers Priorities for 2018 Key performance indicators Expand therapeutic area Product sales, Non GAAP leadership by continuing to free cash flow drive commercial execution, Read more on page 16 increase our global footprint, Growth and broaden our portfolio of We aim to continuously best-in-class products improve the commercial Focus on new product performance of our marketed launches, including continued products to maximize revenue uptake of MYDAYIS and growth and cash flow.
geographical expansion to Progress in 2017 build global brands across franchises Increased Product sales to $14.4 billion, while executing Bring manufacturing plant 50 launches globally near Covington, GA, onlinetoexpand plasma Received approval for, and  launched, MYDAYIS in the U. S. for patients 13 years Execute our late-stage and older with ADHD clinical development pipeline to support future growth Entered into licensing agreements with Novimmune Expand business through SA, Parion Sciences, Inc. lifecycle management, and Rani Therapeutics, LLC including innovation in devices Launched into new indications, regions, or patient populations with ADYNOVATE, NATPARA, VYVANSE, CINRYZE and INTUNIV Continued expansion of Cambridge, MA, operations as a rare disease innovation Priorities for 2018 hub, and continued development of Maintain capital allocation manufacturing plant near discipline and reduce Covington, GA leverage Establish and begin operating as two divisions: Rare Disease division and Neuroscience division Progress in 2017 Continue to capture Completed manufacturing synergies and maintain a lean network optimization general and administrative program: anticipate G&A model cumulative savings of $2billion through 2027 Continue streamlining manufacturing network Exceeded internal goals and following the roadmap set out external benchmarks for in our network study synergies from the integration of Baxalta Evaluate options to further optimize the portfolio Achieved 2017 target Non GAAP Net debt to EBITDA Key performance indicators ratio of 3x Non GAAP EBITDA margin, Announced divestment of Non GAAP adjusted ROIC, MRT platform to Translate Bio Non GAAP Net debt Non Efficiency formerly known as RANA GAAP EBITDA ratio We operate a lean and Therapeutics as part of effort agile integrated organization to streamline portfolio Read more on page 16 and reinvest for growth.
investments 14 Shire Annual Report 2017 premature infants and Advance our late-stage Key performance indicators recombinant ADAMTS13 clinical development portfolio Number of programs in SHP655 U. S. : congenital in rare diseases as well as clinical development pipeline thrombotic thrombocytopenic SHP680 and BUCCOLAM to purpura support growth of both the Read more on page 17 Rare Disease and Granted two U. S. FDA Orphan Neuroscience divisions Drug Designations for Innovation SHP654 U. S. : hemophilia A Supplement our early-stage We build our pipeline and anti-MAdCAM antibody pipeline through in-licensing through R&D and business SHP647 U. S. : pediatric or product acquisitions and development with a focus ulcerative colitis and one U. S. invest in key research on innovation and value FDA Breakthrough Therapy capabilities to support forpatients.
Designation for maribavir sustained innovation SHP620 U. S. : cytomegalovirus andgrowth Progress in 2017 infection and disease in Continue to deepen our Executed on our pipeline of transplant patients expertise in immunology and 40 clinical development Strengthened Ophthalmics strengthen our antibody programs, completing nine pipeline with in-licensing development capabilities Phase 3 studies and securing ofSHP659, a Phase 2 126 global product approvals Pursue advances in medical assetfor DED, from Parion devices to enhance marketed Received two U. S. FDA Fast Sciences, Inc. and pipeline products TrackDesignations for Expanded antibody research SHP607 U. S. : chronic by licensing preclinical lungdisease in extremely bi-specific antibody for hemophilia A from Novimmune SA Priorities for 2018 Execute on the regulatory review process for SHP643 U. S. : HAE and other key program filings Priorities for 2018 Continue to support and enhance a results-oriented culture with a focus on action and strong commitment topatients Progress in 2017 Develop and retain the best Solidified presence in prime talent by accelerating the locations and consolidated development of all employees into hubs, such as an at Shire, and enhancing Innovation Hub in Cambridge, employee engagement MA, to attract the best talent Key performance indicators and foster a highperformance culture Number of employees, demographic composition, Served our patients and and geographic distribution communities through events of employees People such as Shires Global Day of See the Responsibility section for We foster a highService, where more than additional details on employee performance, patient- 7,300 Shire employees diversity atShire.
volunteered over 29,000 focused culture where hours in 300 locations weattract, retain, and Read more on page 17 around the world develop the best talent.
Shire Annual Report 2017 15 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
