Franchise spotlight: Immunology When it comes to rare and immune-mediated conditions, we serve individuals with these diseases and the physicians who treat them by providing therapies and services that can be tailored to each persons unique needs even as these needs change across the patient journey.
Shires strength in immunology is built variety of diseases, hereditary angioedema ondeep expertise in delivering complex and replacement therapies, totomorrows therapies for a variety of conditions.
To advances in immune-mediated conditions.
deliver on our promise as a rare champion, For more than 30 years, patients have Shires goal is to provide: trusted us for help even on the most difficult days.
In the years ahead, patients and Personalized solutions physicians know they can rely on Shire to Intelligent, adaptable treatments that help continue delivering personalized immunology manage and prevent serious conditions, that can transform those difficult days into supported by services that support these better tomorrows.
individuals in using the best therapy for them, and adjusting their approach as Shires support for those living with rare needs change.
andimmune-mediated conditions includes a suite of personalized therapies and Meaningful advances thoughtfully designed support services Ongoing progress that delivers new thathelp patients manage the complexities treatments and explores new ways of of long-term therapy.
Shires current receiving them to continually advance offerings include treatments used for thestandard of care from symptom FIRAZYR: a subcutaneous injection avariety of conditions, including management to preventive therapies available to treat acute HAE attacks.
hereditaryangioedema HAE and aswe work toward the ultimate goal  PI, and rare Shire is also looking to expand its HAE ofacure.
autoimmune and neurological conditions, portfolio, pending regulatory approval: Expertise in complex manufacturing among others: Lanadelumab, an investigational fully Manufacturing expertise to confidently HAE: human monoclonal antibody manage the end-to-end challenges of Shire provides a portfolio that both treats administered by subcutaneous injection developing complex therapies, including and prevents attacks, giving patients the that is a potent and specific inhibitor of those created from human plasma, freedom to live their lives, aided by patient plasma kallikrein, which is chronically fromsecuring donations to delivering services and next-generation therapies that uncontrolled in patients with HAE treatment.
improve the patient treatment experience.
Shire Immunology delivers in all of these CINRYZE: the first C1 esterase inhibitor areas for each condition that we treat, from approved to help prevent swelling todays work with immunoglobulins across a attacks in patients with HAE.
32 Shire Annual Report 2017 Intelligent immunoglobulin IG solutions HYQVIA: The only once-a-month Shire offers the worlds broadest IG subcutaneous treatment for adults portfolio.
We aspire to provide an intelligent withPI.
set of flexible options to meet each patients Shire is also looking to expand its IG need for effective care that fits their lives portfolio with new devices and delivery and improves the overall patient treatment methods, pending regulatory approval: experience.
We are developing innovations that may GAMMAGARD Liquid GAMMAGARD help improve how patients receive S D KIOVIG ex-U.
S. : A standard of treatment from subcutaneous care for PI therapy, GAMMAGARD administration to auto-injectors to Liquid, or GAMMAGARD S D for those wearables we are hopeful that these who cannot tolerate IgA, provides advances may provide patients with immunoglobulin G via either intravenous greater freedom from their disease.
In addition, Other bio therapeutics GAMMAGARD KIOVIG helps patients Shire offers a broad portfolio of products with multifocal motor neuropathy MMN including Alpha-1, Albumin, Protein C IV administration only, secondary andpdFVIII, designed to meet the needs immunodeficiency ex-U.
S. and is being ofpatients in both the hospital and evaluated for use in chronic inflammatory at-homesetting.
CUVITRU: A highly purified and concentrated IG solution, CUVITRU Shires strength in dosing can be customized to allow for less infusion time.
immunology is built ondeep expertise indelivering complex therapies for a variety of conditions.
Hunter Diagnosed with PI at agetwo, Hunter is now managing this disease and is an energetic ten year old.
Heenjoys video games, basketball, board games, reading as a family and spending time around the kitchen island.
Shire Annual Report 2017 33 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Complex manufacturing Shire has the manufacturing expertise to confidently 30% manage the challenges of developing complex therapies, including those created from donated Additional plasma human plasma which benefit from an end-to-end approach from securing donation to delivering fractionation treatment.
Beginning with its 100 BioLife plasma capacity to the donation centers, to its state-of-the-art fractionation and manufacturing facilities, Shire is working to Companys internal optimize plasma-based manufacturing to meet the needs of current and emerging markets in ways that manufacturing dont exist today.
network To support the growing demand for plasma-derived therapies, Shire filed its first submission to the U. S. FDAfor a new plasma manufacturing facility near Covington, Georgia at the end of 2017.
The facility isexpected to add approximately 30 percent capacity tothe Companys internal plasma fractionation network once fully operational.
Commercial production is expected to begin in 2018.
Shire also expects to continue expansion of its plasma collection network inGeorgia and throughout the U. S. 34 Shire Annual Report 2017
