DIRECTORS STATEMENTS Directors responsibilities Going concern The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The Companys business activities, together with the factors the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and likely to affect its future development, performance and position, regulations.
The Directors have chosen to prepare the financial are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 10 to 21.
The financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and Standards IFRS.
The Directors are also responsible for the borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on pages preparation of the Directors remuneration report, which they have 42 to 45.
In addition, note 33 to the financial statements includes chosen to prepare, being under no obligation to do so under the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing Jersey law.
The Directors are also responsible for the preparation its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its of the corporate governance report under the UK Listing Rules.
financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Jersey Company law the Law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial period in accordance with The Company has considerable financial resources together generally accepted accounting principles.
The financial statements with long-term contracts with a number of customers and are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs suppliers across different geographic areas and industries.
As of the Company at the period end and of the profit or loss of the a consequence, the Directors believe that the Company is well Company for the period then ended.
In preparing these financial placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors statements, the Directors should: have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable Select suitable accounting policies and then apply future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of them consistently accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Responsibility statement under the Disclosure Specify which generally accepted accounting principles Guidance and Transparency Rules have been adopted in their preparation and Each of the Directors listed on pages 68 and 69 confirms that, Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis to the best of their knowledge: unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company The Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, will continue in business balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting and performance, business model and strategy: records which are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS, the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position that the financial statements prepared by the Company comply and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the with the requirements of the Law.
They are also responsible for consolidation taken as a whole: and safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence The Strategic Report contained on pages 2 to 65 includes a fair for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of review of the development and performance of the business fraud and other irregularities.
and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and By order of the Board dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Alastair Cochran Chief Financial Officer Directors approach The Boards objective is to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects, particularly in the Annual Report, Half-year results announcement and other published documents and reports to regulators.
The Board has established an Audit Committee to assist with this obligation.
106 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2017
