Commercial spotlight: Launch excellence With a strong pipeline of 40 programs in clinical development, launch excellence is a critical driver of Shires growth.
In 2017, $1.6 billion of Shires sales came from products launched since 2013 across the portfolio.
With the strategic acquisition of Baxalta which came with a strong global infrastructure, particularly in emerging markets, Shire has expanded its geographic footprint and now has therapies available in more than 100 countries worldwide.
The rapid country-level integration of the two companies throughout 2016 and 2017 allowed us to consolidate 28 country sites and launch 50 products at the country level in 2017 alone.
Here is a closer look at two recent launches, MYDAYIS and XIIDRA.
MYDAYIS The strong market demand for this new therapy is Approximately 50 to 66 percent of children with evident in the nearly 60,000 prescriptions written ADHDcontinue to have symptoms of the disorder withinthe first six months of approval, with 25,000 asadults, resulting in an estimated 4.4 percent of U. S. unique new patients and 8,000 unique prescribers adults living with a diagnosis of ADHD.
As individual's more thanany other ADHD product launched in the needs are different, it has become increasingly important U. S. since 2010.
Over time MYDAYIS has the potential to have new treatment approaches available, like to become a very meaningful therapeutic option for MYDAYIS, to help patientsmanage their symptoms patients 13 years and older with ADHD.
MYDAYIS is a once-daily, extended-release treatment comprised of three types of drug-releasing beads.
50 Itwas approved by the FDA on June 20, 2017 for prescription in the U. S. for the treatment ofADHD in Product launches patients 13 years and older.
MYDAYIS is not for use at the country level inchildren 12 years and younger.
Shire's strategy with MYDAYIS was to launch very in 2017 quickly, focusing on the adult ADHD population who were looking for a long duration therapy with oncedailydosing to manage their ADHD symptoms.
Currently, in the U. S. 56 percent of adult patients areprescribed more than one pill per day, in many cases to extend the duration of symptom control.
Shirewas in the position to help address this patient need with MYDAYIS.
28 Shire Annual Report 2017 XIIDRA digits prior to Shires entry into the market, our disease Shire has established a presence in ophthalmics with education efforts, namely the eyelove campaign, the launch of XIIDRA, which was approved for use in significantly influenced expansion of the market.
We expect greater U. S. uptake for XIIDRA once XIIDRA is a twice-daily eye drop solution for dry broader reimbursement access for Medicare patients eyedisease DED, oneof the most prevalent isavailable and as we launch XIIDRA internationally.
conditions diagnosed by eyecare professionals.
Aspart of our geographic expansion, XIIDRA gained DEDmay affect upto an estimated 16 million adults itsfirst international approval in Canada in late 2017 inthe U. S. The condition may significantly affect with launch planned for the first quarter of 2018. vision-related quality of life, often impacting activities Additional regulatory submissions are progressing in such asreading, using computers, driving and key international markets around the world including watching television.
XIIDRA provides patients with Europe, the Gulf Countries and Asia Pacific.
aneffective treatment option asthe first and only We understand the importance of all parts of our treatment approved in the U. S. totreat the signs business particularly R&D, manufacturing, and andsymptomsof DED.
commercial working together seamlessly to ensure In the U. S. Shire has generated over 1 million XIIDRA that our innovative new products get to patients in prescriptions since launch, and catalyzed total DED need.
We are proud of our recent launch successes, market growth of 23 percent from August 2016 to and with our robust pipeline, anticipate many more August 2017.
With DED market growth in the low single inthe years to come.
Melissa Living with Dry Eye Disease Before being diagnosed with DEDtwo years ago, Melissa felt limited by her symptoms and notbeing able to wear contact lenses or enjoy activities such asscuba diving.
Shire Annual Report 2017 29 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
