Report of the Directors The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the Audited Financial Statements of the Company and its investments for the year ended 31 December 2017.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES John Laing Infrastructure Fund Limited JLIF is a company limited by shares incorporated and registered in Guernsey under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
JLIF was incorporated on 6 August 2010 with the company register number 52256.
The Company is a registered fund under the Registered Collective Investment Scheme Rules 2015 and is regulated by the GFSC and, during the period, its principal activity was as an investor in PPP projects in the UK, North America and Continental Europe.
BUSINESS REVIEW We are required to present a fair review of our business during the year ended 31 December 2017, our position at period end, and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that we face.
This information is contained within the Strategic Report over pages 8 to 43.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION UNDER LISTING RULE 9.8.
4 Information can be found in note 16 on any contract of signicance subsisting during the period under review: a to which the Company, or one of its subsidiary undertakings, is a party and in which a director of the Company is or was materially interested: and b between the Company, or one of its subsidiary undertakings, and a controlling shareholder.
The Directors note that no shareholder has waived or agreed to waive any dividends.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The results for the year are set out in the Financial Statements on pages 57 to 100.
In September 2017, the Directors declared a dividend relating to the six months to 30 June 2017 of 3.48 pence per share, which was paid in October 2017.
On 23 March 2018 the Directors declared a dividend in respect of the period 1 July 2017 to 31 December 2017 of 3.57 pence per Ordinary Share to shareholders on the register as at the close of business on 6 April 2018.
GOING CONCERN The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and prospects, are set out in the Investment Adviser Report on pages 28 to 40.
The financial position of the Company, its cash ows and its liquidity position are also described in the Investment Adviser Report.
In particular, the current economic conditions continue to present a number of risks and uncertainties for the Company and these are set out in the Risk Committee Report on pages 12 to 19.
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company and the exposure of the Company to credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk are discussed in note 17 of the Financial Statements.
The Company continues to meet its requirements and day-to-day liquidity needs through both its own cash resources and those of the Group, to which it has full recourse.
In June 2016, JLIF Limited Partnership, a subsidiary of the Company, signed and agreed the terms of a three-year 150 million multi-currency accordion facility with the same lenders that provide JLIFs five-year 180 million revolving credit facility signed in August 2015.
The signing of this facility means JLIF has access to up to 330 million of debt nancing that it can use to finance acquisitions.
The margin on the accordion facility is 175bps over LIBOR and is the same as that on the revolving credit facility.
The facilities are used primarily to finance acquisitions and are repaid through raising equity in the market or using distributions from the Portfolio.
The facilities are intended to be additional resource and not structural gearing.
As at 31 December 2017 the Company had a cash balance of 1.9 million, a further 38.5 million within the rest of the JLIF Group and facility headroom of 143.4 million being drawn by 186.6 million available for future acquisitions and working capital.
The Company has sufficient cash balances to meet other current obligations as they fall due while all key financial covenants are forecast to continue to be complied with.
The Directors have reviewed forecasts and projections that cover a period of not less than 12 months from the date of this Annual Report, taking into account reasonably possible changes in investment and trading performance, which show that the Company has sufficient financial resources.
The Group has sufficient financial resources together with long-term contracts with various public-sector clients and suppliers across a range of infrastructure projects.
Consequently, the Directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
Based on this review, and after making due enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2017 53.
Report of the Directors continued SHARE CAPITAL The issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company was increased through a shareholder tap issue in March 2017, the offer of a Scrip Dividend Alternative in May 2017 and a second offer of a Scrip Dividend Alternative in October 2017.
Further details can be found in note 13 to the financial statements.
The Company has one class of Ordinary Shares that carries no rights to xed income.
On a show of hands, each member present in person or by proxy has the right to one vote at our general meetings.
On a poll, each member is entitled to one vote for every share held.
The issued nominal value of the Ordinary Shares represents 100% of the total issued nominal value of all share capital.
There are no specic restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Incorporation and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
The Companys Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation contain details relating to the rules that the Company has about the appointment and removal of Directors or amendment to the Companys Articles of Incorporation that are incorporated into this report by reference.
UCITS ELIGIBILITY The Company has been advised that the ordinary shares should be transferable securities and, therefore, should be eligible for investment by authorised funds in accordance with the UCITS Directive UCITS or Non-UCITS retail schemes NURS.
This is on the basis that: a the Company is a closed-ended investment company: b the ordinary shares are admitted to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange: c the ordinary shares have equal voting rights: and d the Company is an internally managed alternative investment fund AIF regulated by the Guernsey Financial Services Commission as a registered fund under the Registered Collective Investment Scheme Rules 2015.
However, the manager of the relevant UCITS or NURS should satisfy itself that the ordinary shares are eligible for investment by the relevant UCITS or NURS.
AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES A resolution to provide the Company with authority to purchase its own shares will be tabled at the AGM on 17 May 2018.
This shareholder authority was renewed at the 2017 AGM.
MAJOR INTERESTS IN SHARES AND VOTING RIGHTS As at 31 December 2017, the Company had been notied, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following voting rights as a shareholder in the Company.
Percentage of voting rights Shareholder and issued share capital No.
of ordinary shares Schroders plc 10.61 105,186,824 Newton Investment Management Ltd 9.67 95,846,751 Insight Investment Management Global Ltd 5.08 41,292,800 Third National Swedish Pension Fund 5.00 40,591,438 Investec Wealth and Investment Ltd 2.81 22,858,223 JLIF Limited 54.
Report of the Directors continued BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board members who served during the year and up until the date of this Report, all of whom are non-executive Directors and independent of the Investment Adviser, are listed below.
Their biographical details are shown on pages 20 and 21.
Name Function Paul Lester, CBE Previously Chairman retired September 2017 David MacLellan Chairman Talmai Morgan Director Theresa Grant Director Christopher Spencer Director and Chair of Audit Committee Guido Van Berkel Director Helen Green Director and Chair of Risk Committee RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS All Directors stand for re-election on an annual basis and each has letters of appointment rather than service contracts.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS Directors who held ofce during the period and had interests in the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2017 were: Ordinary shares of 0.01p each Ordinary shares of 0.01p each held at 31 December 2017 held at 31 December 2016 Paul Lester retired September 2017 n a 139,379 David MacLellan 28,125 28,125 Theresa Grant Helen Green Talmai Morgan 25,000 25,000 Christopher Spencer 30,000 30,000 Guido Van Berkel There have been no changes in the Directors interests from 31 December 2017 to the date of this report.
28,125 of which is held by his spouse 01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2017 55.
Report of the Directors continued DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Board has deemed it unnecessary to establish a remuneration committee as, being comprised of six Directors, it considers that such matters may be considered by the Board as a whole.
The Board considers matters relating to Directors remuneration, taking into account benchmark information including fees paid to directors of comparable companies, the time commitment required from the Board members, and the specic roles performed by the individual Directors for example, Chairman of the Board.
Director remuneration should be sufficient to attract, retain and motivate Directors of a quality required to lead the Company successfully.
The most recent benchmarking exercise undertaken by an independent third party was in 2015.
In 2017, no advice or services were provided by any external persons in respect of its consideration of Directors remuneration.
The Directors of the Company each receive an annual fee appropriate for their responsibilities and time commitment but no other incentive programmes or performance related emoluments.
None of the Directors is eligible for pension benets, share options, long-term incentive schemes or other benets in respect of their services as non-executive Directors.
Shares held by the Directors are disclosed in the Report of the Directors.
Directors are entitled to claim reasonable expenses that they incur in fullling their duties for example, in attending Board meetings.
The total amount of Director expenses paid for the year-ended 31 December 2017 was 16,605.
The total remuneration of the Board has not exceeded the 400,000 per annum limit as set out in the Companys Articles of Incorporation.
The Articles of Incorporation empower the Board to award additional remuneration where any Director has been engaged in exceptional work on a time-spent basis to compensate for the additional time spent over their expected time commitment.
In accordance with the AIC Guide, each Director is subject to annual re-election by shareholders at each AGM.
A Directors appointment may be terminated at any time by and at the discretion of either party upon three months written notice.
A Directors appointment will automatically end without any right to compensation whatsoever if they are not re-elected by shareholders.
A Directors appointment may also be terminated with immediate effect and without compensation in certain other circumstances.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce.
During the year, the Directors earned the following emoluments in the form of Directors fees from the Company.
2017 Directors fees 2016 Directors fees Paul Lester, CBE retired September 2017 48,750 73,000 David MacLellan 57,500 63,000 Talmai Morgan 45,000 53,000 18 Theresa Grant 27,729 Christopher Spencer 50,000 58,000 Guido Van Berkel 51,650 56,541 19 Helen Green 45,000 53,000 18 Ms Grant was appointed to the Board in May 2017.
19 Helen Greens remuneration is paid to Saffery Champness Management International Limited.
Report of the Directors continued ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING JLIFs AGM will be held at 10.30am BST on 17 May 2018 at Lefebvre Place, Lefebvre Street, St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands.
Details of the business to be conducted are contained in the Notice of AGM.
APPOINTMENT OF INVESTMENT ADVISER AND OPERATOR John Laing Capital Management JLCM acts as the Investment Adviser to the Company and acts as Operator of the Limited Partnership that holds and manages the Groups investments.
A summary of the contract between the Company, its group companies and JLCM in respect of services provided is set out in note 16 to the financial statements.
It is in the Directors opinion that, based upon the performance in the period to 31 December 2017, the continuing appointment of JLCM on the agreed terms is in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole.
EVENTS AFTER BALANCE SHEET DATE In January 2018, Carillion plc announced its compulsory liquidation.
As was announced by JLIF at the time, it had nine operational PPP projects where Carillion was the facilities management provider, including four education projects, one road project and four justice and emergency services projects.
Together these projects represented 8.5% of the Portfolio Value as at 31 December 2017.
The Investment Adviser had been aware of the issues facing Carillion plc for some time and therefore had in place contingency plans to ensure minimal service disruption and minimal additional cost to the affected projects.
In addition, JLIF has one project where Carillion was the construction contractor where it remained liable for any latent construction defects.
With the construction phase having completed over ten years ago, a recently completed routine defects survey did not identify any significant areas of concern.
The latest status regarding the nine projects at which Carillion plc provided facilities management services can be found in the Investment Adviser Report.
AUDITOR The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the external auditor, its effectiveness and its relationship with the Group, which includes monitoring our use of the Auditor for non-audit services and the balance of audit and non-audit fees paid.
As noted in the Audit Committee Report, following a review of the independence and effectiveness of our external auditor, a resolution will be proposed at the 2018 AGM to re-appoint Deloitte LLP.
Each Director believes that there is no relevant information of which our Auditor is unaware.
Each has taken all steps necessary, as a Director, to be aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that Deloitte LLP is made aware of any pertinent information.
This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 249 of the Companies Guernsey Law 2008.
By order of the Board David MacLellan Chairman 23 March 2018
