n S o i u t a s v t o a n i n n I a b l e o p e s r t a n t e e i r i i o E h t t S n a h y i t s G c a c p s r n y t o & e i g l Responsibility Championing Responsibility Responsibility is a core value that has long been embedded across the Company and runs through every aspect of our business, ultimately to better serve patients.
As the leading global biotech company further the United Nations Sustainable inrare diseases, we seek to address Development Goals, which cover a significant unmet needs and transform broadrange of social and economic peoples lives through the breakthrough development issues.
Everything we do This framework will help us focus across our organization from engaging strategically on what is most important our people to operating in a responsible to Shire and its stakeholders.
We andsustainable way is to serve as a continually focus to make sure we Kim Stratton champion for patients and those who organizeand apply ourselves for Head of International Commercial & carefor them.
Executive Sponsor, Responsibility Responsibility helps the Company have Sponsor Network Additional information on the Responsibility thegreatest positive impact on the lives of strategy, commitments and long-term patients, employees, and local and global Responsibility strategic framework goalscan be found in Shires Annual communities.
It is a commitment that is Responsibility Review available at supported by Shires Board of Directors, www.
championed by the CEO, driven forward by Shires senior leaders and shared by our Responsibility and risk management employees.
It is at the heart of how we lead Shires risk management strategy is to and deliver high patient impact, sustained identify, assess, mitigate and monitor growth, and societal value.
significant risks that it faces, including thoserelevant to its Responsibility strategy Rare Disease A focused strategy and commitments.
This Responsibility patients and In 2017, Shire developed its new those who section includes details ofsuch risks, care for them Responsibility strategy with commitments summary responses and further relevant and long-term goals to be achieved by documentation in each area.
Two of the 2025 aimed at enhancing the Companys keyrisk areas related to Responsibility at Responsibility ambition and performance.
Shire, Environment Health and Safety EHS The strategy is based on the findings Material Compliance and Anti-corruption ofShires Responsibility materiality anti-bribery, arerecognized as Company assessment, conducted in 2016, that Principal Risks in this reporting cycle.
Seethe identified and prioritized key Responsibility Principal Risks and Uncertainties section issues of greatest significance to Shire starting onpage 18 for further information.
and its key stakeholders including patient groups, investors, suppliers, nongovernmental organizations and employees.
Kim Stratton and members ofShires Board of Directors provided Responsibility is an oversight during the strategy development.
integral part of our The strategy was ultimately reviewed and endorsed by Shires Executive Committee business.
Responsibility strategy Shires Responsibility strategy of nine and commitments commitments is aligned to three strategic Responsibility pillars: Supporting Patients, provide a roadmap In 2017, Shire remained in People and Culture, and Sustainable theFTSE4Good Index Operations.
The Responsibility strategy tomake a significant Series, a leading responsibility isfocused on patients and those who care contribution to our investment index that for them, and is explicitly linked to Shires recognizes positive strategic drivers, with ethics and integrity patients, employees environmental, social and permeating throughout.
how our Responsibility commitments could Shire Annual Report 2017 35 i i w i b c n n i t t s i h e n t f g o r E r p i o t s y e p R P p e u o S p l e & c u l e t l p u Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report o r e e P Responsibility Supporting patients Supporting patients is core to what we do.
We are dedicated to supporting patients andthose who care for them throughout their entirejourney.
Accelerating rare disease diagnosis Increasing disease awareness We are committed to dramatically We aim to share our expertise and provide shortening the time to diagnosis and balanced, reliable and scientifically sound improving access to treatment.
We aim information to help improve understanding tosupport patients and those who care and appreciation of rare diseases.
This forthem along the entire patient journey, happens across multiple therapeutic from involvement in clinical trials areasin a variety of programs developed tomanaging their care through the use for patients, caregivers, healthcare ofdigital innovation and beyond.
We are providers and the general public.
As part We also continue to encourage responsible ofour new Responsibility strategy, we are use of our ADHD products through a spearheading efforts to significantly shorten coalition of medical, mental health, higher the time to diagnosis for rare diseases and education, students and industry experts.
are helping to lead the Global Commission to End the Diagnostic Odyssey for Children Investing in the future with a Rare Disease, co-chaired by Shires Addressing the need for more physicians CEO, to develop an actionable roadmap.
trained in disciplines associated with the Working with physicians, patients, their diagnosis and treatment of rare diseases families and caregivers, we raise awareness isone of the ways we prepare for the of the signsof many rare diseases and future.
Shires partnership with the ACMG Collaborating to improve care provide the extra support often required Foundation for Genetic and Genomic In 2017, Shire joined Access with this type of diagnosis.
These efforts Medicine is funding 10 much-needed Accelerated, a collective of more than include anincreasing focus onexpanding genetic fellowships to support the next 20 pharmaceutical companies and generation of medical geneticists.
partners such as the World Bank and the first recipients of the Shire ACMG the Union for International Cancer Improving access to existing Foundation Medical Genetics Training Control, which collaborates with treatmentsand patient support Awards were awarded.
stakeholders to reduce barriers to We work to improve access to our existing non-communicable disease care in treatments by reducing barriers, such as Ensuring clinical trial transparency low-and middle-income countries.
affordability and access to therapies.
Safeguarding the human rights and privacy Shirehas launched its pioneering of those taking part in our clinical trials Wehave several programs to assist patients hemophilia homecare program in while maintaining our ongoing dedication in the U. S. including OnePath, Shire Indiaas an Access Accelerated tomaximum clinical trial transparency Cares, Hematology Support Center and initiative.
Thisprogram aims to bring isofparamount importance to Shire.
Outside the U. S. we have thehemophilia standard of care in Weachieve this through compliance with numerous programs to increase access, developed economies to persons with evolving transparency laws, regulations, while helping build capacity and support hemophilia in India.
Through Access practices and full alignment of our policies forpatients.
For example, through an Accelerated, we aim to share our with the responsible sharing of clinical agreement with the World Federation learnings in bleed reduction and seek trialdata.
ofHemophilia, Shire provides annual future collaborations to advance access donations of clotting factor to support Shire adheres to the International to diagnosis and treatment for rare patients in various countries.
Shire donated Conference on Harmonization ICH Good disorders in emerging economies.
nearly eight million units in 2017.
Wehave Clinical Practice GCP Guidelines.
We long-running charitable access programs recognize the importance of transparency partnering with the NGOs Direct Relief in clinical studies and are committed to andProject HOPE, donating enzyme sharing clinical data and results responsibly replacement therapies for patients with with physicians, researchers and patients, LSDs in 16countries.
Working with these while mitigating any risk of personal data organizations, as well as with patient identification.
com, advocacy organizations and medical we provide a single portal to access experts, we also partner to raise awareness easy-to-understand information on our for rare diseases and build treatment current andpast clinical trials.
capabilities for LSDs in several less developed countries.
We are aiming to create specific Responsibility goals focused on Access for recommendation in 2018 as part of our Responsibility strategy.
36 Shire Annual Report 2017 Risk management Details of the key risks, Shires response and related policies concerning patient support and wider social matters are as follows: Risk exposure Summary response Key Shire reference materials Local and patient communities We understand that our impact and reach extends Global Policy on Interactions with the Failure to support, engage, and assist our patient beyond Shire into the therapeutic communities HealthcareCommunity and Government communities may result in Shire losing its social and groups that represent our patients and their Officials license to operate in these communities.
Shires Patient Advocacy team works to Community Engagement and Additionally, Shire needs to continue to build and sustain mutually beneficial, trusting Responsibility Policies demonstrate a robust, equitable, and safe relationships with patient advocacy organizations Compassionate Use Position compassionate use program in local and around the globe.
Our team manages Conduct of Clinical Trials Policy patient communities.
relationships with more than 100 patient advocacy Corporate Giving Global Standards organizations and supports Shire colleagues in andMandatory Requirements local operating countries working with patient Read more about advocacy organizations.
Shires Global Policy on Risk on page 18 Interactions with the Healthcare Community and Government Officials defines the global standards for interactions with patients and patient organizations.
The Patient Advocacy and Global Compliance and Risk Management teams provide guidance andoversight.
Additionally, Shire believes that participating in clinical trials is the best way for patients to access therapies prior to approval.
In some extreme circumstances when this is not possible, patients with life-threatening diseases or conditions may seek special access to investigational medicines outside of a clinical trial setting.
These situations are typically referred to as compassionate use, but can also be known as expanded access, early access, pre-approval access and emergency use.
Shire has policies available on www.
com related toclinical trials and compassionate use.
Shire Annual Report 2017 37 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Responsibility Valuing our people and culture We are proud of our people and of the entrepreneurial culture at the heart of our Company.
Engaging our employees in Investing in our people Leaders, Early Career Professionals, ourpurposeand priorities Equipping our employees for success EnAbles Disability Caregivers, Impacto Ensuring that we provide a sense of isvital to serving our patients and Latino, Veterans, and Women@Shire.
purpose for our employees is important communities.
We focus on recruiting, Providing equal opportunities tous, and we provide opportunities for developing and supporting highly trained, Shire is committed to maintaining an employees to feel they are making a collaborative, engaged, high-performing environment that offers equal opportunities meaningful impact on patients and in employees who can continuously learn and in employment and advancement, their communities.
For example, we grow while doing their best work.
These encourages inclusive conduct among all encourage our employees to support arepeople who thrive in our transparent, employees globally, and fosters respect patient advocacy organizations by entrepreneurial, patient-focused culture forindividual characteristics and values.
recognizing disease awareness days andwho live our leadership behaviors.
Asa global organization, our employees, and months by hosting and Fostering a company culture patients, business and society benefit participating in internal and external ofdevelopment and inclusion whenwe show respect, consideration events and awareness campaigns such We focus on professional and leadership andinclusion of different perspectives in aswalks and runs.
Also, we held our development, organizational effectiveness our work every day.
Shires diverse talent third Global Day of Service with more and performance management in line around the world drives our success.
As an than 7,300 employees dedicating more withour ongoing commitment to help employer, Shire welcomes the opportunity than 29,000 hours of their time to to affirm its continuing commitment to employees perform and progress community projects across more than provide equal employment or advancement throughout Shire.
In 2017, we launched the 300locations around the world.
opportunity, and to dedicate ourselves to WeLearn portal that offers easily accessible Foreveryone involved, it was a establishing a work environment that is professional learning opportunities to verysatisfying way to give back to freefrom discrimination.
This means that, support all employees inachieving their localcommunities by making a as an employer, Shire will not tolerate development goals.
Wealso have lastingand meaningful difference.
discrimination against any worker or expanded our mentoring programs and jobapplicant on the basis of race, color, leadership effectiveness toolkits for new religion, gender, national origin, ancestry, and current leaders.
age, sexual orientation, marital status, Our success continues to be driven by our pregnancy, non-job related mental or diverse employee talent around the world.
physical disability, genetic information, We value all genders, ethnicities, ages, veteran status, or military service.
We cultures, experiences and backgrounds as arecommitted to the fair treatment and we build and grow our global organization.
reasonable accommodation of applicants The benefit of our diverse workforce comes or employees disabilities in accordance from respecting, considering and including with all applicable laws in the respective different views in our work every day locations of all Shire facilities.
asdescribed in our Code of Ethics.
Recognizing and rewarding Ourgrowing global reach gives us the 2017 marked the second year of Our pay for performance philosophy opportunity to bring to our business, for partnership with SeriousFun Childrens provides managers with a variety of thebenefit of our patients, greater depth Network, a global community of 30 programs to recognize and reward ofexperiences and capabilities.
Shire is campsand programs around the world employee contributions.
Our employee committed to diversity and inclusion and thatprovides transformative camp share purchase plans enable employees has a commitment to foster a company experiences to children living with serious tohave a vested interest in Shires culture of development and inclusion as illnesses and their families.
We focus on communicating to part of its new Responsibility strategy.
$3 million commitment, $1 million annually drive performance at every level of the Shires Business Resource Groups BRGs for three years, enables nearly 1,000 business, for example through one-onare a valued part of the Shire infrastructure children to attend these life-changing oneperformance discussions between and important to our Companys success, camps.
In addition, thisyear Shire managers and employees and all-employee as they contribute tobuilding diverse and employees dedicated more than5,000 meetings held at our major sites.
We inspired teams byleading initiatives that hours to volunteering with SeriousFun.
regularly communicate with all employees help us attract, develop, and retain talent: Through our volunteer program, 28 via all-company meetings, the intranet, engage with theworld around us through employees volunteered as camp counselors all-employee emails from the CEO and meaningful community outreach: and bring at 12 different camps.
Additionally, during other executives, social networking a diverse set of ideas and experiences to our Global Day of Service, more than 250 platforms, and leadership briefings and spawn ideation, creativity, and energy.
employees volunteered their time to work cascading communications through Each of oureight employee-organized on enhancing the sites of seven SeriousFun emailsand meetings.
BRGs is focused on a unique community camps.
And we were proud to sponsor two ofour employees: B-Equal LGBT, Black family weekends, allowing 38 families to Leadership Council, Building Asian spend quality time together at camp.
38 Shire Annual Report 2017 Risk management Details of the key risks, Shires response and related policies concerning the Companys employees are as follows: Risk exposure Summary response Key Shire reference materials Working conditions Shire values our employees and provides effective, Code of Ethics Failure to provide safe, fair, productive working safe working conditions, including health and Human Rights Policy conditions for employees around the globe could safety, security and working hours in compliance Environment, Health and Safety Policy lead to legal, quality, and reputational impacts.
with U. S. national and international labor laws and Global Standards of Conduct Policy prevailing practices.
Shire has programs and Global Non-Discrimination and Antipolicies in place to safeguard against employee Harassment Policy discrimination, including Code of Ethics training Employee trainings and continued monitoring of employee relations Board Diversity Policy matters.
Shires Board Diversity Policy is described Read more about on page 65.
Shire has established policies, Risk on page 18 employment practices and consistent processes with the purpose of mitigating employment risk and to assure the appropriate practices and processes are followed so that employees are managed without bias and discrimination and that all candidates and employees are given fair and equal consideration for employment opportunities and rewards and recognition.
Employee Population by region U. S. employment ethnic minorities as of December 31, 2017 as of December 31, 2017 57% North America 67% Non-minority 36% Europe 32% Minority 5% Asia 1% Unstated 2% Latin America 13 316 23,044 Shire plc Directors gender split Shire senior managers gender split Shire global employees gender split 4 31% 104 33% 12,177 53% 2017 2017 2017 9 69% 212 67% 10,867 47% 2016 4 33% 2016 91 34% 2016 12,323 52% 8 67% 180 66% 11,583 48% Female Male Shire Annual Report 2017 39 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Responsibility Managing sustainable operations Managing sustainable operations from sourcing and manufacturing responsibly, to delivering safe and effective medicines, to using our natural resources carefully helps ensure our patients receive the treatments they need to lead healthier lives.
Global approach, local focus Looking after our planet newResponsibility strategy includes a We strive to operate a sustainable We have initiatives in place to reduce focus on ensuring supplier commitment organization that protects our employees, ourenvironmental impact through toresponsibility by evaluating the social the environment, our partners and the activitiessuch as site-specific recycling and environmental performance of communities in which we live and work, andenergy reduction programs.
To reduce Shiresstrategic suppliers and working aswell as one that helps ensure that our greenhouse gas GHG emissions, several withstrategic suppliers to influence patients receive the treatments they need sites use green energy power purchasing performance.
Shire also has launched to lead healthier lives.
We are committed to agreements including our operations in anew Supplier Code of Conduct that establishing a culture of best-in-class safety Orth and Vienna, Austria: Neuchatel, describes Shires expectations of its and wellbeing for all employees globally.
Switzerland: Lessines, Belgium: and Rieti suppliers.
Our approach to responsible and Pisa, Italy.
To promote green building supply chain management also includes Shires Responsibility strategy commits and healthier work spaces, we have supplier diversity.
We actively seek and tosustainable and efficient use of natural incorporated green building design select qualified suppliers from all segments resources and energy efficiency, including principles and have achieved U. S. Green of the business community, in all markets greenhouse gas emissions reduction Building Council Leadership in Energy and where we operate.
In the U. S. we employ goals, water conservation and waste Environmental Design LEED certification our Supplier Diversity Program to ensure management goals.
The strategy within several sites, including locations in that Minority-Owned, Women-Owned, alsocommits to responsible product Los Angeles, California: Cambridge and Veteran-Owned, Service-Disabled stewardship and evaluating the social and Lexington, Massachusetts: Exton, Veteran-Owned Small Businesses, environmental performance ofShires Pennsylvania: Vienna, Austria: and businesses located in Historically strategic suppliers.
Underutilized Business Zones HUBZone organization, we work to minimize adverse and Small Disadvantaged Businesses are Shire has established a cross-functional environmental impacts and risks that may afforded afair and equal opportunity to Global Energy Program that is charged be associated with ourproducts, facilities participate in the awarding of contracts.
withproviding a systematic approach to and operations.
In2017, we exceeded our annual goal of measurably reduce energy and water Our global Environment, Health, and Safety 9percent byspending 13 percent of our consumption and cost, increase use of EHS policy outlines our commitments, U. S. spendwith these small businesses.
renewable energy, andreduce greenhouse within our operations and across the entire gas emissions.
Shires Environment, Health & Promoting health and safety Safety Management Program is designed We provide a safe work environment, to identify, manage and reduce EHS risks aswell as promote healthy lifestyles and associated with our operations, assure behavior.
We have implemented a goal compliance and support continual aspart of our Responsibility strategy to performance improvement.
drive safety excellence by eliminating We apply the same approach and policies serious injury, impact, or fatality events at all to all our facilities worldwide, and we are Shire facilities.
We train, empower and working to develop cross functional require our employees to take individual programs, policies and governance responsibility for health and safety, and structures that will help support progress launched safety leadership training for all towards achieving our new commitments leaders in 2017.
We engage and consult and goals.
Nearly all of ourmanufacturing with our employees when developing and and research and development sites are improving our processes, and encourage Sustainable performance certified to the ISO 14001 Environmental them to integrate health and safety We received a score of Afor our Management System Standard and the considerations into their everyday activities.
2017climate performance and a B Occupational Health and Safety As part of our Responsibility strategy, we forour water performance in the CDP, Assessment Series OHSAS 18001 are creating a comprehensive health and improvements from Shires previous Standard, with additional sites pursuing wellbeing program that supports all Shire scores.
The CDP is a global non-profit certification in 2018.
Adhering to these employees to better serve our patients.
organization working on behalf of standards helps ensure that effective investors to encourage companies Responsible manufacturing processes are in place to reduce impact on todisclose and manage their andsupplierdiversity our operations with priority consideration environmental impacts.
In2017, Were committed to working closely with for the health and safety ofemployees and over5,600 corporations disclosed our suppliers and making positive changes contractors: ensure compliance with environmental data throughCDP, along our value chain by encouraging our applicable laws, regulations and other EHS withan average climateperformance business partners, suppliers, and related requirements: and create a culture score among allparticipants of C and contractors to adopt responsible and of continuous improvement related to the average waterscore of B. sustainable practices.
To that end, our management of EHS in our operations.
40 Shire Annual Report 2017 Risk management Details of the key risks, Shires response and related policies concerning environmental matters are as follows: Risk exposure Summary response Key Shire reference materials Climate change and EHS material compliance Shire is committed to operating in an Environment, Health and Safety Policy Failure to manage the possible risks associated environmentally responsible and sustainable Code of Ethics with climate change including new regulations, manner and managing environmental risks.
Shire Responsibility strategy extreme weather events and natural resource tracks and monitors environmental regulatory and Read more about scarcity may impact Shires operations and policy developments globally that may have a Risk on page 18 reputation.
Additionally, failure to adhere to broad impact on Shires operations and business relevant laws, regulations, and policies, including strategy.
The Company has established several Shires EHS Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct, governance mechanisms and programs.
may result in fines, business disruptions, increased operating costs, reduced revenue, Shire has established a cross-functional Product interruption postponement in research, delays of Stewardship Working Group that meets quarterly new product launches, and or other environmental to review any changes to the various material and reputational consequences.
Note: EHS compliance regulations and requirements as material compliance has been recognized as a wellas changes to the Company, products, principal risk in this reporting cycle.
Shire has implemented processes and supporting technology to provide a framework for oversight and governance.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions Assessment parameters 1 Baseline Year January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016 FY2016 Consolidation approach Operational Control Boundary summary Emissions data includes all Shire plc consolidated entities.
All manufacturing and plasma collection facilities are included in Scope 1 and 2 reporting of emissions from natural gas, fuel oil and electricity.
Scope 1 emissions from global fleet fuel usage are included.
Scope 2 emissions from commercial offices are included and approximated based on occupied square footage when primary consumption data was not available.
Scope 3 includes emissions from business travel, employee commuting and waste generated in operations.
Consistency with the By following the operational control approach, our GHG disclosures include data from leased assets that are not Financial Statements included in the consolidated financial statements.
Assessment methodology Greenhouse Gas Protocol updated 2015 Intensity ratio GHG Emissions per unit revenue metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents per million U. S. dollars of revenue 1 Due to significant structural changes in Shires operational boundary as a result of the Baxalta Inc. acquisition in 2016, Shire reset its baseline year to FY2016 to better reflect the newly combined organization.
2 GHG emissions were revised to reflect acquisitions and divestments as well as changes in emissions factors and comments from data verifiers.
3 GHG emissions reported in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents.
GHG intensity emissions reported in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents per million U. S. dollars of revenue.
4 For Scope 1 fleet usage, an annual mileage of 20,000 kilometers per vehicle was used to approximate fleet emissions for vehicles without annual mileage data available.
5 For Shire occupied commercial office locations where electricity consumption data was not available, electricity consumption was approximated using U. S. Energy Information Administration 2012 intensity factors.
6 Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions reported using the market-based Scope 2 total.
7 Scope 3 emissions include emissions from disposal of waste, business travel and employee commuting.
Other Scope 3 emissions are currently excluded.
Shire Annual Report 2017 41 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Responsibility Ethics and transparency We are committed to leading the way in adopting andapplying the highest standards of good governance, ethics and transparency in our industry.
Organized to lead the world.
We do this through our Supplier Shires cross-functional, global Code of Conduct that explicitly states our Responsibility Sponsor Network consists expectations of suppliers to uphold the ILO ofsenior leaders who play a fundamental principles.
This policy can be found on our role in creating, reviewing and implementing website, www.
Shires Responsibility strategy, goals and Shires Board of Directors has approved our policies, including our efforts on 2017 Modern Slavery Act Statement that is environmental sustainability, to ensure the available on our website.
It outlines Shires Company is aligned to maintain high policies and efforts to mitigate the risks of standards and high impact.
The Network modern slavery throughout our business ultimately reports to the Board ofDirectors Transparency disclosures and supply chain.
For more information, go and Executive Committee, withKim We publish details on our website about to: www.
com who-we-are how-weStratton, Head of International Commercial, our medical educational grants as well operate .
serving as the Networks Executive as contributions to U. S. healthcareSponsor.
Members of the network also Engaging with our stakeholders related charitable organizations.
serve as Responsibility champions We communicate widely and regularly Formore information, go to: www.
throughout the organization and with onResponsibility with all our stakeholders, com who-we-are how-we-operate external stakeholders.
They meet as a such as through our website.
group at least three times per year alwaysinterested to hear feedback and tomonitor progress and more frequently suggestions on how we can be an even insmaller working groups.
Responsibility team facilitates the working Find out more groups, partners with sponsors, and drives You can find out more about our enduring communications and reporting efforts.
commitment to Responsibility and read our Upholding human rights Annual Responsibility Review here: We support the UN Universal Declaration www.
com who-we-are responsibility ofHuman Rights and recognize the obligation to promote universal respect You can also find copies of our policies and forand observance of human rights and position statements here: fundamental freedoms for all, without www.
com who-we-are how-wedistinction to sex, age, race, religion, or operate  other characteristics protected by law.
We are committed to protecting the human rights of our employees in our offices and manufacturing facilities around the world.
We recognize that commercial success depends on the full commitment of all our employees.
We commit to respect their human rights, to provide them with safe and favorable working conditions that arefree from unnecessary risk, and to maintain fair and competitive terms andconditions of service at all times.
Weseek to comply fully with all relevant laws, rules and regulations governing labor, employment, and the employment relationship in all of the countries where Shire does business.
We commit to the principles articulated inthe International Labor Organizations ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
We also commit to the protection of human rights ofour partners and suppliers, and in turn, expect them to do the same in their operations and to their employees around 42 Shire Annual Report 2017 Risk management Details of the key risks, Shires response and related policies concerning human rights and anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters areasfollows: Risk exposure Summary response Key Shire reference materials Human rights We are committed tothe protection of the human Code of Ethics Failure to identify, assess and mitigate against rights of our employees in our offices and Human Rights Policy human rights abuses across the supply chain may manufacturing facilities around the world.
We seek Modern Slavery Act Statement have legal, reputational and business impact on to comply fullywith all relevant laws, rules and Read more about Shire.
These may include workplace rights regulations governing labor, employment and the Risk on page 18 violations and child labor.
 in all of the countries where we operate.
We recognize our responsibilityto identify and address potential andactual human rights violations that are directly linked to our business activities around the world.
We have aset of strict policies and processes in place related to Human Rights and a statement inresponse to the Modern Slavery Act.
Anti-corruption anti-bribery We operate in numerous countries across the Global Anti-Corruption Anti-Bribery Policy Failure to comply with anti-corruption anti-bribery globe, with emergent markets having differing Employee trainings laws, regulations, policies and standards, and levels of infrastructure and legislative regulatory Code of Ethics other laws regulations governing the frameworks.
Our industry is also highly regulated.
Third-Party Due Diligence program manufacturing, sales, and marketing of Shire These circumstances increase our exposure to Read more about products, could negatively impact the Company potential bribery or corruption risks.
Risk on page 18 and or its officers, Directors and employees, Shire has a well-defined Code of Ethics, a clear resulting in enforcement activity, civil and or set of values, and pertinent policies procedures criminal liability, fines, penalties, imprisonment, which guide our approach to Anti-corruption business restrictions or damage to our reputation.
anti-bribery compliance, all of which are available Note: Anti-corruption anti-bribery has been Group-wide.
Shires Global Anti-corruption identified as a principal risk in this reporting cycle.
anti-bribery policy applies to all Shire and Shire See page 20. subsidiaries officers, directors, and employees, as well as to all third-parties in their work with and on behalf of Shire.
Shire continues to review, audit, and monitor compliance with relevant policies, procedures, systems, and controls.
We deploy global anti-corruption anti-bribery measures including training and awareness initiatives and a third-party due diligence program, which requires that our third-parties comply with all applicable laws, including the anti-corruption laws of all countries in which we or the third-party operates.
Shire Annual Report 2017 43 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
