The Investment Adviser JLIF is advised by John Laing Capital Management JLCM, a specialist infrastructure manager, which is able to draw upon a wealth of experience in infrastructure investments, management and development.
David Hardy Jamie Pritchard Gianluca Mazzoni David is Managing Director of JLCM Jamie is Deputy Investment Adviser to Gianluca is Deputy Investment and Lead Investment Adviser to JLIF.
JLIF and Director of Asset Management Adviser to JLIF and Head of Business He has over 25 years corporate and has in excess of 18 years Development, responsible for originating finance, M&A, fundraising and deal experience in the infrastructure sector.
He is a Director of closure experience spanning His primary focus is the operational JLCM and also sits on the board of infrastructure, PPP and renewables performance of the investment the Connecticut Service Stations projects.
He joined John Laing in 2005, portfolio, ensuring that forecast returns P3 project.
He has more than 19 years and led the equity investment of a are delivered and on the identication experience working in infrastructure significant number of UK PFI PPP and management of value investments.
projects across various sectors, enhancements.
Jamie also serves as Prior to joining JLCM, Gianluca including health, education, transport, a director on the board of a number worked for Socit Gnrale Principal defence, waste and renewables.
From of the project companies in which Investments then Access Capital 2011, he was responsible for raising JLIF is a shareholder.
He has significant experience co-investment funds from institutional Jamie joined JLCM in 2012, having in the origination and execution of investors on large infrastructure spent 12 years working in a variety investment opportunities in the global investments and leading the divestment of roles in the PPP sector including infrastructure market and has directly of mature projects for John Laing Group project finance, primary investments, invested globally across various sectors, and in 2014 was a key member of the asset management and commercial including transportation, energy and JLCM team that launched JLEN, the at Balfour Beatty Investments and real assets.
Prior to this Gianluca worked listed environmental infrastructure fund.
His experience in infrastructure in corporate finance and private equity Prior to joining John Laing, David was investment has been gained across M&A advisory for the Boston Consulting a Corporate Finance partner at KPMG both the primary and secondary Group and Bain & Co.
He holds an where he had experience of acting as markets.
Jamies extensive portfolio MBA from Bocconi University Italy financial adviser on private equity fund management experience helps deliver and Columbia Business School USA raising and M&A transactions before value enhancements that underpin and an MSc in Economics and Finance specialising in advising government Underlying Growth.
He also provides from Universit Politecnica delle bodies on procurement and private support for JLIFs bidding activities.
sector sponsors on PFI PPP projects.
Jamie holds a first class degree in David has a BSc in Management Chemistry and is a member of the Sciences from Manchester University Institute of Chartered Accountants in and is a member of the Institute of England and Wales, having qualied Chartered Accountants in England with PwC in 1995. and Wales.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2017 27.
Diego Jimenez Matthew McLintock Diego is a Director of Investments Matthew is an Investment Manager for JLCM, responsible for sourcing for JLCM, playing a key role in the and executing new investment origination and execution of new opportunities.
Prior to joining JLCM, investments, capital raising and Diego worked for APG Asset valuation of JLIFs portfolio.
He is Management in The Netherlands as also responsible for fund and portfolio part of their Global Infrastructure Fund, analysis, leading the reporting to and was responsible for sourcing and shareholders and to the JLIF Board.
executing new investments across Matthew serves as a director on various sectors including transport, the board of three of the project waste and energy transmission.
companies in which JLIF is a Diego was also a non-executive and shareholder and has experience shadow director for portfolio across a range of sectors.
Matthew companies and a member of funds has over nine years of infrastructure supervisory committees.
Diego holds a BSc in Business Prior to joining JLCM, Matthew worked Administration from University of for URS Corporation now AECOM as Missouri USA, an MBA from part of their Infrastructure Economics IE Business School Spain and is and Strategy team, advising lenders a CFA charter holder.
and sponsors in respect of commercial and technical risk.
Matthew holds a BA from University of Southampton and is a Chartered Member of the Institute for Securities and Investment.
