01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Business Model 11.
JLIFs business model is to invest equity in a balanced portfolio of infrastructure projects to provide a source of stable, predictable income that can be returned to shareholders by way of dividends.
JLIF predominantly invests in equity and sub-ordinated debt issued with respect to operational infrastructure PPP projects, since it is usually upon operations commencement that revenue starts to be generated.
This supports the Companys objective, as described above, to deliver income to its shareholders.
JLIFs business model has three main areas: Value preservation this involves delivering the business case and assumptions underpinning that on which JLIFs initial investment in a project was made, thereby delivering the returns expected at time of Asset acquisition.
This may include delivering cost savings assumed as part of the acquisition business case.
Management Value enhancement this involves identifying ways by which to enhance the value of JLIFs investments once acquired beyond that assumed in the acquisition business case.
This is achieved by either realising cost savings or increasing project revenues.
Most projects in JLIFs Portfolio have availability-based payment mechanisms meaning cost savings are the primary way by which to generate additional value.
For projects where some demand risk is retained by the SPV e. g. Connecticut Service Stations, there are arguably more opportunities for value enhancement such as by implementing initiatives designed to increase capture rates, average dwell time, spend per customer etc.
all of which drive sales and ultimately a proportion of SPV revenues.
JLIF aims to grow its Portfolio by making further value accretive investments either in new or existing projects.
This serves to drive economies of scale by reducing xed costs on a per unit basis and to extend the New period over which the Portfolio is forecast to distribute.
If JLIF made no further investments, eventually each Investments of the projects comprising the Portfolio would reach the end of their concession periods and the Portfolio would then generate zero income, as it would no longer exist.
Incremental investments in existing projects may also result in additional governance rights and a greater ability to influence investment performance.
The Companys business model also involves management initiatives on a Portfolio-wide and Fund-level basis.
This includes managing risk by maintaining a well-diversied portfolio in terms of sectors, geographies, Portfolio public sector counterparties and sub-contractors, and by maintaining a balanced portfolio where JLIF is and Fund not overly exposed to the performance of any single project.
Some of the limits set out in the Companys investment policy are intended to support this.
For example, no single project in JLIFs Portfolio may exceed Management 25% of its Total Assets as at the time of investment.
Other Portfolio Fund-wide management initiatives include managing JLIFs exposure to foreign exchange rate movements.
JLIFs principal liabilities are Sterling-denominated the most significant being dividends it pays to shareholders, however, some of its income is received in other currencies specifically US Dollar, Canadian Dollar and Euro.
JLIF makes use of forward contracts to hedge its exposure to exchange rate movements.
Further detail on how JLIF manages exchange rate risk can be found in the Risk Committee Report on pages 12 to 19.
JLIF also aims to provide a degree of ination correlation to its shareholders, and gives consideration to this when reviewing new investments.
In order to remain efficient with respect to the use of shareholder funds, JLIF makes prudent use of leverage when making investments.
In nancing new investments, JLIF generally makes use first and foremost of cash reserves followed by its revolving credit facility.
Where the debt facility is used, shareholder equity capital is subsequently raised subject to market conditions in order to repay the debt, meaning shareholder funds are effectively deployed immediately, thereby avoiding cash drag resulting from uninvested funds sitting on JLIFs balance sheet.
