01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2017 09.
2017 saw relatively low levels of activity in the UK in markets that have historically formed JLIFs Market Outlook core.
However, there were a select number of transactions involving major projects such as High Speed 1, the M25 DBFO project and the recently announced sale by John Laing Group of its remaining interest in Intercity Express Programme Phase 1 of a scale that would require most investors to bid alongside a partner or as part of a consortium.
We believe fewer but larger assets is likely to be a growing trend in the UK as a significant proportion of operational PPP projects are now under the ownership of long-term holders and there is little in the way of new projects being developed.
As we have identied for several years now, this makes the UK a particularly competitive market with an over-supply of capital seeking to be deployed and an under-supply of projects into which to invest.
While JLIF has no requirement to invest or grow in the same way that, for example, a private fund may have during its commitment period, in order for JLIF to remain an active investor in the UK, it may need to consider larger investments, new sub-sectors or taking on different types of risk.
Project regional outlook and current geographic 56 diversication 4 5 Currently operating Short term projected region 1-3 years Medium term projected region 3-5 years Long term projected region -5 years Continental European markets were more active in 2017 both in terms of the secondary market for operational assets, as well as for new projects being developed.
The markets in Italy, Spain, The Netherlands, Belgium and France remain particularly active, with JLIF reviewing investments in three of these during the period.
The US remains active with more and more greeneld projects being developed, although there will inevitably be a lag of several years before these develop into a significant secondary pipeline.
However, there are some projects coming through already and we believe JLIF is well placed to take advantage of these, having developed a footprint in the market via its Connecticut Service Stations P3 project.
Canada also continues to develop new infrastructure projects, although the high number of domestic investors and maturity of the market increases competition for assets, increasing valuations and lowering returns.
In Latin America, Chile remains an active market for secondary PPP assets, especially in the transport sector.
JLIF was invited to look at a number of opportunities in Chile in 2017, including, on a bilateral basis, an operational toll road but the asset was subsequently sold as part of a wider portfolio transaction.
During the period, the Board and Investment Adviser reviewed the Companys investment policy and certain recommended changes were approved by shareholders at the AGM in May 2017.
These primarily related to the geographical limits, which were broadened to give the Company greater exibility in pursuing investment opportunities in overseas markets.
The Board and Investment Adviser will keep the investment policy under review to ensure the Company is in the best position to take advantage of opportunities available globally whilst still retaining its core objective of providing stable, predictable yields for shareholders.
JLIF continues to benefit from the First Offer Agreements it has with John Laing Group plc, under which in 2017 JLIF acquired interests in four new projects and a further investment in an existing project.
The timing of any divestments by John Laing will likely be driven by its own cash requirements, which itself is in part dependent on its success in its investment activities.
John Laing is currently in short-list or preferred bidder positions in respect of a number of transactions.
JLIF Limited North America Latin America United Kingdom Continental Europe Asia Pacic Australia
