Governance Board of Directors N Susan Kilsby 59 Flemming Ornskov, MD, MPH 60 Thomas Dittrich 54 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Appointed: September 1, 2011 Appointed: January 2, 2013 Anticipated appointment: March 19, 2018 Susan served as an independent Non-Executive Flemming served as Chief Executive Officer Skills & experience: Thomas will bring to his Director prior to her appointment as Chairman on Designate prior to his appointment as Chief rolehis finance and leadership experience.
Hepreviously served as Chief Financial Officer andamember of the Executive Committee at Skills & experience: Susan brings to her Skills & experience: Flemming brings to his Sulzer Ltd. Thomas joined Sulzer in August 2014, roleextensive M&A and finance experience rolehis operational and medical knowledge serving as Chief Executive Officer ad interim having enjoyed a distinguished global career in andhis extensive international, strategic and between August 2015 and December 2015. investment banking.
She held senior positions operational experience in the pharmaceutical Priorto joining Sulzer, he served as Vice President, with The First Boston Corporation, Bankers Trust, sector.
He formerly held the positions of Finance Corporate Planning and ChiefAccounting Barclays fide Zoete Wedd andmost recently Non-Executive Chairman of Evotec AG and Officer of Amgen Inc. between 2010 and 2014. Credit Suisse where she was Chairman of the Non-Executive Director of PCI Biotech Holding Between 2006 and 2010, Thomas wasVice EMEA Mergers & Acquisitions team until 2009, ASA.
From 2010 to 2012 he was Chief Marketing President, Finance and ChiefFinancial Officer and a part-time senior advisor until 2014.
Susan Officer and Global Head, Strategic Marketing for ofAmgen International.
Healso spent eight years is also a former Director of Keurig Green General and Specialty Medicine at Bayer.
From with Dellwhere heheldvarious finance and Mountain, Inc. LOccitane International S. A.
2008 to 2010 Flemming served as Global general manager roles.
Earlier inhis career, andCoca-Cola HBC AG.
She holds a BA in President, Pharmaceuticals and OTC at Bausch Thomas worked atBooz & Co and Helbing Economics and a MBA.
He also served as Chairman, and Management Consulting AG in operational and later as President and Chief Executive Officer, Key appointments: BBA Aviation plc Nonmerger andacquisition roles, respectively.
He ofLife-Cycle Pharma A S from 2006 to 2008, Executive Director, Goldman Sachs International holds aMaster of Science inFinance, Accounting and as President and Chief Executive Officer Non-Executive Director and Fortune Brands andBusiness Administration from the University of ofIkaria, Inc. from 2005 to 2006.
Earlier in Home & Security, Inc. Non-Executive Director.
St. Gallen and a Master of Science in Mechanical hispharmaceutical career Flemming held roles Engineering from  Munich.
ofincreasing responsibility at Merck &Co. Inc. and Novartis AG, following a distinguished period spent in hospitals and academic medicine.
Flemming received his MD from the University ofCopenhagen, his MBA from INSEAD and his Master of Public Health from Harvard University.
Key appointments: Swiss-American Chamber ofCommerce Non-Executive Director and Waters Corporation Non-Executive Director.
Board committee appointments Board diversity at December 31, 2017 A Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee R Remuneration Committee N Nomination & Governance Committee S Science & Technology Committee Gender Tenure Chairmanship Membership 69% Male 3 years 31% Female 3-5 years 5 years 56 Shire Annual Report 2017 R N A R S R N William Burns 70 Dominic Blakemore 48 Olivier Bohuon 59 Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: March 15, 2010 Appointed: January 1, 2014 Appointed: July 1, 2015 Skills & experience: William Bill brings to the Skills & experience: Dominic brings to the Board Skills & experience: Olivier brings to the Board Board extensive international R&D, commercial, his strategic and financial experience.
Dominic his extensive international business and leadership business development and operational experience will retire from the Board with effect from the experience gained through roles held in in the pharmaceutical sector.
Bill will retire from the conclusion of the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
pharmaceutical and healthcare companies across Board with effect from the conclusion of the 2018 He holds the position of Executive Director and Europe, the Middle East and the U. S. He is to be Annual General Meeting.
He worked for Roche Chief Executive Officer at Compass Group plc, appointed Senior Independent Director with effect from 1986 until 2009: most recently holding the having previously served as Deputy Chief from the conclusion of the 2018 Annual General position of CEO of its pharmaceuticals division Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Meeting.
He currently holds the position of Chief andserving as a member of the Roche Group Chief Financial Officer.
He has also held the Executive Officer at Smith & Nephew plc, having Corporate Executive Committee.
Bill is a former positions of Chief Financial Officer at Iglo Foods previously served as Chief Executive Officer and Non-Executive Director of Roche Holding AG and Group and European Finance & Strategy Director, President of Pierre Fabre Group and as President Chugai Pharmaceutical Co, Ltd, and former Corporate Finance Director, and Group Financial of Abbott Pharmaceuticals: a division of Chairman of Biotie Therapies Corp. Bill holds a BA Controller at Cadbury plc.
Earlier in his career, U. S. -based Abbott Laboratories.
Olivier also Hons in Business Economics from the University Dominic worked at  helddiverse commercial leadership positions at of Strathclyde.
where he advised pharmaceutical sector clients.
GlaxoSmithKline and its predecessor companies in France.
He holds an MBA fromHEC Paris Key appointments: Mesoblast Limited Vice Key appointments: Compass Group plc School of Management and adoctorate in Chairman, Vestergaard Frandsen Vice Chairman, ChiefExecutive Officer and Academic Council Pharmacy from the University ofParis.
Molecular Partners Vice Chairman and Director, ofUniversity College London Member.
Wellcome Trust Governor and Trustee, Institute of Key appointments: Smith & Nephew plc Cancer Research Trustee and University of Chief Executive Officer, Biotech Promise Cologne Bonn Center for Integrated Oncology Non-Executive Director and Virbac SA Scientific Advisory Board Member.
A R R S A S Ian Clark 57 Gail Fosler 70 Steven Gillis, PhD 64 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: January 3, 2017 Appointed: June 3, 2016 Appointed: October 1, 2012 Skills & experience: Ian brings to the Board his Skills & experience: Gail brings to the Board Skills & experience: Steven brings to the Board extensive leadership and biotechnology sector hercommercial, public policy and economics his extensive technical and scientific knowledge experience.
Ian served as Chief Executive Officer experience.
She is President of The GailFosler and commercial experience.
He is currently a and Director of Genentech Inc. part of the Roche Group LLC, a strategic advisory service for global Managing Director at ARCH Venture Partners: a Group and Head of North American Commercial business leaders and public policy makers, which provider of venture capital for technology firms.
Prior to this, Gail spent Prior to this Steven was a founder and Director of 2010 he held the positions of Head of Global over 20 years at The Conference Board where Corixa Corporation, acquired by GlaxoSmithKline Product Strategy and Chief Marketing Officer, she served as President and Trustee, Executive in 2005, and before that a founder and Director Executive Vice President Commercial Vice President and Chief Economist.
An immunologist by Operations and Senior Vice President and former Director of Baxter International, Inc. training, Steven has authored more than 300 General Manager BioOncology at Genentech.
Baxalta, Inc. Swiss Reinsurance America peer-reviewed publications in the areas of Prior to this Ian was appointed President of Corporation and Caterpillar, Inc. She holds a molecular and tumor immunology.
He is credited Novartis Canada, having previously served Master of Business Administration degree in as being a pioneer in the field of cytokines and asChief Operating Officer for Novartis United Finance from New York University and a Bachelor cytokine receptors, directing the development Kingdom.
He also held various sales and of Arts Degree in Economics from the University ofmultiple marketed products including Leukine, marketing roles at Sanofi and Ivax.
Ian is a former of Southern California.
GM-CSF, Prokine IL-2 and Enbrel soluble TNF Non-Executive Director of TerraVia Holdings Inc. receptor-Fc fusion protein as well as the regulatory Key appointments: The GailFosler Group LLC and Kite Pharma, Inc. Ian holds a Bachelors approval of Bexxar radiolabeled anti-CD20 and President and Deschner Corporation Nondegree in Biological Sciences from the University the novel vaccine adjuvant, MPL.
Steven received Executive Director and Chair.
his BA from Williams College and his PhD from Dartmouth College.
Key appointments: Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Non-Executive Director, Corvus Key appointments: ARCH Venture Partners Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Non-Executive Director Managing Director, Pulmatrix, Inc. Non-Executive and Gladstone Institute Member.
Director, PhaseRx Inc. Chairman and NonExecutive Director and VBI Vaccines Inc. Chairman and Non-Executive Director.
Shire Annual Report 2017 57 Other information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Governance Board of Directors continued S A R N N N David Ginsburg, MD 65 Sara Mathew 62 Anne Minto OBE 64 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: June 16, 2010 Appointed: September 1, 2015 Appointed: June 16, 2010 Skills & experience: David brings to the Skills & experience: Sara brings to the Skills & experience: Anne brings to the Board Boardhis clinical medical experience in internal Boardher financial, strategic and technological herextensive legal, commercial and remuneration medicine, hematology-oncology and medical experience, having held various corporate experience.
Anne will retire from the Board with genetics, as well as his extensive basic leadership roles.
She served as Chairman, effect from the conclusion of the 2018 Annual biomedical laboratory research expertise.
President and Chief Executive Officer of Dun & General Meeting.
She held the position of Group Davidreceived his BA at Yale University, MD at Bradstreet, Inc. until 2013, having spent 12 years Director, Human Resources at Centrica plc from Duke University and completed his medical and at the company.
Prior to this, Sara worked for 2002 to 2011 and was a member of the Centrica research training at Harvard Medical School.
18years at Procter & Gamble where she held a Executive Committee.
Her extensive business David is the recipient of numerous honors and variety of global finance and management career includes senior management roles at Shell awards, including election to membership at the positions including Vice President, Finance UK, the position of Deputy Director-General of the National Academy of Sciences, the National Australia, Asia and India.
She is also a former Engineering Employers Federation and the Academy of Medicine and the American Non-Executive Director of Avon Products, Inc. position of Group Director Human Resources at Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Sara received her MBA from Xavier University, Smiths Group plc.
She is also a former Director of her Accounting degree from the Institute of Cost Northumbrian Water plc and SITA UK.
Anne holds Key appointments: University of Michigan & Works Accountants and her Bachelors degree a Law degree, a postgraduate diploma in Human James V. Neel Distinguished University in Physics, Mathematics and Chemistry from the Resources and is a qualified lawyer.
She is also a Professor of Internal Medicine, Human Genetics University of Madras.
Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel & and Pediatrics and Howard Hughes Medical Development, the Royal Society of Arts and the Institute Investigator.
Key appointments: Campbell Soup Company London City and Guilds, and is a member of the Non-Executive Director and Freddie Mac Law Society of Scotland.
Key appointments: Tate & Lyle PLC Non-Executive Director, ExlService Holdings, Inc. Non-Executive Director, University of Aberdeen Court Non-Executive Director and University of Aberdeen Development Trust Chairman and Trustee.
R A Albert Stroucken 70 Jeffrey Poulton 50 Non-Executive Director Former Chief Financial Officer Appointed: June 3, 2016 Appointed: April 29, 2015 December 31, 2017 Skills & experience: Albert Al brings to the Jeffrey Jeff served as Interim Chief Financial Board his manufacturing, commercial and Officer from January 1, 2015, prior to his international experience.
He served as Executive appointment as Chief Financial Officer.
Chairman of Owens-Illinois, Inc. until 2016, Skills & experience: Jeff brought to the Board having served as Chairman, President and hisfinancial, commercial and strategic acumen.
Following joining Shire in 2003, he held leadership From 1998 to 2006 Al held the position of positions in finance supporting the Neuroscience, President and Chief Executive Officer of H. B. Gastrointestinal and Rare Diseases business units Fuller Company, adding the role of Chairman as well as the positions of Interim Chief Financial in1999.
He served as General Manager of the Officer and Head of Investor Relations.
In addition, Inorganics division of Bayer AG from 1997 to Jeff oversaw the operations of the Rare Diseases 1998, serving as Executive Vice President and business unit in North America, Latin America and President of the Industrial Chemicals division of Asia Pacific, as well as leading the integration of Bayer Corporation from 1992 to 1997.
Al served the legacy Viropharma rare disease products into as a Non-Executive Director of Baxalta the Shire portfolio.
Prior to joining Shire, Jeff Incorporated until 2016. worked at Cinergy Corp. and PPG Industries Key appointments: Baxter International, Inc. inavariety of corporate finance and business Non-Executive Director.
development roles, in addition to serving as a commissioned officer in the U. S. Navy.
He received a Bachelor of Arts in Economics from Duke University and a Master of Business Administration in Finance from the Kelly School ofBusiness at Indiana University.
