STRATEGIC REVIEW | Strategic Report Strategic Report Principal Risks and Risk Management The Board is responsible for the Company s system of internal financial and operating controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board also monitors the investment limits and restrictions set out in the Companys investment objective and policy.
The principal risks and uncertainties that have been identified and the steps taken by the Board to mitigate these areas are as follows: RISK MITIGATION Macroeconomic Conditions Macroeconomic conditions change significantly and to the The Board receives regular reports from the Investment detriment of the portfolio or the Company causing a credit or Manager on the health of the Portfolio and the approach to liquidity risk to crystallise.
managing credit risk and liquidity risk is set out further below.
Credit R sk The key risk for the Company remains credit risk i. e. that the The Investment Manager carries out extensive, independent due Investment Manager buys a loan or bond of a particular diligence on each borrower, and has a particular focus on stable, Issuer and it does not perform as expected and either performing credits that evidence strong track records through defaults on a payment or experiences a significant drop in the previous economic cycles.
Additionally, the size of an issuer is secondary market value.
also considered and the Investment Manager continues to favour the larger issuers in the market, defined by having debt issuance greater than $500m or equivalent in sterling or euros.
These issuers tend to have broader syndicates, which can aid liquidity in the secondary market.
As well as screening out the smaller issuers, the Investment Manager also excludes highly cyclical industries and companies with limited earning visibility from its Investment Process.
Once a particular investment has been made, the Investment Manager is very focused on the monitoring of it.
A range of relevant data is reviewed on an ongoing basis for each investment, including, but not limited to, key financial drivers, commodity prices, stock prices, regulatory developments, financial results, press releases and management commentary to identify any indicators of credit deterioration.
To manage this risk further, the Board ensures a diversification of investments with the Investment Manager operating in accordance with the investment limits and restrictions policy determined by the Board.
The Directors monitor the implementation and results of the investment process with the Investment Manager at each quarterly Board meeting and monitor risk factors in respect of the Portfolio.
13 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING PxATE INCOME FUND LIMITED STRATEGIC REVIEW | Strategic Report Principal Risks and Risk Management continued RISK MITIGATION Liquidit Risk The risk that the Company will not be able to meet its Liquidity risk is managed by the Investment Manager to obligations as and when these fall due.
ensure that the Company maintains sufficient working capital in cash or near cash form so as to be able to meet the Company s ongoing requirements as these are budgeted for.
In addition the Investment anager maintains a diversified portfolio of investments and assesses potential investments to screen smaller, potentially less liquid, issuers.
Fund Performance The Company s Investment performance could fall below its The Investment Manager has robust processes in place and stated objective or peer group for a variety of reasons monitors the underlying investments on a daily basis.
Board receives regular, detailed updates from the Investment Manager.
Level of Discount or Premium A discount or premium to NAV can occur for a variety of While the Directors may seek to mitigate any discount or reasons, including market conditions or to the extent investors premium to NAV per Share through the discount undervalue the management activities of the Investment management mechanisms set out in the Prospectus, there Manager or discount their valuation methodology and can be no guarantee that they will do so or that such judgment.
Operational Risk Disruption to, or the failure of either the Investment Managers, Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by Administrators or SubAdministrators accounting, dealings or the Investment Manager, the Administrator and SubAdministrator, and the key elements designed to provide payment systems, or the Custodians records could prevent the accurate reporting or monitoring of the Companys financial effective internal control are explained further in the internal controls section of the Corporate Governance Report which position and the receipt or transmission of payments.
is set out on pages 24 to 30 The Investment Manager, the Company Secretary, the Administrator and Sub-Administrator are contracted to provide investment, company secretarial, administration and accounting services through qualified professionals and the Board receives regular internal control reports from the Administrator and Sub-Administrator that confirm compliance.
Furthermore, the Company must comply with the provisions of the Law and, since its shares are admitted to listing on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the Main Market of the LSE, the Company is subject to the FCA's Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTRs.
A breach of the legislation could result in the Company and or the Directors being fined or subject to criminal proceedings.
A breach of the Listing Rules could result in the suspension of the Company's shares.
The Board relies on its Company Secretary and advisers to ensure adherence to the Guernsey legislation and the FCAs rules.
14 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED STRATEGIC REVIEW | Strategic Report Heat Map of Principal Risks HEAT MAP OF PRINCIPAL RISK Level of discount or premium Operational Risk Macro economic conditions Fund Performance Liquidity Risk Gtm Credit Risk Low Li elihoo High Principal Risks Expected Direction of Change EXPECTED RISK CATEGORY DIRECTION OF RATIO ALE CH NGE No expected change.
The Board expects continued volatility as the market reacts amongst other things, to the implementation of President Trump s policy measures MACRO ECONOMIC as well as any developments in Brexit negotiations.
The Trump Administrations CONDITIONS anticipated stimulus measures are expected to contribute to U. S. GDP growth and this in turn should translate to future rate rises, albeit on a gradual trajectory No expected change.
Default rates are expected to remain low in 2018 and focused CREDIT RISK primarily on specific sectors No expected change.
Liquidity Risk is managed by the Investment Manager to ensure that the Company maintains sufficient working capital in cash or near cash LIQUIDITY RISK forms as to be able to meet the Companys ongoing requirements as these are budgeted for The Board believes a rising rate and low default environment is favourable to a loans FUND PERFORMANCE portfolio and could result in additional income The Board believes the Company continues to be an attractive risk adjusted investment proposition and expects the level of discount premium to reflect this as demand for shorter duration assets such as loans increases in light of the LEVEL OF DISCOUNT macroeconomic environment.
The Companys ability to issue and repurchase PREMIUM shares, the Redemption Offer if the Companys shares trade wider than a 5% discount in the 3 months to 31 December each year and an annual continuation vote all contribute to effective management of the discount or premium at which the Companys shares trade.
OPERATIONAL RISK No expected changes 15 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED STRATEGIC REVIEW | Strategic Report Going Concern The Directors also considered it appropriate to prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis, as explained in the basis of preparation paragraph in Note 2 to the Financial Statements.
In making this statement the Directors have considered the levels of working capital available to the Company, the closed-ended nature of the Company and the tradable nature of the investment portfolio held.
The Directors have made the assumption that the annual continuation vote to be held in June 2018 will be passed and that the Redemption Offer for the year ended 31 December 2018 will not be triggered.
Viability Statement The Directors have assessed the prospects of the Company over the three year period to 31 December 2020 in accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council in April 2016 the Code.
The Board conducted this review for a period of three years, a period that was selected for the following reasons: The nature of the loan investments held by the Company have an average maturity of approximately three years which allows the investment cash flows, recycling of investments, and expenditure commitments of the Company to be reasonably forecast over this timeframe.
The impacts on the Company of other factors can be reasonably assessed within this timeframe.
Beyond a three year timeframe, the impact of external forces, such as changes to legislation, market forces or other unknown factors, becomes less able to be predicted or assessed in analysing the viability of the company.
The three year review considers the Company's cash flow, cash distributions and other key financial ratios over the period.
The three year review also makes certain assumptions about the normal level of expenditure likely to occur and considers whether additional financing facilities will be required.
Furthermore, the three year review period to 31 December 2020 makes assumptions that the Company s annual continuation vote will be passed, and that the annual Redemption Offer will not be triggered.
The Directors note that the annual Redemption Offer will be triggered if, in the last three months of any calendar year, the Company s Ordinary Shares trade at an average discount to NAV in excess of 5%.
In its assess ent of the viability of the Company, the Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties detailed on pages 13 to 15 and in particular the impact of a significant fall in the value of the Companys investment portfolio.
The Directors have performed a quantitative and qualitative analysis that included the Companys income and expenditure projections and the fact that the Companys investments include readily realisable securities which can be expected to be sold to meet funding requirements if necessary.
Based on the Companys processes for monitoring operating costs, the Investment Managers compliance with the investment objective, asset allocation, the portfolio risk profile, liquidity risk and financial controls, and assuming normal market conditions the Directors have concluded that there is a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period to 31 December 2020.
Performance Measurement and Key Performance Indicators In order to measure the success of the Company in meeting its objectives and to evaluate the performance of the Investment Manager, the Directors take into account the following performance indicators: Returns and NAV - The Board reviews at each board meeting the performance of the Portfolio as well as the NAV, income and share price of the Company: Discount premium to NAV - At each quarterly Board meeting, the Board monitors the level of the Companys discount or premium to NAV and reviews the average discount premium for the Companys peer group.
The Company publishes a NAV per share for both share classes on a daily basis through the official newswire of the LSE.
This figure is calculated in accordance with the AlCs guide which includes current financial year revenue, the same basis as that calculated for the Financial Statements: The Directors examine the revenue forecast quarterly and consider the yield on the Portfolio and the amount available for distribution: and The Board considers the peer group performance of other income funds at each quarterly Board meeting.
16 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LI ITED STRATEGIC REVIEW | Strategic Report Management Arrange ents Investment Management Arrangements On 17 July 2014, the Company, the Manager and the AIFM made certain classificatory amendments to their contractual arrangements for the purposes of the European Commission s Directive on Alternative Investment Fund Managers the AIFM Directive.
The Sub Investment Management Agreement was terminated on 17 July 2014 and Neuberger Berman Investment Advisers LLC, which was the Sub Investment Manager, was appointed as the AIFM per the amended and restated Investment Management Agreement IMA dated 17 July 2014.
Under this agreement, the AIFM is responsible for risk management and day-to-day discretionary management of the Company s Portfolios including un-invested cash.
The risk management and discretionary portfolio management functions are performed independently of each other within the AIFM structure.
The AIFM is not required to, and generally will not, submit individual investment decisions for approval by the Board.
The Manager, Neuberger Berman Europe Limited, was appointed under the same IMA to provide, amongst other things, certain administrative services to the Company.
Please refer to Note 3 on page 66 for details of fee entitlement.
On 31 December 2017 an amendment to the IMA was approved.
Under the amendment the responsibility for the manufacture of the Companys Key Information Document is delegated to the AIFM and other changes were made relating to MiFID II, anti money laundering, bribery, cyber security and data protection.
The IMA can be terminated either by the Company on one hand or the Investment Manager, on the other, but in certain circumstances, the Company would be required to pay compensation to the Investment Manager of six months management charges.
No compensation is payable if notice of termination of more than six months is given.
Administration and Custody A reement Effective 1 March 2015, the Company entered into an Administration and Sub-Administration Agreement with U. S. Bancorp Fund Services Guernsey Limited U. S. Bancorp and Quintillion Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of U. S. Bancorp.
Under the terms of the agreement, Sub-Administration services are delegated to Quintillion Limited the Sub-Administrator.
U. S. Bank National Association the Custodian was appointed custodian to the Company effective 1 March 2015.
See Note 3 on page 67 for details of fee entitlement.
Company Secretarial and Registrar Arran ements Effective 14 June 2017, company secretarial services were provided by Carey Commercial Limited in place of C. L. Secretaries Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Carey Commercial Limited.
Registrar services are provided by Link Market Services Guernsey Limited formerly known as Capita Registrars Guernsey Limited.
See Note 3 on page 67for details of fee entitlement.
Related Party Transactions The receipt of dividends by the Directors and the contracts between the Investment Manager and the Directors are the only related party transactions currently in place.
Other than fees payable in the ordinary course of business, there have been no material transactions with these related parties, which have affected the financial position or performance of the Company in the financial year.
Further details on related party transactions can be found under Note 3 to the Financial Statements.
17 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FU D LIMITED
