Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Strategic Report Acquisitions As part of the acquisition strategy outlined on page 13, SANNE has completed the following acquisitions: Mauritius IFS is a Mauritian-based provider of offshore fiduciary management services, specifically the incorporation of offshore companies and trusts, general management administration and accounting and the provision of corporate secretaries.
The IFS Groups clients include private equity funds, hedge funds, venture capital funds, mutual funds and corporates looking to set up investment holding, investment management, trading or service entities.
IFS has over 260 employees, provides services to more than 1,000 entities and has in excess of $82 billion in assets under administration.
The acquisition signed on 30 November 2016, and completed on 1 January 2017.
IFS provided SANNE with a footprint in Mauritius, additional qualified staff, a low cost location and an alternatives portfolio with developed longterm relationships.
Luxembourg LIS is a leading third party alternative investment fund manager with assets under administration in excess of 8.3 billion, is authorised to deliver management company services to both alternative investment funds and open ended mutual funds within the EU.
CP primarily provides corporate services to its clients.
LIS is regulated under the supervision of Commission fide Surveillance du Secteur Financier.
Founded in 2011, together LIS and CP employ more than 80 people, the majority of whom are based in Luxembourg with a small operation in Dublin.
LIS provides alternative asset and corporate focused administration services to more than 60 clients and administers in excess of 100 fund structures.
The acquisition was signed on 29 September 2017, and completed on 6 February 2018.
Delivering on our strategy by Focusing and growing our Building our International reach Creating efficiencies - being Bringing administration services business in Alternatives and effective using global services together for clients as a one Corporate & Private Client stop international platform 14 25754 23 March 2018 4:19 PM Proof 13 Sanne-AR2017 Front-proof13.
com Str Stra at tegic Repor egic Report t Key Performance Indicators Key performance indicators KPIs are used to monitor the Group's performance and to measure the financial impact of the Group's strategy.
Revenue Underlying diluted earnings per share Revenue growth measures how well the Group has A key measure of value creation of the Board expanded it's business and Shareholders 2017 113.2m 2017 23.7p 2016 63.8m 2016 16.9p 2 2 2015 45.6m 2015 13.9p 1 Underlying operating cash conversion Underlying profit before tax This KPI measures the businesses ability of the Group to This measures the profitability of the Group convert profits into cash 2017 38.1m 2017 100% 2016 21.3m 2016 103% 2 2 2015 16.1m 2015 112% Underlying operating profit margin Underlying operating profit This KPI helps the business measure profitability This measures profitability and the efficiency of the Group 2017 34.3% 2017 38.8m 2016 34.5% 2016 22.0m 2 2 2015 37.9% 2015 17.3m Projected annualised value of revenues for new business won in the year Jurisdictions The annualised revenue of new business wins are used to This KPI is used by the Board to review the Group's gauge growth and performance international footprint 2017 20.9m 2017 15 2016 13.8m 2016 14 2 2 2015 13.0m 2015 9 1.
Underlying operating cash conversion is the ratio of cash generated from operations adjusted for non-underlying cash items within operating profit to underlying operating profit.
It represents the Groups ability to convert profits into cash.
2015 figures have not been re-based to reflect the change in treatment of share based payments as detailed in note 8 of the consolidated financial statements.
indd 15 23 03 2018 16:24:06 Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Strategic Report Segmental Reporting Prior to 2017, SANNE reported by asset class and specialisms across the markets in which it operated.
Following our growth internationally, we have now adopted regional reporting of Alternatives and global reporting of Corporate & Private Client services.
Our Alternatives regions are: Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA, Asia-Pacic & Mauritius APM and North America NA.
The new reporting model supports our strategy of building our international reach by recognising revenue by region.
SANNE now operates from 15 locations spread across North America, EMEA and Asia-Pacific and Mauritius.
Our reporting model allows us to improve our efficiency and effectiveness by aligning operations and business development across each of the regions and markets where we operate.
SANNE supports its business through global services for: Business Development, Finance, Facilities, Risk and Compliance, Human Resources, IT, Business Systems, Legal and Company Secretarial services.
These functions help to grow our business and we continue to focus on improving our operating models, ensuring the systems and processes support our people in serving our clients Alternative Assets Corporate & Private Client North America Global offering that encompasses EMEA SANNEs ofce network Asia Pacic & Mauritius 16 25754 23 March 2018 4:19 PM Proof 13 Sanne-AR2017 Front-proof13.
com Strategic Report Segmental Business Review North America Alternatives business Overview Performance summary SANNEs North American Alternatives business Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2017 Underlying market conditions for alternative consists solely of the acquired business of FLSV were 19.1 million with a gross profit of asset management continues to be positive with Fund Administration Services LLC FAS for the 9.7 million.
an increased trend toward outsourcing back and reporting year.
The acquisition completed on middle office functions by investment managers During the year results were delivered from a 1 November 2016 and the business moved to driven by demand for increasingly sophisticated number of new funds established by existing the SANNE brand in May 2017 after a period of reporting requirements and demand amongst clients, and through the on-boarding of new integration.
The SANNE North American operation institutional investors for independent oversight.
The business has also is a New York headquartered provider of fund contributed additional business to SANNE EMEA administration services to a range of closethrough cross-selling existing client needs for ended alternative investment funds including offshore non US services.
private equity, venture capital, distressed debt, infrastructure, real estate and fund-of-funds.
The business has a well-established fund administration technology platform which Services include assistance with fund, partner continues to be core to the services provided and portfolio accounting, cash management and to clients.
The Group has added senior operations support including general partner management capacity in the New York office to carried interest plans and investor services.
support expansion both locally, and in the wider Capabilities also include bespoke investor North American market.
reporting, customised on individual client requirements.
SANNEs North American Alternatives business has approximately 75 professionals in New York with additional support from dedicated client services and technology teams based in Belgrade, Serbia - where more than 70 professionals support the North America operation and other regional businesses.
indd 17 23 03 2018 16:24:06 Sanne Group plc Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Strategic Report Segmental Business Review EMEA Alternatives business Overview Private Equity Performance summary SANNEs EMEA Alternatives business includes four The Private Equity business provides specialist Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2017 key alternative asset strategies Debt, Real Estate, fund and corporate administration services to were 46.8 million with a gross profit of Private Equity and Hedge.
private equity managers, financial institutions 29 million.
and family offices with private equity style EMEA Alternatives saw positive growth in business Debt investment vehicles.
The business operates wins from new clients, as well as from existing across the majority of the Groups jurisdictional The Debt business provides fund, corporate clients.
Fund related work contributed to the centres whilst also providing certain services administration and loan agency services in majority of that growth.
to funds established in other jurisdictions respect of private debt and capital markets including the Cayman Islands, BVI and Delaware.
We are one of the leading providers of debt to broadly two types of client: leading global Services are delivered across a single platform administration services in the EMEA market and financial institutions and debt asset managers.
The supported by industry recognised IT systems.
have seen some good traction within the capital businesss debt capital markets offering provides Multifunctional service teams include professional markets space for structured finance.
corporate services to a range of SPVs for many of fund administrators, company secretaries and Europes major banks and other global financial The Real Estate business division continues to qualified accountants, with an understanding of institutions.
Internal asset class experience covers grow across the range of core international specific niche assets and the regulatory framework a complete range of capital markets transaction jurisdictions with a good mix of new and existing in place in each jurisdiction.
The strategies of structures including European medium-term note clients.
funds being administrated include leveraged programmes, collateral loan obligations, asset buyout, venture, growth and fund-of-funds.
The backed securities and repackaging transactions.
The Hedge business division had a challenging business has specific expertise and experience The businesss private debt team covers the main year given the backdrop of a relatively depressed in energy, infrastructure, bio-ventures, emerging private debt asset classes including real estate local market in South Africa and local funds markets and secondaries.
Services include the finance, leveraged loans, non-performing loans, performance.
The division successfully completed provision of directors, transaction management, structured finance and infrastructure debt.
The a highly intensive, long running project to migrate administration, financial reporting and compliance business offers debt specific financial reporting a large portfolio of clients on to a new regulated services involving regulatory and tax reporting to and transaction management expertise and management company platform, in accordance alternative investment funds, their managers and specialist debt related services including loan with regulatory changes in South Africa.
administration and facility agent services.
During the first half of 2017, the Private Equity business division continued to grow its offering to Hedge Real Estate institutional private equity houses.
In particular, The Hedge business offers middle and backThe Real Estate business provides corporate the division has seen a number of opportunities office services for a broad range of fund types and fund administration services to real estate arising through relationships introduced by the and standalone structures.
Services include fund managers, sovereign wealth funds, pension funds Americas Alternative business.
accounting, investor services, cash custody and and institutions across a range of real estate a variety of middle office activites.
Based in Cape structures and their underlying vehicles.
These Town, the business has seen the domestic industry underlying vehicles hold a range of property become increasingly institutionalised following classes including offices, hotels, logistics, the introduction of new regulations and is the residential, student accommodation, industrial, market leading administrator in South Africa.
The businesss clients an immediate result of the regulatory changes, the are generally broken down into two key types: business now offers independent management real estate corporate structures and real estate company services to regulated collective investor investment funds.
The businesss corporate team schemes.
provides administration services to real estate clients comprising regulated and unregulated vehicles for both direct and indirect investment in real estate.
Services cover the complete life cycle of commercial and residential portfolios through their acquisition, sale, leasing, development, management and operation.
The businesss real estate funds team provides fund administration and related services to regulated and unregulated funds investing both directly and indirectly into real estate assets with a portfolio comprising open-ended and closed-ended public funds, private funds and joint ventures.
com Strategic Report Segmental Business Review Asia-Pacific & Mauritius Alternatives business Overview Performance summary SANNEs Asia-Pacific & Mauritius Alternatives Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2017 In Mauritius the integration of IFS has provided business predominantly services real estate, were 27.9 million with a gross profit of additional flow of work into the pipeline which private equity and a smaller proportion of 21.5 million.
The Group is also seeing debt funds.
In the period, SANNEs existing an increase in cross-selling opportunities to and During the period, strong growth has been business operations in Hong Kong, Singapore and from the region, expanding the client offering delivered within the real estate and private Shanghai were bolstered following the completed across the whole Asia-Pacific & Mauritius region.
equity asset classes in Hong Kong, Shanghai acquisition of IFS a Mauritian-based provider of The region displays good growth potential within and Singapore, with advantage being taken of fiduciary management services, specifically the the existing jurisdictional offering.
good cross-selling opportunities from EMEA incorporation of companies and trusts, general Alternatives' and North American Alternatives' management administration, accounting and clients.
The acquisition provides SANNE with access to more markets in the region, Within the business, operational capability has especially India.
been expanded in Shanghai, Hong Kong and Singapore in line with client requirements and Mark Law has been appointed to head up the regional business.
