com Strategic Report Taking each geographic region in turn, SANNE growth in allocations to alternative assets under Sources continues to win business from new and existing management in recent years and the scale that 1. tr t t clients in EMEA, supported by its increased SANNE now has in these markets will ensure t orr to tr t operational capacity across Belgrade, Mauritius that increasing market share is a key focus in this https: www.
com jg en publications and Cape Town.
Taking the private equity asset class as .
pdf an example, the share of global private equity The North American region continues to grow tr tt t and venture capital investment being made in importance to the business following the to o in emerging markets was up from 6% to 22% 2016 acquisition of FLSV Fund Administration https: www.
com media file between 2003 and 2013.
This increase has been Services LLC.
The region is the worlds largest .
pdf driven by economic reform, increased freedom of market for alternative asset management with trade and GDP growth in emerging markets.
Pr ort private capital assets under management AUM Prt t r Pror of US$2.4 trillion and it is forecast to grow at a Research suggests that trends within the general http: docs.
com reports Preqincompound annual growth rate of around 13% corporate and private client markets will also  the next three to four years.
At present, continue to move in the Groups favour.
pdf 4 only circa 30% of North American private capital report by Bain & Company found that the global AUM is outsourced to third party administrators.
trust and corporate service market is likely to 4.
Bain & C om pany report The C om in g This is estimated to reach circa 50% by 2020, grow at 3-5% per year through 2020 on the back ot rt oror t r driven by regulatory change, evolving reporting of rising household wealth and greater corporate http: www.
com publications articles requirements and the need for increased and tax regulation.
With these markets subject  in technology infrastructure, providing to many of the same regulatory and legislative services.
aspx a significant growth opportunity for SANNE.
drivers as the alternatives industry, demand for the outsourcing of administration services in the The Groups acquisition of IFS in Mauritius at the general corporate and private client markets looks beginning of 2017 has enabled SANNE to take set to remain healthy.
advantage of the significant growth opportunity across the wider Asia-Pacific and Mauritius region.
Emerging markets have seen strong Dublin Dublin London London Belgrade Belgrade Netherlands Netherlands Luxembourg Luxembourg Shanghai Shanghai Guernsey Guernsey Jersey Jersey Hong Kong Hong Kong New York New York Malta Malta Dubai Dubai Singapore Singapore Cape Town Cape Town Mauritius Mauritius 11 25754 23 March 2018 4:19 PM Proof 13 Sanne-AR2017 Front-proof13.
