com Strategic Report Strategic Report Strategy The Group has successfully grown in recent years both organically and inorganically.
New business is sourced both from cross-selling to existing clients and from developing new client relationships.
The strategic focus of the Group is to be Expansion of global network and platforms Acquire a skilled workforce to support recognised as one of the worlds leading providers by building scale in key jurisdictions SANNEs people-led approach: of alternative asset and corporate administration to support operational growth and Make synergies rationalisation of systems services by continuing to build scale in established diversification and to capitalise on high and central functions and cross-selling and emerging markets.
The Group will continue to growth markets: and opportunities within the combined business: focus on developing its client base of alternative Expansion of existing services available to asset managers, family offices, financial Deliver an alternative, lower cost outsourced clients to ensure that the Group can continue institutions and corporates.
platform: and to provide a one-stop shop solution to clients in each asset class, as well as differentiating Further strengthen client relationships in Organic growth SANNE from its competitors.
Examples cases where there are common clients.
The key drivers of the Groups organic growth include the further development of AIFMD strategy include: The Group has been active in the acquisition depositary and third party AIFM services.
space, completing on IFS on 1 January 2017 and Building out SANNEs presence in existing LIS and CP on 6 February 2018.
These acquisitions Acquisition growth asset classes, with a particular focus on the have delivered greater geographic diversity and alternatives space: The Groups acquisition strategy is demonstrated a more comprehensive product offering in the by managements post-listing track record in Groups more established markets.
Development of core asset led offerings to sourcing, executing and integrating acquisitions.
drive increased revenue opportunities: The Group has a highly selective and disciplined Further details of these acquisitions are approach to acquisitions, seeking to add capital provided overleaf.
Market share development through the value to SANNE without an adverse impact on the deepening of existing client relationships by existing business.
offering the most comprehensive product and jurisdictional range: Assessments are made as to the long-term strategic rationale of acquisition opportunities Cross-selling to existing clients between based on a number of factors, including the ability divisions and geographies and delivering to: new client wins through direct referrals, intermediary referrals and direct targeting.
Build operational scale in existing and or This includes inter-divisional initiatives to sell complementary jurisdictions: ancillary corporate products and services to existing fund clients: Strengthen SANNEs existing service delivery platform and to deliver operational capability to support SANNEs growth story: 13 25754 23 March 2018 4:19 PM Proof 13 Sanne-AR2017 Front-proof13.
