GOVERNANCE | Management Engagement Committee Report Management Engagement Committee MEC Report Membership Sandra Platts - Chairman Independent non-executive Director Richard Battey Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Rupert Dorey William Frewen Company Chairman and independent non-executive Director Key Objectives To review performance of all service providers including the Investment Manager.
Responsibilities To annually review the performance, relationships and contractual terms of all service providers including the Investment anager : Review and make recommendations on any proposed amendment to the Investment Management Agreement IMA : and To review the performance of, and contractual arrangements with the Investment Manager including: Monitor and evaluate the Investment Manager s investment performance and, if necessary providing appropriate guidance: To consider whether an independent appraisal of the Investment Manager s services should be made: - To consider requiring the Investment Manager to provide attribution and volatility analyses and considering whether these should be published: Review the level and method of remuneration and the notice period, using peer group comparisons: and To ensure that the Investment Manager has a sound system of risk management and internal controls and that these are maintained to safeguard shareholders' investment and the Companys assets.
MEC Meetings Only members of the MEC and the Secretary have the right to attend MEC meetings.
However, representatives of the Investment Manager, Administrator and Sub-Administrator may be invited by the MEC to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
Main Activities during the Year The MEC met once during the year and reviewed the performance, relationships and contractual terms of all service providers as at 15 November 2017 including the Investment Manager.
The MEC reviewed the terms of reference for the MEC and recommended to the Board that revised Terms of reference be adopted.
The current terms of reference are available on the Companys website www.
Furthermore, the EC reviewed the approaches to cyber security by its service providers and were satisfied that there were no apparent deficiencies in this regard.
In October 2017, the Board undertook a due diligence visit to the offices of the Sub-Administrator in Dublin to review their processes and procedures.
The Board were highly satisfied with the performance of the Sub-Administrator and with the systems and internal controls in place.
The Company approved an Amendment Agreement amending the Amended and Restated IMA dated 17 July 2014, on 31 December 2017 in respect of the manufacture of the Company's Key Information Document by the AIFM, MiFID II, anti-money laundering and bribery, cyber security and data protection.
Continued Appointment of the Investment Manager and other Service Providers The Board reviews investment performance at each Board meeting and a formal review of all service providers is conducted annually by the MEC.
As a result of the 2017 annual review it is the opinion of the Directors that the continued appointment of the current Investment Manager and other service providers on the terms agreed is in the interest of the Companys shareholders as a whole.
The Board considers that the Investment Manager has extensive investment management resources and wide experience in managing investments and is satisfied with the quality and competitiveness of the fee arrangements of the Companys other service providers.
35 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED GOVERNANCE | Management Engagement Committee Report Continued Appointment of the investment Manager and other Service Providers continued With 2018 marking three years since the last visit, the Board intends to undertake a due diligence visit to the Investment Manager s offices in Chicago in November 2018 to meet a number of personnel and review the investment selection and diligence processes.
The Board will use this opportunity to review the fees and performance of the Investment Manager.
The Board also a due diligence visit to the Investment anager's offices in London in May 2018.
Sandra Platts On behalf of the Management Engagement Committee 9 April 2018 36 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FU D LIMITED
