COMPANY OVERVIEW | Business Model Principal Activities and Structure The principal activity of the Company is to carry out business as an investment company.
The Directors do not envisage any changes in this activity for the foreseeable future.
The chart below sets out the ownership, organisational and investment structure of the Company.
INVESTMENT STRUCTURE OF THE COMPANY NBLS NBLU SHAREHOLDERS SHAREHOLDERS ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND NAGER AIFM Neuberger Berman Invest ent Advisers LLQ MA AGER Neuberger Berman Europe Limited INVEST ENT PORTFOLIO the Portfolio Further information on the Company's investment management arrangements can be found on page 11 Investment Objective The Company s investment objective is to provide its shareholders with regular dividends, at levels that are sustainable, whilst preserving the capital value of its investment portfolio, utilising the investment skills of the Investment Manager.
Investment Policy To pursue its investment objective, the Company invests mainly in senior secured floating rate loans issued in U. S. Dollars, Pound Sterling or Euros by primarily North American and European Union corporations, partnerships and other business issuers.
These loans are at the time of investment often non-investment grade.
The Company considers debt instruments to be non-investment grade if, at the time of investment, they are rated below the four highest categories Aaa, Aa, A and Baa by at least two independent credit ratings agencies or, if unrated, are deemed by the Investment Manager to be of comparable quality.
The coupon received when investing in floating rate loans varies with, and is periodically adjusted to reflect changes in, a generally recognised base interest rate such as LIBOR.
The Company generally seeks to focus on loans of issuers that the Investment Manager believes have the ability to generate cash flow through a full business cycle, maintain adequate liquidity, possess an enterprise value in excess of senior debt and have access to both debt and equity capital.
The Company also makes opportunistic investments in senior bonds if the Investment Manager believes that such investments are attractively valued, up to a maximum in aggregate of 20% of the Net Asset Value NAV at the time of investment, provided that no more than 10% of NAV may be invested in unsecured senior bonds at the time of investment.
3 | MB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED COMPANY OVERVIEW I Business Model Diversification The Investment Manager seeks to manage risk through in-depth credit research utilising proprietary analytic processes, diversifying across industries, companies and investment size and adjusting sector weightings based on economic and market analysis.
The Company s portfolio is intended to contain at least 100 investments across a minimum of 20 industries, with a focus on those industries regarded as defensive.
Defensive industries are those the Investment Manager believes are less affected by changes in economic conditions and likely to demonstrate the strongest capital preservation.
The Board considers that it is not appropriate to make available a full portfolio listing to shareholders as the information is considered commercially sensitive.
Typically, at the time such investment is made, no industry will represent more than 15% of NAV and no single investment will represent more than 5% of NAV.
What Are Senior Secured Floating Rate Loans?
Senior secured floating rate loans are debt obligations originated and arranged by banks or other financial entities also known as an arranger on behalf of corporations, partnerships and other business issuers.
Such loans are typically used to finance mergers and acquisitions, leveraged buyouts, recapitalisations, refinancings, capital expenditure or for other general corporate purposes.
These will typically be syndicated to a pool of lenders that collaborate to provide financing for the borrower.
Once the bank loan is issued, lenders have the option to hold their portion for the life of the loan or to sell it to other investors in the secondary market.
The senior secured floating rate loans that the Company invests in are generally non-investment grade, that is rated at or below Ba1 by Moodys Investors Service or at or below BB by Standard & Poors or an equivalent rating by a third party rating agency.
The senior secured floating rate loans that comprise the portfolio typically hold the most senior position in the capital structure of the borrower and are secured with specific collateral, giving lenders a claim on the assets that are senior to the claims of unsecured creditors, subordinated debt holders and stockholders of the borrower.
The security package typically incorporates a first priority over all of the borrowers assets including receivables, inventory, bank accounts, property, plant and equipment.
In the event of a default or bankruptcy, the holders of the loans should be in a better position to maximise recovery of their debt than other creditors due to their position in the capital structure.
The below chart shows the typical capital structure of a borrower: SAMPLE C PTAL STRUCTURE SENIOR SECURED DEBT Highest BANK LO NS HIGH YIELD DEBT UNSECURED OR SUBORDINATED Priority of payment PREFER ED STOCK COMMON STOC Lowest Senior secured floating rate loans earn a variable rate of interest that includes a stated spread also known as the margin or coupon, which reflects issuer risk, over a widely accepted base rate such as LIBOR.
The floating rate on senior secured floating rate loans typically resets every 30 to 90 days in line with the prevailing rate of LIBOR and, because such loans reset on a regular basis, the yield is described as floating.
The Investment Managers experience is that LIBOR floors are a common feature of almost all new loan issues in the U. S. LIBOR floors guarantee a minimum level of LIBOR to investors irrespective of the prevailing interest rate.
4 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED COMPANY OVERVIEW | Business Model What Are Senior Secure Floating Rate Loans?
continued If LIBOR exceeds the floor then such loans pay the prevailing LIBOR as well as the credit spread.
The return is generated by LIBOR or the LIBOR floor, the spread over LIBOR paid by the borrower due to the terms of the underlying loan and the discount.
The discount occurs because new issues are commonly priced, in the Investment Managers experience, at a discount to the par value of the loan.
INDICATIVE BREAKDOWN OF SENIOR SECURED LOAN RETURNS DISCOUNT1 LIBOR FLOOR The amount of interest paid over LIBOR to The amount a loan is priced below par in the The minimum base rate of LIBOR even if primary or secondary market e. g. if a loan is compensate an investor for the associated LIBOR falls below that level credit risk priced at 97 this equals a 3 per cent, discount 1 New issues are typically sold at a discount to par.
Investment Process The Investment Manager focuses on experience-based, in-depth credit and industry analyses, disciplined portfolio construction and ongoing portfolio monitoring.
The below diagram provides a high level overview of the Investment Managers investment process.
INVESTMENT U IVERSE QuALiTT SCRIEf-lS CREDIT AND INDUSTRY PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS CONS TRU CTI0 M pproximately 175-225 Approximately S00-1100 Appro imately 400-600 A proximately 200-250 iss ers issuers Iss ers Macroeconomic Analy is: Stive to construct highly CoiTp sed o loans and Focused on compani s with State cc global economy, cedit dive'sried port olios across: secuities rsted 35 - and historically stable cash lc s. c cle, political actors etc.
below liq idity and access to capital Industy Industr Analy i : Seeks to eli nate: Includes U. S. end non-U.
S. Com anies Co p titive landscap.
Ire issue s Less liquid issue's EBITDA Inv stment siz cycl, r gulator environment etc.
C'e it ratings Most defaulted an Credit nalysis: Yield anal sis istresse securities Cash flo a alysts, efault analysis, recovery anal sis id concentration o c clical Oufes an high efault indus ies potential issuers focus e Risk ana ement The credit ratings noted above are those of Standard & Poor's.
Ratings of BB and below are considered non-investment grade junk bonds.
Credit ratings are subject to change at any time.
This material is intended as a broad overview of the portfolio managers style: philosophy and investment process and is subject to change without notice.
The portfolio managers views may differ from those of other portfolio managers as well as the views of Neuberger Berman.
"5 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED COMPANY OVERVIEW | Business Model Investment Discipline The Investment Manager s investment discipline seeks to ensure, through its credit best practices checklist that it thoroughly understands the investment thesis for each investment and any underlying assumptions: Top-Down Analysis ECONOMY: KEY DATA POINTS Credit Cycle: Direction of Global Economy: Degree of cyclicality - Economic Indicators Spreads relative to historic levels Glo alisation Trends: Banking Industry - Regional GDP economic forecasts Political Factors: - Global equity market movements - Budget surplus deficit - Currency fluctuations - Election wars INDUSTRY: KEY D TA POINTS Industry value chain Where are we in industry life cycle Industry size and growth Competitive landscape Rating agency trends Trend for industry consolidation Industry model return Capacity levels Sensitivity to exogenous factors Regulatory environment Competitor analysis Bottom-Up Analysis ISSUER: KEY CONSIDERATIONS LIQUIDITY MA AGE ENT SCE ARIO CAPITAL QUALITY OF BUSINESS O ERSHIP A ALYSIS STRUCTURE CASH FLOW FUNDAME TALS Understand any Evaluate Established Cash Off-set business risk Un erstand unusual equity management s businesses with upside downside in Bank lines Cautious of large ownership intention and ab lity to longer-term track terms of cre it ratios, Covenants transforming Evaluate right size the capital records spreads and ratings Non-core asset sales acquisitions management s abilities structure Ability to fide-lever Quantif evaluate Benchmark co pany Other sources of cash and incentives Focus on senior Origination roll-up vs. vs. industry an its CAPEX Consider tu over of structures in tight organic own history Ability to delay senior management capital markets and Understand business commitments slow growth periods and products Accounting practices Investment Philosophy and Selection Process Invest ent Philosophy RISK MAN GEMENT GENERATE ADDED VALUE PROACTiVt INVESTMENT PROCESS We have developed proprietary We seek to cap talise on market Develop inv stment thesis a d syste s to m nage risk in opportunities and generate added b nchmark the driver accordance with client object ves value through: and constraints Proprietaty fundamental research - Efforts to reduce credit deterioration - Industr and quality rotation - O ersight rovided by D sciplined an repeatable processes - Relative value analysis independent Meuberger Ber an Risk Manag ment Committee We endeavo to add alue throughout all market cycles 6 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING R TE INCOME FUND LIMITED COMPANY OVERVIEW Business Model Investment Philosop y an Selection Process continued Selection Process CREDIT VALUATION SELL DISCIPLINE Process driven by longstanding Int final N ub ge B rman Anticipation of d t riorating Cr dit Best Practic s"" ch cklist dit fundam ntals credit rating Th e financial models: upsid, Unexplained shortfall r lativ R lativ V lue spre d analysis downsid and base as to financial sc narios across industry and redit tier in mod ling light of N ube ger Berm n Un xp t d d velopm nts, rating Focus on cash flow for d bt in luding unanticipated hang service Pot ntial for d leve aging and in managem nt cr dit u grad Ass ssm nt of manag m nt Fundam ntal robl ms at an S k multiple sour es of industry l vel repayment Holding reach s full valuation and Neuberger B rman Bond indentur credit Investm nt A is rs LLC gr ement analysis nNBIAn has id ntified a swap o portunity Vigilant and proactive monitoring using pro rietary monitoring databas Further information on the Company's investment strategy and process can be found in the Company s most recent prospectuses, which are available on the Companys website at www."
com under the Investor Information tab.
Hedging As the Companys shares are denominated in Pound Sterling Sterling Ordinary Shares and U. S. Dollars U. S. Dollar Ordinary Shares and investments are denominated in U. S. Dollars, Euro or Pound Sterling, holders of any class of shares are subject to foreign currency fluctuations between the currency in which such shares are denominated and the currency of the investments made by the Company.
Consequently, the Investment Manager seeks to engage in currency hedging between the U. S. Dollar and any other currency in which the assets of the Company or a class of shares is denominated, subject to suitable hedging contracts such as forward currency exchange contracts being available in a timely manner and on terms acceptable to the investment Manager, at their sole and absolute discretion.
A consequence of currency hedging is that the interest rate differential between the hedged share class currency GBP and the base currency USD the carry is included in the return of the hedged share class.
The objective of the foreign exchange hedge on Ordinary Sterling share class investors is to give a long exposure to GBP LIBOR and a short exposure to USD LIBOR.
As a result, the interest rate differential has a marginal impact on dividend distributions for the holders of the Ordinary Sterling share class shares.
The costs of the interest rate differential will be borne by the NBLS NAV, and any narrowing of the USD GBP LIBOR differential will reduce the size of this cost.
The interest rate differential is a cost benefit for all currency hedging arrangements and is not unique.
Gearing and Derivatives The Company does not normally employ gearing or derivatives for investment purposes.
The Company may, from time to time, use borrowings for share buybacks and short-term liquidity purposes.
The Directors will restrict borrowing to an amount not exceeding 20% of the NAV at the time of drawdown.
Derivatives are used for foreign exchange hedging purposes and the U. S. Dollar exposure for Sterling shareholders is explained in Note 2 of the financial statements.
Discount Controls As set out in the Companys Articles of Incorporation the Articles, if, as at 31 December in any calendar year, the shares of a particular class have, on average over the last three calendar months of the relevant calendar year, traded on the LSE at a discount in excess of 5% to the NAV per share of that class, the Directors will, subject to any legal or regulatory requirements, implement a redemption offer pursuant to which each holder of shares of the relevant class shall be offered the opportunity to redeem up to 50% of their shares of such class.
This provision was not triggered at 31 December 2017.
7 | NB GLOBAL FLOATING RATE INCOME FUND LIMITED
