Supply chain We aim to choose suppliers who share our values and meet Our procurement policy is also aligned with the WPP our standards for ethical conduct, human rights, workplace Data Code of Conduct, our data protection and privacy standards and the environment.
Responsible sourcing principles, our Sustainability Policy, and our Human reduces risks for WPP and our clients.
Our approach includes: setting clear standards: We take a risk-based approach to engaging with integrating sustainability criteria into supplier selection: suppliers, focusing on the countries or sectors where we identifying and managing risks in key areas of our supply believe non-compliance with our policies is more likely to chain: and ensuring compliance with legislation such as occur or where breaches of our Code could have the most the UKs Modern Slavery Act.
significant impact on the reputation of WPP or our clients.
We look in particular at impacts related to data security About our supply chain and privacy practices, labour practices and human rights, We have a large global supply chain buying goods and environment and energy consumption.
We use third-party services from over 130,000 supplier partners worldwide, sources to help identify risks, such as Maplecroft.
with a total global spend of 5.6 billion.
Our supplier engagement focuses on tier-one supplier Our main categories of spend include goods and partners, those with whom we have a direct commercial services used to run our companies such as IT, travel, relationship.
We recognise that high-risk practices may telecommunications, professional services and facilities and be more likely to occur further down the supply chain, for those used in client work, such as advertising production, example among raw material suppliers.
We aim to influence market research and other marketing services.
standards in our extended supply chain by requiring Our key contracts are negotiated centrally with WPP tier-one suppliers to implement their own supply chain preferred suppliers.
These are managed by our Group management programs.
Preferred suppliers are appointed following evaluation against assessment criteria, including Supplier selection and engagement risk, operational, commercial and sustainability We evaluate potential new suppliers on factors such as considerations.
assurance of supply, quality, service, cost, innovation Other contracts are negotiated by budget holders within and sustainability.
Anyone who buys goods and services our companies or centrally by WPP budget holders.
Each in WPP companies is required to take the following operating company is expected to maintain a list of locally steps when selecting supplier partners: preferred suppliers based upon the formal selection process Conduct due diligence to assess whether supplier outlined in WPPs procurement policy.
partners pose a potential financial or reputational risk to WPP or its clients.
Our sourcing standards Assess operational, commercial and sustainability We expect suppliers to implement standards that are criteria to determine whether supplier partners are consistent with our own.
Our Supplier Code Of Conduct fit for purpose.
mirrors the Code that applies to all WPP companies and Apply our anti-bribery and corruption policies.
The supplier version includes requirements relating Have supplier partners read and sign the WPP Supplier to labour practices such as wages, anti-harassment and Code of Conduct, confirming that they will comply discrimination, and health and safety, human rights with our standards.
including no child, forced or bonded labour, modern Include a right-to-audit clause in purchase orders slavery, social impacts such as anti-bribery and where appropriate.
corruption as well as other sustainability issues.
The Code is available on our website wpp.
com wpp about Our sustainability team is working with our operating howwebehave governance.
companies to ensure they take a consistent approach to implementing our responsible sourcing standards.
59 WPPAnnual Report 2017 How we're doing Sustainability review Supply chain During 2017, we developed two additional sustainability Our Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement is questionnaires to strengthen our due diligence processes for published on our website and sets out the steps we have supplier selection.
The first, a pre-selection questionnaire, taken to ensure that slavery or human trafficking is not is for use with all potential new suppliers.
It assesses taking place in our business and supply chain.
Our 2018 compliance with our core standards for legal compliance, statement will include further information and disclosures labour and human rights practices, environment and in response to stakeholder feedback.
com wpp supply chain management.
The second, a more detailed about howwebehave governance.
information request, will be used with selected suppliers to monitor standards in our supply chain and work with Supplier diversity suppliers to address gaps and risk areas.
We incorporate diverse supplier partners in our supply We piloted the questionnaires with over 100 suppliers chain, including small businesses and those owned by in higher risk categories and locations including facilities women and minorities.
This enables us to comply with and promotional goods suppliers in the UK, Asia Pacific client requirements in markets such as the US, and can and South America.
Modern slavery Respect for human rights is a fundamental principle for WPP.
We do not tolerate any form of modern slavery in our business or supply chain.
We have assessed the risk of modern slavery for WPP.
This found that the risk of modern slavery occurring in our operations is very low.
As part of our due diligence processes we have also assessed the risk of modern slavery amongst our preferred suppliers in nine categories.
This showed that almost 90% of our spend with preferred supplier partners is in mediumor low-risk categories for modern slavery such as HR and professional services.
Higher risk categories include facilities and promotional goods suppliers.
We found that most of our spend with preferred supplier partners 94% is in countries deemed mediumor low-risk according to Maplecrofts Modern Slavery Risk Index.
