How we're doing Strategic report to share owners Our four strategic priorities in 2017 Our reason for being is to help our clients grow their businesses.
And by adding value for our clients, we deliver value for our people and share owners.
To that end, our strategic priorities in 2017 were: Horizontality New markets New media Technology, data & content Advance the practice of Increase the combined Increase the share Maintain the share of more horizontality ensuring geographic share of of revenues from new measurable advertising our people work together revenues from the fastermedia to 40-45% and marketing services and harnessing the growing markets of Asia of revenues.
such as data investment Groups collective Pacific, Latin America, management and direct, capabilities for the Africa & Middle East and digital and interactive maximum benefit Central & Eastern Europe at 50% of revenues, of clients.
with a focus on the application of technology, data and content.
Our long-term financial targets are: Revenue and revenue less pass-through costs growth Annual diluted headline EPS growth of 5% to 10% greater than the industry average.
delivered through revenue growth, margin expansion, Annual improvement in revenue less pass-through costs acquisitions and share buy-backs.
margin of between zero and 0.3 margin points or more, excluding the impact of currency, depending on revenue less pass-through costs growth and staff cost-to-revenue less pass-through costs ratio improvement of between zero and 0.2 margin points or more.
32 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Outlook for 2018 Global GDP growth may still have been generally sub-trend Growing revenue in 2017 compared to the period before the financial crisis, Our prime focus will remain on growing revenue and in the low nominal 3% range, but forecasts for 2018 have revenue less pass-through costs faster than the industry generally improved moving up in the 3-4% range.
The US average, driven by our leading position in horizontality, economy is strengthening, driven by the three-pronged faster-growing geographic markets and digital, premier Trump policies of tax and regulation reduction and parent company creative and effectiveness position, new infrastructure investment, with business confidence at business and  acquisitions.
At the much higher levels than under previous administrations.
same time, we will concentrate on meeting our operating Prospects for Europe, too, are better with the big four margin objectives by managing absolute levels of costs Continental European economies in generally better shape, and increasing our flexibility in order to adapt our cost although the positive of a Macron-led France may be structure to significant market changes.
outweighed by political uncertainties in Germany, Italy The initiatives taken by the parent company in the and Spain, and the UK economy could be increasingly areas of human resources, property, procurement, IT and challenged by Brexit.
practice development continue to improve the flexibility Asia Pacific is generally improving too with China, of the Groups cost base.
Flexible staff costs including India and Japan in better shape following economic and incentives, freelance and consultants remain close to political reforms, buttressed by economies like Indonesia, historical highs of above 8% of revenue less pass-through Vietnam and the Philippines.
costs and continue to position the Group extremely Latin American economies are also improving, in Brazil, well should current market conditions change.
Argentina, Colombia and Peru especially.
Political changes The budgets for 2018 have been prepared on the usual also bode well for Africa and the Middle East, although the bottom-up basis, but continue to reflect a faster-growing latter, in particular, remains volatile.
Central and Eastern UK and the faster geographical markets of Asia Pacific, European countries like Poland are responding generally Latin America, Africa, the Middle East and Central & well to an improving Western Europe.
Eastern Europe and faster-growing functional sectors 2018 should in theory be a better year.
The Pyeongchang and sub-sectors of media, public relations and public Winter Olympics, the 2018 FIFA World Cup and the US affairs and direct, digital and interactive, with a stronger Congressional mid-term elections should all trigger more second half of the year, reflecting the 2017 comparative.
Given what proved to be top-line optimism in our budgets However, growth in marketing spend seems to have last year, we have encouraged our operating companies decoupled somewhat from GDP growth in the mature to budget conservative revenue and revenue less passmarkets in the last year.
When top-line growth is examined through costs.
carefully, for example for the S&P 500, it seems to be Our 2018 budgets show flat like-for-like revenue and concentrated in the technology and healthcare sectors.
revenue less pass-through costs growth and a flat target As a result, in a low inflation and consequently low operating margin to revenue less pass-through costs pricing power environment, there is an understandable excluding the impact of currency.
At the time of writing, we have revenue and profit data for the first two months of 2018.
The Group has had a relatively slow start to the year, with like-for-like revenue growth up 0.8% in the first two months and revenue less pass-through costs flat on the same basis, against more difficult comparatives in the first quarter of last year.
Operating margins are ahead of budget for the first two months of the year.
33 WPPAnnual Report 2017 How we're doing Strategic report to share owners Outlook for 2018 Organic revenue growth versus peers % 10.0 WPP WPP 8.5 revenue less 7.0 pass-through costs 5.5 1 Dentsu 4.0 revenue less 2.5 pass-through costs 1.0 1 Omnicom -0.5 1 Publicis -2.0 1,2 IPG -3.5 1 Havas -5.0 Q1 16 Q2 16 Q3 16 Q4 16 Q1 17 Q2 17 Q3 17 Q4 17 1 Peer data sourced from company presentations.
2 IPG Q4 2017 organic growth excluding the impact of higher pass-through revenue.
A more inclusive WPP A powerhouse of talent In March 2018, we published our first UK Gender Pay Gap No company in the world has a greater or more varied Report, in line with new UK Government regulations that repertory of talent than WPP.
And never has the availability came into force last year.
of that talent been more necessary.
Although our group median pay gap of 14.6% was In their continued search for profitable growth companies below the equivalent national figure of 18.4%, we do not around the world, as always, have two basic routes to follow: see this as cause for celebration.
There remains a great deal to contain cost: and to add value.
These are not alternatives: of work to do to ensure greater representation of women at the best companies master both.
the top of WPP and our operating companies.
To cut cost requires discipline and constant attention to The key to making improvements is to change the profile detail.
The undoubted benefits it can deliver are finite: there of our leadership teams so that they are more gendermust always be a limit beyond which a business will suffer.
balanced, and more diverse in every sense.
On gender, our To add value requires a different set of skills: it demands a aim is to make year-on-year improvements in our record by conscious application of the human imagination: and its pursuing the ultimate goal of equal representation at the potential benefits are limitless.
most senior levels of our organisation.
As companies exhaust their restricted opportunities We are investing in a range of initiatives designed to bring tobecome more efficient to prune costs, to buy more about change.
These include schemes within our operating shrewdly so their need to add value to their offering companies and at the Group level see page 47, as part becomes ever more critical.
of our broader commitment to creating more inclusive The powerhouse of talent that WPP represents exists workplaces with greater gender, race, LGBT and age diversity.
precisely to meet that need.
In the UK we have formed an Inclusion Board, led by UK First, we recruit, train, reward and incentivise Country Manager Karen Blackett OBE, with representatives that talent.
And then we apply that talent, across all from across our operating companies.
Its objective is to set relevant skills, according to the individual needs of minimum standards to which our businesses will hold each individual client.
themselves accountable and, looking ahead, we will establish To do this successfully, to be able to harness shared similar boards in other key markets.
enthusiasm across traditional disciplines, means breaking It goes without saying that WPP must be a place in which down some traditional silos: which is why we call our everyone is treated equally and with respect, and has the same method horizontality.
To the client, our service, however opportunities to develop in their careers.
By working hard many distinct skills it may comprise, must seem to to create leadership teams that better reflect the world around be seamless.
us, we will do a better job of ensuring that is always the case.
34 WPPAnnual Report 2017 In the immediate future, as demand for fully integrated Forward looking statement marketing services continues to increase, and as their In connection with the provisions of the Private Securities benign effect on client company results becomes ever more Litigation Reform Act of 1995 the Reform Act, evident, WPP will be simplifying its corporate structure: the Company may include forward-looking statements making access to that powerhouse of talent even easier.
as defined in the Reform Act in oral or written public statements issued by or on behalf of the Company.
These forward-looking statements may include, among other Roberto Quarta things, plans, objectives, projections and anticipated future Executive Chairman economic performance based on assumptions and the like that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
As such, actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those Paul Richardson discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Important Group Finance Director factors which may cause actual results to differ include but are not limited to: the unanticipated loss of a material client or key personnel, delays or reductions in client advertising budgets, shifts in industry rates of compensation, regulatory compliance costs or litigation, natural disasters or acts of terrorism, the Companys exposure to changes in the values of other major currencies because a substantial portion of its revenues are derived and costs incurred outside of the UK and the overall level of economic activity in the Companys major markets which varies depending on, among other things, regional, national and international political and economic conditions and government regulations in the worlds advertising markets.
In addition, you should consider the risks described under the heading Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 25 to 29, which could also cause actual results to differ from forwardlooking information.
In light of these and other uncertainties, the forward-looking statements included in this document should not be regarded as a representation by the Company that the Companys plans and objectives will be achieved.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any such forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
