About share ownership Other statutory information Substantial share ownership Articles of Association As at 24 April 2018, the Company is aware of the following There are no restrictions on amending the Articles of interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital: Association of the Company other than the need to pass a special resolution of the share owners.
MFS 8.03% Harris Associates LP 7.35% Share capital BlackRock Inc 5.49% The Companys authorised share capital consists solely of 1,750,000,000 ordinary 10 pence shares.
The Company operates an American Depositary Receipt program.
The disclosed interests refer to the respective combined The rights and obligations relating to the ordinary share holdings of the entity and to interests associated with it.
capital are outlined in the Articles of Association: there The Company has not been notified of any other are no restrictions on transfer, no restrictions on voting holdings of ordinary share capital of 3% or more.
rights and no securities carry special voting rights with regard to control of the Company.
Profits and dividends At the AGM on 7 June 2017, share owners passed The profit before tax for the year was 2,109.3 million resolutions authorising the Company, in accordance with 2016: 1,890.5 million.
The directors declared a final its Articles of Association, to allot shares up to a maximum dividend of 37.3p 2016: 37.05p per share to be paid on nominal amount of 85,173,135 of which 12,788,760 9 July 2018 to share owners on the register at 15 June 2018 could be allotted for cash free of statutory pre-emption which, together with the interim ordinary dividend of rights.
In the year under review no shares were issued for 22.7p 2016: 19.55p per share paid on 6 November 2017, cash free from pre-emption rights.
Details of share capital makes a total of 60.0p for the year 2016: 56.60p.
movements are given in note 26 of the financial statements on pages 153 to 155.
Change of control All of our bonds contain provisions which are triggered Authority for purchase of own shares on a change of control of the Company.
The holders of At the AGM on 7 June 2017, share owners passed a special such bonds have the right to repayment at par except for resolution authorising the Company, in accordance with holders of our US$ bonds.
The holders of our US$ bonds its Articles of Association, to purchase up to 127,887,590 have the right to redeem the bonds at 101% of par, if the of its own shares in the market.
In the year under review, Company is non-investment grade at the time of the change 32,404,644 ordinary shares of 10 pence each were of control or becomes non-investment grade within 120 purchased at an average price of 15.56 per share.
days of the announcement of the change of control.
In addition, the Group has a Revolving Credit Facility Statement of directors responsibilities in the amount of $2,500 million due July 2021, the terms in respect of the preparation of of which require the consent of the majority of the lenders financial statements if a proposed merger or consolidation of the Company The directors are responsible for preparing the financial would alter its legal personality or identity.
statements in accordance with applicable law and In general terms, awards granted under WPPs incentive regulations.
The directors have elected to prepare financial plans will usually vest on a change of control, albeit on a statements for the Group in accordance with International pro-rated basis.
Where awards are subject to performance Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European conditions, those conditions will still need to be met, also Union IFRS and have also elected to prepare financial on a pro-rated basis.
Certain incentive plans allow the statements for the Company in accordance with UK Compensation Committee to require outstanding awards accounting standards.
Company law requires the directors to be exchanged for equivalent awards in the acquiring to prepare such financial statements in accordance with company.
110 WPPAnnual Report 2017 International Accounting Standard 1 requires that In accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate financial statements present fairly for each financial year Governance Code, the Board has established arrangements the Companys financial position, financial performance to evaluate whether the information presented in the and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable: of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions these are described on page 86. in accordance with the definitions and recognition The Board considers the Annual Report and financial criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and out in the International Accounting Standards Boards understandable and provides the information necessary Framework for the Preparation and Presentation for share owners to assess the Companys position, of Financial Statements.
performance, business model and strategy.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation The letters from the Chairmen of the Nomination will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
and Governance, Audit and Compensation Committees, Directors are also required to: the statements regarding directors responsibilities and properly select and apply accounting policies: statement of going concern set out above and the directors present information, including accounting policies, remuneration and interests in the share capital of the in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, Company set out on pages 81 to 105, are included in comparable and understandable information: the Directors report, which also includes the sections provide additional disclosures, when compliance Strategic report to share owners and Who runs WPP.
with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular By Order of the Board transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and Marie Capes make an assessment of the Companys ability to Company Secretary continue as a going concern.
24 April 2018 The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors report and Directors Compensation Report.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company website.
Jersey legislation and UK regulation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors confirm that so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken, as a director, in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
