How we're doing Strategic report to share owners Dear share owner In addition to running the business on a day-to-day basis, Mark and Andrew, together with Group Finance t WPPs Preliminary Results announcement on Director Paul Richardson, are empowered by the Board to 1 March 2018, following a disappointing year in take forward the Companys strategy, with a mandate to terms of financial performance, the executive team act decisively and to bring their own perspective to the task.
Aoutlined an acceleration of the Companys strategy.
Like-for-like growth and operating margins were flat W PP will get even closer to in 2017, and operating profits were flat or up marginally reflecting pressure on marketing budgets and the our clients to better understand impact of structural changes in the market, especially and meet their needs and technological disruption.
The accelerated strategy focused on the following areas: to help them grow in a world First, strengthening client coordination across the of disruption Group.
This includes handing greater responsibility and authority to the leaders of our 51 Global Client Teams, who account for a third of our revenue and oversee client relationships across WPP.
At the time of writing it is too early to provide full Second, boosting the roles of our Country and Regional details of the future strategy.
Its principles, though, are that Managers, to ensure our offer is fully integrated at WPP will get even closer to our clients to better understand a national and regional level.
Recent Country and and meet their needs and to help them grow in a world of Regional Manager appointments include Karen Blackett disruption: we will get closer to technology partners like OBE in the UK, Mathieu Morgenzstern in France and Adobe, Facebook, Google, Microsoft and others: we will Sergio Amado in Brazil.
ensure our structure and offer make it as simple as possible Third, developing key capabilities into cross-Group for clients to access our services across the Group: and offers, covering digital transformation, digital we will put data, technology and creativity at the heart marketing, digital production and shopper marketing.
We recently announced, for example, that Hogarth, We will make details of the plan public as appropriate the worlds leading production services company, which during the course of the year.
is now wholly owned by WPP, will become our global Although your Company has faced challenges in recent production management platform.
This is an area in months, we begin this new phase from a position of market which, by consolidating all our production capabilities leadership and with total confidence in the enduring value under one banner, we can offer significant benefits of what we offer to clients.
to our clients and our own companies.
WPP remains well positioned to capitalise on the Fourth, introducing further sharing of functions, opportunities ahead, to the benefit of all our stakeholders.
systems and platforms across the Group, spanning IT, talent, finance, procurement and property to deliver Financial performance greater efficiency for WPP and clients.
Reported billings were 55.6 billion, up 0.6% and And, finally, revising senior executives incentives down almost 4% in constant currencies.
across our companies to align them more closely Revenue was up over 6% to 15.3 billion and up well with Group performance.
over 1% in constant currencies compared with last year, the difference to the reportable number reflecting the Following the departure of Sir Martin Sorrell from weakness of the pound sterling against most currencies, the Company, the Board has appointed Mark Read particularly in the first half of the year.
and Andrew Scott as joint Chief Operating Officers Revenue less pass-through costs was up 6% and well reporting to and supported by Roberto Quarta, who over 1% in constant currencies.
assumes the role of Executive Chairman until the appointment of a new Group Chief Executive.
14 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Headline PBIT was up almost 5% to 2.267 billion Equity market capitalisation at the time of writing of and up well over 1% in constant currencies, again approximately 14.1 billion, meaning the total enterprise reflecting currency tailwinds in the full year.
value of your Company is approximately 19.5 billion, Revenue less pass-through costs margin was down 0.1 a multiple of 7.7 times 2017 headline EBITDA.
margin points, but still at a leading industry margin of 17.3% and flat in constant currency and like-for-like, in Revenue growth impacted by line with the revised target guidance after quarter three.
currency tailwinds Reported profit before interest and tax was down over Our reported revenue growth for the year was 6.1%, and 4% to 2.022 billion from 2.113 billion, down over on a constant currency basis, which excludes the impact of 7% in constant currencies.
currency movements, revenue was up 1.6%.
This difference Reported profit after tax rose by over 27% almost of 4.5% reflects the weakness of the pound sterling against 23% in constant currencies to 1.912 billion.
most currencies, particularly in the first half of the year, Headline EBITDA increased by almost 5% to with some strengthening in the second half.
2.534 billion, up over 1% in constant currencies.
On a like-for-like basis, which excludes the impact of Headline profit before tax was up over 5% to currency and acquisitions, revenue was down 0.3%, with 2.093 billion and reported profit before tax was revenue less pass-through costs down 0.9%.
In the fourth up almost 12% to 2.109 billion.
quarter, like-for-like revenue was up 1.2%, the strongest Diluted headline earnings per share rose by over 6% quarter of the year.
Like-for-like revenue less pass-through to 120.4p an all-time high and diluted reported costs growth was weaker than revenue growth, down earnings per share were up almost 32% to 142.4p.
Return on equity was up significantly to 16.9% in As outlined in previous years, due to the increasing 2017 compared with 16.2% in 2016, versus a lower scale of digital media purchases within the Groups Media weighted average cost of capital of 6.3% in 2017 Investment Management businesses and of data collection compared with 6.4% in 2016. costs in Data Investment Management, revenue less Dividends increased by 6% to 60.0p, a new high.
This pass-through costs are, in our view, a helpful reflection represents a dividend payout ratio of 50% of headline of top-line growth.
As a result of changes in reporting diluted earnings per share in 2017, the same as 2016 and standards effective 1 January 2018, in relation to revenue in line with the targeted dividend payout ratio of 50%.
recognition, standardised reporting of revenue less passFree cash flow amounted to well over 1.5 billion in through costs will probably become more common in 2017.
This free cash flow was absorbed by 0.2 billion our industry.
of net cash acquisition payments and investments, 0.5 billion of share buy-backs and 0.8 billion of 2017 revenue growth bn 4.5% 15.3 dividends, a total outflow of 1.5 billion.
This resulted in a net cash inflow of 55 million, before any changes 1.9% 14.4 in working capital.
-0.3% Average net debt was 5.1 billion in 2017, compared 6.1% to 4.6 billion in 2016, at 2017 exchange rates, and net debt at 31 December 2017 was 4.5 billion, against 4.1 billion at 31 December 2016, primarily reflecting the movement in working capital and provisions of 2016 Like-for-like Acquisitions FX 2017 532 million.
This trend has continued in the first two months of 2018, with average net debt of 4.6 billion T his strategic report to share owners should be read in conjunction with pages 81-111.
The Groups KPIs are set out on page 32 and discussed in further detail against 4.2 billion for the same period in 2017, in this report.
This strategic report includes figures and ratios that are not readily available from Average net debt to headline EBITDA ratio was at the financial statements.
Management believes that these non-GAAP measures, including constant currency and like-for-like growth, and headline profit measures, 2.0 times, at the top-end of the Groups target range are both useful and necessary to better understand the Groups results.
Our long-term debt is currently rated required, details of how these have been arrived at are shown in the notes of the Baa2 and BBB and our short-term debt P2 and A2, financial statements.
by Moodys and Standard & Poors respectively.
