The role of the Board The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the until the appointment of the new Group Chief Executive, success of the Company by directing and supervising the Chief Operating Officers.
The list of matters reserved the Companys policy and strategy and is responsible to to the Board can be downloaded from the website share owners for the Groups financial and operational wpp.
Responsibility for During 2017, the Board met seven times formally the development and implementation of Group policy six scheduled meetings and one meeting held at short and strategy and for day-to-day management issues is notice and held 18 committee meetings throughout delegated by the Board to the Executive Directors and the year.
Executive Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Group Chief Chief Operating Roberto Quarta Director Directors Executive Officers Nicole Seligman To be appointed Mark Read Leads the Board, sets the Contribute Andrew Scott agenda and promotes a Provides a sounding to developing Leads the business, culture of open debate board to the Chairman our strategy.
Day-to-day between Executive and and appraises his Scrutinise and management issues.
constructively Group Finance Mark Read is focused Regularly meets with Acts as intermediary challenge the Director on people, clients and the Executive Directors for other Directors performance of Paul Richardson companies and Andrew and other senior if needed.
management in Scott on operational, Responsible for management to Available to respond to the execution financial performance the worldwide stay informed.
share owner concerns of our strategy.
functions in finance, Ensures effective when contact through IT, procurement, communication with the normal channels property, treasury, our share owners.
taxation, internal Leads emphasis Facilitates Board audit and on management evaluation when not sustainability.
Executive Directors, and senior management succession planning.
Supports the Chief Operating Officers until the appointment of the new Group Chief Executive Audit Committee Nomination Compensation Disclosure Company Chairman: and Governance Committee Committee Secretary Jaques Aigrain Committee Chairman: Marie Capes Oversees the Chairman: Sir John Hood Reviews the accuracy and All directors Roberto Quarta integrity, adequacy Sets, reviews timeliness of Group have access to and effectiveness of Evaluates Board and recommends disclosures and the services of the the Groups system composition and the policy on approves controls Company Secretary of internal control, ensures Board remuneration and procedures and may take including the risk diversity and a of the Chairman, in relation to the professional advice management balance of skills.
executives and senior public disclosure of at the Companys framework and Reviews executive management team.
financial expense in related compliance succession plans to Monitors the information.
maintain continuity implementation their duties.
of the remuneration Oversees matters policy.
relating to corporate governance and sustainability.
71 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Who runs WPP The role of the Board Attendance of directors at meetings Compensation Nomination and Board Audit Committee Committee Governance Committee Roberto Quarta Chairman 7 6 7 4 1 Sir Martin Sorrell 7 Paul Richardson 7 7 Jacques Aigrain 7 7 7 2 Charlene Begley 2 3 2 3 Tarek Farahat 7 5 Ruigang Li 6 1 Nicole Seligman 7 7 7 4 Daniela Riccardi 6 4 Hugo Shong 5 3 Sir John Hood 7 7 2 Tim Shriver 3 5 Sally Susman 6 4 Sol Trujillo 7 7 1 Sir Martin Sorrell retired from the Board on 14 April 2018.
2 Charlene Begley and Tim Shriver retired on 7 June 2017.
3 T arek Farahat was appointed to the Audit Committee on 24 February 2017.
All of the directors attended the scheduled meetings of the Board in the year during their tenure with the exception of Hugo Shong who missed one meeting.
One unscheduled meeting of the Board took place which was attended by all the directors eligible to attend, except Hugo Shong, Charlene Begley, Ruigang Li due to family illness, Daniela Riccardi, Tim Shriver and Sally Susman who sent apologies owing to prior commitments.
How we communicate with our Institutional investor meetings share owners We hold meetings with major institutional investors, We maintained an active dialogue with our share owners individual share owner groups andfinancial analysts throughout the year through a well-developed and to discuss the business performance and strategy.
These continuous program of investor relations events which are attended by our Chairman, Executive Directors, reflects the wide geographic distribution of the companys Executive Committee members, Senior Independent current and potential share owners.
We also respond to Director and the investor relations team.
Institutional daily queries from share owners and analysts through our investors also meet with the Chairman and Senior investor relations team and have a section of our website Independent Director to discuss matters of governance.
which is dedicated to share owners and analysts: The Chairman and Senior Independent Director provide wpp.
thorough feedback to the Board on issues raised by Our registrars, Computershare and Citibank as share owners.
custodians of our American Depositary Receipts ADR program also have a team of people to answer share owner What our share owners have asked us thisyear and ADR holder queries in relation to technical aspects of Common topics raised by our institutional and individual their holdings such as dividend payments and shareholding share owners include: succession planning: cash flow, balances.
All of our financial results presentations are capital expenditure, debt and dividendcover: executive available on our website at: wpp.
compensation: client and business mix: competitive landscape: media trends from traditional to digital: faster-growing markets, digital and data: acquisition policy: andcapital allocation.
72 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Our events calendar January February March April May Investor conferences Investor meeting Roadshows in: Roadshows in: Investor conferences in London at: in London at: Germany Stockholm in London at: Berenberg IR Goldman Sachs Switzerland Copenhagen J P Morgan & Forum Edinburgh Citi Media London In Las Vegas at: In Vienna at: US West Coast Citi Global TMT HSBC Investor conference In Amsterdam at: in London at: J P Morgan J P Morgan & Citi Media In New York at: in Florida at: Berenberg Deutsche Bank In Toronto at: Redburn June September November December Roadshows in: Roadshows in: Roadshow in: Roadshows in: Check the events Madrid Frankfurt Edinburgh Copenhagen calendar online at US West Coast London Stockholm wpp.
com investor Investor conferences US calendar Investor conferences Investor conferences in: Canada in: in: London at UBS New York London & J P Morgan Investor conferences Zurich Paris Barcelona at inLondon at: London New York at Morgan Stanley Berenberg Madrid Goldman Sachs Paris at Soc Gen In New York at: Paris Scottsdale at UBS Credit Suisse Annual General Meeting 73 WPPAnnual Report 2017
