Who runs WPP Board of Directors Executive Chairman Board analysis all directors Tenure Roberto Quarta Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee Member of the Compensation Committee 03 years 18% 46 years 55% Executive Director 7 years 27% Paul Richardson Group Finance Director Non-Executive Directors Gender Jacques Aigrain Nicole Seligman Chairman of the Audit Committee Senior Independent Director Female 27% Member of the Compensation Member of the Compensation Male 73% Committee Committee Member of the Nomination Tarek Farahat and Governance Committee Member of the Audit Committee Hugo Shong Sir John Hood Member of the Nomination Chairman of the Compensation and Governance Committee Committee Nationality Sally Susman Ruigang Li UK Brazil Member of the Nomination Member of the Nomination US 1 Egypt 1 and Governance Committee and Governance Committee Italy New Zealand 1 Solomon D. Sol Trujillo US 1 Daniela Riccardi China 1 Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Switzerland Italy 1 and Governance Committee France 1 US 4 Chief Operating Members of the Officers Advisory Board Mark Read Jeremy Bullmore Andrew Scott John Jackson Bud Morten Company Secretary John Quelch Richard Rivers Marie Capes 67 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Who runs WPP Board of Directors Roberto Quarta Jacques Aigrain Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Appointed: 1 January 2015 Chairman 9 June 2015 Appointed: 13 May 2013 Nationality: Italian and American Nationality: Swiss and French Skills and experience: Roberto Quarta is Chairman of Skills and experience: Jacques Aigrain is currently a Senior Smith & Nephew plc, Partner of Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, Advisor at Warburg Pincus LLP.
He was on the Executive and Chairman of Clayton, Dubilier & Rice Europe, a Committee of Swiss Re AG from 2001 to 2009 including private equity firm.
Previously, he was Chief Executive and CEO from 2006, and prior to that, he spent 20 years then Chairman of BBA Group plc, Chairman of Rexel SA with JPMorgan Chase in New York, London and Paris.
and a Non-Executive Director at BAE Systems plc, Equant Mr Aigrain is a Non-Executive Director of London Stock NV, Foster Wheeler AG and PowerGen plc.
Mr Quartas Exchange Group Plc and a Supervisory Board Member of career in private equity brings valuable experience to WPP, LyondellBasell NV and Swiss International Airlines AG particularly when evaluating acquisitions and new business retiring in June 2018.
He was Chairman of LCH Clearnet opportunities.
Hehas an in-depth understanding of Group Ltd from 2010 to March 2015, and served as a differing global governance requirements having served Director of the Qatar Financial Center Authorities and asadirector and Chairman of a number of UK and Supervisory Board Member of Lufthansa AG.
a PhD in Economics from Sorbonne University and an Other current appointments: Chairman, Smith & MA inEconomics from Paris Dauphine University.
Other current appointments: Non-Executive Director, London Stock Exchange Group plc.
Supervisory Board Paul Richardson Member, LyondellBasell NV Supervisory Board Member, Group Finance Director Swiss International Airlines AG.
Appointed: 1996 Tarek Farahat Nationality: British and American Non-Executive Director Skills and experience: Paul Richardson became Group Finance Director of WPP in 1996 after four years with Appointed:11 October 2016 theCompany as director of treasury.
He is responsible Nationality: Brazilian and Egyptian for the Groups worldwide functions in finance, IT, Skills and experience: Tarek Farahat has more than 30 procurement, property, treasury, taxation, internal audit years of experience in the branded goods business.
He is a chartered accountant and worked for P&G for more than 26 years in Europe, the fellow of the Association of CorporateTreasurers.
Middle East and Latin America.
His last position at P&G Other current appointments: None.
was President of P&G Latin America.
Among Mr Farahats achievements is the expansion of the Pampers business in emerging markets and business turnaround for P&G in Brazil.
Mr Farahat was previously Chairman of the board of JBS and a board member of Pilgrims.
He currently serves as strategic advisor and consultant.
68 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Sir John Hood Daniela Riccardi Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed:1 January 2014 Appointed: 12 September 2013 Nationality: New Zealand Nationality: Italian Skills and experience: An international education and Skills and experience: FMCG, retail-and-fashion products business leader, Sir John was formerly Vice-Chancellor of executive, Daniela Riccardi is Chief Executive Officer of the University of Oxford and of the University of Auckland.
Baccarat, the international luxury goods company, and In New Zealand, he served as Chairman of Tonkin & wasChief Executive Officer of Diesel Group.
She was Taylor Ltd and as Non-Executive Director of Fonterra an executive at Procter & Gamble for 25 years, including Co-operative Group and ASB Bank Ltd. Sir John currently service as President of Procter & Gamble Greater China, serves as President & CEO of the Robertson Foundation, with 7,000 employees, and Vice President-General Chairman of Study Group Limited and BMT Group and Managerfor Procter & Gamble Eastern Europe & Russia.
Chair of the Rhodes Trust.
Sir John also serves on the MsRiccardi also sits on the Boards of Kering and of board of Aurora Energy Research.
Sir John earned his PhD Comite Colbert.
Ms Riccardi has been a guest lecturer at in Civil Engineering from the University of Auckland and the Grenoble Ecole fide Management in Paris.
Ms Riccardi then won a Rhodes Scholarship to Oxford, where he was isa Magna Cum Laude graduate in Political Science and awarded an MPhil in Management Studies.
Sir John has International Studies at Sapienza University of Rome and been appointed a Knight Companion to the New Zealand completed a Fellowship inMarketing at Yale University.
Other current appointments: CEO, Baccarat.
Other current appointments: President and CEO, Non-Executive Director, Kering.
Nicole Seligman Ruigang Li Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Appointed:12 October 2010 Appointed:1 January 2014 Nationality: Chinese Nationality: American Skills and experience: Ruigang Li is the Founding Skills and experience: Most recently, Nicole Seligman Chairman and CEO of CMC Capital Partners and CMC served as President of Sony Entertainment, Inc. and Sony Holdings collectively CMC, Chinas leading investment Corporation of America and Sony Group Senior Legal and operating group in media and entertainment, internet Counsel.
Previously, until 2014, she was Executive Vice and technology, lifestyle and consumer sectors.
Ruigang President and General Counsel for Sony Corporation.
Li has led CMC to create a number of champions and Prior to that, as a partner in the Washington law firm emerging leaders in key sub-sectors including film, of Williams & Connolly, Ms Seligman counselled a wide television, animation, entertainment and sports agency, range of clients, including major media companies, on news and financial media, social media, sports, music, complex litigation and commercial matters.
She is a Magna live entertainment and education.
Mr Li was the Chairman Cum Laude graduate of both Harvard College and Harvard and President of Shanghai Media Group SMG for over Law School.
Ms Seligman currently serves on the Board 10years and successfully transformed SMG into Chinas of Viacom Inc. and is Chairman of The Doe Fund, leading media conglomerate.
Mr Li was previously Chief a New York-based non-profit organization.
ofStaff of Shanghai Municipal Government.
Other current appointments: Non-Executive Director, Other current appointments: Chairman, CEO of CMC Viacom Inc. Capital Partners.
Chairman, CEO of CMC Holdings.
Board Member of City Football Group.
Board Director of CAA Creative Artists Agency.
Vice Chairman of TVB Hong Kong.
Chairman of Shaw Brothers Hong Kong.
Board Member of Special Olympics.
69 WPPAnnual Report 2017 Who runs WPP Board of Directors Hugo Shong Solomon D. Sol Trujillo Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: 13 May 2013 Appointed: 12 October 2010 Nationality: American Nationality: American Skills and experience: Hugo Shong is the Global Chairman Skills and experience: Sol Trujillo is an international of IDG Capital.
He joined IDG in 1991 and in 1993, helped business executive with three decades of experience as IDG to set up the first technology venture fund in China, IDG CEO of high-cap global companies in the US, the EU and Capital, which now has an investment portfolio including Asia Pacific.
A digital pioneer and long-time practitioner Baidu, Tencent QQ, Sohu, Ctrip, Soufun and Xiaomi.
Mr of market-based management, Mr Trujillo was an early Shong currently serves on the board of Mei Ah Entertainment champion of high-speed broadband and the mobile internet Group, a Hong Kong listed company with interests in to stimulate productivity and innovation across all sectors television, film and theatre.
Mr Shong is a member of the of the economy.
Mr Trujillo currently sits on corporate board of trustees of Boston University.
Mr Shong holds boards in the US, EU and China and has managed a degree from Hunan University, attended the Chinese operations in more than 25 countries including developed Academy of Social Sciences and holds a Master of Science and emerging markets from the EU and North America from Boston University.
Mr Shong has completed the to China, Australasia, Africa and the Middle East.
He is Advanced Management Program at Harvard Business School.
Chairman of Trujillo Group LLC which he uses to manage Other current appointments: Chairman, IDG Capital.
investments and to examine emerging trends in the broader Global Chairman, IDG Capital.
Non-Executive Director, digital space, from changing mobility platforms to artificial Mei Ah Entertainment Group.
Independent Director, China intelligence AI.
Mr Trujillo is the Chair and Co-founder Unicom.
Non-Executive Director, IDG Energy Investment of the Latino Donor Collaborative LDC, comprised of Group Limited.
Non-Executive Director, HJ Capital the most senior US Latino business leaders.
Other current appointments: Director, Unlockd.
Sally Susman Non-Executive Director Appointed: 13 May 2013 Nationality: American Skills and experience: Sally Susman is currently executive vice president, Corporate Affairs for Pfizer, the worlds largest biopharmaceutical company.
Ms Susman also heads the firms corporate responsibility group and plays a key role inshaping policy initiatives.
Before joining Pfizer in 2007, Ms Susman was EVP of Global Communications at Este Lauder, where she directed global corporate affairs strategy and served as a member of the Executive Committee.
MsSusman held several senior corporate affairs posts at American Express, working in both London and the US.
She started her career in government service focused on international trade issues and her positions included Deputy Assistant Secretary for Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs in the US Department of Commerce.
She serves onthe board of the International Rescue Committee.
MsSusman holds a BA in Government from Connecticut College in the US and has studied at the London School of Economics.
