32 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OMNI-CHANNEL PRODUCTS CONT.
POKER RETAIL LOTTERY COMPLETE OMNI-CHANNEL COMPLETE OMNI-CHANNEL COMPLETE OMNI-CHANNEL EXPERIENCE EXPERIENCE EXPERIENCE INNOVATIVE GAME FEATURES INTUITIVE PLAYER MANAGEMENT WORLD LOTTERY ASSOCIATION AND TRACKING TOOLS & EUROPEAN LOTTERIES RELIABLE BACK-END MANAGEMENT TOOLS 600 GAMES TO CHOOSE FROM 17 YEARS OF PLAYER MANAGEMENT Playtech Poker software is fully compatible with Playtech Retail offers a comprehensive suite Our cutting-edge lottery technology delivers all other Playtech products and services and of next-generation, Omni-channel software, unrivalled player visibility across online, mobile, supports Playtechs unique Business Intelligence content and systems for land-based venues and retail channels arming you with the ability Technology BIT.
with seamless player access between each to better understand behaviours giving you a channel.
Playtech powers more than 40,000 sharper focus on your players.
Through our award-winning IMS player global gaming terminals offering a full enterprise management platform, the poker client remains management system for land-based venues and Playtech is a Platinum Partner with the supported by premium back-end management providing operators with complete operational European Lotteries, along with other industry tools coupled with a powerful marketing system control.
Using powerful back office management leaders.
A key role in ensuring the ongoing and services allowing for targeted promotions, tools, the system provides operators with all work of the organisation is to create an open bonuses, next-generation collusion prevention the tools they require to successfully run and forum for discussion, debate and sharing of and detection tools and dedicated 24 7 manage their businesses giving them full site ideas within the lottery sector.
control and control of their estate and player base.
These tools include player, content and In addition, as a Gold Level Contributor to the Our offering is available on all channels and multimedia management, rules-based rewards, World Lottery Association, Playtech works platforms including native mobile iOS & Android, jackpots, tournaments, bonusing, loyalty, cash alongside other corresponding parties to Desktop PC, HTML5 web and HTML5 mobile.
desk facilities, responsible gaming, security guarantee the constant work of the Association Playtech Casino games are also available within and monitoring.
We offer a true Open Platform, in educating and challenging the member our poker client and players receive a seamless matured over many years with collaboration lotteries as the industry continues to expand.
playing experience between poker and casino of dozens of established game studios, and games.
provide your estate with the content that you choose regardless of the supplier.
Playtech Playtech Poker software is localised in all Retail also creates exciting and innovative games relevant languages, customisable, and userfor all types of retail venues.
Developing gaming friendly providing new and experienced players content suitable for licensed betting offices, street with the ultimate poker playing experience venues, gaming centres, arcades and bingo including a personalised offering that is based establishments.
Our quality content takes full on their gaming behaviours and preferences.
advantage of hardware performance available on high specification cabinets, giving players a Playtech Poker software is compliant with fully immersive experience.
With high definition UK, Italian, French, Spanish, Danish, Belgian, screens and beautiful designs, gamings never Bulgarian, Finnish, Maltese and Austrian looked so good.
We also actively consult with regulations, while more regulations will be our retail customers within our professional supported as more markets regulate.
This is aimed at optimising than 35,000 concurrent players at peak time, and further developing their retail business.
Our Playtechs iPoker network leads the way in professional services team consists of highly network liquidity and a vast array of tournaments, qualified industry professionals and retail gaming making it the first choice for operators and experts, who bring many years of product and players alike.
operational experience from the retail gaming machine business, and venue management.
33 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT SPOTLIGHT TM AGE OF THE GODS INTEGRATED CONTENT Part of Playtechs Omni-channel strategy In October 2017 a European Casino.
com player is to deliver integrated content across popular won a c. 600,000 jackpot playing Age of product verticals.
With Playtechs own Age Gods Roulette.
Utilising Playtechs marketof the Gods brand players can play Age of leading progressive jackpot network, the Live the Gods branded games across Bingo, game shares jackpot liquidity with Playtechs Casino, Poker and Live Casino.
Age of the Gods Casino suite of slot games.
The Live product is the first of many Playtech In 2017 Playtech completed the migration of its ONE experience games that will feature existing Live Casino tables to its new state-of-art jackpot functionality, and one in a whole suite facility in Riga, Latvia.
The new 8,500 square of Playtech products that uses the Age of the metre facility is built on top of the citys fortified Gods brand, including RNG Roulette, and retail th 16 century walls in the heart of Riga Old Town.
The new technology driven facility has enabled The ability to share casino liquidity via a Live Playtech to drive product innovation in Live Casino product also gives operators innovative with new concepts, games and features.
ways to market the Age of the Gods brand Driven by the powerful Playtech IMS player including driving traffic into the Age of the Gods management platform and data-driven business games and rewarding players in real-time using intelligence technology, Playtech Live Casino both Free Spins in casino and the Live Casino is fully integrated into the Playtech platform free spins equivalent of Golden Coins.
As part of Playtech ONE, Playtechs Live casino can offer integrated content and integrated progressive jackpots across product verticals offering players a seamless leisure experience.
9 9 9 34 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT DATA DRIVEN SERVICES OUR SERVICES Using our robust and We offer a choice of Our unrivalled reliable hosting services 50 payment methods Turnkey services HOSTING SERVICES PAYMENT ADVISORY PLAYTECH TURNKEY SERVICES EXTENSIVE INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE EXPERT CONSULTANCY SERVICES COMPREHENSIVE SET OF TOOLS AND SKILLS TRIED, TESTED, TRUSTED ALL PAYMENT QUERIES DEALT WITH PLAYER ACQUISITION AND RETENTION UNDERSTAND OPERATORS SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS EXTENSIVE CHOICE OF PAYMENT METHODS LEVELS PLAYING FIELD FOR NEW OPERATORS With years of industry experience, our hosting services are world class.
We give you peace Our professional consultants provide advice of mind and work to ensure your operation on all payment issues related to cashier, As part of our Playtech ONE offering, operators remains reliable and secure at all times, processing, payments, risk management and their customers are presented with a providing DDoS prevention: DNS management: and financial performance, creating and seamless, anytime, anywhere experience, third-party services: geo-location services: simplifying the implementation of processing across any product, any channel and any maintenance services and client and banner and payment models.
device using a single account and wallet.
With an extensive choice of more than 50 Playtechs Turnkey Services PTTS offer allWe are experts in, and lead the industry in, existing payment methods, including credit encompassing solutions across all platforms Omni-channel gaming software and services, card processing gateways, acquirers, e-wallets, by supplying product design, operational so we understand operators specific business EFT, bank draft payout options via local banks management, internal and external marketing needs, therefore our customers can rely on worldwide, wire transfer and prepaid cards, a tools, fully customisable applications and us to foresee every possible threat and issue, payment model can be customised to meet the around the clock interactive player support.
prevent unplanned system failure and ensure specific requirements of each individual client.
businesses are running safely and at their PTTS is designed to deliver material value and maximum potential.
expertise to licensees across key elements of player acquisition and retention, together with the opportunity to realise substantial cost savings by outsourcing operational services.
