52 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW CONT.
charge in 2017 was 17.5 million 2016: 6.3 Operating cash conversion from Adjusted DEPRECIATION, AMORTISATION, million.
The increase is mainly due to acquired EBITDA decreased slightly in line with the FINANCE INCOME, FINANCIAL companies registered for taxation in higher tax conversion level in 2016 when adjusted for COST AND TAX jurisdictions as well as profits being recognised jackpots, security deposits and client equity.
Depreciation increased in 2017 by 32% in higher taxing territories increasing Playtechs Since the timing of cash inflows and outflows to 26.5 million.
Excluding acquisitions, effective tax rate.
for jackpots, security deposits and client equity depreciation increased 10%.
only affects the reported operating cash Adjusted diluted EPS was up 14% and the flow and not EBITDA, adjusting these cash Amortisation cost, excluding amortisation underlying Adjusted diluted EPS on a constant fluctuations is essential to truly reflect the quality of intangibles on acquisition, has increased currency basis excluding acquisition was 1% of revenue and cash collection.
17% to 36.0 million, in line with the increase above 2016.
Adjusted diluted EPS is calculated in capitalised development cost.
on the basis of a weighted average number of Net cash outflows from investing activities shares in issue during 2017 of 348.5 million.
totalled 140.2 million in the period, of which Adjusted net finance cost was 5.0 million in 46.3 million 2016: 140.0 million relates to the period compared to 37.2 million in 2016. acquisitions, mainly of Eyecon and Alpha.
Cash CASH FLOW The decrease is predominantly due to lower outflows from financing activities included Playtech continues to be highly cash generative foreign exchange rate losses of 19.7 million 104.7 million 2016: 245.7 million of annual and once again delivered strong operating during 2017, compared to a 44.7 million loss dividend payment.
in 2016, together with higher dividends from the available for sale investment from Ladbrokes of 5.9 million 2016: 3.7 million and 11.2 million from Plus500 2016: 8.2 million.
CASH CONVERSION 2017 2016 The Company is tax registered, managed and 000 000 controlled from the Isle of Man, where the corporate tax rate is set at zero.
The Groups Adjusted EBITDA 322.1 302.2 main trading subsidiaries are registered either Net cash provided by operating activities 306.7 251.4 in the Isle of Man, Alderney or Cyprus, where Cash conversion 95% 83% effective tax rates are low or set at zero.
Decrease increase in Progressive, operators jackpots, security deposits 15.9 16.6 Other subsidiaries, related to the Group's Decrease increase in Client deposits and Client equity 6.3 17.5 development centres are located in other Adjusted net cash provided by operating activities 284.4 285.5 jurisdictions and operate on a cost-plus basis, Adjusted Cash conversion 88% 94% and are taxed on their residual profits.
The tax ADJUSTED PROFIT AND ADJUSTED EPS 2017 2016 000 000 Profit for the year-attributable to owners of parent 248.1 193.0 Amortisation of intangibles on acquisitions 51.0 44.3 Impairment related to acquisitions 7.8 12.3 Profit loss on disposal of investment in associates 0.7 64.4 Impairment of investment in associates and other non-current assets 14.9 Employee stock option expenses 15.1 7.0 Professional expenses on acquisitions 2.4 3.5 Cost of business reorganisation 1.1 Non-cash accrued bond interest 10.2 9.8 Decline in fair value of available for sale investments 0.5 Additional consideration payable for Put Call options 5.3 One off employee related costs 5.3 Deferred tax on acquisition 4.6 3.4 Movement in deferred and contingent consideration 126.4 0.8 Adjusted profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 231.4 202.9 Adjusted basic EPS in cents 73.6 64.6 Adjusted diluted EPS in cents 66.8 58.8 Constant currency impact 35.7 44.7 Adjusted profit for the year attributable to owners of parent on constant currency 267.1 247.6 Adjusted net profit on constant currency related to acquisitions 26.9 10.1 Underlying Adjusted profit attributable to owners of the parent 240.2 237.5 53 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT ACQUISITION CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION AND MAXIMUM REDEMPTION LIABILITY AS OF 31.12.17 PAYABLE EARNOUT ACM Group 71.4 million $145.0 million Quicksipin AB 24.1 million 26.0 million Playtech BGT Sports Ltd 30.9 million 95.0 million Consolidated Financial Holdings 22.4 million $73.1 million ECM Systems Holdings Ltd 1.2 million 1.1 million Eyecon Limited 1.3 million 25.0 million Others 6.4 million 7.1 million BALANCE SHEET AND FINANCING DIVIDEND As at 31 December 2017, cash and cash To provide greater certainty and consistency equivalents amounted to 584.0 million 2016: of dividend payments, the Board adopted a 544.8 million, with cash net of client funds, progressive dividend policy in 2016 which progressive jackpot and security deposit, being allows the Board to reflect its confidence in the 412.6 million 2016: 392.0 million.
growth and cash generation of the business without being tied to a fixed percentage payout Total available-for-sale investments were as one-off items can impact results, such as the 381.3 million, a 66% increase compared impact from foreign exchange which we saw in to the end of 2016, due to the appreciation 2016 and 2017. in value of holdings in Plus500 and in Ladbrokes Coral.
Playtechs intention is to grow dividends from the current level in line with the underlying Contingent consideration and redemption performance of the business on a smoothed liability decreased to 157.7 million, mainly basis and to continue to pay the dividend split due to the write off of the Markets earn-out approximately one-third as an interim dividend and earn-out payments, and comprise of and two-thirds as a final dividend.
Accordingly, the Board has declared a final The value of the contingent consideration dividend of 23.9 cents per share 2016: relating to Markets.
com in Playtechs balance 21.7 cents, an increase of 10% over 2016s is zero, as the threshold for achieving an final dividend, taking the 2017 full year dividend additional earnout has not been met.
to 36.0 cents per share, an increase of 10% over 2016.
TIMETABLE For those shareholders wishing to receive their Ex-dividend date: 3 May 2018 dividends in Sterling the last date for currency Record date for dividend: 4 May 2018 elections is 11 May 2018.
Currency election date: 11 May 2018 Payment date: 1 June 2018 Andrew Smith Chief Financial Officer 22 February 2018 9 54 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT IDENTIFYING AND MANAGING OUR RISKS RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The risks outlined below are those principal risks and uncertainties that are material to the Group.
They do not include all the risks associated with Group activities and are not set out in any order of priority.
How these risks are identified is described in the Corporate Governance section on pages 63 and 64.
Achieving Playtechs strategic objectives while minimising the key risks the business faces will deliver sustainable and long-term growth.
CHANGE IN RISK Up No change Down RISKS RELATING TO BOTH THE GAMING AND FINANCIALS DIVISIONS REGULATORY RISKS MITIGATION Regulation Licensing Requirements both Gaming and Financials Playtech holds several licences for its activities from regulators.
The Playtech has a fully resourced Compliance team, which advises review and or loss of all or any of these licences may adversely impact and supports the Board and executive management to ensure on the operations, revenues and or reputation of the Group.
implementation of the policies, procedures and controls in place to protect its licence to operate.
The Compliance team advises, approves and monitors Group activities to ensure that the organisation is compliant with regulatory and licensing requirements.
Likelihood: Low Impact: High Regulation Local Technical Regulatory Requirements both Gaming and Financials Local regulators have their own specific requirements, which often Playtech works closely with regulators to understand specific local vary on a country to country basis.
In addition, new requirements may requirements along with any new requirements when operating and be imposed.
For example, a requirement to locate significant technical or entering into a market.
The Compliance team advises the business infrastructure within the relevant territory or to establish and maintain on these local requirements to ensure Playtech is compliant with real-time data interfaces with the regulator.
Such conditions present existing requirements, whilst anticipating new requirements and operational challenges and may prohibit the ability of licensees to engaging with local regulators on a frequent basis.
offer the full range of the Groups products.
Likelihood: Low Impact: Medium Taxation both Gaming and Financials Given the environment in which the Group operates, the business The Head of Tax keeps the Board and executive management fully is exposed to continuously evolving rules and practices governing informed of developments in domestic and international tax laws the taxation of e-commerce activity in various jurisdictions.
It is within jurisdictions where the Group has a local presence.
imperative to ensure compliance with all relevant tax regulations and requirements in each jurisdiction that Playtech operates.
The Head of Tax is responsible for ensuring that effective policies and procedures in respect of tax are in place, maintained and used consistently across the Group.
Likelihood: Medium Impact: Medium 55 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT REGULATORY RISKS MITIGATION Regulatory Capital Adequacy Financials only The requirement to maintain adequate regulatory capital may Our proprietary automated reporting system is used to monitor capital affect the Groups ability to conduct its business and may adequacy 24 hours a day on a real-time basis.
This is considered reduce profitability.
within pre-determined limits, set by the risk management committee, which include an approved level of buffer to ensure that levels determined by our regulators are not breached.
Where the capital adequacy levels approach the pre-determined limits, necessary steps are taken to ensure that exposures are managed so as to not fall foul Likelihood: Low Impact: Medium of regulatory requirements.
Regulatory Data Protection both Gaming and Financials The requirements of the new EU General Data Protection Regulations A Group wide project is underway to ensure compliance with GDPR.
GDPR will come into force in May 2018.
Data controllers and This covers governance, risk assessment, policies and processes, processors, who have users in the EU regardless of where the training, incident management, monitoring and data cleansing.
This data is held or processed, will have to comply with these regulations.
has helped drive the right behaviours to ensure obligations are met with regards to the handling of personal data.
Throughout 2017, GDPR readiness has been a priority issue for the Playtech Board and executive management.
They have endorsed Likelihood: Medium Impact: High a fully comprehensive roadmap and been provided with frequent progress updates from the Group Data Protection Office.
Playtech is aiming to be fully compliant with the new EU general data protection regulations by May 2018.
Regulatory Preventing Financial Crime both Gaming and Financials Policymakers in the EU and at national levels have taken steps to The Group takes a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
strengthen financial crime legislation covering Anti-Money Laundering Policies and operational procedures are refreshed to ensure AML, prevention of facilitation of tax evasion and Anti-Bribery and alignment with evolving regulatory frameworks.
The Board and Risk Corruption ABC.
Non-compliance could result in investigations, Committee have oversight of AML, ABC and tax risk.
The Compliance prosecutions, loss of licences and or an adverse reputational impact.
team have day to day oversight of AML and ABC policy and implementation including training.
Likelihood: Medium Impact: Medium Regulatory Responsible Gambling both Gaming and Financials Responsible gambling is a material concern to society as well as a Playtech is committed to provide a safe, fun and empowering regulatory priority.
In addition, licensing requirements are regularly consumer experience and has taken steps to enhance its responsible updated to ensure that companies in the sector provide a safe gambling capability in both the B2C and B2B operations.
Recent trends have seen an additional regulatory focus on treating customers fairly and conducting Playtechs long-term strategic objective is to develop and offer best marketing and advertising in a responsible manner.
in class tools and data that can help raise standards in operations and across the industry to: Promote safer and responsible play: Empower licensees and players with advanced customer Likelihood: High Impact: Medium engagement and responsible gambling tools to reduce harm: and Improve the quality and use of data to reduce harm.
56 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONT.
BUSINESS OPERATIONS MITIGATION Mergers and Acquisitions both Gaming and Financials Playtech has made a number of acquisitions over the years.
Such The Company has made a number of very successful, value creating acquisitions may not deliver the expected synergies and or benefits acquisitions and has an established process in place and experienced and may destroy shareholder value.
staff to conduct thorough due diligence before completing any transaction.
There is an integration team in place that works to integrate each acquisition as smoothly as possible.
Likelihood: Low Impact: Medium Key Employees both Gaming and Financials The Groups future success depends in large part on the continued The Group provides a stimulating professional environment and service of a broad leadership team including Executive Directors, has a comprehensive performance evaluation system to identify senior managers and key personnel.
The development and retention key talent and to ensure that key personnel are appropriately of these employees, along with the attraction and integration of new rewarded and incentivised through a mixture of salary, annual talent, cannot be guaranteed.
bonuses and long-term incentives linked to the attainment of business objectives and revenue growth.
Likelihood: Medium Impact: Medium IT Security both Gaming and Financials System downtime or a security breach, whether through cyber and The Group adopts industry standard protections to detect any distributed denial of service DDoS attacks or technology failure, intrusion or other security breaches, together with preventative could significantly affect the services offered to our licensees.
measures safeguarding against sabotage, hacking, viruses and cybercrime.
The Group works continuously to improve the robustness and security of the Groups information technology systems.
Likelihood: Medium Impact: High Business Continuity Planning both Gaming and Financials Loss of revenue, reputational damage or breach of regulatory Business continuity plans are in place for all key Playtech sites, requirements may occur as a result of a business or location covering the significant majority of the Group.
The remaining sites disruptive event.
will be provided with a fully functioning business continuity plan in line with the project roadmap.
Completed plans will be tested to ensure effectiveness and training will be provided to key staff members as part of the business Likelihood: Medium Impact: Medium continuity program.
57 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT MITIGATION Economic Environment both Gaming and Financials A downturn in consumer discretionary spend or macroeconomic Playtechs customers and licensees are geographically diverse, which factors outside of Playtechs control could result in reduced spend should mitigate reliance on any particular region.
Management closely by consumers on gambling and financial trading and the Groups monitors business performance and if a downturn were to occur, revenues may fall.
remedial action commensurate with the nature and scale of the slowdown would be taken.
Likelihood: Medium Impact: Medium Cash Management Cash Balances Foreign exchange volatility could impact the Group's financial position The Group holds currency in various denominations and our operations are geographically diverse.
The Group finance team continually review cash balances to ensure that this risk is mitigated effectively.
Likelihood: High Impact: Medium Market Exposure Financials only The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities could Market exposure is monitored 24 hours a day on a real-time basis, adversely fluctuate due to movements in market prices of foreign using our proprietary automated reporting systems to measure client exchange rates, commodity prices, equity and index prices.
exposure on all open positions.
Where exposure levels and client behaviour reaches certain levels, whether in total or on specific instruments, our risk management policy requires that mitigating actions, such as reducing exposure through hedging or liquidity arrangements, are considered.
Likelihood: Medium Impact: Medium Trading Volume Financials only Low volatility within foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, equity Trading volumes are monitored in real-time and the number of and index prices may reduce profitability.
instruments available for clients to trade continues to increase in order to ensure that potential for market volatility is captured within our offering.
Where markets become volatile within specific instruments, our technology allows for specific and tailored material to be released which highlights such instances to attract trading volume.
Likelihood: Low Impact: Medium 9 58 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT PROMOTING INTEGRITY REGULATION AND RESPONSIBILITY I am proud of our progress to place compliance, responsible business practices and regulatory affairs at the heart of our Companys ethos and strategy.
This is critical for ensuring we continue to lead in regulated markets, shape regulations in future markets and offer the industry the most innovative products, services and platforms available.
Ian Ince Global Head of Regulatory Affairs and Compliance RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS PRACTICES 1 2 3 GAMBLING GOVERNANCE AND MINIMISING INTEGRITY RISK REGULATION ENGAGEMENT 4 5 6 TAX GOVERNANCE SAFEGUARDING DATA ENABLING RESPONSIBLE GAMBLING AND PLAYER PROTECTION 7 8 9 TREATING CUSTOMERS FAIRLY DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION MANAGING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 10 CONTRIBUTING TO LOCAL COMMUNITIES 59 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT TRAINING, COMMUNICATIONS INTRODUCTION 2 AND AWARENESS This year, 2017, saw increased interest from GOVERNANCE AND ENGAGEMENT Throughout 2017, Playtech implemented a regulators, policymakers and consumers on Throughout 2017, the Board continued to a range of policy and social issues relating comprehensive internal communications, closely oversee and monitor regulatory to the gaming industry.
The areas of concern awareness and training program designed affairs, compliance and social responsibility.
include social responsibility and player to increase awareness about compliance.
This The Global Head of Regulatory Affairs and protection, consumer fairness, anti-money included the development of new materials Compliance is on the Management Committee, such as The Way We Do Business booklets, laundering, tax and data protection.
At Playtech, with a direct reporting line into the CEO.
The we are factoring these considerations and posters, bespoke induction materials and a Board of Directors receives monthly updates developments into our future strategy.
quarterly compliance newsletter featuring and the Risk Committee receives quarterly updates for employees.
1 Playtech invested significantly in a new, GAMBLING REGULATION During the past year, Playtech updated and interactive face-to-face compliance training strengthened its Anti-Bribery Corruption ABC, Playtech is focused on regulated and newly programme for senior and middle managers.
We are also active in Ethics, Information Security and Data Protection This programme aims to ensure our senior policies.
In drafting and reviewing our policies, promoting sensible and effective regulation leaders are champions in driving a culture Playtech engaged the Institute for Business in emerging markets.
of compliance and ethical behaviour.
During Ethics IBE and external counsel to ensure the year, 447 employees across ten of alignment with best practice in our peer group.
Regulations continue to evolve in mature, Playtechs key markets underwent training regulated markets.
During 2017, the Gambling Playtech also published our Statement on in 2017.
The sessions covered ABC, AML, Human Rights and Modern Slavery.
Looking Commission of Great Britain, along with business ethics and other compliance issues.
to the future, Playtech will publish a new tax others, took significant steps to strengthen its Using an interactive format and case studies, policy in 2018, ensuring relevant elements regulatory and enforcement regime in areas the objectives were to ensure participants are reflected in other related policies.
covering advertising, customer fairness, social understand their personal responsibilities and responsibility and anti-money laundering.
2018 provide them with the tools for more effective As part of Playtechs risk management process, will see regulatory changes continue to come decision-making.
96% of participants said the Compliance and Regulatory Affairs function into force, including new technical standards they were extremely or very satisfied with has day-to-day oversight of the regulatory, and a new online self-exclusion scheme.
compliance and reputational issues contained Playtech, we are investing time and resource to meet these requirements in our operations.
in the Group risk register.
Playtech has PARTNERSHIP AND COLLABORATION strengthened its risk management processes and controls and has taken steps to: Playtech is committed to build strong Despite the first online gambling sites being launched over twenty years ago, many stakeholder relationships, share learning and Strengthen communications, awareness countries still lack a regulatory framework support research on responsible gambling, for online gambling.
Between 2018 and and training amongst staff: AML and social responsibility more broadly.
2019 licensing regimes are expected to be To this effect, we engage with peers, opinion Integrate compliance into core functions formers, charities, industry associations and introduced in several European countries, and decision-making process and systems, including the Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland stakeholders outside of gambling to help including mergers & acquisitions: and Germany.
In Latin America, regulatory deliver solutions to the big challenges facing Enhance due diligence processes and discussions are taking place in numerous the sector.
controls for third parties and mergers and countries, with Peru and Brazil in the lead.
In the acquisitions: Playtech remains an active participant in US, the outcome of the judicial review on sports Improve guidance on gifts and hospitality: and betting could represent a milestone towards industry trade associations and industry groups the regulation of sports betting at a federal such as the Remote Gambling Association Hardwire compliance considerations into level, while at the moment some online games RGA and the Gambling Anti-Money Laundering all internal audits conducted throughout are regulated only in Nevada, New Jersey, Group GAMLG.
During 2017, Playtech also the year.
engaged with the Institute for Business Ethics, Delaware and Pennsylvania.
the Responsible Gambling Strategy Board, In 2017, Playtech also updated its compliance Financial crime also came into focus in 2017.
GamCare, Gambling Therapy and other risk assessment procedure for licensees, The implementation of the fourth European multi-stakeholder initiatives.
Playtech will continue the roll-out of these Union Anti-Money Laundering Directive measures in 2018.
AMLD increased the profile and requirements for enhancing Anti-Money Laundering AML controls and the fifth AMLD is now in progression.
2017 also saw the introduction the UK Criminal Finances Act, introducing new requirements to prevent tax evasion.
Finally, one of the most important and significant regulatory developments in a decade, the EU General Data Protection Regulation GDPR, comes into force in May 2018.
60 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT REGULATION AND RESPONSIBILITY CONT.
PARTNERSHIP AND COLLABORATION CONTINUED During 2017, Playtech brought together a diverse set of stakeholders for a series of roundtable discussions.
These explored how, in an increasingly data-driven world, companies can protect, empower and serve their consumers as well as win customers trust and be responsible corporate citizens.
Playtech works with other industry leaders to encourage the regulation of online gambling across all jurisdictions and raise awareness of the regulatory options that have been adopted and successful in regulated markets.
When engaging with local policy makers, Playtech shares its experience in regulated markets to promulgate best practices regarding responsible gambling and consumer protection.
Playtech encourages regulators and lawmakers to support solutions that are good for a safer, more responsible consumer experience and business alike.
3 MINIMISING INTEGRITY RISK Playtech takes a zero-tolerance approach to bribery, corruption and money laundering.
In 2017, Playtech refreshed its Ethics and Business Conduct Policy.
The policy was updated in order to reflect external best practice as well as the Companys new and evolving policies covering its approach on Speak Up, treating customers fairly, human and labour rights, diversity, the environment and responsible gambling.
Playtech also updated its ABC policy, introducing new thresholds for declaring, reporting and securing approval for gifts and hospitality.
The updated policies were communicated through training across the Company.
In addition, Playtech completed its annual anti-money laundering risk assessment utlising the GAMLGs methodology for the AML risk assessment: which is a formal and published industry standard for AML risk assessment.
The Internal Audit function also participated, reviewed and challenged the risk assessment to ensure a robust approach.
As a result of new regulatory guidance and the outcome of the AML risk assessment, Playtech enhanced its operational procedures for managing money laundering risk.
In 2018, Playtech will further update all of its policies and procedures to factor in regulatory developments, such as the Criminal Finances Bill 2017 as well as the forthcoming fifth EU AML regulation and new requirements related to tax evasion.
Playtech will continue to enhance its AML monitoring and review its risk and controls on a quarterly basis.
Playtech will continue to use both internal audit and external counsel to review, challenge and make recommendations to enhance our risk assessment procedures.
