22 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR EVOLVING MARKET OUR INDUSTRY GAMBLING MARKET TRENDS REGULATION 1 TOTAL ONLINE GAMBLING Regulation remains a key opportunity for THE ONLINE GAMBLING MARKET growth in geographical markets.
Moving from MARKET GGR The global online gambling market continues a predominantly.
com regime to a regulated to exhibit strong growth while continuing to regime presents numerous challenges to evolve.
H2 Gambling Capital estimates that operators and suppliers but also creates in 2017 Gross Gambling Revenues GGR opportunities, potentially opening up new product verticals and increased marketing defined as amounts staked less prizes activity for operators.
A combination of for casino, poker, bingo, sports betting, factors determine whether the opportunity skill based gaming and lotteries, grew by will be attractive in the long term: including approximately 9% to 40.5 billion from 37.2 tax rate, product availability and technical billion in 2016.
Playtech is uniquely placed Capital predicts the market will continue to given its strength, geographic diversity grow at a compound annual growth rate of and technical acumen to manage these 8% from 2017 to 2020. challenges and continue to be the leading supplier in regulated markets.
2 1 Europe continues to lead the regulatory GEOGRAPHICAL DEVELOPMENT movement, with the Czech Republic, Poland The UK remains the largest as well as the and Portugal recently regulated.
Holland, most mature online market.
H2 Gambling GLOBAL ONLINE GAMBLING Switzerland and Sweden are expected to Capital estimates that in 2017 the UK MARKET BY REGION 2017 regulate in the near future.
In Latin America, market online market grew 10% in 2017 Brazil is a big opportunity, whilst Peru and GGR and accounted for 17% of the overall online Uruguay are reviewing historic positions.
China and Japan are the Finally, the Indian sub-continent remains next largest markets with 10% each.
Europe an interesting and lucrative long-term remains the largest territory, comprising 53% opportunity.
of the overall online gambling market in 2017 and is forecast to grow at a compound annual 40.5bn 4 growth rate of 9% from 2017 to 2020.
Growth in Europe is driven by more mature markets MOBILE such as the UK but also relatively smaller The number of mobile devices in use markets such as Italy and Spain that are continues to grow every day.
In the gambling growing faster due to more recent regulation sector increasing numbers of players are Europe: 53% related to online gambling.
Asia Middle East: 26% choosing mobile sports betting and gaming North America: 12% for the convenience it brings.
According to H2 Oceania: 6% 3 Gambling Capital, mobile accounted for 37% Latin America Caribbean: 2% of the total online gambling market in 2017, up DRIVERS OF MARKET GROWTH Africa: 1% from 34% in 2016 and 31% in 2015.
H2 Gambling FOR GAMING DIVISION Capital expects mobile to continue to grow In line with the growth of e-commerce across all and reach 44% of total online gambling 2 consumer and leisure related sectors globally, activity by 2020. the online gaming market continues to benefit from the transition of land-based revenue CONVERGENCE OF ONLINE AND 2017 GLOBAL GAMBLING to online revenue.
Improved broadband LAND-BASED penetration and capacity, faster mobile MARKET SPLIT ONLINE In line with other consumer and leisure-led data transfer rates, improved smartphone VS. RETAIL sectors a significant industry trend in gambling penetration, a growing number of market is the growing convergence of the land-based participants, along with increased marketing and online segments.
This is principally a result expenditure by operators through a wide of many of the new entrants in regulated online range of marketing channels are all driving markets being existing land-based operators factors for growth in the industry.
In addition, gaming, betting and lottery operators.
While 373.7bn the growing trend of greater acceptance the online segment has grown faster than of online gambling as a mainstream leisure land-based, the land-based segment accounted pastime is contributing to increasing for 89% of the global gambling market in 2017 regulatory regimes appearing globally.
Going forward this represents an attractive opportunity Retail: 89% 333.2 for online operators as the shift online continues Online: 11% 40.5 but also for land-based operators that leverage their existing retail businesses to capture the 3 online opportunity.
21.5 2010 2011 22.6 2012 25.0 2013 27.3 2014 30.7 33.9 2015 2016 37.2 40.5 2017 2018 44.1 2019 47.3 50.5 2020 23 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE RESPOND Technology LEADING THE COMPETITION MOBILE % OF The Playtech operating system is agnostic, MAINTAINING AND EXTENDING allowing upgrades and new features to TOTAL ONLINE OUR LEADERSHIP be rolled out to every operator from a The single most realistic alternative to single platform.
This enables all operators partnering with Playtech is for operators to the benefit of a more advanced offering.
utilise their own proprietary platform together Playtechs R&D costs vary from year to with proprietary and third-party software.
year, but are typically around 20% of overall Playtech believes this is an increasingly software revenue.
This development cost unsustainable and costly business model.
is shared across the licensee base, and the Playtech enjoys significant scale advantages revenue share model offered by Playtech by being able to leverage operating and is cost effective when compared to selfdevelopment costs across its global customer development, and allows licensees to remain base, including the top gambling operators in at the cutting edge of the market.
Operators the UK, Europe and Latin America.
Playtechs also benefit from product development strategy is to offer all product verticals across through two-way feedback with Playtech.
all distribution channels on an integrated platform that offers a single wallet and sign-in.
Experience 4 Playtech is also the only supplier that can As Playtechs scale has increased over offer sophisticated marketing and operational the 18 years since its incorporation, its services to drive player acquisition and knowledge, expertise and offering in all retention via a modular range of flexible markets have enabled operators to grow approaches from a full turnkey solution to their businesses and to diversify into new equity joint ventures or structured agreements.
This means that Playtech can partner with or sign commercial agreements with a wide Liquidity range of gambling providers, from Government Playtech offers greater liquidity in the bingo sponsored entities to the leading independent and poker markets, and can provide highly brands in each jurisdiction.
progressive jackpots for games across casino, live casino, bingo and poker.
BARRIERS TO ENTRY Services Scale The rapid growth and increased scale of Other barriers to entry are Playtechs Playtech has enabled the development of expertise in the services environment a superior platform, more relevant software marketing, hosting and affiliates and and more products than other suppliers.
New increasingly longer-term supply contracts and established relationships with licensees.
B2B operators or licensees are not able to undertake significant product development as they lack economies of scale.
This is even more apparent in new channels coming to market such as mobile, or new products such as virtual sports.
Games such as bingo or poker rely on liquidity to satisfy player demand.
Networked casino and live casino games can also provide significant jackpot opportunities.
