28 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT INDUSTRY LEADING STUDIOS OUR STUDIOS BRANDED & BESPOKE CONTENT Playtechs content offering is unsurpassed in the gaming industry, delivering more than 600 best-performing tried and ORIGINS tested classic, innovative and premium branded games.
Each of Playtech Origins has designed and created Playtechs studios delivers a unique flavour of games and come some of the most famous, unique and together to form the strongest and highest quality content innovative games for more than a decade.
Using a diverse mix of expert games offering in the industry.
designers located in in-house studios around the world including Gibraltar, Estonia, Ukraine, Israel and Bulgaria, it is a pioneer of online gaming content creation.
Origins is famous for producing classic slot games including Age of the Gods, Jackpot Giant, White King, Buffalo Blitz, Great Blue and Gladiator, and highly profitable premium branded content suites such as Classic TV Series Batman, Superman I, Superman II and Superman: Man of Steel in partnership with Hollywood studios such as Warner Bros.
Origins forms a key part of the Playtechs group content strategy and believes in creating high-quality content with a core focus on always delivering whenever marketdemands change.
TM ASHGAMING a Playtech company ASH GAMING Ash Gaming is a leading London-based games design studio founded in 2002.
Operating on a maths-first design paradigm by developing compelling, balanced, and unique models, we wrap our games in engaging themes that accentuate the designed feature set.
Ash Gaming was acquired by Playtech in 2011 and is now Playtechs premier content studio in the UK, famous for high-quality, smash hit titles including Heart of the Jungle, Superman: Man of Steel, and the Classic TV Series Batman suite of games.
29 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT SUNFOX GAMES a Playtech company PSICLONE QUICKSPIN SUNFOX Psiclone Games is a Lichfield, UK based Quickspin is a Swedish game studio that Based in Vienna, Austria, SUNFOX Games is an slot games design studio focused on the develops innovative video slots for real money innovative casino games design and production production of unique and engaging highonline gambling and free to play social markets.
studio responsible for state-of-the-art 3D games quality titles, with a portfolio including the It was acquired by Playtech in 2016.
The aim of including The Glass Slipper, Time for a Deal and famous Fairground Fortunes, and covering its 60-strong team of gaming industry veterans 3 Blind Mice.
It was acquired by Playtech in 2017 an increasing range of markets as its is to cause a market-changing shift in quality and expands Playtechs product portfolio with expansion continues.
and innovation by creating the kind of games a distinctive selection of innovative premium that we as players would love to play.
Founded in 2007, Psiclone Games specialises in retail markets.
It strives for Quickspin games are integrated with its Founded in 2011, SUNFOX Games combines modern excellence and has established a firstcustomers casino through its proprietary 3D content production technology with cuttingedge class reputation within the industry for its platform that includes ground breaking math creation, HTML5-rendering frameworks and fresh approach to slot design and player promotional tools to help attract and excellent usability design to create a unique gaming engagement.
Psiclone Games was acquired retain players.
With a focus on quality over quantity, by Playtech in 2014 and forms a key part SUNFOX Games redefines production values for of the Groups content strategy.
casino games and enriches every game portfolio with truly outstanding games.
PLAYTECH VIKINGS GECO EYECON Playtech Vikings mission is to create the Established in 2007 and acquired by Playtech Eyecon was founded in Brisbane, Australia in 1997 most exciting roadmap possible with a great in 2016, GECO is headquartered in Sydney, and develops slots and table games for online mix of games for all player types, bringing Australia.
GECOs philosophy is one of gambling and free-to-play social markets.
It was years of experience and passion to every innovation inspired out of experience and acquired by Playtech in 2017.
With more than 70 titles project.
Vikings designers have a long foundation.
GECO offers a complete range distributed via its proprietary Remote Gaming Server tradition of bringing never-before-seen slot of game styles, from traditional Australian RGS Eyecon games are familiar across many of the features to life and are behind some of the style content and bingo slots to story-driven, major industry platforms and brands.
Eyecon has most successful games of the last ten years.
multi-layered, entertaining and engaging a team of more than 40 staff with a wealth of In November 2017, Viking launched Age of games.
In addition, the GECO Scratch Factory industry experience based in Brisbane, Malta the Gods God of Storms, one of the best tool efficiently and rapidly produces a variety and the Channel Islands.
performing Playtech slots in the UK.
Vikings of instant win games which, coupled with its is also the team behind top-performing leading slots, complement any operators games such as Legacy of the Wilds, Batman suite of gaming products.
& the Riddler Riches, Space Invaders, Ice Cave and the highly-anticipated Justice League slot.
30 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT INNOVATIVE PRODUCTS OMNI-CHANNEL PRODUCTS Playtech offers its licensees CASINO PLAYTECH LIVE an unrivalled range of highly innovative Omni-channel COMPLETE OMNI-CHANNEL COMPLETE OMNI-CHANNEL products and platforms, EXPERIENCE EXPERIENCE software and content solutions.
Playtech the power behind gaming.
LARGEST PORTFOLIO OF BESTAWARD-WINNING BACK-END PERFORMING CONTENT PLATFORM SIMULTANEOUS MOBILE-DESKTOP POWERED BY INNOVATION LAUNCHES Playtechs live casino platform and products Playtech offers more than 600 Omni-channel are designed to provide the most authentic, Omni-channel gaming experience supported casino titles across all channels, platforms by a new user interface and experience and and devices.
cutting-edge platform that uses the latest business intelligence data-driven technology.
As part of our Playtech ONE Omni-channel offering, our casino product allows players Our extensive live product offering, manned to access content anywhere, at any time by native-speaking dealers, includes all the and on any device through a single wallet experience.
casino classics such as Blackjack, Baccarat and Roulette in addition to innovative new Driven by our powerful IMS platform and variants including Unlimited Blackjack, Prestige Roulette and Baccarat and business intelligence technology, Playtech Casino Holdem.
Casino delivers in-house and premium branded games including a large selection We use state-of-the-art cameras broadcasting of DC Entertainment titles such as 1960s Batman Classic TV Series, Man of Steel in premium HD quality, offer the fastest streaming and highest up-time in the market, 2013, Green Lantern 2011, Superman 1978 bespoke branding and individual training, and Superman II 1980 to name just a few, while our Open Platform offers hundreds establishing the trust and loyalty associated with a real casino experience.
more titles which flawlessly integrates with our licensees websites.
We have dedicated tables with nativespeaking dealers for the UK, Italy, Spain and Our commitment to providing new and existing licensees with access to our Romania, and others due to an increasing demand in newly regulating markets.
Our leading content, powerful platform, and fully automated marketing tools ensures operators core focus revolves around unbeatable licensee service, ensuring we outperform deliver the ultimate casino experience to our competitors with our world-class their players.
Omni-channel technology, features, user experience and dedicated support services.
31 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT PLAYTECH BGT SPORTS VIRTUAL SPORTS BINGO COMPLETE OMNI-CHANNEL COMPLETE OMNI-CHANNEL COMPLETE OMNI-CHANNEL EXPERIENCE EXPERIENCE EXPERIENCE UNIQUE PLAYER SEGMENTATION STATE-OF-THE-ART GRAPHICS AND MOST EXTENSIVE AND PERSONALISATION TOOLS MOTION CAPTURE TECHNOLOGIES SIDE-GAMES PORTFOLIO BRANDABLE MOBILE SOLUTION, IN-GAME BRANDING, PROMOTIONS BESPOKE BINGO CLIENT PLATFORM, USER INTERFACE AND BESPOKE EVENTS AND ROOM VARIANTS AND FEATURES Our diverse and growing virtual sports Playtech delivers an Omni-channel bingo offering combines the very latest 3D game solution, allowing players to enjoy the same Playtech Sports develops market-leading graphics and motion capture technology with seamless experience across any platform, on turnkey wagering solutions for the modern a highly sophisticated virtual racing simulator any device, all through a single wallet and a sports betting industry, covering all sectors across a wealth of sports, including horse single account.
Our UK bingo network consists and distribution channels from retail to mobile racing, tennis, basketball and football.
of more than 100 brands, and manages more to online products.
PBSs vision is to create than 100,000 daily and more than 20,000 a fully integrated, best-in-class sports betting Our virtual products enable players to bet concurrent players.
We offer the largest library technology solution by drawing on the overall within the familiar sportsbook environment, of bingo variants 25 with more than 170 slots business expertise and capabilities, together with our graphics engine and servers & scratch cards.
Our comprehensive range with a tailored, managed service proposition allowing for integrated odds, data feeds of bingo solutions is designed to suit any to suit any bespoke customer requirements.
and bespoke in-game branding, promotions operators specific requirements.
A decade of experience with blue chip and tailored races, matches, games and operators has kept us ahead in innovation promotional events.
Our licensees comprise the industrys biggest and customer service while satisfying and most well-known gaming and bingo punters needs for versatility and reliability.
With more than ten years experience in operators and media brands.
We are continually developing and providing virtual racing growing both organically and through acquisition Our betting terminals as well as our digital simulators, our virtual racing server of software and studios including Virtue Fusion, products are revolutionising the world of creates familiarity for the player, ensuring ECM Systems and Eyecon.
Playtech has 25 sportsbook operators and their Omni-channel experienced racing fans can follow the variants of 90-ball, 80-ball, and 75-ball bingo in betting businesses.
We already have a solid form of the runners, enhancing the addition to a large range of unique and bespoke presence in many countries around the world, overall gameplay.
bingo variants available on desktop, mobile and and many others will follow soon.
tablet supported by more than 20 in-game bingo We work closely with well-known racing features.
We have a dedicated team of talented venues, professional sports players and developers who produce and manage bespoke commentators to design ultra-realistic, games, branded rooms and bingo features.
high-quality environments, combining Our productions include exclusive branded leading-edge graphics with CGI techniques, bingo variants based on popular television providing an experience comparable only programmes and gameshows such as Deal to the real thing.
or No Deal, Who Wants to be a Millionaire, and Tipping Point.
