24 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT & HOW OUR OMNI-CHANNEL TECHNOLOGY IS CHANGING THE GAMBLING WORLD NEVER STANDING STILL Interview with Mor Weizer Chief Executive Officer 25 PLAYTECH PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT YOU HAVE BEEN PLAYTECH CEO FOR Our retail software in Sports, Bingo and Casino not 9 MORE THAN TEN YEARS NOW.
HOW HAS only digitalises the retail offering but allows you to facilitate the journey of retail players to become THE GAMBLING INDUSTRY CHANGED IN online players, making retail and online part of the THAT TIME?
The players of 2018, whether playing online, on mobile or through traditional Secondly, it is the strength of our offering across retail channels, are looking for a seamless different product verticals and this is a strategic experience.
They are looking to enjoy that goal we have finally realised this year with the experience without restriction more than integration of Playtech BGT Sports.
To facilitate that, they expect it.
For operators in a highly cross-sell and player traffic between verticals you competitive industry the challenge is not need competitive and appealing products in each only to attract players to your brand but vertical.
Sports is important as it is the gateway retain them as a customer of your brand for many players into other verticals.
through every channel and every vertical.
WHAT DOES INTEGRATED CONTENT MEAN WHAT IS AN OMNI-CHANNEL APPROACH 9 9 AND WHY IS IT IMPORTANT?
AND WHY DO OPERATORS NEED ONE?
Playtech ONE creates an ecosystem, from retail Omni-channel is a word you will come in store, to mobile, desktop and tablet.
Integrated across a lot in the gambling industry as content, not only integrated by wallet and customer operators and content providers alike have data but also integrated across content through realised that they need to provide the same consistent cross vertical branding and cross vertical level of service and style of content for jackpots allows licensees to take customers on a customers across different channels be it journey through their ecosystem ensuring when land based retail or on mobile or desktop.
they play another vertical it is with them.
Where Playtech ONE and our Omni-channel approach is different is that we offer the WHATS THE NEXT INNOVATION ON THE same platform and CRM across all channels 9 PLAYTECH ONE ROADMAP?
and importantly across all products.
This means you get one, real time data profile We believe Playtechs GPAS, Gaming Platform as for a customer.
For example, you dont have a Service, and Marketplace will both revolutionise to spend hours or days performing a data Playtechs relationships with operators and third reconciliation across Bingo and Live Casino party games developers, ensuring Playtechs in order to develop an effective marketing technology is the architecture of the gambling campaign.
One platform means you can run industry in the future.
GPASs maths editor allows more cost effective cross sell campaigns or licensees and developers to easily build their own customer journeys across all verticals and games to be hosted and distributed on Playtechs channels, driving retail players to online and platform.
While Marketplace will be an open market vice-versa.
Moreover, you can do it using where operators can access Playtechs portfolio the functionality of our IMS platform with of content and also content developed on GPAS.
WHAT IS GPAS AND HOW WILL IT BENEFIT 9 WHAT MAKES PLAYTECH ONE 9 PLAYTECH AND ITS LICENSEES?
GPAS technology is also bridging the gap between There are many important aspects to online and land-based retail when it comes to game the success of Playtech ONE, and the delivery.
GPAS technology enables HTML5 games integrated Omni-channel solution operators to be brought to life on land-based slot machines as and players experience today is a result well as online devices, without losing any of the feel of the strategic roadmap we have worked of traditional retail slot gaming.
HTML5 games can on since developing our Casino platform run across several screens, be integrated with the 19 years ago.
This includes the scale and machine buttons, lights and sounds: developers can quantity of data and intelligence available create high quality graphics, build in game volatility and our constant investment in innovation.
With GPASs rapid game I would, however, highlight two important development tools, developers can optimise HTML5 characteristics to Playtech ONE.
games, run them on a slot machine simulator and deploy them in a matter of hours games that Firstly our strength in retail.
Some operators are genuinely indistinguishable from traditional today neglect retail gambling and others CC games.
For me, this is truly Omni-channel think it is old-fashioned.
At Playtech we technology in action and will provide Playtech with see retail as an essential part of the a strategic advantage in our key growth markets.
Omni-channel approach, especially in newly regulated online markets where the new entrants to the online arena are retail brands who have an existing brand and customer base.
