F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Directors Paul Marcuse FRICS Chris Russell FCA, FSIP Status: Chairman and independent non-executive Status: Independent non-executive director Director.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Date of appointment: 12 January 2017 Date of appointment: 31 October 2009 appointed Country of residence: UK Chairman 19 May 2011.
Experience: Paul Marcuse has approximately 35 Country of residence: Guernsey years experience in the real estate and finance sectors.
He was Head of Global Real Estate at Experience: Chris Russell was, before 2001, UBS Global Asset Management between 2007 an executive director of Gartmore Investment and 2012.
Prior to this, he was Chief Executive Management plc.
He is a director of Enhanced Index of AXA Real Estate Investment Managers.
His Funds PCC, the Salters Management Company non-executive roles currently include nonand Hanseatic Asset Management LBG.
executive Chairman of the Management Board of Other public company directorships: Ruffer the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and Investment Company, HICL Infrastructure non-executive Chairman of BizSpace Holdings Company Limited and Chairman of Macau Property Limited.
Other public company directorships: None Trudi Clark ACA Peter Cornell Status: Independent non-executive director and Status: Independent non-executive director Chairman of the Audit Committee Date of appointment: 1 May 2015 Date of appointment: 4 February 2014 Country of residence: Guernsey Country of residence: Guernsey Experience: Peter Cornell was, until 2006, Global Experience: Trudi Clark is a former Chief Managing Partner of Clifford Chance.
He then Executive Officer of Schroders C. I.
Limited and joined Terra Firma Capital Partners where he has over 25 years experience in the financial was Managing Director until 2011.
She is a non-executive director executive Director of Circle Holdings PLC from of a number of Guernsey based funds and 2011 to 2013.
He is a founding partner of Metric companies.
Capital Partners and has a wealth of legal and commercial experience.
Other public company directorships: Sapphire PCC Limited Sapphire IV Cell, River and Other public company directorships: None.
Mercantile UK Micro Cap Investment Company Limited and NB Private Equity Partners Limited.
Martin Moore MRICS David Preston ACA Status: Independent non-executive director and Status: Independent non-executive director Senior independent director and Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee Date of appointment: 31 March 2011 Date of appointment: 1 May 2015 Country of residence: UK Country of residence: Guernsey Experience: Martin Moore was, until June 2013, Chairman, of M&G Real Estate Ltd, the property Experience: David Preston is Managing Director asset management arm of Prudential plc.
He has of First Names Guernsey Limited, a Guernsey also been a board adviser to The Crown Estate based fiduciary and fund services business.
He and a board member of the British Property is a Director of a number of regulated, unlisted Federation.
open and closed-end real estate funds invested in the UK, Europe, Asia and the USA.
He is Other public company directorships: SEGRO plc a Chartered Accountant and has significant and Secure Income REIT plc.
property, financial, corporate administration and regulatory experience.
Other public company directorships: None.
