STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Business Model and Strategy The Company carries on business as a closed-ended property by it for working capital purposes and awaiting investment, in cash investment company.
Its shares are traded on the Main Market of the deposits, gilts and money market funds.
The Company uses gearing throughout the Group to enhance returns over the long-term.
Gearing, represented by borrowings as a The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall stewardship of the Company, including investment and dividend policies, corporate percentage of total assets, may not exceed 50 per cent.
However, the strategy, gearing, corporate governance procedures and risk Boards present intention is that borrowings of the Group will be limited to a maximum of 35 per cent of total assets at the time of borrowing.
Biographical details of the Directors, all of whom are independent non-executive Directors, can be found on page 28.
The Investment of Assets Company has no executive Directors or employees.
At each quarterly Board meeting, the Board receives a detailed The Board has contractually delegated the management of the presentation from the Managers which includes a review of investment investment portfolio and other services to the Managers.
A summary performance, recent portfolio activity and a market outlook.
It also of the terms of the management agreement is contained in note 2 to considers compliance with the investment policy and other investment the accounts.
restrictions during the reporting period.
An analysis of how the portfolio was invested as at 31 December 2017 is contained within the Investment Strategy Managers Review on pages 17 to 22 and a portfolio listing is provided Objective on page 27.
The Companys investment objective is to provide ordinary The Groups borrowings are described in note 12 to the accounts.
shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the potential for capital and income growth from investing in a diversified Responsible Property Investment Strategy UK commercial property portfolio.
The importance of environmental and social factors, together with the management of those factors through corporate governance and Investment Policy property management, has strengthened within the UK commercial The Companys policy is to hold a diversified portfolio of freehold and property market in recent years.
The Company and its Property long leasehold over 60 years remaining at the time of acquisition Managers continue to be focused on fulfilling their obligations to UK commercial properties.
It invests principally in three commercial make sure that these factors are attended to properly and effectively, property sectors: office, retail and industrial.
It also has a small in order that relevant risks are managed and that shareholder returns exposure to residential property and student housing.
The Company invests in properties which the Board, on the advice of The rising strategic significance of environmental, social and the Managers, believes will generate a combination of long-term growth governance ESG factors is important to the Company in two key in income and capital for shareholders.
Investment decisions are based ways.
on an analysis of, amongst other things, prospects for future income Firstly, its attendance to ESG matters is an important determinant and capital growth, sector and geographic prospects, tenant covenant of the confidence which its existing and prospective shareholders strength, lease length, and initial and equivalent yields.
place in the Company as an attractive and appropriate vehicle for Investment risks are spread by investing across different risk-adjusted returns, and through which their maturing corporate geographical areas and sectors and by letting properties to lower governance and responsible investment requirements and objectives risk tenants.
The Company has not set any maximum geographic can be satisfied.
exposures, but the maximum weightings in the principal property Secondly, the environmental and social attributes of the assets sectors at any time stated as a percentage of total assets are: held by the Company is an increasingly important driver of financial office: 50 per cent: retail: 65 per cent: and industrial: 40 per cent.
performance across the diversified portfolio, both in terms of No single property may exceed 15 per cent of total assets and optimising net operating income today, and supporting income and the five largest properties excluding indirect property funds may capital growth in the long-term.
In particular: not exceed 40 per cent of total assets in each case at the time of acquisition.
Short leasehold properties with less than 60 years ensuring that properties perform efficiently, support flexible and remaining may not exceed 10 per cent of total assets at the time productive occupancy, and contribute positively to the health of acquisition.
and wellbeing of the people that work, shop or live in them are increasingly important attributes which influence their appeal to The Company is permitted to invest up to 15 per cent, at the time the occupier market and thus their ability to retain occupiers and of acquisition, of its total assets in indirect property funds including support rental growth.
listed property companies which invest principally in UK property, but these investments may not exceed 20 per cent of total assets at ensuring that properties are fit-for-purpose in the context of any subsequent date.
The Company is permitted to invest cash, held climate change, a dynamic regulatory environment, and the Report and Accounts 2017 | 11 F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Cassini House, London Discount Control rapid advancement of technology, helps mitigate their rate of The policy regarding share buy backs was set out in a Circular issued depreciation and reduces their exposure to various forms of risk.
to shareholders ahead of the General Meeting in November 2014.
This ensuring that properties make a positive contribution to the local detailed the Companys continued commitment to the application of communities in which they are situated, can help to improve share buy backs to limit any discount to the NAV per share at which the patronage, support wider economic performance and enhance Companys shares may trade.
A discount of 5 per cent or more remains the skills and employment prospects of local people, in turn a level at which the Board will review share buy back implementation.
making the local market a more attractive investment location.
The review will take into account the current and the likely prospective In light of these extensive considerations, the Board has taken steps level of discount to the value of your Company's high quality but, this year to advance Responsible Property Investment strategy by their nature, illiquid assets, which are independently valued every further.
Through extensive engagement with key shareholders, and quarter.
It will also consider other factors that the Board believes might drawing on the advice of its independent strategic advisor, Hillbreak, promote the achievement of the Companys long-standing, stated the Board has determined four strategic themes through which to objectives.
integrate ESG into the business model of the Company: These factors include alternative property investment opportunities, 1.
Leadership & Effectiveness - Measures through which the whether direct or indirect, which may be standing at greater levels Company will demonstrate effective governance in relation to of discount to underlying value than the Companys own shares: the ESG.
impact on net asset value accretion and improvement in dividend cover 2.
Investment Process - Procedures through which the Company from share buy backs: and the levels of liquidity, gearing and loan to integrates ESG into the investment process.
Portfolio - Attendance to material ESG performance and risk Shareholder Value factors across the portfolio.
The Board and the Managers recognise the importance of both 4.
Transparency - Approach to investor reporting and public marketing and share buy backs in increasing demand for the disclosure on relevant ESG factors.
Share buy backs can help reduce the volatility of Details of the approach that the Board has agreed with the Property any discount of the share price to the net asset value per share and Manager, including the Company-specific targets and objectives that enhance the net asset value per share for continuing shareholders.
have been set to guide and prioritise progress, are explained in the In terms of marketing, the Managers offer a range of private investor Managers Review.
The Board has paid particular attention to making savings schemes, details of which can be found on page 75.
In addition, sure that the expectations and preferences of our key shareholders meetings are held regularly with current and prospective shareholders are reflected comprehensively and appropriately.
and stockbroking analysts covering the investment company sector.
Communication of quarterly portfolio information is made through the Continuation Vote Companys website.
Following the adoption of new articles of incorporation in November 2014, the next continuation vote of the Company will be in 2024.
