FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT Directors Report The Directors present their report and accounts of the Group for the Directors year ended 31 December 2017.
Biographical details of the Directors, all of whom are non-executive, can be found on page 28.
Results and Dividends As explained in more detail under Corporate Governance on pages The results for the year are set out in the attached accounts.
33 to 34, the Board has agreed that all Directors will retire annually.
The Group paid interim dividends during the year ended Mrs T Clark, Mr M R Moore, Mr C Russell, Mr P Cornell, Mr P 31 December 2017 as follows: Marcuse and Mr D Preston will retire at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Interim Dividends 2017 The Directors believe that the Board has an appropriate balance of Payment Rate per M Payment Rate per skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company date date sharshar ese to enable it to provide effective strategic leadership and proper Ninth interim for prior year 31 January 2017 0.5p guidance of the Company.
The Board confirms that, following the Tenth interim for prior year 28 February 2017 0.5p evaluation process set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 33 and 34, the performance of each of these Directors Eleventh interim for prior year 31 March 2017 0.5p continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Twelfth interim for prior year 28 April 2017 0.5p The Board therefore believes that it is in the interests of shareholders First interim 31 May 2017 0.5p that these Directors are re-elected.
Second interim 30 June 2017 0.5p There are no service contracts in existence between the Company Third interim 31 July 2017 0.5p and any Directors but each of the Directors has been issued with, and accepted the terms of, a letter of appointment that sets out Fourth interim 31 August 2017 0.5p the main terms of his or her appointment.
Amongst other things, Fifth interim 29 September 2017 0.5p the letter includes confirmation that the Directors have a sufficient Sixth interim 31 October 2017 0.5p understanding of the Company and the sector in which it operates, Seventh interim 30 November 2017 0.5p and sufficient time available to discharge their duties effectively, Eighth interim 29 December 2017 0.5p taking into account their other commitments.
These letters are available for inspection upon request at the Companys registered Three further interim dividends, each of 0.5p per share, were paid office.
The twelfth, and last, interim dividend in respect of the year, of 0.5p per Management share, will be paid on 30 April 2018 to shareholders on the register The Board has appointed F&C Investment Business Limited on 13 April 2018. referred to throughout this document as FCIB or the Investment Managers as the Companys investment managers and BMO REP Dividend Policy Asset Management plc referred to throughout this document as As a result of the timing of the payment of the Companys monthly BMO REP or the Property Managers as the Companys property dividends, the Companys shareholders are unable to approve a final managers.
FCIB and BMO REP are both part of the F&C Asset dividend each year.
As an alternative the Board therefore proposes Management plc group F&C and, collectively, are referred to to put the Companys dividend policy to shareholders for approval in this document as the Managers.
FCIB was appointed as the on an annual basis.
Resolution 3 which is an ordinary resolution, Companys AIFM on 18 July 2014. relates to the approval of the Companys dividend policy which is as The Managers provide investment management and other services follows: Dividends on the Ordinary Shares are payable monthly.
Details of the arrangements between the Company and the Managers in respect of management services are provided Principal Activity and Status in note 2 to the accounts.
The Company is a  company registered The Board keeps the appropriateness of the Managers number 50402 and, during the year, carried on business as a appointment under review.
In doing so the Board reviews closed-ended property investment company.
The Companys shares performance quarterly and considers the past investment are traded on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
performance of the Company and the capability and resources The principal activities of the Companys subsidiaries are included in of the Managers to deliver satisfactory investment performance note 1b and note 19 to the accounts.
It also reviews the length of the notice period of the investment management agreement and the fees payable to the Managers, together with the standard of the other services provided.
Report and Accounts 2017 | 29 F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED The Directors are comfortable with the Managers ability to deliver Substantial Interests in Shareholdings satisfactory investment performance and the quality of other As at 31 December 2017 the Company had received notification of services provided.
It is therefore their opinion that the continuing the following holdings of voting rights under the Financial Conduct appointment of the Managers on the terms agreed is in the interests Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules : of shareholders as a whole.
Substantial Shareholdings Depositary M Number of Number of JPMorgan Europe Limited acts as the Companys depositary in Ordinary Shares Percentage Ordinary S accordance with the AIFM Directive.
The depositarys responsibilities Held Held which are set out in an Investor Disclosure Document on the Aviva Group 181,308,005 22.7 Companys website, include cash monitoring, segregation and safe Investec Wealth & keeping of the Companys financial instruments and monitoring hares Percentage Investment Limited 78,609,886 9.8 the Companys compliance with investment limits and leverage Held Held Based on 799,366,108 Ordinary Shares in issue as at 31 December 2017. requirements.
There have been no changes notified to the Company in respect of Taxation the above holdings, and no new holdings notified, since the end of As set out in note 5 on the Accounts, the Company and its the year.
subsidiaries are exempt from Guernsey taxation under the Income Going Concern Tax Exempt Bodies Guernsey Ordinance 1989.
No charge to In assessing the going concern basis of accounting the Directors Guernsey taxation will arise on capital gains.
have had regard to the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting The Directors conduct the Groups affairs such that management Council.
They have reviewed detailed cash flow, income and and control is not exercised in the United Kingdom and so that expense projections in order to assess the Companys ability to pay neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries carries on any its operational expenses, bank interest and dividends.
The Directors trade in the United Kingdom.
Accordingly, the Company and its have examined significant areas of possible financial risk including subsidiaries will not be liable for United Kingdom taxation on their cash and cash requirements and the debt covenants, in particular income or gains other than certain income deriving from a United those relating to loan to value and interest cover.
They have not Kingdom source.
identified any material uncertainties which cast significant doubt The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to United Kingdom on the ability to continue as a going concern for a period of not income tax on income arising on the property portfolio after less than 12 months from the date of the approval of the financial deduction of its allowable debt financing costs and other allowable statements.
The Board believes it is appropriate to adopt the going expenses.
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Companys The UK government has announced that non-resident landlords longer term viability is considered in the Viability Assessment and will be taxable under the UK corporation tax regime, rather than Statement on page 15. the UK income tax regime from April 2020.
This change could Annual General Meeting have a material impact on the Companys tax affairs and we are in The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, to be held on 6 June consultation with our tax advisors on this: in particular, on whether 2018 is set out on pages 69 to 70. the Company should apply for UK Real Estate Investment Trust status.
Directors Authority to Allot Shares The Board is fully committed to complying with applicable legislation Resolution 12 seeks an authority from shareholders to allow the and statutory guidelines, including the UKs Criminal Finance Act Directors to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2017, designed to prevent tax evasion in the jurisdictions in which 799,366, being equivalent to approximately 10 per cent of the the Company operates.
issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 16 April 2018.
Resolution 13 seeks an authority from shareholders to disapply preShare Structure emption rights in relation to the issue of shares for cash including As at 31 December 2017 there were 799,366,108 Ordinary Shares by way of a sale of treasury services as set out in the Listing Rules of 1 pence each in issue.
Subject to the Articles of Incorporation, made by the Financial Conduct Authority under Part VI of the all shares rank equally for dividends and distributions and carry Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended.
Resolution one vote each and there are no restrictions concerning the transfer 13 gives the Directors, for the period until the conclusion of the of Ordinary Shares in the Company.
No agreements between the Annual General Meeting in 2019 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 15 holder of Ordinary Shares regarding their transfer is known to the months from the passing of the resolution, the necessary authority Company and there is no agreement which the Company is party to either to allot securities or sell shares held in treasury, otherwise than that affects its control following a take-over bid.
30 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS GOVERNANCE REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT Report of the Directors continued to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis, up to an aggregate and to include provisions regarding the reporting requirements nominal amount of 799,366.
This is equivalent to approximately 10 applicable to the Company under FATCA and the Organisation for per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at Economic Co-operation and Developments Common Reporting 16 April 2018.
Standard CRS, and generally to update them to reflect current law and practice.
The Directors will only allot new shares pursuant to the authority granted by Resolutions 12 and 13, Guernsey law and the authority The key proposed changes are as follows: to allot shares contained in the articles of incorporation of the Issue of new shares deleting reference in the Articles to Company if they believe it is advantageous to the Companys sections 292 and 293 of the Law relating to the directors shareholders to do so and in no circumstances that would result in authority to issue shares as those provisions were repealed a dilution to the net asset value per share.
pursuant to the Amendments and including a general authority for the directors to issue shares.
Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares Disclosure of Beneficial Interest and AEOI Rules updating The Company did not buy back any shares during the year.
the disclosure provisions to reflect current law and practice, in The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of particular to reflect the requirements on the Company pursuant Ordinary Shares expires at the end of the Annual General Meeting to FATCA CRS.
and Resolution 14, as set out in the notice of the Annual General Uncertificated securities including amendments to reflect the Meeting, seeks renewal of such authority until the earlier of the Annual adoption of the Regulations and to remove the wording relating General Meeting in 2019 and 18 months from the passing of the to the CREST Guernsey requirements, which are no longer resolution.
Any buy back of Ordinary Shares will be made subject to applicable.
Guernsey law and within any guidelines established from time to time by the Board and the making and timing of any buy backs will be at Alteration of capital including amendments to remove the absolute discretion of the Board.
Purchases of Ordinary Shares reference to the powers of the Company to increase or reduce will only be made through the market for cash at prices below the its authorised share capital as these are now redundant.
prevailing net asset value of the Ordinary Shares as last calculated Proxies expanding the provisions in respect of proxies where the Directors believe such purchases will enhance shareholder to provide further clarity and bring them in line with current value.
The price paid will not be less than the nominal value of 1p per practice.
Such purchases will also only be made in accordance with Dividends and distributions including amendments to the rules of the UK Listing Authority which provide that the price to reflect the Boards power to declare both dividends and other be paid must not be more than the higher of i 5 per cent above the distributions: at present the relevant provisions only make average of the middle market quotations as derived from the Daily reference to dividends.
Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the Ordinary Shares Auditors expanding the provisions in respect of proxies for the five business days before the shares are purchased: and to provide further clarity and bring them in line with current ii the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current practice.
independent bid on the trading venue which the purchase is carried out.
Any shares purchased under this authority will be cancelled or Notice including amendments to reflect the changes to the held in treasury within the following limits: Law made pursuant to the Amendments, in particular to amend the deemed service period to two business days after the day no more than 10 per cent of the Companys issued shares will of posting in respect of shareholders in the UK, the Channel be held in treasury at any time: and Islands and the Isle of Man formerly three business days : and shares will only be re-issued out of treasury at a premium to the to three business days formerly seven business days after the net asset value.
day of posting, in the case of shareholders in other jurisdictions.
Amendments to the Articles of Incorporation A copy of the proposed New Articles, together with a comparison Resolution 15 proposes that new articles of incorporation the version showing how they differ from the existing Articles, are New Articles be adopted with immediate effect in substitution available for inspection during normal business hours Saturdays, for and to the exclusion of the Companys current articles of Sundays and public holiday excepted at the offices of BMO Global incorporation the Existing Articles.
These amendments Asset Management, Exchange House, Primrose Street, London have been proposed to reflect the recent changes that have been EC2A 2NY up to and including close of business on 6 June 2018 made to the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 the Law by the and at the venue of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 Amendment Ordinance, 2015 minutes prior to the start of the meeting and up to the close of the the Amendments, the adoption of the Uncertificated Securities meeting.
Guernsey Regulations, 2009 as amended the Regulations Report and Accounts 2017 | 31 F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Disclosure of Information to the Auditor The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Report of the Directors confirm that: so far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor  CI LLP has expressed their willingness to continue in office as the Companys auditor and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
Statement Regarding Annual Report and Consolidated Accounts Following a detailed review of the Annual Report and Consolidated Accounts by the Audit Committee, the Directors consider that taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
In reaching this conclusion, the Directors have assumed that the reader of the Annual Report and Consolidated Accounts would have a reasonable level of knowledge of the investment industry in general and the investment company sector in particular.
On behalf of the Board Chris Russell Director 16 April 2018 32 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
