F&C COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Company Summary Objective The investment objective of the Company is to provide ordinary shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the potential for capital and income growth from investing in a diversified UK commercial property portfolio.
The Company F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited the Company is an Authorised Closed-Ended Guernsey incorporated investment company.
Its shares have a premium listing on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and are traded on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange.
The Annual Report and Accounts of the Company also consolidates the results of its subsidiary undertakings, which collectively are referred to throughout this document as the Group, details of which are contained in note 1 b and note 19 to the accounts.
At 31 December 2017 Group total assets less current liabilities were 1,438 million and Group shareholders funds were 1,129 million.
Investment Policy The Companys investment policy is contained on page 11.
Management The Board has appointed F&C Investment Business Limited referred to throughout this document as FCIB or the Investment Managers as the Companys investment managers and BMO REP Asset Management plc referred to throughout this document as BMO REP or the Property Managers as the Companys property managers.
FCIB and BMO REP are both part of the F&C Asset Management plc group F&C and, collectively, are referred to in this document as the Managers.
Further details of the management arrangements are provided in note 2 to the accounts.
F&C is wholly owned by Bank of Montreal BMO and is part of the BMO Global Asset Management group of companies.
Capital Structure The Companys equity capital structure consists of ordinary shares Ordinary Shares.
Subject to the solvency test provided for in The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended, being satisfied, ordinary shareholders are entitled to all dividends declared by the Company and to all of the Companys assets after repayment of its borrowings and ordinary creditors.
Guernsey Regulatory Status The Company is an Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Scheme domiciled in Guernsey and was granted an authorisation declaration by the Guernsey Financial Services Commission in accordance with Section 8 of The Protection of Investors Bailiwick of Guernsey Law, 1987, as amended and rule 6.02 of the Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Schemes Rules 2008, on 9 June 2009.
How to Invest The Investment Managers operate a number of investment plans which facilitate investment in the shares of the Company.
Details are contained on page 75.
You may also invest through your usual stockbroker.
Alternative Performance Measures APM The Company uses a number of alternative performance measures in the discussion of its business performance and financial position.
Further information is provided on page 72.
Visit our website at: fccpt.
co. uk 4 | F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited
