INVESTMENT MANAGER REVIEW The prime characteristics of the TOTAL RETURN INDEX portfolio should stand it in good Market Review stead with both big box and 400 multi-let estate well placed to We expect relatively subdued economic growth continue providing sustainable in 2018 and then some further moderation in 350 economic momentum in 2019 as the impact income with growth potential.
of leaving the European Union becomes more pronounced.
Despite this relatively weak economic backdrop, UK real estate returns last year were Will Fulton 300 Fund Manager stronger than most analysts anticipated at the start of 2017.
The IPF Summer 2017 Consensus Forecast for 2017 was 6.7% whereas the actual outcome was a total return of 10.7% as measured by MSCI 250 RELATIVE WEIGHTING AGAINST BENCHMARK IPDs Balanced Monthly & Quarterly index, also significantly higher than the 3.6% total return % recorded in 2016.
Capital growth was relatively 200 strong over the year with values rising by 5.6% 12 whilst rents increased by 2.1%, driven by demand in the industrial sector.
For the first time, the overall 10 industrial yield ended the year stronger than 150 that for offices, with industrial yield compression 8 particularly prominent in the South East where land supply is limited and development costs high.
6 100 In the equity markets the FTSE All-Share and 4 the FTSE 100 total returns were 13.1% and 12.0% 2 respectively over the calendar year whilst listed real 50 estate FTSE All-Share REIT Index delivered a total 0 return of 12.2% over the year.
-2 0 -4 -6 Source: Thomson Reuters, MSCI IPD Monthly Index, Standard Life Investments -8 Key: UK Property shares UK Property UK Gilts UK Equities -10 UKCPT has above benchmark exposure to UK real estate investment volumes reached NET INVESTMENT IN THE UK REAL ESTATE MARKET 2017 the industrial sector which we believe will 64 billion in 2017, which was an improvement be the best performing sector in 2018 of almost 24% from the volume recorded in 2016.
It was also ahead of agents expectations at the start of the year.
UK institutional investors, along with quoted and Overseas Investors private property companies, occupiers and private investors were all net divestors over the year as illustrated in the graph opposite.
Other PORTFOLIO TOTAL RETURN Occupiers PORTFOLIO TOTAL RETURN Private Investors 19.7% 12.2% Private Prop Cos BENCHMARK TOTAL RETURN Quoted Prop Cos 10.7% UK Institutions -6000 -3000 0 3000 6000 9000 12000 15000 INDUSTRIALS TOTAL RETURN million The Companys portfolio total return of 19.7% exceeded that of Source: Property Data the benchmark 19.4% total return 22 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
co. uk 23 Dec 99 Jun 00 Dec 00 Jun 01 Dec 01 Jun 02 Dec 02 Jun 03 Dec 03 Jun 04 Dec 04 Jun 05 Dec 05 Jun 06 Dec 06 Jun 07 Dec 07 Jun 08 Dec 08 Jun 09 Dec 09 Jun 10 Dec 10 Jun 11 Dec 11 Jun 12 Dec 12 Jun 13 Dec 13 Jun 14 Dec 14 Jun 15 Dec 15 Jun 16 Dec 16 Jun 17 Dec 17 Industrial Over exposure Oces Under exposure Retail Under exposure Other Under exposure INVESTMENT MANAGER REVIEW Continued OUTSIDE OF THE OFFICE SECTOR UK INVESTORS ACCOUNTED FOR THE LARGEST SHARE OF TRANSACTIONS 2017 DATA Key: Overseas UK % Office Buoyant investment activity in Industrial Strong returns in the industrial sector Leisure Other Central London Source: Property Data, Standard Life Investments The industrial sector continued to demonstrate its The MSCI IPD Other sector continues to record 25 The office sector continued to lag the wider All strength, generating a total return of 19.4% in 2017 performance above the All Property average.
Both the City and the West End MSCI IPD benchmark.
Industrial values continued Other sector is a mixed category MSCI IPD use Overseas investors continued to be the dominant London office markets underperformed in 2017 to rise strongly delivering a capital gain of 13.9%.
to collect investments outside the three traditional net investor group in the UK real estate market and with muted rental growth in both.
Despite this Office, Retail and Industrial sectors: key contributors Rental growth at 5.4% significantly outperformed 20 the chart opposite illustrates the spread of their weakness in rental growth, Central London take up the market as a whole.
The differentials between are Residential around 650 assets, 3.2bn and investment by sector, which was focused on offices.
remained robust at close to its long-term average the South East and the Rest of the UK remained, Hotels around 215 assets, 3.8bn, but also a number Overseas investors were, in fact, the only net level.
Much of this take up, however, came from however, with the South East industrial region of Healthcare and Leisure assets: miscellaneous investor group over 2017.
15 flexible office occupiers such as WeWork as Brexit delivering an impressive capital return of 17.2% as asset classes such as land and parking are also uncertainty impacted occupier decision-making.
included but represent an even smaller sample.
opposed to 8.8% for the rest of the country.
Central London offices were again the main focus In fact, WeWork has been the most prolific taker of investors attention, commanding the largest of space across Central London since 2012, taking Take-up levels remained healthy in comparison to Within the MSCI IPD Balanced Monthly & share of investment see chart below.
Sentiment 10 more space than companies in any other business historic standards, albeit they represented a decline Quarterly index, the Other sector recorded a was fairly pessimistic towards the shopping centre sector.
Flexible workspace operators have accounted from record peaks in 2016.
We expect demand for 12.1% total return versus 10.7% for All Property.
sector, with investment in 2017 the lowest it has for four of the top ten biggest takers of space, Investors remain attracted to the diversifying multi-let space and the logistics sector to continue been for several years.
alongside the technology giants Google, Amazon, to be above historic levels due to the structural benefits of the sector and are continuing to benefit 5 Apple and Facebook, with WeWork now having the changes that continue to take place in the sector from reasonable rental growth in the segment at The industrial and alternative sectors saw a largest volumes of space commitments after the caused by e-commerce and automation.
However, 1.6% for 2017 and elevated capital growth at 7.0%, considerable rise during 2017, significantly ahead Government.
The market is watching with interest in the short term, the sector will not be immune due to strong demand for the longer leases the of previous years.
0 the appeal and flow of users both into, and out of, sectors generally provide.
Additionally, the sector to the economic fundamentals as the process of Industrial Oce Retail Leisure Other Alternatives this flexible short-lease space.
leaving the European Union evolves.
is benefiting from longer term demographic and structural factors such as the ageing demographic Investment in offices continued to be buoyant Industrial transaction volumes in 2017 hit a record in the healthcare sector and the higher propensity regardless of the caution in occupier markets.
high with investors attracted by the changing face to rent due to purchasing affordability constraints Investment in Central London was ahead of the benefiting the build to rent sector.
Within the of retail and the attractive returns generated in, VALUE OF TRANSACTIONS BY MARKET SEGMENT long-term average and well ahead of the 2016 level.
and expected by, the sector.
Caution, however, is leisure sector, the food and beverage segment Overseas investors, and particularly the Chinese, required when looking at new investment based continues to cause some concern with weaker continued to account for a significant proportion of on opportunities to capture rental and capital operators encountering problems due to elevated m this.
Investment in regional markets also remained value growth: genuine opportunities will become competition and higher cost pressures.
strong with a reasonable amount of overseas activity Key: rarer as the market cycle continues to mature and in centres such as Manchester and Edinburgh.
competition for good real estate intensifies.
15000 Volumes were ahead of the long-term average in 2013 2014 2015 Portfolio Performance regional markets but down on 2016 levels.
2016 2017 It is pleasing to report strong outperformance from the Company during the reporting period, with its Source: Property Data property portfolio generating a 12.2% total return versus 10.7% for its MSCI IPD benchmark.
10000 The table below sets out the components of these returns for the year to 31 December 2017 with all valuations undertaken by the Companys valuer, CBRE Ltd. As has been the case for some years, the Companys 5000 income profile provided a stable and reliable Total Return Income Return Capital Growth element of the portfolio return, 4.8% for the twelve month period, whilst capital growth accelerated to Fund % Benchmark % Fund % Benchmark % Fund % Benchmark % 7.1% against the benchmarks 5.6%.
The main drivers of this outperformance were a Industrial 19.7 19.4 4.6 4.9 14.5 13.9 strategic overweight position in the industrial 0 logistics distribution sector, strong asset performance from the Companys London West End office 11.2 8.4 5.1 4.1 5.8 4.1 Central London Rest of the Shopping Retail Unit Industrial Leisure Alternatives Mixed Office portfolio, including the profitable sale of a Soho Oces UK Oces Centres Warehouses Shops property, and a combination of resilience and growth Retail 7.8 6.8 4.8 5.3 2.8 1.4 from the Companys retail warehouse portfolio.
Review by Sector generally as a result of strong online sales rather than physical store sales whereas fashion retailer Looking forward to an anticipated period of low Debenhams reported a hit to its profit margins due 7.0 12.1 4.9 4.8 2.0 7.0 Leisure Other Retail Accelerating polarisation capital growth across the whole market where to extensive discounting in the face of weak sales.
income, income growth, and the manufacturing of Retail lagged in the year, recording a total return of Pressures in the sector remain significant with income become the dominant drivers of positive 6.8% as measured by MSCI IPDs Balanced Monthly TOTAL 12.2 10.7 4.8 4.8 7.1 5.6 consumers disposable income continuing to be returns, the more prime nature of the Companys & Quarterly index, with capital growth of 1.4% the under pressure, wage growth muted and consumer portfolio and its industrial logistics weighting weakest across sectors.
Rents remained largely confidence relatively weak.
Online buying Source: MSCI IPD, Standard Life Investments should stand it in good stead.
stable compared to office rental growth of 1.4% and continues to take market share from physical Multi-period capital growth and income return may not industrials 4.9%.
stores, although the pace of online growth has sum perfectly to total return due to the cross product moderated recently with the ONS reporting online that occurs as income is assumed to be reinvested on Recent indicators from retailers suggest 2017 sales currently account for 17% of all retailing.
a monthly basis and is subject to capital value change.
trading was a mixed bag for the year.
For example, Online food retailing remains a smaller proportion Next reported better than expected results, of this at 5.3% of food retailing.
24 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
co. uk 25 INVESTMENT MANAGER REVIEW Continued Industrial Having built exposure to industrial property over the past few years, it is pleasing to report that this sector was the Companys strongest performer during the year, with a total return of 19.7% against the benchmark return of 19.4%.
This occurred despite vacancies at some units in Ventura Park, Radlett, and at Magna Park, Lutterworth, as well as a short-term lease at Neasden, Wembley and emphasises the markets and our own belief in the strength of prime UK industrial distribution locations with their potential to deliver rental growth.
Investment demand is strong and good stock is scarce, particularly in London and the South East, where the market continues to reward the strong tenant demand and income growth characteristics of the sector.
During the year, the Company benefited from leasing activity on its multi-let industrial estates at Gatwick Airport, Dartford, and Ventura Park, Radlett, together with value improvement across the sector.
The Companys industrial portfolio is well located and split approximately 70:30 between the South East and rest of the country and 30:70 between single-let big box logistics assets and mainly London-focused multi-let industrial estates.
The prime characteristics of the portfolio should stand it in good stead with both big box and Joules, 81 85 George Street multi-let estate well placed to continue providing Dolphin Estate Edinburgh sustainable income with growth potential.
Sunbury on Thames At the end of the year the Company acquired Office Retail Investment Activity Purchases VOID RATE BY SECTOR its first hotel with the forward funding of a 265 bedroom four-star Maldron Hotel development in Boosted by the profitable sale of a low-yielding It is pleasing to report that, with the sale of the Sales In the first half of last year the Company acquired 20 Newcastle city centre for 32 million, expected to office investment at 13 Great Marlborough Street, Companys three shopping centres in Shrewsbury, Hartshead House, 2 Cutlers Gate, Sheffield, for At the start of the year the Company took advantage deliver a yield on cost of 5.4%.
The hotel has been London, the total return posted by the Companys asset management initiatives across the board 20.2 million reflecting a net initial yield of 5%.
of the strong investment market in Londons West pre-let for 35 years to the Dalata Hotel Group Plc office portfolio of 11.2% significantly out-performed during the year, and a portfolio of well located, This prominent 61,638 sq ft modern Grade A End and sold 13 Great Marlborough Street to a special with five yearly, annually compounded, RPI-linked 15 the benchmark of 8.4% over the period.
predominantly bulky goods, retail parks, the office is let to Capita Business Services Limited, purchaser for 30.5 million, reflecting a 3.3% net upward only rent reviews and construction is due to Companys retail portfolio outperformed the MSCI guaranteed by Capita plc, for a further 22 years from initial yield.
The property is let to Sony Interactive complete in early 2019.
The development includes The Company is intentionally both underweight IPD Retail benchmark, with a total return of 7.8% purchase on a lease with annual inflation-linked Entertainment whose lease was due to expire in an ancillary retail unit subject to a rent guarantee.
in Central London and South East offices and compared to 6.8%.
Notable asset management rent increases.
With easy access by car and a short September 2018 and so the disposal also served to 10 marginally overweight in the better yielding UK achievements included, at The Parade, Swindon, walk to the city centre the location may also benefit reduce short-term letting risk in the portfolio.
Collectively these transactions are a strong example regions.
Overall, the portfolio is underweight in the reletting of the Companys only BHS exposure, in the longer term from the proposed HS2 rail line of recycling capital from mature-cycle and expensive the office sector.
The City of London office market as well as securing a long lease to Metro Bank for a now earmarked to stop at Sheffield city centre.
In July the Company sold its smallest investment, markets into higher yielding or more resilient assets, is under a shadow following the EU Referendum new bank built at Metro Banks cost.
5 an industrial warehouse let to UK bed retailer, Dreams and in these cases on long-term leases, to deliver decision, with uncertainty cast on prospects for the Purchase activity continued in July, when the Ltd, at Loudwater, High Wycombe, for 4.7 million sustainable income.
74 million has been invested, financial services industry, and so its requirement Company achieved practical completion of the Leisure Other and in December sold another smaller asset, an including future funding commitments on the hotel, for office space, linked to risks and uncertainty pre-let development it committed to in February office in Aberdeen let to Ensco, for 6.5 million.
generating a blended index-linked yield on cost of 0 around cross-border trading.
The Company has 2017, comprising a 258,370 sq ft distribution 5.4% and increasing the Companys exposure to RPI Industrial Oce Retail Leisure Other Overall The Companys leisure assets in Kingston upon just one small office investment in the City, which warehouse in Burton upon Trent.
The total Having exchanged contracts in December 2017, the indexed and fixed uplifts to approximately 15%.
Thames, Swindon, and Glasgow, altogether accounts for only 2% of its portfolio and is let on consideration of 22.2 million reflected a yield Company completed its sale of Charles Darwin, representing 9% of the portfolio, delivered a generally modest rents.
The asset is strategically on capital of 5.8%.
Let to Palletforce Limited for Key: IPD benchmark Pride Hill and Riverside shopping centres in total return of 7.0%.
Performance was relatively located within a stones throw of the new Liverpool 15 years at 5.58 psf, or 1.4 million per annum, Shrewsbury to Shropshire Council after the year Source: IPD, Standard Life Investments lacklustre against the benchmark of 12.1% but asset Street Elizabeth Line Crossrail station, due to open the rent benefits from RPI inflation-linked rent end in January 2018 for approximately 51 million, management plans have been developed aiming to next year.
increases of between 1% and 3% per annum, see note 21 on page 82 for further details.
compounded and captured every five years.
It is situated on Centrum West, an industrial All sales were ahead of valuation and in line with park in a prime logistics location, equidistant the Companys strategy of reducing exposure to between Nottingham and Birmingham on the assets expected to underperform.
Shopping centres A38 dual carriageway and between the M1 and in particular, which the Company believes will M6 motorways.
From this location 87% of the come under further pressure in the polarising UK population can be accessed within a legally retail environment, now represent only 4.2% of the continuous 4.5 hour HGV drive time.
portfolio after the Shrewsbury sales, down from 7.5% at the year end.
26 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
co. uk 27 INVESTMENT MANAGER REVIEW Continued Asset Management Activity During the year the Company continued its drive to strengthen income streams, extend lease lengths and add value to the portfolio.
Over 8.4 million of annual income was secured after rent free periods and incentives through 30 new leases and 38 lease renewals rent reviews.
The Company is also pleased to report that, on average, 99.2% of rent was collected within 21 days of each quarterly payment date during 2017.
It was good to witness the majority of the open market rent reviews within the portfolio generating rental increases this year, especially within the South East industrial sector where rents grew significantly and ahead of Estimated Rental Eldon House Value ERV.
Rent review settlements within the City of London Companys strong performing industrial portfolio, totalling 646,858 p. a. were 10% ahead of the previous rents and 7% ahead of ERVs at the time 83 85 George Street, Edinburgh Regent Circus, Swindon of review.
Individual rent reviews took place at Within the Companys multi-use office and retail At this leisure asset a new lease was secured with Newtons Court, Dartford, Emerald Park, Bristol investment at 83 85 George Street, Edinburgh, Indian restaurant Tiffins at a rent of 131,700 p. a. and Dolphin Estate, Sunbury.
Clydesdale Banks new flagship branch opened for a 20 year term in-line with ERV.
The new lease during February.
In the same month a new 10 incorporates five yearly upwardly only rent reviews During the year, asset management improved the year lease was completed with global power to the open market rent.
weighted average unexpired lease term across the V159, Ventura Park generation company InterGen, securing a headline portfolio from 8.1 years at December 2016 to 8.5 Radlett rent of 30 psf p. a. following the comprehensive Newtons Court, Crossways Business Park, Dartford years at the end of the year.
refurbishment of its office floor.
Refurbishment A new five year lease of unit 1, on the estate was of the remaining 10,000 sq ft top floor completed The following activity is particularly noteworthy:- Gatwick Gate, Crawley completed with Fabb Projects Ltd at 215,250 p. a. in November and is available to let with minimal 16% above the ERV for the unit.
The estate is now Helping to improve the portfolios rental income, Grade A office competition currently on the market High Street, Exeter fully let.
three lettings completed at Gatwick Gate, Crawley, in Edinburgh.
The rent review from 24 May 2015 with Barclays to Airbase Interiors, Capital Scenery and USP Hannah Close, Neasden, Wembley Bank Plc was agreed at 450,000 p. a.
38% ahead of Designs: securing over 600,000 p. a.
These lettings Eldon House, City of London the previous rent passing.
In addition a new 21 year improved capital value and the unexpired lease A one year lease extension to March 2019 was Within the Companys only City of London length at the property.
lease was completed with H&M which, following completed with Marks & Spencer at the Companys property, a lease renewal with Adsati and a rent the completion of this property as its new flagship well located distribution facility in Neasden, review with MLM Building Control Ltd secured store, generates 740,000 p. a. in rental income: the Central Square, Newcastle Wembley, in line with ERV, securing an improved improved rents totalling 297,500 p. a.
6% ahead new lease incorporates five-yearly upwards only rent of 2,349,360 p. a. up 12% on the previous A new 10 year lease renewal was completed with of ERV.
New lettings also took place with Civilised rent reviews to the higher of open market rent or rent agreed in March 2016.
At the same time a Jacksons Commercial & Private Law, at Central 99.2% Investments Ltd and Enigma Entertainment Ltd RPI indexation.
dilapidations settlement agreement was reached Square, Newcastle.
The new rent of 64,389 p. a. securing a combined rent of 193,751 p. a. for the with the tenant and the new lease contracted out within 21 days reflects an uplift of 4% ahead of ERV and the lease next five years at rental levels ahead of ERV and 15 Great Marlborough Street, Soho, London of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1954 which allows also improved the weighted average unexpired 53% above the average rental tone at acquisition.
certainty on timing for reletting.
In the second half of the year the rent review with lease term at the building.
Costa Coffee settled at 190,000 p. a.
9% ahead of ERV and 46% up on the previous rent passing.
The Charles Darwin Centre, Shrewsbury At the Charles Darwin Centre, Shrewsbury, building XDock377, Magna Park, Lutterworth contractor McLaughlin and Harvey successfully 8.4m p. a.
Following the takeover of Argos by Sainsburys, completed the mall refurbishment and also the the former Argos logistics distribution unit on creation of the new anchor store for Primark, Over 8.4 million of annual income RENT COLLECTED Magna Park, Lutterworth, fell vacant in December.
With footfall levels was secured after rent free periods and 99.2% of rent was collected This anticipated vacancy moved the Companys increasing as a result, the letting and improvement incentives through 30 new leases and within 21 days of each quarterly void position at 31 December 2017 to 7.6% of ERV, of this investment proved helpful in the successful 38 lease renewals rent reviews.
payment date during 2017 which sits slightly above the MSCI IPD benchmark sale to the Borough Council after the year end.
The Parade, Swindon Ventura Park, Radlett Within this investment, an Agreement for Lease On the Companys largest South East industrial exchanged with Wilko, a tenant with good covenant holding at Ventura Park in Radlett, lease renewals strength, to take the Companys only former BHS took place with JMT Indisplay and UK Mail, store.
The new 15 year lease, let at ERV, will generate securing 627,769 p. a.
This rental income of 385,000 p. a. leaving only a small asset management activity helped to deliver one proportion of the former BHS store remaining to let of the largest positive contributions to portfolio in the upper floors.
Augmenting this, and following total return during the year driven by both capital the strategic purchase of two units at the entrance growth and ERV improvement.
to The Parade, the Company secured a new 25 year lease with Metro Bank Plc at a rent of 275,000 p. a. Metro Bank funded the construction of the new flagship unit, which opened in December 2017.
This profitable transaction, as well as providing good income, has greatly enhanced the appearance Marks & Spencer of this important street corner.
Neasden, Wembley 28 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
