STRATEGIC OVERVIEW Investment Strategy The purpose of the Strategic Overview is to provide shareholders with details of the Companys strategy The Companys investment strategy is set out in its and business model, as well as the principal risks investment objective and policy below.
It should and uncertainties faced by the Company.
be considered in conjunction with the Chairmans Statement and the Investment Managers Review which both give a more in depth review of performance and future strategy.
The Companys investment objective is to provide ordinary shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the potential for capital and income growth from investing in a diversified UK commercial property portfolio.
The Company focuses on identifying and acquiring institutional grade, income producing assets and looks to identify assets that benefit from wider infrastructure improvements delivered by others where possible.
The Company also recognises that the experience of tenants is paramount and hence the Investment Manager works closely with tenants to understand their needs through regular communication and visits to properties to which Emerald Park Board members also periodically attend.
Where Bristol required, and in consultation with tenants, the Company refurbishes and manages the owned assets to improve the tenants experience with maximum geographic exposures within the UK nor Management of Assets and Shareholder Value the aim being to generate greater tenant retention any maximum weighting limits in the principal and hence lower voids, higher rental values and property sectors.
No single property shall, however, stronger returns.
The Board has contractually delegated the exceed at the time of acquisition 15 per cent of the management of the investment portfolio and other gross assets of the Group.
Investment risks to the Group are managed by services to Standard Life Investments Corporate investing in a diversified portfolio of freehold Funds Limited.
The Group is currently permitted to invest up to and long leasehold UK commercial properties.
15 per cent of its total assets in indirect property funds The Group invests in income producing assets in The Company invests in properties which the including in other listed investment companies.
four commercial property sectors: industrial, office, Investment Manager believes will generate a The Group is permitted to invest cash, held by it for retail and leisure.
The Group has not set any combination of long-term growth in income and working capital purposes and awaiting investment, capital for shareholders.
Investment decisions are in cash deposits, gilts and money market funds.
based on analysis of, amongst other things, prospects for future capital growth, sector and geographic BORROWING & INVESTMENT At an EGM of the Company on 28 April 2011 the prospects, tenant covenant strength, lease length shareholders of the Company approved a revised and initial yield.
In the year to 31 December 2017, gearing policy of the Group amended to read as 25% the Company generated operating cash flows of follows: Gearing, calculated as borrowings as Gross 42.4m 2016: 49.4m.
a percentage of the Groups gross assets, may Gearing not exceed 65 per cent.
The Board intends that Investment risks are spread through investing in a Limit borrowings of the Group at the time of draw down range of geographical areas and sectors, and through will not exceed 25 per cent of the Total Assets of the letting properties to low risk tenants.
The Board receives recommendations on properties held as at 31 December 2017 is contained gearing levels from the Investment Manager and on page 33 and further analysis can be found in the is responsible for setting the gearing range within 17.2% Investment Manager Review.
At each Board meeting, which the Investment Manager may operate.
Gross the Board receives a detailed portfolio, financial, risk Gearing and shareholder presentation from the Investment The Groups performance in meeting its objective Manager together with a comprehensive analysis is measured against key performance indicators as of the performance of the portfolio during the set out on page 14.
A review of the Groups returns reporting period.
during the year, the position of the Group at the end of the year, and the outlook for the coming year The Board and the Investment Manager recognise is contained in the Chairmans Statement and the the importance of managing the premium discount Investment Manager Review.
of share price to net asset value in enhancing shareholder value.
One aspect of this involves Board appropriate communication to gauge investor BORROWINGS sentiment.
The Investment Manager meets with Gross borrowings of the Group current and potential new shareholders, and with The Board of Directors is responsible for the stockbroking analysts who cover the investment will not exceed 25% of the total overall stewardship of the Company, including company sector, on a regular basis.
In addition, investment and dividend policies, corporate assets at the time of draw down communication of quarterly portfolio information strategy, corporate governance, and risk is provided through the Companys website, management.
Biographical details of the Directors, CURRENT GEARING www.
co. uk, and the Company also utilises all of whom are non-executive, can be found on a public relations agency to enhance its profile Gross gearing of the Group pages 3637 and indicate their range of property, among investors.
investment, commercial, professional, financial is 17.2%.
15 Great Marlborough Street and governance experience.
The Company has no London, W1 executive Directors or employees.
12 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
co. uk 13 STRATEGIC OVERVIEW Continued The Board uses a number of performance Borrowings measures to assess the Companys success in meeting its objectives.
The key performance indicators As at 31 December 2017 the Group had total borrowing alternative performance measures are as follows: facilities drawn of 250 million, representing a gross gearing level of 17.2% net gearing of 12.8% Net asset value and share price total of the year end total assets with a blended fixed return against the IPD benchmark and interest rate of 2.89% per annum.
Premium Discount of share price to Key Performance Indicators net asset value.
Alternative Performance Measures Dividend per share and dividend yield.
The Companys benchmark is the MSCI Investment Ongoing charges.
Property Databank IPD Balanced Monthly and Quarterly Index.
This benchmark incorporates all Given the structure of the Company and the monthly and quarterly valued property funds and Companys knowledge of its underlying shareholder the Board believes this is the most appropriate base, it is believed the above measures are the measure to compare against the performance of most appropriate for shareholders to determine a quarterly valued property investment company the performance of the Company.
These indicators with a balanced portfolio.
for the year ended 31 December 2017 are set out on page 6.
In addition the Board considers specific property KPIs such as void rates, rent collection levels and weighted average lease length on a regular basis.
Principal Risks and Risk Uncertainties The Board has established a Risk Committee Kew Retail Park to ensure that proper consideration of risk is Richmond undertaken in all aspects of the Companys business on a regular basis.
The Risk Committee meets quarterly, comprises all members of the Board and is chaired by John Robertson from 1 April 2018 Margaret Littlejohns.
The duties of the Risk Committee include the consideration of matters relating to the risk profile of the Company, including an assessment of risk appetite, risk tolerance and risk strategy, and the regular review of principal risks, seeking assurance that these risks are appropriately rated and ensuring that appropriate risk mitigation is in place.
The Committee also reviews emerging risks.
The Board confirms that, through the operation of the Risk Committee, it frequently carries out a Ensco, Aberdeen Gateway Darwin Shopping Centre robust assessment of the principal risks facing the Aberdeen Shrewsbury 81 85 George Street Company.
These risks and how they are mitigated Edinburgh are set out opposite.
The Board has also identified a number of specific The discount control policy of the Company risks that are reviewed at each quarterly Risk provides that if the market price of the ordinary The Companys assets consist of direct investments Committee Meeting.
These are as follows: shares is more than 5 per cent below the published in UK commercial property.
Its principal risks net asset value as last calculated, adjusted are therefore related to the commercial property Company objectives and performance downwards for the amount of any dividend declared market in general, but also to the particular by the Company upon the shares going ex-dividend circumstances of the properties in which it is The Companys objectives and or performance for a continuous period of 90 dealing days or more, invested and their tenants.
The Manager seeks to become unattractive to investors which may lead to following the second anniversary of the Companys mitigate these risks, including health and safety a persistent discount and a continuation vote which most recent continuation vote in relation to the risks which are covered in more detail on page 18, may threaten the future solvency and liquidity of discount control policy, the Board will convene through continual review of the portfolio utilising the Group.
an EGM to consider an ordinary resolution for the research produced by the Managers in-house continuation of the Company.
This situation arose research team, detailed reports on the performance This risk is mitigated through regular performance in the 90 day period up to 11 October 2016 and, of the portfolio, setting of annual asset plans for reviews of the Companys portfolio, contact with as a result, the Board convened an EGM which each asset in the portfolio and also through asset shareholders, a regular review of share price was held on 9 November 2016 and, at which, the management initiatives.
All of the properties in the performance and the level of discount at which continuation of the Company was approved with portfolio are insured, providing protection against the shares trade and regular meetings with the 76% of shareholders voting and, of those who voted, risks to the properties and also protection in case of Companys broker to discuss these points and 99% voting for the continuation of the Company.
injury to third parties in relation to the properties.
address any issues that arise.
X Dock 377 Magna Park, Lutterworth 14 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
co. uk 15 STRATEGIC OVERVIEW Continued The proposals in the 2017 UK Budget to charge O ther risks faced by the Company include the following: capital gains tax on offshore holders of UK commercial property with effect from April 2019 Economic inflation or deflation, economic and the decision to bring non-resident landlords recessions and movements in interest rates could into the corporation tax regime in 2020 linked to affect property valuations and its bank borrowings.
BEPS both would result in the Company paying Strategic incorrect strategy, including sector significant additional tax after utilisation of any and property allocation and use of gearing, could losses available.
The proposals increase taxation lead to poor returns for shareholders.
risk in comparison to previous years.
The Board is intending to mitigate the impact of these Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could changes by converting to a REIT, subject to lead to suspension of the Companys London Stock approval from shareholders, as detailed in the Exchange Listing, financial penalties or a qualified Chairmans statement.
Management and control changes that cause Macroeconomic environment the management and control of the Group to be Uncertainty or change in the macroeconomic exercised in the United Kingdom could lead to environment results in property becoming an the Group becoming liable to United Kingdom undesirable asset class, causing a decline in taxation on income and capital gains.
Financial inadequate controls by the Investment Manager or third party service providers could This risk is managed through regular reporting lead to misappropriation of assets.
Inappropriate from, and discussion with, the Manager and other accounting policies or failure to comply with advisors.
Macroeconomic conditions form part accounting standards could lead to misreporting of the decision making process for purchases or breaches of regulations.
and sales of properties and for sector allocation decisions.
Operational failure of the Investment Managers accounting systems or disruption to the Investment Macroeconomic uncertainty continued in 2017, Managers business, or that of third party service particularly in relation to the UKs decision to leave providers, could lead to an inability to provide the EU.
The Board continues to monitor closely the accurate reporting and monitoring, leading to a effect of this on property values and also the impact loss of shareholders confidence.
An additional of any resultant regulatory changes that may operation risk is failure by the Investment Manager, impact the Company.
or other third party service provider, to implement appropriate policies and procedures to manage information and cyber security risk, leading to financial loss and business disruption for the Company.
Centrum 260 Burton upon Trent Dividend cover Company indebtedness Taxation The recent merger of Standard Life plc and Aberdeen Asset Management PLC creates a risk for Dividend cover falls to a level whereby the Company The Company is unable to service or repay its The tax structure of the Group is not optimised the Company due to the potential for changes in the becomes unattractive to investors, for example due debts, threatening the future solvency and liquidity or is affected by legislative change, impacting way the Investment Manager provides its services to tenant failure or inability to let properties.
The Board is keeping under close review any potential implications for the Company This risk is mitigated through regular review of This risk is mitigated by two factors.
First of all The Group has historically been structured in a arising from the merger and the integration process.
forecast dividend and regular review of tenant mix, the Investment Policy of the Company limits tax efficient way which results in rental income risk and profile.
Due diligence work on potential gearing to 25 per cent of total assets at the time the Group generates being offset by expenses and In addition the recent announcement relating tenants is undertaken before entering into new lease of draw down.
This low gearing limit means internal loan interest.
The terms on the internal to the future sale of Standard Life Aberdeens agreements and tenants are kept under constant it is expected that, barring any unforeseen loan notes, namely interest rates and loan to value insurance business to Phoenix and Standard Life review through regular contact and various reports circumstances, the Group will have adequate assets ratios, are crucial in preserving the tax efficiency Aberdeens proposed strategic stake in Phoenix both from managing agents and from the Managers to service and repay the debt if required.
These loan notes were refinanced in creates a potential risk given Standard Life own reporting processes.
Contingency plans are put the underlying assets themselves are mainly September 2016 via a rigorous process to ensure Aberdeens role as the Companys Investment in place at units that have tenants that are believed invested in a diversified, prime UK commercial they continue to represent commercially available Manager and Phoenixs large shareholding in the to be in financial trouble.
property portfolio underpinned by a strong terms.
The result of this loan note refinancing is that Company.
The Board is liaising with its advisers on tenant base.
This means that, even in a significant the Group is expected to generate future taxable the implications of this transaction.
The introduction of new base erosion and profit economic downturn, the Board is confident that the profits.
As the Group has around 37 million of shifting regulation BEPS in 2020 has been assets will still be of sufficient value and generate unutilised tax losses as at 31 December 2017 and The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these risks recognised by the Board as a potential future risk to sufficient income to meet future liabilities.
it is anticipated these losses will now be utilised, through the operation of the Risk Committee, policy dividend cover.
This risk is covered in more detail the Group has recognised a net deferred tax asset setting and enforcement of contractual obligations.
It in the taxation section opposite.
in the financial statements of 3.3 million 2016: also regularly monitors the investment environment 6.5 million.
This asset will be written off over the and the management of the Companys property time period in which the losses are utilised or are portfolio and levels of gearing, and applies the no longer able to be offset against future profits for principles detailed in the UK Corporate Governance example as a result of the Group entering the UK Code.
Details of the Companys internal controls REIT regime.
are described in more detail in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 4446.
Craven House Soho, London 16 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
co. uk 17 STRATEGIC OVERVIEW Continued Based on the results of the analysis outlined above, Alongside these environmental principles the Viability Statement the Board has a reasonable expectation, assuming Company has a health and safety policy which the continuation vote in 2020 is passed, that the demonstrates commitment to providing safe and The Board considers viability as part of its ongoing Company will be able to continue in operation secure buildings that promote a healthy working programme of monitoring risk.
The Board considers and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the five customer experience that supports a healthy five years to be a reasonable time horizon over year period of its assessment, including the debt lifestyle.
The Company, through the Investment which to review the continuing viability of the refinancing in 2020.
Manager, manages and controls health and safety Company.
The Board also considers viability over risks systematically as any other critical business the longer term, in particular to key points outside activity using technologically advanced systems Sustainable Real Estate Investment Policy this time frame, such as the due dates for the and environmentally protective materials and repayment of long-term debt.
The aim is to achieve a health and The Investment Manager acquires, develops and safety performance the Company can be proud The Board has considered the nature of the manages properties on behalf of the Company.
It of and allow the Company to earn the confidence Companys assets and liabilities and associated cash is recognised that these activities have both direct and trust of tenants, customers, employees, flows.
The Board has determined that five years is and indirect environmental and social impacts.
shareholders and society at large.
the maximum timescale over which the performance The Board has adopted the Investment Managers of the Company can be forecast with a material own Sustainable Real Estate Investments Policy Bribery & Ethical Policy degree of accuracy and so is an appropriate period and associated Environmental Management over which to consider the Companys viability.
Systems and is committed to environmental management in all phases of an assets cycle It is the Companys Policy to prohibit and expressly The Board has also carried out a robust assessment of from acquisition through demolition, redevelopment forbid the offering, giving or receiving of a bribe in the principal risks faced by the Company, as detailed and operational management to disposal.
This includes those instances on pages 1417, including periodic continuation is on energy efficiency, greenhouse gas emissions, where it may be perceived that a payment, given or votes.
The main risks which the Board consider resource management and occupier satisfaction.
The Company has adopted will affect the business model, future performance, To facilitate this, the Manager works in partnership this Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy to ensure solvency, and liquidity are ongoing discounts leading with contractors, suppliers, tenants and consultants robust compliance with The UK Bribery Act 2010. to continuation votes, tenant failure leading to a fall to minimise those impacts, seeking continuous The Company has made relevant enquiries of its in dividend cover, company indebtedness, taxation improvements in environmental performance and Investment Manager and has received assurances that and macroeconomic uncertainty.
The Board takes conducting regular reviews.
appropriate anti-bribery and corruption policies have any potential risks to the ongoing success of the been formulated and communicated to its employees.
Company, and its ability to perform, very seriously UK Commercial Property Trust was awarded a In addition the Board has adopted an ethical policy and works hard to ensure that risks are consistent Green Star ranking from the Global Real Estate which highlights the need for ethical considerations with the Companys risk appetite at all times.
Sustainability Benchmark 2017 and improved to be considered in the acquisition and management its score by 9% compared with 2016.
A Green Star of both new and existing properties.
is awarded to entities that perform well in both In assessing the Companys viability, the Board categories of the GRESB assessment: Management Approval of Strategic Report has carried out thorough reviews of the following: & Policies and Implementation & Measurement.
Our approach to monitoring and improving the Detailed NAV, cash resources and income The Strategic Report of the Company comprises the sustainability performance of the assets held forecasts, prepared by the Companys Investment following on pages 3 to 33: Financial and Property by the Company has been highly successful.
Manager, for a five year period under both normal Highlights, Performance Summary, Chairmans The greenhouse gas emissions intensity of the and stressed conditions: Statement, Strategic Overview, Investment like-for-like portfolio reduced by 14% year-onManager Review and Portfolio Information.
Water consumption reduced by 10% yearThe Companys ability to pay its operational on-year and 99% of waste generated was diverted expenses, bank interest, tax and dividends over The Strategic Report was approved by the Board on from landfill.
For the first time this year we have a five year period: 26 April 2018. adopted the 2017 EPRA Sustainability Best Practice Future debt repayment dates and debt Recommendations Guidelines BPRs to inform the Andrew Wilson Ken McCullagh covenants, in particular those in relation to scope of indicators we report against.
Full details Director Director LTV and interest cover: can be found in pages 8691.
Demand for the Companys shares and levels of premium or discount at which the shares trade to NAV: and The valuation and liquidity of the Companys property portfolio, the Investment Managers portfolio strategy for the future and the market outlook.
Cineworld Glasgow 18 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
co. uk 19 The Company aims to deliver an attractive level of income, togeth er with the potential growth, through for capital and income fied UK commercial investment in a diversi strategy to achieve property portfolio.
Our ent, divestment and this combines investm luding disciplined asset management, inc stock where accretive.
investment in existing 20 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
