BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Directors, all of whom are non-executive AND MANAGEMENT TEAM MANAGEMENT TEAM and are independent of the Investment 4 Andrew Wilson is a resident of the UK.
He was Manager, are responsible for the determination formerly of Richard Ellis, Royal Insurance as Chief Surveyor and he joined Rugby Securities as of the investment policy of the Group and its a director in 1987.
He was a founder director of Rugby Estates plc in 1990 and Chief Executive overall supervision.
Officer through its official listing, move to the Alternative Investment Market and subsequent fide-listing and sale.
He is also a non-executive Chairman of a London based Family Office and of a major West End office agency.
He was previously BOARD OF DIRECTORS a non-executive Director of a Building Society.
He is a Chartered Surveyor and was until his appointment as Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Property Valuation Committee.
4 8 5 Michael Ayre is a resident of Guernsey.
He is 8 Will Fulton graduated from the University currently a consultant to the Guernsey taxation of Aberdeen in 1987 with a degree in Land and private client business of Intertrust Group, Economy when he joined Standard Life, Intertrust Reads Private Clients Limited.
becoming a member of the Royal Institution Mr Ayre is also currently a Director of ABN Amro of Chartered Surveyors in 1990.
Mr Ayre is a fellow of his 30 year career he has held a variety of the Chartered Association of Certified Accountants commercial real estate positions gaining and is also a member of the Chartered Institute of multi-disciplinary experience spanning Taxation.
Mr Ayre was appointed to the Board in investment, valuation, asset management, February 2016. debt facility management, development and investor relations both in the UK and across continental Europe.
Prior to managing 1 UKCPT, he oversaw a team managing the 2.3 billion Standard Life Heritage With 5 Profits Real Estate Fund.
6 Sandra Platts is a resident of Guernsey and is a non-executive director of Investec Bank C. I. Ltd and Starwood European Finance Partners Ltd. Mrs Platts was Managing Director of Kleinwort Benson in Guernsey and Chief Operating Officer for Kleinwort Benson Private Banking Group UK and Channel Islands.
She also held directorships of the Kleinwort Benson Trust Company and Operating Boards, retiring from Kleinwort Benson boards in 2010.
Mrs Platts holds a Masters in Business Administration and The Certificate in Company Direction from the Institute of Directors.
Mrs Platts was appointed to the Board in December 2013.
2 3 6 6 9 9 Graeme McDonald graduated from the 1 Ken McCullagh is a resident of Ireland.
Since 2 Robert Fowlds is a resident of the UK.
Mr Fowlds 3 Margaret Littlejohns is a resident of the UK.
7 John Robertson is a resident of the UK.
University of Strathclyde in 1995 with a BA 2000 he has been Chief Executive Officer of LNC is a Charted Surveyor and has worked in the listed Ms Littlejohns has 18 years experience with Mr Robertson has over 35 years experience in degree in Accountancy and joined Hardie Property Group, a private real estate investment real estate sector for over 30 years.
He worked Citigroup in investment and commercial banking, investment management in a variety of roles, and Caldwell Chartered Accountants in 1996 company which held and managed 500 million as a Real Estate equity analyst for a number of with specific expertise in risk management was most recently Director Funds and Corporate where he qualified as a Chartered Accountant of assets.
Previously he worked as a Director and major investment banks including Merrill Lynch both market and credit risk.
Between 2004 and G6 6 overnance at Ignis Investment Services Limited.
In 2001 Mr McDonald joined Partner of Corporate Finance for Farrell Grant and Kleinwort Benson before joining JP Morgan 2006, following an MBA at Imperial College, Prior to his retirement in 2012, he was a director Glasgow Investment Managers GIM Sparks, Chartered Accountants and was also Cazenove in 2006 where he subsequently became she co-founded two start-up ventures providing of Ignis International Funds plc, Ignis Alternative as chief accountant focusing on the finance, a Financial Controller of Gunne Estate Agents Managing Director and Head of Real Estate self storage facilities in the Midlands and acted Funds plc, Ignis Liquidity Fund plc, Ignis Strategic administration and company secretarial work now CBRE in Dublin.
He is a Fellow of the Investment Banking.
In his time at JP Morgan as Finance Director until the businesses were Solutions Funds plc and Ignis Global Funds SICAV.
Following GIMs Institute of Chartered Accountants of Ireland.
Cazenove he was involved in over 50 corporate successfully sold to a regional self storage chain He is a Fellow of the Chartered Association of takeover by Aberdeen Asset Managers in 2007, Mr McCullagh was appointed to the Board in finance transactions and doubled the size of the in 2016.
She is also a Non-Executive Director of Certified Accountants.
Mr Robertson has been a Mr McDonald transferred to the investment February 2013.
JP Morgan Cazenove UK listed real estate franchise JPMorgan Mid Cap Investment Trust plc and Director of the Company since launch in September trust secretarial team within Aberdeen working before retiring in 2015.
Since retirement, Mr Fowlds Foresight VCT plc as well as being Chairman of 2006.
Mr Robertson retired from the Board on on both investment trusts and Venture Capital has been engaged on a number of consultancy roles Henderson High Income Trust plc.
In 2009 Mr McDonald joined Scottish to leading real estate organisations.
He also sat on was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2018.
Widows Investment Partnership where he was the EPRA Board until 2012.
Mr Fowlds was appointed a finance project manager before joining Ignis to the Board on 1 April 2018 and was also appointed in January 2011 as a Fund Accounting Manager to the Supervisory Board of Klepierre S. A. listed on to provide a dedicated fund accounting and Euronext with effect from 24 April 2018. company secretarial service to the closed end clients within Ignis Asset Management.
Mr McDonald transferred over to Standard Life Investments in October 2014.
36 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
