REPORT OF DIRECTORS Directors The Directors who held office during the period and their interests in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2017 all of which are beneficial are shown in the table opposite.
Date of Appointment Shares as at Shares as at 31 December 2017 31 December 2016 Andrew Wilson September 2006 75,000 75,000 John Robertson retired 31 March 2018 September 2006 10,000 10,000 Jan 18 Ken McCullagh February 2013 40,000 40,000 Margaret Littlejohns appointed as a Director Sandra Platts December 2013 Apr 18 Michael Ayre February 2016 42,000 Robert Fowlds appointed as a Director The Directors present the report and accounts of UK On 1 February 2018 the Company declared a Commercial Property Trust Limited, the Company fourth Interim dividend of 0.92 pence per ordinary There have been no changes in the above interests Accordingly, Mr M Ayre, Mr K McCullagh, for the year ended 31 December 2017. share with an ex-dividend date of 8 February 2018, between 31 December 2017 and 31 March 2018.
Mrs S Platts, and Mr A Wilson will retire and offer which was paid on 28 February 2018. themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Ms Littlejohns Results and Dividends Ms Margaret Littlejohns was appointed as a and Mr Fowlds, having been appointed since the last Principal Activity and Status Director on 1 January 2018 and Mr Robert Fowlds AGM, will offer themselves for election.
was appointed as a Director on 1 April 2018.
The Group generated an IFRS profit of 131.6 Mr John Robertson retired on 31 March 2018.
In February 2017, the Board engaged Boardroom The Company is a Guernsey company and million in the year equating to an earnings per Review Ltd to carry out an external evaluation of during the year carried on business as a property share of 10.12p.
The Company had cash at the The Directors are also Directors of UK Commercial the performance of the Board, the Committees and investment company.
The principal activity and year-end of 72.4 million.
The Group paid out Property Holdings Limited, UK Commercial Property the individual Directors.
This sought to identify status of the Companys subsidiaries is set out in dividends totalling 47.8 million in the year.
GP Limited, UK Commercial Property Nominee whether the Board demonstrates sufficient collective note 10 on page 73. limited, UK Commercial Property Estates Holdings skill and expertise, independence and knowledge The Company has paid interim dividends in the Limited, UK Commercial Property Estates Limited of the Company and that each Director exhibits year ended 31 December 2017 as follows: Listing Requirements and UK Commercial Property Finance Holdings the commitment required for the Company to Limited which are all wholly owned subsidiary achieve its objective.
The evaluation concluded that Throughout the period the Company complied undertakings.
In addition the Group wholly owns the performance of the Board and the individual Payment date Rate and intends to continue to comply with the Brixton Radlett Property Limited, a UK Limited Directors continues to be effective with each Director per share p conditions applicable to property investment Company, the Directors of which were Mr Andrew making a positive contribution to the performance companies set out in the Listing Rules.
Wilson and Mr John Robertson up to 31 March 2018 of the Company.
The action points arising from the Fourth interim February 2017 0.92 and Mr Andrew Wilson, Ms Margaret Littlejohns and review have been addressed and, where appropriate, for prior period Mr Robert Fowlds from 1 April 2018. revised policies have been adopted.
Therefore, the Share Capital re-election and election of all the Directors who are First interim May 2017 0.92 The Company maintains an appropriate level being put forward is recommended to shareholders The issued ordinary share capital at 31 December of insurance in respect of Directors & Officers at the 2018 AGM.
2017 consisted of 1,299,412,465 ordinary shares liabilities in relation to work undertaken on behalf Second interim August 2017 0.92 of 25p each.
At 26 April 2018 these numbers were of the Company and all its subsidiaries.
In addition, Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM unchanged.
Each ordinary share of the Company individual Directors may, at the expense of the carries one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Company, seek independent professional advice on Third interim November 2017 0.92 Save for the provision of the articles of association, Standard Life Investments Corporate Funds any matter that concerns them in the furtherance there are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary Limited is appointed as the Companys AIFM.
TOTAL 3.68 shares in the Company other than certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by law Depositary As recommended by the AIC Code of Corporate for example, insider trading law.
Governance and the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companys policy is for all Directors to retire In accordance with the requirements of AIFMD, and offer themselves for re-election at the Annual the Board appointed Citibank International Limited General Meeting AGM immediately following as Depositary.
their appointment and annually thereafter.
38 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
co. uk 39 REPORT OF DIRECTORS Continued SHARE CAPITAL AT 31 DECEMBER 2017 authority only if they believe it is advantageous to the Directors will convene an Extraordinary General the Companys shareholders to do so and the issue Meeting EGM to be held within three months to Phoenix Life Limited PLL 10% Investec Wealth Limited price of new shares will be at a premium to the consider an ordinary resolution for the continuation latest published net asset value per share.
If this continuation resolution is Number of ordinary shares held Number of ordinary shares held % Held not passed, the Directors will convene a further Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares extraordinary general meeting to be held within six 494,897,693 138,039,992 10.62 months of the first extraordinary meeting to consider The current authority of the Board granted to it by the winding up of the Company or a reconstruction shareholders at the 2017 AGM to buy back shares in % Held of the Company which offers all Shareholders the the Company expires at the end of AGM to be held in DISAPPLICATION OF opportunity to realise their investment.
The Board intends to renew such authority to PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS continuation resolution is passed, this discount buy back shares up to 14.99 per cent of the number Alliance Trust Savings Limited policy, save in respect of share buy backs, would not of ordinary shares in issue.
This special resolution apply for a period of two years thereafter.
resolution 12, if approved, will enable the Company Number of ordinary shares held % Held to buy back up to 194,781,928 shares based on the The next continuation vote required by the Companys 67,021,204 5.16 current number of shares in issue excluding any Articles of Association is set for 2020 and every seven treasury shares.
Any buy back of ordinary shares Phoenix Life Assurance Limited PLAL years thereafter.
will be made subject to Guernsey law and within Number of ordinary shares held guidelines established from time to time by the Board, Auditors which will take into account the income and cash 14.99% Nestle Capital Management Limited 127,067,306 flow requirements of the Company, and the making Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to and timing of any buy backs will be at the absolute continue in office as the Companys auditor and a % Held Number of ordinary shares held % Held discretion of the Board.
resolution proposing their re-appointment will be put to the AGM.
56,137,385 4.32 9.78 Purchases of ordinary shares will only be made through the market for cash at prices below the So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no prevailing published net asset value of an ordinary relevant audit information of which the Companys SHARE BUY-BACK AUTHORITY share as last calculated, adjusted downwards for the Auditor is unaware, and each has taken all the steps amount of any dividend declared by the Company he she ought to have taken as a Director to make upon the shares going ex-dividend, where the themself aware of any relevant audit information Directors believe such purchases will enhance and to establish that the Companys Auditor is The Takeover Code has been given to the viability of the Company as Substantial Interests in Share Capital Going Concern shareholder value.
Such purchases will also only be aware of that information.
Therefore, the Board continues The Directors are aware that following the made in accordance with the rules of the UK Listing to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in completion of the proposed sale of Standard Life At 31 December 2017 the above entities had a holding The Companys business activities, together with Authority which provide that the price to be paid preparing the annual financial statements.
Recommendations Aberdeens insurance business to Phoenix, currently of 3% or more of the Companys share capital.
the factors likely to affect its future development, must not be more than the higher of i five per cent.
scheduled for quarter three 2018, depending on The Directors believe that the resolutions to be performance and financial position are set out in above the average of the middle market quotations the arrangements agreed between Standard Life Non-Mainstream Pooled investments proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the The Phoenix shareholding is held in the above two the Strategic Overview on pages 1219.
In addition, for the ordinary shares for the five business days Aberdeen and Phoenix, the Investment Manager may best interests of the Company and its shareholders as legal entities via a number of With Profit Funds note 17 to the financial statements includes the before the purchase is made and ii the higher of be part of the Phoenix concert party.
Under Rule 37 a whole, and recommend that shareholders vote in which are closed to new investment and hence Companys objectives, policies and processes for the last independent trade and the highest current The Company currently conducts its affairs so of the Takeover Code, when a company purchases its favour of the resolutions, as the Directors intend to are in run-off over the medium to long term.
The managing its capital: its financial risk management independent bid on the London Stock Exchange.
that the shares issued by the Company can be own shares, any resulting increase in the percentage do in respect of all their own beneficial shareholdings.
holding is managed on an arms-length basis and objectives: details of its financial instruments: The minimum price exclusive of expenses that may recommended by IFAs to ordinary retail investors of shares carrying voting rights in which a person or by a separate team within Aberdeen Standard and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
in accordance with the FCAs rules in relation to group of persons acting in concert is interested will Statement Regarding the Annual Report Investments to the team who manage the Company non-mainstream investment products and intends be treated as an acquisition for the purposes of Rule and Accounts led by Will Fulton.
There is also a shareholder At both the Company and Group levels The Company may retain any shares bought back to continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
A shareholder who is neither a Director nor acting agreement between the Company and PLL and comprehensive going concern assessments have as treasury shares for future re-issue, or transfer, The shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions in concert with a Director will not normally incur PLAL which provides that PLL and PLAL and their been performed.
The Board has followed the or may cancel any such shares.
During the period which apply to non-mainstream investment products Following a detailed review of the Annual Report an obligation to make an offer under Rule 9 of the associates will not take any action which would be Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on when the Company holds shares as treasury shares, because the Company would qualify as an investment and Accounts by the Audit Committee and by Takeover Code.
Under Rule 37, however, the holding detrimental to the general body of shareholders.
Risk Management, Internal Control and Related the rights and obligations in respect of those shares trust if the Company were based in the UK.
any Directors who are not members of the Audit of an Investment Manager of a company, together Financial and Business Reporting 2014 when may not be exercised or enforced by or against the Committee, full details of which can be found in with the holdings of its concert parties, will be treated The Board is monitoring the position in regard to performing their going concern assessments and Company.
The maximum number of shares that Annual General Meeting the Audit Committee Report, the Board consider in the same way as a Director.
the recently announced, proposed sale of Standard also considered the recommendations on Risk can be held as treasury shares by the Company is that when taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced and Life Aberdeens insurance business to Phoenix and Management and Control in the UK Corporate 10 per cent of the aggregate nominal value of all understandable and provides the transparency Accordingly, if the Company were to utilise its Among the resolutions being put at the Annual Standard Life Aberdeens proposed shareholding Governance Code April 2016. issued ordinary shares.
Ordinary shares held as necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys proposed share buy back authority and the Phoenix General Meeting of the Company to be held on 20 of 19.99% in Phoenix to form a strategic alliance treasury shares will only be re-issued, or transferred position, performance, business model and strategy.
concert partys aggregate interest in the Ordinary between the pair.
The Board is assessing the The assessments performed include review of June 2018, the following resolutions will be proposed.
at prices which are not less than the published net Shares were to increase between 30% and 50%, an implications, given Standard Life Aberdeens role as the valuation and liquidity of investments as at asset value of an ordinary share.
The Board welcomes views from shareholders obligation for the Phoenix concert party to make the Companys Investment Manager and Phoenixs the balance sheet date and forecasts of NAV, cash Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights and company analysts on the Annual Report and a general offer to all shareholders in accordance large shareholding in the Company.
resources and income under both normal and It is the intention of Directors that the share buy back Resolution 11 gives the Directors, for the period Accounts and, where practical, will incorporate any with Rule 9 of the Takeover Code may be triggered.
authority may be used to purchase ordinary shares, until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting suggestions that will improve the document.
Therefore, a waiver from the Panel on Takeovers No changes to any of the other above holdings had subject to the income and cash flow requirements of in 2019 or, if earlier, on the expiry of 15 months and Mergers may be required to allow the Company been notified to the Company as at 26 April 2018.
Having thoroughly considered the going concern the Company, if the share price of an ordinary share from the passing of resolution 10, the necessary Approved by the Board on 26 April 2018. to utilise the share buy back authority without assessment the Board has concluded that there are is more than 5 per cent below the published net asset authority either to allot securities or sell shares held triggering an offer under the takeover code.
no material uncertainties that may cast significant value as last calculated, adjusted downwards for the in treasury, otherwise than to existing shareholders Andrew Wilson Ken McCullagh doubt about the Company and Groups ability to amount of any dividend declared by the Company on a pro-rata basis, up to an aggregate nominal If a waiver is required, shareholders other than Director Director continue as a going concern over the next twelve upon the shares going ex-dividend, for a continuous amount of 32,485,312.
This is equivalent to members of the Phoenix Concert Party will be asked months from the date of the annual report.
In the event that such discount is more approximately 10 per cent of the issued ordinary to approve a waiver of the obligation on the Phoenix Directors have a reasonable expectation that the than 5 per cent for 90 dealing days or more, following share capital of the Company as at 26 April 2018. concert Party to make a general offer for the entire Company and Group will be able to continue the second anniversary of the Companys most recent There are no shares currently held in treasury.
issued share capital which may otherwise arise as in operational existence and to have adequate continuation vote, which was on 9 November 2016, The Directors will allot new shares pursuant to this a result of a buy back of shares by the Company.
resources to meet its liabilities as they fall due A separate circular would be sent to shareholders over the next twelve months.
Due consideration setting out full details of the waiver if necessary.
40 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
co. uk 41 The Board considers that reporting against the principle s and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to t he AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, w ill provide an appropriate and sati sfactory level of transparency to sh areholders.
42 UKCPT Annual Report & Accounts www.
