qxp Layout 1 2 19 18 9:47 PM Page 52 SECTION 3 Board of Directors Members of TRIGs Board of Directors, all of whom are nonexecutive and independent of the Managers, are listed below.
Helen Mahy CBE Chairman, Shelagh Mason Director, appointed appointed 14 June 2013, aged 56, is 14 June 2013, aged 58, is an English an experienced chairman and nonproperty solicitor.
She was Senior executive director.
In addition to being Partner of Spicer and Partners Chairman of TRIG, Helen serves as a Guernsey LLP until November 2014 non-executive director for the and is now a consultant with Collas following listed companies: SSE plc, Crill LLP, specialising in English Bonheur ASA and MedicX Fund commercial property.
Her last position Limited where she is Chairman.
in the United Kingdom was as a Helen is also a member of the steering committee of the senior partner of Edge & Ellison.
Previously Shelagh was Parker Review into the Ethnic Diversity of UK boards which Chief Executive of a property development company active was published in October 2017.
Previous Directorships throughout the United Kingdom and the Channel Islands and include SVG Capital plc, Stagecoach Group plc and Aga was a member of the board of directors of Standard Life Rangemaster Group plc.
Helen was Group Company Investments Property Income Trust, a property fund listed on Secretary and General Counsel of National Grid plc and was the London Stock Exchange for 10 years until December a member of its Executive Committee from September 2003 2014.
She recently retired from the board of Medicx Fund to January 2013 when she retired from National Grid plc.
Limited, a main market listed investment company investing Helen qualied as a barrister and was an Associate of the in primary healthcare facilities.
She is also the non-executive Chartered Insurance Institute.
In 2015 she was awarded a Chairman of the Channel Islands Property Fund Limited CBE for services to business, particularly relating to diversity which is listed on the The International Stock Exchange in the workplace.
Helen is a resident of the UK.
Authority Limited and Chairman of Riverside Capital PCC and she also holds other non-executive positions.
She is a past Jon Bridel Director, appointed Chairman of the Guernsey Branch of the Institute of Directors 14June 2013, aged 53, currently and a member of the Chamber of Commerce, the Guernsey serves across various listed and International Legal Association and she also holds the IOD unlisted companies as a Director or Company Direction Certicate and Diploma with distinction.
These Shelagh is a resident of Guernsey.
include Alcentra European Floating Rate Income Fund Limited, Starwood Klaus Hammer Director, appointed European Real Estate Finance 1 March 2014, aged 62, is a Limited, Sequoia Economic graduate of the University of Hamburg Infrastructure Income Fund Limited and Funding Circle SME and gained an MBA at IMD Lausanne.
Income Fund Limited, as well as DP Aircraft I Limited, Fair He was previously Chief Operating Oaks Income Limited and Phaunos Timber Fund Limited officer of the global combined-cycle which is currently being wound up.
Jon previously worked as gas turbine power plant business of Managing Director of Royal Bank of Canadas investment EON, and also served on a variety of businesses in the Channel Islands and in senior management boards including EON Vrmekraft positions in the British Isles and Australia in banking, Sverige AB, Horizon Nuclear Power Ltd. and the UK specialising in corporate and commercial credit and in private Association of Electricity Producers.
Prior to EON, which he businesses as Chief Financial officer.
Graduating from the joined in 2005, he spent 20 years with Royal Dutch Shell in a University of Durham with a degree of Master of Business variety of roles in both Europe and Africa.
Among his other Administration in 1988, Jon also holds qualications from the recent roles, he was a public member of Network Rail until Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales mid-2014.
Klaus also advises investors in energy-related where he is a Fellow, the Australian Institute of Company businesses.
Klaus is a resident of Germany.
Directors and is a Chartered Marketer.
Jon is a member of the Chartered Institute of Marketing, a Chartered Director and Fellow of the Institute of Directors and a Chartered Fellow of the Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment.
Jon is a resident of Guernsey.
52 TRIG Annual Report & Financial Statements 2017
