STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM Research and development activities During 2017, EY charged the Company US$0.4 million in audit In 2017, the Group maintained its focus on enhancing fees and US$0.1 million in non-audit fees, and during 2016, EY charged the Company US$0.3 million in audit fees and the products offered in regulated markets, expansion of the platform accessible on mobile devices and further US$0.3 million in non-audit fees.
development of gaming platform capabilities.
Directors statement of responsibilities Some relevant achievements during the year in the field Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements in accordance with the Gibraltar Companies of research and development included: Act 2014.
Development of 888 Poker in Italy prior to launch in January 2018: International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys Upgrade of 888 platform in New Jersey for both B2C and the Groups financial position, financial performance and B2B partners: and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of Major investment in compliance management and the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in monitoring: accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria Investment in real time marketing tools and communications for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the which have increased players engagement and response: International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for Casino Races: a new, exciting feature offering Casino players the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
a chance to win bonuses by playing slots in a race mode: In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be Addition of more than 300 new games on PC and mobile achieved by compliance with all applicable International platforms, with an emphasis on development in HTML5: Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by A new and innovative poker variant FlopOmania a twist the EU.
A fair presentation also requires the Directors to: to the traditional Texas Holdem game, introducing a poker game in which the action starts when the flop is already consistently select and apply appropriate accounting open: policies: Major enhancement of 888sport site to improve player present information, including accounting policies, experience, real time segmentation and marketing abilities in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and a new native 888sport application: and understandable information: and In Bingo, 888 is now offering new bingo variants including provide additional disclosures when compliance with the 52-5 Bingo Candy and has also added the ability to specific requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the EU is schedule and link together a number of bingo rooms at insufficient to enable members to understand the impact of certain times of the day: and particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
Expansion of 888 mobile products with additional mobile focused features as well as a successful launch of all 888 products on Google Play.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Greenhouse gas emissions the financial position of the Group, for safeguarding the assets, Details of 888s greenhouse gas emissions are set out in the for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic Report on page 32.
Directors report which complies with the Gibraltar Companies Act 2014.
Auditors A resolution for the reappointment of Ernst and Young LLP Financial statements are published on the Companys website in accordance with legislation in the UK governing and EY Limited, Gibraltar, together, EY, as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the 2018 Annual the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, General Meeting.
which may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The maintenance and integrity of the Companys website is the During the year ended 31 December 2017, Ernst and Young LLP responsibility of the Directors.
The Directors responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial statements were reappointed as auditors for the purposes of the Company preparing financial statements as required pursuant to the contained therein.
UK Listing Rules and the DTRs.
EY Limited, Gibraltar, which is approved as a registered auditor under the Gibraltar Financial The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Services Auditors Act 2009, is the statutory auditor of the and the financial statements.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Company in accordance Company including for the purposes of issuing an audit report pursuant to the Gibraltar Companies Act 2014. with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and have also chosen to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 53 GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT continued The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors confirms, to the best of his or her knowledge: a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and b the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
All of the current Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any information needed by the Companys auditors for the purposes of their audit, and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors are not aware of any relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware.
On behalf of the Board: Itai Frieberger Chief Executive Officer 20 March 2018 888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 54
