GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT Board of Directors EXPERIENCED AND EFFECTIVE MANAGEMENT BRIAN MATTINGLEY ITAI FRIEBERGER AVIAD KOBRINE Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Age: 66 Age: 47 Age: 54 Relevant skills andexperience Relevant skills andexperience Relevant skills andexperience Brian Mattingley was Deputy Chairman Itai Frieberger was appointed Aviad Kobrine has been Chief Financial of the Company and Senior Independent Chief Executive Officer of the Company Officer of the Company since June Non-Executive Director from March on 2 March 2016.
He was previously 2005, and was appointed to the Board 2006 until March 2012, and was then Chief Operating Officer since April 2011, in August 2005.
From October 2004 Chief Executive Officer until March 2016. and was appointed to the Board as he was a consultant to the Company.
He joined the Board in August 2005. an Executive Director on 13 May 2015.
Previously, he was a banker with the He was previously Chief Executive of He also serves as Managing Director Media Telecoms Investment Banking Gala Regional Developments Limited of the Companys Israeli subsidiary, Group of Lehman Brothers and prior until 2005.
From 1997 to 2003 he was Random Logic Ltd.
He has worked for to that, he was a senior associate with Group Finance and Strategy Director the Group since 2003, and previously Slaughter and May.
He holds a Masters of Gala Group Plc, prior to which he served as Senior Vice President of in Finance from the London Business was Chief Executive of Ritz Bingo Product Technologies, as well as leading School Distinction, a BA in Economics Limited.
He has held senior executive various parts of the business such and an LLB from Tel Aviv University.
positions with Kingfisher Plc and as marketing, product and business Dee Corporation Plc.
Prior to joining the Group, Mr. Kobrine brings with him extensive he held several management positions finance, economic and analytical In his capacity as Chairman of the UK at Orange, one of the worlds leading experience, in-depth knowledge of the Bingo Association, Mr. Mattingley spent telecommunications operators.
Group and detailed knowledge of the a great deal of time with regulators, Citys workings.
which has assisted in the Boards Mr. Frieberger brings to the role understanding of UK gaming regulation operational experience both from Read more from Aviad on pages 24 to 30 and laws.
Mr. Mattingley has been in within and outside the online gaming the gaming industry since 1993, and sector, as well as personal relationships launched one of the UKs first online and valuable insight into the industry bingo sites whilst at Gala.
Read more from Brian on pages 06 and 07 Read more from Itai on pages 08 to 23 BOARD DIVERSITY Board composition Gender balance 1 The Board has a balanced and diverse range of skills 3 Chairman 1 and experience.
All Board 5:1 appointments are made on Executive 2 Male:Female merit, in the context of the 2 Non-Executive Directors 3 diversity of skills, experience, background and gender required to be effective.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 46 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM COMMITTEE KEY Audit Remuneration Nominations Gaming Chairman of Member of Committee Committee Committee Compliance Committee Committee Committee RON MCMILLAN ZVIKA ZIVLIN ANNE fide KERCKHOVE Non-Executive Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director IndependentDirector Age: 52 Age: 45 Age: 65 Relevant skills andexperience Relevant skills andexperience Relevant skills andexperience Ron McMillan was the Zvika Zivlin is the Founder and Managing Anne fide Kerckhove is currently the  Global Finance Partner of Tulip Capital, the exclusive CEO of Iron Group a startup studio Partner, Northern Regional Chairman partner firm of Wells Fargo Securities in specialised in digital subscription of the UK firm and Deputy Chairman Israel, is a strategic partner to Alias Tech - where she also spearheads Iron Capital.
Previously, she was the and Head of Assurance for the Middle JB Capital, and currently serves on the Managing Director EMEA for Videology, East firm, in addition to serving as audit advisory board of Infinidat Ltd.
Global Director of Reed Elsevier, and engagement leader on a number of COO and International Managing major listed companies.
He is the Senior Mr. Zivlin has been engaged in projects Director at Inspired Gaming Group.
Independent Director and Chairman of covering the fields of insurance, Ms. fide Kerckhove is also an angel the Audit Committee of N Brown Group banking, real estate, technology and investor and mentor for early-stage Plc and SCS Plc and Chairman of the communications, and was previously startups and entrepreneurial funds Audit Committee of B&M European Chief Executive Officer of Trans4u Ltd including Metail, CRE and Daphni, Value Retail SA and Homeserve plc.
and Chief Financial Officer of GSI Group.
and holds board positions with 7digital, Mr. McMillan is the Chairman of the Mr. Zivlin holds an MSc in Economics WeMoms and Snowite.
She holds a Companys Audit Committee and from the London School of Economics, st Bachelor of Commerce from McGill a member of the Remuneration an MBA from Tel Aviv University 1 year, University and an MBA from INSEAD.
Committee, Nominations Committee with distinction and a BA in Economics Ms. fide Kerckhove is a member of the and Gaming Compliance Committee.
and Management from Tel Aviv Companys Remuneration Committee, University with distinction.
Mr. Zivlin Audit Committee and Nominations Having worked in PwCs assurance is the Chairman of the Companys Committee, and is expected to join business for 38 years, Mr. McMillan brings Remuneration Committee and a the Gaming Compliance Committee to the Board a deep understanding of member of the Audit Committee.
during 2018. auditing, financial reporting regulatory Committee membership matters and corporate governance.
Committee membership Ron McMillan was appointed as Non-Executive Director on 15 May 2014, Read more from Zvika on pages 62 to 76 and Senior Independent Director on 9 May 2016.
Committee membership Read more from Ron on page 77 Length of tenure Industry background experience 0-3 years 3 Political Regulatory 2 33% Assurance 1 17% Gaming 3 50% Technology 3 50% 3-10 years 1 Operational 1 17% Commerce 1 17% 10 years 2 Financial 4 67% 888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 47 GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT INTERVIEW WITH ZVIKA ZIVLIN AND ANNE fide KERCKHOVE 888 is a company focused oninnovation and technology, and Im very excited to be part of such a .
Anne fide Kerckhove Independent Non-executive Director What attracted you to the NED Anne fide Kerckhove role at 888?
Diversity of backgrounds and experiences is vital to informed and Zvika Zivlin effective decision-making.
Thats our 888s global presence, regulated role as NEDs: to constructively profile and leading position within challenge the executive team by the gaming industry appealed to me.
My background is in the technology We also allow the executive team to industry, and 888 really excited me step back from the Companys daily as a company that is a fast-growing activities and think about strategy business with technology and data on a longer-term basis.
I was also attracted by the exceptional talent of 888s employees who are the What skills and experience do you driving force behind the business bring to 888?
Zvika Zivlin Anne fide Kerckhove My detailed, all-round commercial I am interested in the complexity knowledge and involvement in the and challenges faced by the gaming Israeli technology industry and the industry and it is very appealing to global gaming sector can add a work with a leading global player.
lot of value to the Board of 888.
888 is a company focused on I have worked across the global innovation and technology, and Im markets, and am well placed to very excited to be part of such a support the executive management forward-thinking business.
As a large team through the next stage of number of 888s customer base are 888s growth.
women, I believe its important to have a female voice on the Board, Anne fide Kerckhove and I feel very privileged to have I previously worked in the gaming this role.
space for seven years and have worked in digital marketing and technology for over 15 years.
What benefit do you think N. E. Ds A particular focus throughout my add to Board discussions?
career has been helping to drive international expansionsomething Zvika Zivlin I expect to be pertinent to 888 N. E. Ds can come from a wide in the years to come.
This work variety of business disciplines, each has exposed me to a plethora of with a breadth of experience in a global markets, including in the variety of business environments, United States.
so can add valuable experience to boardroom discussions.
We can bring different perspectives to the executive Directors who are focused on the day-to-day running of the business.
Part of our role is to challenge the executive team to ensure the business is running to its maximum potential.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 48
