STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Companys Ordinary Shares are admitted to the premium Leadership segment of the UK Official List and to trading on the London The Directors consider it essential that the Company should be Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities.
As such, both led and controlled by an effective Board.
despite being incorporated in Gibraltar, the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code or UK Corporate Governance Board responsibilities and procedures Code applies to the Company pursuant to the UK Listing The Board focuses upon the Companys long-term objectives, Rules and is available at www.
The version of the strategic and policy issues and formally and transparently Code published in April 2016 applied to the financial year considers the management of key risks facing the Group, as under review.
well as determining the nature and extent of significant risks it will take in achieving its strategic objectives, maintaining sound The Board remains committed to the principles of corporate risk management and internal control systems and reviewing governance in the UK Corporate Governance Code which annually the effectiveness of the Companys risk management it considers to be central to the effective management of and internal control systems.
The Board is responsible for the business and to maintaining the confidence of investors.
acquisitions and divestments, major capital expenditure This report explains how the Company has applied the main projects and considering the Companys budgets and principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board also determines key appointments.
The Board receives regular updates on shareholders views.
The statement contained in this section explains the key features of the Companys governance structure and Board-level responsibilities of the Chairman are clearly and compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
formally defined, with the Chairman being responsible for Where the Company has not complied with the UK the effective operation of the Board as a whole, leadership of Corporate Governance Code, explanations are given below.
the Board in achieving a culture of constructive challenge by Non-Executive Directors including the Senior Independent This statement also includes items required by the UK Listing Director, regularly agreeing and reviewing each Directors Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, training and development needs, and supporting key including how the Main Principles of the UK Corporate external relationships: the CEO has the overall executive Governance Code have been applied.
responsibility for the running of the Companys business: and the Non-Executive Directors including the Senior The Board remains committed to the principles of corporate Independent Director are responsible for constructively governance in the UK Corporate Governance Code which challenging and helping develop proposals on strategy: it considers to be central to the effective and efficient no on individual has unfettered powers of decision.
management of 888s business and to maintaining the confidence of investors for its long-term success.
This report The Board has an established calendar of business.
This covers explains how the Company has applied the main principles of the financial calendar, strategic planning, annual budgets the UK Corporate Governance Code.
and performance self-assessments, as well as the conduct of standing business.
The calendar forms the basis for effective Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate integration of business activities as between the Board and its Governance Code principal Committees see pages 57 and 61, which individually During 2017, the Company was in material compliance with the consider their own operating frameworks against the Boards UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, other than as regards business programme.
the following: The Directors have wide-ranging business experience, and no individual, or group of individuals, dominates the Boards Prior to the appointment of the two new Non-Executive decision-making.
Directors, Zvika Zivlin and Anne fide Kerckhove, and therefore for part of the year in 2017, there were only Reserved powers and delegation two Non-Executive Directors on both the Audit and A schedule of matters reserved to the Board has Remuneration Committees.
been adopted and its content is reviewed to align it with operational needs and the Boards preference to monitor and, where appropriate, approve matters of substance to 888 as a whole.
Senior executives have given written undertakings to ensure compliance within their business operations with the Boards formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision or approval.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Chairman, Mr. Mattingley, and the Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Frieberger, have a close working relationship to ensure the integrity of the decision-making process of the Board and the successful delivery of 888s strategy.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO, which the Board considers an important part of its corporate governance.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 55 GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Mr. Mattingley was not independent on his appointment EFFECTIVENESS as Executive Chairman in March 2015 as he had previously Board composition held the role of Chief Executive Officer.
Mr. Mattingleys During 2017, the Board consisted of five and later six appointment at the time as Executive Chairman was approved Directors, as follows: a Senior Independent Director by the Board in light of the benefits to the Company in Ron McMillan, one independent Non-Executive Director terms of his experience of the gaming industry, extensive who stepped down on 9 May 2017 Amos Pickel, a Chairman knowledge of the business, and in maintaining and developing Brian Mattingley, and two Executive Directors Itai Frieberger relationships with regulators.
as the Chief Executive Officer, and Aviad Kobrine as the Chief Financial Officer.
Two further independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors independence Directors Zvika Zivlin and Anne fide Kerckhove were Ron McMillan was appointed Senior Independent Director appointed on 9 May 2017 and 28 November 2017 respectively.
during 2016 and the Board is confident that he is and remains independent in character and judgement and that there are The biographical details of all of the Directors, setting out no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, their relevant skills and experience and their professional or could appear to affect, his judgement.
commitments, are given on pages 46 to 47.
Two new Independent Non-Executive Directors Independent Directors Zvika Zivlin and Anne fide Kerckhove were appointed during Currently, more than half of the Directors, excluding the 2017.
Prior to the appointment of the two new Non-Executive Chairman, are Non-Executive Directors determined by the Directors, and therefore for part of the year in 2017, there Board to be independent for the purposes of the UK Corporate were only two Non-Executive Directors on both the Audit Governance Code.
During the year under review, at least half and Remuneration Committees.
of the Directors, excluding the Chairman, were independent Non-Executive Directors as required by the UK Corporate Directors insurance cover Governance Code.
The Company has arranged and maintains, at its expense, a directors and officers liability insurance policy in respect The role of the Senior Independent Director Ron McMillan of legal actions against its Directors, as recommended by the is to provide a sounding board for the Chairman, to evaluate UK Corporate Governance Code.
To the extent permitted by the Chairmans performance and lead the Boards succession Gibraltar law, the Company may also indemnify the Directors.
planning, and to serve as an intermediary for the other Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover Directors where necessary.
where a Director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Nominations Committee Board diversity policy The Board considers succession planning matters on an The Group has adopted a Board Diversity Policy, which ongoing basis, with particular focus on succession planning sets the Companys aspiration for diversity of its Board for the CEO role as well as for senior management.
At Board without compromising on the quality or merit of candidates level, the Board has prioritised the recruitment of experienced including their aptitude and ability.
The policy refers to Non-Executive Directors and has appointed two independent the diversity criteria of age, gender and educational and Non-Executive Directors in 2017. professional backgrounds.
Whilst the policy seeks to ensure that appointments are based on the candidates strengths An external search company, Tyzack Partners, which set by objective criteria including their past contributions has no connection with the Company except for the and potential, the benefits of diversity are also regarded provision of these recruitment services, assisted the Board and decisions are not influenced by certain protected in recruitment of the two Non-Executive Directors, and a characteristics including gender, sexual orientation, structured process was followed in line with Board policies marital or civil partnership status, gender reassignment, including its diversity policy.
pregnancy, the undergoing of fertility or in vitro fertility treatment, parenthood, part-time or fixed-term status, age, The Board has established a Nomination Committee to race, religion or belief, nationality, ethnicity, country of origin, lead the process for Board appointments and to make place of residence, views, disability, trade union membership recommendations to the Board the Nominations Committee.
Where appropriate, steps are taken to identify and remove unnecessary or unjustifiable barriers.
During the year, the Nominations Committee comprised The standards set out in the policy apply to the Board and independent Non-Executive Director Amos Pickel Chairman its Committees, which are the Companys administrative, stepped down on 9 May 2017, independent Non-Executive management and supervisory bodies.
Director Zvika Zivlin Chairman appointed on 9 May 2017, Senior Independent Director Ron McMillan, and Independent The Board was satisfied that during 2017, steps were taken Non-Executive Director Anne fide Kerckhove appointed to promote the diversity objectives of the policy, including on 28 November 2017. the appointment of two independent Non-Executive Directors, Zvika Zivlin and Anne fide Kerckhove, on 9 May 2017 and 28 November 2017 respectively.
Details of the Companys diversity position and involvement of women in management of the Group are set out in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic Report on pages 32 to 37.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 56 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM The Nominations Committee assists the Board in discharging Commitment its responsibilities relating to the composition of the Board.
The opportunity to hold office as Non-Executive Directors The Nominations Committee is responsible for reviewing, of other companies enables the Directors of 888 to broaden from time to time, the structure of the Board, determining their experience and knowledge, which benefits the Company.
succession plans for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Executive Directors may be allowed to accept non-executive and identifying and recommending suitable candidates for appointments with the Boards prior permission, so long appointment as Directors.
In accordance with the Nominations as these are not likely to lead to any conflict of interest.
Committees terms of reference, the Committee Chairman does Executive Directors may be required to account for fees not chair the Nomination Committee when it is dealing with received from such other companies.
Non-Executive Directors the appointment of a successor to the chairmanship, and the are required to allocate sufficient time to perform all applicable Nomination Committee is tasked with preparing a description roles and to both disclose any external appointments and of the role and the capabilities required for particular roles.
consult with the Company prior to accepting any new, major external appointments.
The Nominations Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website, corporate.
The Chairman has disclosed details of his other significant commitments to the Board during 2017 and these are detailed The Nominations Committee is also responsible for pursuing in his biography on page 46. diversity within the scope of its mandate, including setting measurable objectives and monitoring progress on achieving The Board considers that Brian Mattingleys other such objectives.
In considering new Board appointments, commitments do not interfere with the discharge of his diversity including of gender, age and professional and responsibilities to the Group and is satisfied that he makes educational background is one of the criteria considered by sufficient time available to serve 888 effectively.
the Nominations Committee in accordance with the Boards Diversity Policy.
The Companys statement regarding diversity The terms of appointment for each Non-Executive Director, is set out in the Corporate Responsibility section of the including expected time commitment are available for Strategic Report on pages 32 to 37. inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM.
Re-election and appointment of Directors All Directors are subject to reappointment by shareholders Meetings and attendance on an annual basis in accordance with the provisions of the The Board plans to meet six times a year.
When urgent UK Corporate Governance Code.
decision-making is required between meetings on matters reserved for the Board, there is a process in place to facilitate When proposing Directors for re-election, the Board rigorously discussion and decision-making.
The Directors regularly reviews the performance of each Director and assesses communicate and exchange information irrespective of the whether the individuals performance continues to be effective timing of meetings.
and that he or she continues to demonstrate commitment to the role, taking into account the need for progressive During 2017, the Board met seven times.
Set out below are refreshing of the Board.
details of the Directors attendance record at Board and Committee meetings in 2017.
The Board may appoint any person to be a Director of the Company and such Director shall hold office only until the next AGM, when he or she shall be eligible for reappointment by the shareholders.
Total number of meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2017 and the number of meetings attended by each Director Gaming Audit Remuneration Nominations Compliance Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Total held in year 7 3 2 1 4 Brian Mattingley 7 N A N A 1 N A Itai Frieberger 7 N A N A N A N A Aviad Kobrine 5 N A N A N A N A Ron McMillan 6 3 2 1 4 Amos Pickel 2 2 0 0 3 Zvika Zivlin 4 1 2 1 2 Anne fide Kerckhove 0 0 0 0 0 Anne fide Kerckhove was appointed to the Board on 28 November 2017 and therefore did not formally attend any Board or Committee meetings in 2017, but has begun to do so in 2018.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 57 GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued The Chairman has responsibility for ensuring that agendas for Following the evaluation, the Board was satisfied that each Board meetings are set in advance.
Board papers are issued to of the Non-Executive Directors continues to be effective and Directors sufficiently in advance of meetings to facilitate both to demonstrate commitment to their respective roles, and informed debate and timely decisions.
If a Director is unable proposes them for re-election or election at the 2018 Annual to attend a meeting, he or she is given the opportunity to raise General Meeting.
any issues and give any comments to the Chairman in advance.
Development and advice None of the Directors have raised any concerns about the The Board understands that there should be a formal, running of the Company or a proposed action which needed rigorous and transparent procedure for the induction of new to be recorded in the Board minutes of the Company or in a Directors, which has been formulated with the guidance of the statement to the Chairman for circulation to the Board.
Meetings with Non-Executive Directors All Directors have access to the advice and services of the 1 The Chairman holds meetings at least once per year with Company Secretary and the Companys nominated advisers, the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors who are responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are being present.
Directors are able to seek independent professional advice, if required, at the Companys expense provided that The Non-Executive Directors meet once per year without they have first notified the Company of their intention to do so.
the Chairman present in order to appraise the performance of the Chairman and take into account the views of the Two new Directors were appointed during 2017.
Under the UK Corporate Governance Zvika Zivlin was appointed as Independent Non-Executive Code, it is part of the role of the Senior Independent Director Director and on 28 November 2017, Anne fide Kerckhove was to lead this process.
appointed as Independent Non-Executive Director.
Board evaluation As noted above, the Chairman regularly agrees and reviews The Board has established a formal process for the annual each Directors training and development needs.
Members evaluation of its performance, and the performance of its of the Board Committees receive specific updates on Committees and individual Directors.
The evaluation process matters that are relevant to their role.
Members of the senior covers a range of issues such as Board processes, Board roles management team with responsibility for the Groups business and responsibilities, Board agendas and Committee processes.
make periodic presentations at Board meetings about their functions, performance, markets and strategy.
An externally facilitated high-level evaluation of the Board and its Committees relating to performance in 2017 was Information and support carried out between September and November 2017 following Each of the Directors has access to the advice and a fuller assessment carried out in September 2016.
This services of the Company Secretary.
Under the direction included evaluation of the performance of the Board and of the Chairman, the Company Secretarys responsibilities each Committee as a whole as well as evaluation of individual include ensuring information flows within and between the Directors and the Chairman against criteria and minimum Board, its Committees and senior management, as well as requirements set by the Board.
The evaluation was carried facilitating induction, evaluation and professional development out by Mr. Raymond Dinkin of Consilium Board and Leadership activities, and advising the Board on corporate governance, Development, a London based management consulting firm legal and procedural matters.
to Boards and executives which has no other connection with 888.
The evaluation included questionnaires and face to face The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary meetings with Board members, senior management and 888s is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The next Board evaluation is scheduled for the end of 2018.
Conflicts of interest Conflicts of interest of the Directors are dealt with in The evaluation culminated in a number of recommendations accordance with the procedures set out in the Companys further to those proposed in 2016, including as regards Memorandum & Articles of Association and are monitored succession planning, the structure of Board meetings, tracking by the Chairman.
Specifically, a Director does not vote on of Board decisions, financial reporting to the Board, the Board or Committee resolutions in which he or persons composition of the Nominations Committee, and development connected with him have an interest other than by of Company strategy.
The Board adopted all recommendations virtue of a shareholding in the Company which is to his which arose from the evaluation.
The evaluation concluded knowledge material, except in specific limited circumstances.
that the Board and its Committees are well-balanced and Such procedures operated effectively during the year.
effective, and are a forum for meaningful deliberation and constructive challenge with regard to the matters of strategic importance to the Company.
1 References in this Annual Report to Company Secretary refer to Herzog Fox & Neeman.
The Company Secretary for Gibraltar corporate purposes is Straits Secretaries Gibraltar Limited.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 58 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM The reporting structure relating to all the companies ACCOUNTABILITY included in the consolidated financial statements requires that Risk management and internal control significant risks are to be reported immediately to the Board The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the on identification.
Companys system of internal control, for setting policy on internal control and risk management, and for reviewing the Audit Committee and auditors effectiveness of internal control and risk management.
The Board has established an Audit Committee.
Details of the Audit Committees functions, together with its specific The Directors monitor the Companys systems of internal activities in 2017, are set out in the Audit Committee Report control and risk management on an ongoing basis, including on pages 77 to 80. identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
The Board believes that its risk management During the year the Companys Audit Committee process accords with the FRC Guidance on Risk Management, comprised Senior Independent Director Ron McMillan Chair Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting and Independent Non-Executive Directors Amos Pickel and carries out an annual review of its effectiveness covering until 9 May 2017 and Zvika Zivlin and Anne fide Kerckhove, all material controls, including financial, operational and after their appointments to the Board on 9 May 2017 and compliance controls.
The annual review considers individual risk control During 2017, Deloitte carried out the Companys internal responsibilities, reporting lines and qualitative assessments of audit function, reporting to the Audit Committee: during 2017, residual risks.
Such a review was carried out in respect of the the internal auditor provided fourteen reports to the Audit processes that were in place throughout 2017 up until the date Committee and discussed the internal audit working plan of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Other than for 2018. as arising from the UKGC licence review and as more fully described on page 18, no significant failings or weaknesses 888s payment risk management team, based in Gibraltar, were identified in the review.
has developed stringent payment risk management and fraud control procedures.
The team makes use of external It is managements role to implement Board policies on and internal systems to manage the payment risks.
Detailed risk and control, including reporting.
The system of internal procedures exist throughout the Companys operations and control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk compliance is monitored by operational management and of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide the internal audit function.
reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Details of the Companys risk management strategy and the Boards assessment of the Companys viability in light of its The Audit Committee also reviews the appropriateness and risks are set out on pages 18 and 44 respectively.
adequacy of systems of internal control and risk management in relation to the financial reporting process on an ongoing Remuneration Committee basis and makes recommendations to the Board based on The Board has overall responsibility for determining the its findings.
framework of executive remuneration and its cost.
It is required to take account of any recommendation made by the 888s internal control and risk management systems in relation Remuneration Committee in determining the remuneration, to the process of preparing consolidated accounts include benefits and employment packages of the Executive Directors the following: and senior management and the fees of the Chairman.
Identification of significant risk and control areas of During the year the Companys Remuneration Committee relevance to Group-wide accounting processes: comprised Independent Non-Executive Director Amos Controls to monitor the consolidated accounting process Pickel Chair until 9 May 2017, Zvika Zivlin Chair from and its results at the level of the Board and at the level of the 9 May 2017, Senior Independent Director Ron McMillan and companies included in the consolidated financial statements: Independent Non-Executive Director Anne fide Kerckhove Preventative control measures in the finance and accounting from 28 November 2017. systems of the Company and of the companies included in the consolidated financial statements and in the operative, The Remuneration Committee determines the Chairmans performance-oriented processes that generate significant and Executive Directors fees, whilst the Chairman and the information for the preparation of the consolidated financial Executive Directors determine the fees paid to the Nonstatements including the Strategic Report, including a Executive Directors.
Further details are provided on page 70. separation of functions and pre-defined approval processes in relevant areas: The Remuneration Committee continued to be advised during Measures that safeguard proper IT-based processing of 2017 by New Bridge Street, a trading name of Aon Hewitt, matters and data relevant to accounting: and being a subsidiary of Aon plc, which has no other connection Reporting information of companies around the Group with 888.
Further details are provided on page 75. which enable the Company to prepare consolidated financial statements including management accounts.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 59 GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued All new long-term incentive schemes and significant changes confidentially.
Undertakings are made to employees who raise to existing long-term incentive schemes are put to the genuinely held concerns in good faith under the procedure shareholders of the Company for approval before they are that they will not be dismissed or subjected to any detriment adopted save for certain circumstances as set out in the as a result of his her action.
Employees of the Group are Listing Rules.
regularly sent reminders regarding the whistle-blowing policy as part of general refreshers of various Group policies.
The Directors Remuneration Report, which outlines the Remuneration Committees work and details of Directors Routine reports but no red flag incidents were received under remuneration, is on pages 63 to 76.
The Remuneration the whistle-blowing policy in 2017 and up to the date of this Committees terms of reference are available on the Annual Report.
Relations with shareholders and key financial audiences Gaming Compliance Committee The Company maintains an active and regular dialogue with In accordance with Nevada Gaming Control Board principal and institutional shareholders and sell-side analysts requirements, the Board has appointed a Gaming through a planned programme of investor relations and Compliance Committee.
Its current members are Michael financial PR activity.
The Board also keeps up to date with the Alonso an external consultant to the Company, Ron McMillan views of major shareholders through meetings and discussions and Zvika Zivlin, and Amos Pickel was a member until with shareholder representatives throughout the year.
It is intended that Anne fide Kerchkove will join this Committee during 2018.
The outcome of this dialogue and these meetings is reported to the Board.
The programme includes formal presentations The Gaming Compliance Committee is entrusted with making of full year and interim results, analysts conference calls and sure that the Groups licensed gaming activity is carried out periodic roadshows and discussion of the Companys strategy with honesty and integrity, in accordance with high moral, legal and governance.
No material discussions were held with and ethical standards, and free from criminal and corruptive shareholder advisory bodies in 2017. elements.
As such, the Committee is responsible and has the power to identify and evaluate situations arising in the The Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Director course of the Companys and its Affiliates business that may are available to talk to shareholders if they have any issues adversely affect the objectives of gaming control.
or concerns or if there are any matters where contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial The Committee is not intended to displace the Board or the Officer is inappropriate or where such contact has failed Companys executive officers with decision-making authority to resolve the issue.
but is intended to serve as an advisory body to better ensure achievement of the Companys goals of avoiding unsuitable All shareholders are welcome to attend the 2018 Annual situations and in entering into relationships exclusively with General Meeting scheduled to be held on 9 May 2018 and suitable persons.
private investors are encouraged to take advantage of the opportunity given to ask questions.
All Board members The Committees work is being done independently and including the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and impartially.
To this end, its members are appointed by and Nominations Committees will attend the meeting and be report directly to the Board of Directors.
Whistle-blowing policy Compliance with statutory provisions The Companys whistle-blowing policy sets out the overall As the Company is registered in Gibraltar, it is subject responsibility of the Board for implementation of the to compliance with Gibraltar statutory requirements.
The main policy, but notes that the Board has delegated day-to-day corporate legislation relevant to the Company in Gibraltar responsibility for overseeing and implementing it to the is the Gibraltar Companies Act 2014.
The Company is in full designated whistle-blowing officer.
The policy provides that compliance with the Gibraltar Companies Act.
where an employee is not comfortable making a disclosure to his her respective direct line manager, disclosure can be made Going concern to the designated whistle-blowing officer whose details are After careful review of the Groups budget for 2018, provided.
If the subject of the disclosure in any way involves its medium-term plans, liquid resources and all relevant the designated whistle-blowing officer, the disclosure may be matters, the Directors are confident that the Company made directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee or to and the Group have adequate financial resources to continue another member of the Groups senior management.
Whilst in operational existence for the foreseeable future and for employees are permitted to make disclosures anonymously, a period of at least 12 months from the approval of this Annual disclosing employees are encouraged to reveal their identity Report.
They have therefore continued to adopt the going to the designated whistle-blowing officer in order to allow a concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
full and proper investigation to take place: measures can be taken to preserve the confidentiality of the disclosure where appropriate.
The Board commits to investigating all disclosures fully, fairly, quickly and, where circumstances permit, 888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 60 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group are disclosed in the Risk Management Strategy report on page 18.
Viability Statement The Companys Viability Statement is set out on page 44.
Corporate Social Responsibility Statement The Groups Chief Executive Officer is the Director responsible for monitoring corporate social responsibility within 888.
The Board receives periodic reports on the Groups activities in this area from the Chief Executive Officer.
Further details are set out in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 32 to 37.
Other disclosures The following matters can be found in this report on the following pages: Disclosure Applicable sub-paragraph within LR 9.8.
4 provided 1 Interest capitalised by the Group N A 2 Publication of unaudited financial information N A 3 Details of long-t erm incentive schemes only involving a Director N A 4 Waiver of emoluments by a Director N A 5 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director N A 6 Non pro-rata allotments for cash issuer N A 7 Non pro-rata allotments for cash by major subsidiaries N A 8 P arent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary N A 9 Contracts of significance N A 10 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder N A 11 Shareholder waivers of dividends N A 12 Shareholder waivers of future dividends N A 13 Agreements with controlling shareholders N A On behalf of the Board: Brian Mattingley Chairman 20 March 2018 888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 61
