STRATEGIC REPORT Our Marketplace KEY TRENDS IN A GLOBAL MARKET The online gaming industry began to develop in the mid-1990s and, since then, has experienced rapid growth.
Technological changes such as faster and more reliable internet connections as well as the increasing adoption and sophistication of mobile and tablet devices, making online services more convenient andreadily available, have supported this growth.
The online gaming market continues its journey towards global regulation.
Governments are adopting new regulatory frameworks that are specific to online gaming.
This can increase the costs of operation but helps to provide safety and security to customers and creates an environment in which operators with scale and technological advantages, such as 888, can prosper.
2017 GLOBAL ONLINE 2022 ESTIMATED GLOBAL GAMBLINGMARKET ONLINEGAMBLING MARKET 40.5bn 56.8bn 36.3% from mobile 49% estimated from mobile 888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 02 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM Product 2017 estimated market size by product 2022 estimated market size by product CAGR 20.2bn 27.4bn 6.9% SPORT CASINO 10.6bn 8.1% 15.3bn 2.4bn 2.6bn 2.6% POKER 1.8bn 2.3bn 5.2% BINGO TOTAL 40.5bn 56.8bn 7.4% GAMBLING Also includes skill games, other gaming and lotteries.
SAFE AND SECURE ENTERTAINMENT 888 is resolutely committed to a proactive policy of corporate and social responsibility that reflects the high professional and ethical standards we set for ourselves.
Conducting business responsibly is fundamental to the future success of 888 and we understand that a responsible approach is both the correct way to do business and one that enhances credibility with all stakeholders, thereby supporting 888s development.
Protecting the vulnerable Anti-crime Fair play We are constantly developing new and 888 takes comprehensive steps to 888 is committed to providing its innovative ways to deliver a responsible minimise fraud and implement effective players with a fair, safe and enjoyable gaming environment.
Our goal is to anti-money laundering policies.
Our brands are well ensure that all those who visit our sites Group has developed first-class fraud established and trusted by customers can do so with confidence and that those detection mechanisms which enhance we strongly oppose foul play in any form.
for whom our games are not intended, internal monitoring systems and allow We leverage our technology and analytics notably underage individuals and those the business to react in real time to any capabilities to ensure that our customers vulnerable to addiction, will not be drawn potential or evolving fraud patterns.
enjoy the fairest and most enjoyable into the gaming environment and those We regularly request supporting experience possible.
few customers who develop a gambling documentation from customers to problem are quickly identified and verify their source of funds to ensure helped by our trained team.
that the deposits our customers make are legitimate.
See page 35 888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 03
