STRATEGIC REPORT Viability Statement 888 WILL BE ABLE TO CONTINUE IN OPERATION AND MEET ITS LIABILITIES The Directors have re-examined the With respect to the period assessed, timeframe for the viability analysis of the Directors have considered: 888 pursuant to a two-stage process.
The Directors have first considered the 888s resilience to threats to its prospects of the Company taking into viability in severe but plausible account its current position and principal scenarios: risks.
Second, they have considered Both qualitative and quantitative whether they have a reasonable analyses, including the combined expectation that the Company will be impact of the crystallisation of able to continue in operation and meet multiple risks simultaneously, as well its liabilities as they fall due over the as stress testing, reverse stress testing period of their assessment.
and sensitivity analyses, which the Directors consider sufficiently robust In this light, the Directors note that the to make a sound statement: and Company operates in the online gaming sector, which has matured substantially A broad range of relevant matters since the early days of the internet and is that may threaten 888s viability.
now focused on predominantly regulated The severe but plausible scenarios markets, meaning that there is now more considered by the Directors included: stability and ability to assess future scenarios than ever before.
Having said exit closure of major markets due to that, the online gaming industry remains regulatory or legal events, loss of major fast-moving and dynamic, with change B2B customers, a major cyber-attack and or data protection violation, and ongoing in the global regulatory and anticipated tax developments together competitive landscape, and the industry is subject to greater consolidation than with the crystallisation of tax risks.
ever before, meaning that it still remains In addition, a reverse stress test difficult to forecast a period longer than was carried out in order to analyse combinations of risks which could bring three years with any significant level about insolvency of the Company unless of certainty.
capital were raised: in such cases it is Management currently forecasts as part anticipated that mitigation measures of the business planning process and including reduction in dividends and overheads could be implemented in capital investment cycle over a varying order to forestall such an outcome.
A detailed bottom up model is used to budget the business for a period of one year in advance and a top down The Directors confirm their view model for a period of three years.
that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks facing A longer forecasting period might be 888, including those that would threaten required in the context of equity or debt financing, however the Company has its business model, future performance, not completed any such financing since solvency and liquidity.
its initial public offering IPO in 2005, In light of the foregoing, the Directors and believes that the level of certainty confirm they have a reasonable over any such longer period decreases to such a level as not to be useful for expectation that 888 will be able to planning purposes.
continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the three year period to 31 December 2020.
On the basis that the top down model is sufficiently detailed for the Directors to review, the Directors consider Details of 888s risk management that a reasonable period on which strategy and how it manages and it can and should forecast is three mitigates its risks are set out in the Risk Management Strategy on page 18. years.
Notwithstanding, the Board acknowledges that the Companys prospects should persist into the longer term.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 44 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM 888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 45
