STRATEGIC REPORT Regulation and General Regulatory Developments 888 HAS CONTINUED ITS ADAPTATION TO CHANGING REGULATORY ENVIRONMENTS Global trends have had a significant In December 2017, the European effect on both the industry in general, Commission announced it will close and 888 in particular as a business deeply all pending infringement proceedings and complaints in the gambling sector, committed to regulatory compliance and as they are not currently a priority whose revenue is derived from operating for the Commission.
Although this in various regulated environments.
follows a trend in recent years of very little action taken by the 888 continues to strive constantly European Commission in the field, this to maintain the highest regulatory development is likely to cause member compliance standards and to contribute to states whose gaming regulatory the progress of the industry in this regard.
regimes are perceived as non-EU law compliant to become less motivated Throughout the year, 888 has continued to make changes to their legislative its adaptation to changing regulatory framework.
Nonetheless, the decision, environments, while pursuing its persistent which seems to reflect a political commitment to lawful, compliant and prioritisation decision within the responsible conduct.
As such, some of the European Commission, does not change changes that had a significant effect on the current legal situation.
Prior rulings the industry similarly affected 888 during by the Court of Justice of the European this passing year.
Union CJEU on the issue of state legislations incompatibility with EU law 888 continued to closely monitor remain valid, and the decision does not regulatory developments worldwide and derogate from the CJEUs authority to assess their impact on its operations.
to strike down further state laws We remain a strong proponent of 2017 was an eventful which contravene EU law principles.
regulation in the online gaming industry year in the online On the other hand, in June 2017, the and look forward to working with CJEU handed down a judgement in gamingindustry.
our partners in the industry and with C-49 16 Unibet, a case referred by a regulators toward shaping a regulatory Hungarian court.
The court found that landscape that is business-friendly the Hungarian laws relating to online whilst safeguarding the objectives gaming discriminated against operators of the markets regulation.
from other member states and were unclear and non-transparent.
On those The following paragraphs summarise the grounds, the court ruled that the laws main relevant regulatory developments were in violation of EU law, and could of 2017 and our expectations regarding not therefore give rise to any penalties - changes that will impact 888 in 2018. effectively striking down the Hungarian law and rendering it unenforceable.
EUROPE In addition, in February 2018, the CJEU The continued general trend throughout handed down another judgement in the European Union in 2017 was towards C-3 17 Sporting Odds Ltd. another case local regulation by individual member referred by a Hungarian court.
As was the case in 2016, some the CJEU ruled that the Hungarian of those efforts were directed towards legislation restricting the grant of amending local legislation to be better online gaming licences only to offline compliant with EU law, whilst others Hungarian casinos is discriminatory, focused on bolstering existing, non-EU and thus not EU law compliant.
rulings may influence the actions and decisions of other member states with Nonetheless, there were a number of respect to the enforcement of gaming general EU law developments which also laws that may be non-compliant with impacted the online gambling industry: EU law.
The GDPR will enter into force in May th In mid-2017, the European 4 Anti- 2018.
The new regulation will have a Money Laundering Directive entered significant effect on the privacy and into force, strengthening anti-money data protection practices of companies laundering rules across the continent.
dealing with information relating to As much of 888s business is derived EU residents, as it introduces various from European states and is regulated changes to how personal information in EU member jurisdictions, 888 should be collected, maintained, underwent extensive preparations with processed and secured.
Nonthe help of its legal counsel to ensure compliance may result in significant ongoing compliance and a seamless fines, running up to 20 million or 4% transition in the relevant jurisdictions.
of the breaching Companys annual global turnover.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 40 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM Further to the above, a number of The British Department for Digital, The final ruling, which was only regulatory developments in specific Culture, Media and Sport has issued published in March 2018, upheld the European jurisdictions throughout a consultation aimed at reviewing social current Treatys compliance with EU 2017 have also had an effect on responsibility measures across the law when it comes to its prohibition 888s operations: online gaming sector.
of remote casinos, scratch cards and poker games, and restricting sports In the first week of 2018, the UKGC UK betting contrary to previous rulings announced it will launch investigations In the UK, 888s main market, the by both German and EU courts.
This into 17 remote gaming operators Group continued adapting to meet ruling can be expected to influence on account of identifying failings the developing regulatory requirements, other administrative courts rulings, as related to anti-money laundering a process which continues to require well as lead to increased enforcement and social responsibility, and is significant efforts and the implementation by German authorities via the issuing of considering a licence review for of changes in many areas of the business.
prohibition orders to online operators five of those operators.
We continue to work to adapt our offering either online casino or sports operations and working modalities to betting services.
Portugal ensure ongoing adherence to the various During the course of 2017, the 888 and evolving requirements applicable to Switzerland Group applied to obtain a remote As a result of these developments, our UK operations.
operating licence in Portugal and is the Company, together with its legal now engaged in making the necessary Towards the end of 2017, the UKGC counsel, is considering potential arrangements for operation under unveiled its three-year strategy aimed courses of action, which may include such a licence when granted.
at becoming more interventionist and a petition to the German Federal Constitutional Court and is assessing taking precautionary action, which will Sweden the status and breadth of its offerings include suspension or revocation of Sweden has introduced a draft law in the German market.
Switzerland licences where persistent or systemic aimed at liberalising the online gaming made further progress on its draft bill failures are identified.
The strategy market, currently controlled by the two that would allow the countrys casinos focuses on protecting consumer monopolies, Svenska Spel and ATG.
The to offer online gaming.
The bill passed interests, preventing consumer harm bill if passed is not expected to come both houses of the Federal Assembly and raising standards in the gambling into effect before 2019.
Earlier in 2017, of Switzerland in September 2017. market.
These focal points will be Although implementation of this bill was the Swedish Supreme Administrative monitored, as before, by both the expected in early 2019, this may now be Court upheld the local ban on offline UKGC and the CMA.
delayed as the law will be subjected to advertising of unlicensed gambling Investigations carried out by the a national referendum in 2018. operations, which has been under CMA into possible breaches of litigation for a long time.
consumer protection laws by online The Netherlands Regulatory reform in The Netherlands gaming operators continued throughout Germany is still pending, after the Dutch lower 2017.
In February 2018, the scope of Germanys regulatory landscape house of parliament passed a bill investigations was broadened from remains riddled with uncertainty, to regulate online gambling in July initially reviewing sign-up promotions although the market yielded a few 2016, which is now pending before alone, to an investigation of operators regulatory and legal developments the Senate.
888 continued to conduct withdrawal policies as well.
The future of the German Interits operations in the Netherlands in the CMA investigation, three gambling State Gambling Treaty continues to be accordance with interim guidelines companies William Hill, Ladbrokes a cause for friction between the German issued by the local authorities, which and PT Entertainment committed to states.
The draft for a new Treaty which became more restrictive in June change their bonus offerings in early received criticism from the European 2017, and awaits developments 2018.
The CMA, together with the Commission in 2016 was voted down in this important market.
UKGC, considers the commitments in September by Schleswig-Holstein, made by the three companies as one of the German states.
Other European markets reflecting the appropriate industry Further to the discussions carried out standard, and requires all operators during 2016, in the course of 2017, After voting down the new Treaty, to uphold such standard.
European regulators from Italy, France, Schleswig-Holstein has also stated its Portugal and Spain have signed an intention to possibly implement a new In October 2017, the UKGC issued agreement that will allow for shared regulatory regime, regulating not only a joint call for action letter to UK liquidity in online poker.
While legislative sports betting but also online casino, remote gaming operators about implementation in Italy was put on hold potentially with other German states underage gambling.
The letter called due to political challenges, Portugal namely North Rhine-Westphalia, remote operators to ensure that their has approved its participation in the Rhineland Palatine and Hesse.
ads do not particularly appeal to scheme.
Nonetheless, legislation in persons under the age of 18.
The letter France and Spain has progressed Finally, in October 2017, the German was jointly issued with the British significantly, and shared poker liquidity Federal Administrative Court issued Advertising Standards Authority, the offerings between the two jurisdictions a press release about its upcoming Committee of Advertising Practice commenced during January 2018, ruling validating the German Treatys and the Remote Gambling Association.
with Portugal expected to join ban on the offering of remote casino shortly thereafter.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 41 STRATEGIC REPORT Regulation and General Regulatory Developments continued THE UNITED STATES Throughout 2017, 888 continued to As in the preceding year, the New operate in the US online gaming market York state legislature debated a bill to with online gaming activity in all three regulate online provision of poker in states where commercial internet gaming 2017.
Similarly to 2016, the bill stalled was permitted Nevada, New Jersey after passing the state Senate, with and Delaware.
888 continues to be the legislative attempts anticipated to only online gaming operator authorised recommence in 2018. to conduct business in each of In addition, New Jersey also has these jurisdictions.
introduced draft legislation that, if approved, will allow for international Towards the end of 2017, Pennsylvania shared liquidity, removing the officially became the fourth US state requirements to host servers locally to legalise online gambling, when a in Atlantic City.
gambling expansion bill passed in the Finally, in October 2017, New Jersey Senate and was signed by Governor joined the Multi-State Internet Gaming Tom Wolf.
The new law will allow for the Agreement, originally between Nevada regulation of remote slots, table games and Delaware.
This is expected to and poker.
Another major development clear the way for pooled online poker is that the Pennsylvania law also contains player liquidity between the three regulations pertaining to remote sports jurisdictions, with progressive online betting, contingent on the activity slots possibly to follow.
becoming legal at the US federal level.
In 2017, the Illinois state legislature While the exact opportunities presented debated a bill for the regulation by the Pennsylvania market remains of online casino and poker.
to be seen, with secondary legislation However, the bill ended up not yet in place, 888 keeps a close eye being abandoned mid-year.
on developments in the market and is assessing the potential of entering the market.
Licensing fees dictated by Since the 2016 elections, there is legislation are high, as is the tax rate for uncertainty about changes that may take certain types of online games e. g. 54% place in the US approach federal and tax on slot machine revenue.
state alike towards gambling in coming years.
US Attorney General, Jeff Sessions, The state of New Jersey continued its commented in his 2017 Senate legal challenges to the federal prohibition confirmation hearing that he intended to on sports betting, and a hearing in its review the US Department of Justices appeal to the Supreme Court was held DOJ position on the interpretation of in December 2017.
During the hearing, the Federal Wire Act.
As yet, the position significant criticism was expressed by of the Trump administration on gambling a majority of the presiding judges on the issues remains uncertain.
The 2011 DOJ federal law in question the Professional position on the Federal Wire Act has not and Amateur Sports Protection Act of been revisited by the Attorney General, 1992.
The courts decision on the appeal despite calls to do so by several US is expected in March-April of 2018 and senators and Republican congressmen.
could have far-reaching ramifications for many other US states.
888 will, of course, continue to follow these developments as they evolve.
Other than the development in Pennsylvania, although legislative discussions in several US states surrounding online gaming in some cases, online poker continued during 2017, no significant legislative changes occurred.
888 continues to closely monitor discussions and initiatives in the various jurisdictions, with the knowledge that positive developments in these markets could present opportunities for 888.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 42 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM FURTHER AFIELD Further to regulatory reform reaching In Canada, Loto-Qubec has yet to Latin America in 2016, Colombia adopted publish its anticipated RFP process, a regime for the regulation and licensing which will allow private companies to of online gambling and sports betting provide it with remote gambling services.
and, during 2017, introduced a draft Movement towards pan-Canadian remote decree aimed at regulating virtual sports, gambling market liberalization is not live casino and introducing international expected in the near future.
Further reforms may be brought forward Argentina has seen a significant in 2018, in jurisdictions such as Mexico increase in regulatory enforcement and Brazil.
in 2017, with local authorities taking action against several Argentina-based 888 continues to follow these online operators.
developments to assess their impact on our business and to identify potential opportunities for growth.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 43
