STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors submit to the members their Annual Report a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with and Accounts of the Group for the year ended 31 December an offer or issue of equity securities to or in favour of: 2017.
The Strategic Report, Corporate Governance Statement i Ordinary Shareholders where the equity securities and Directors Remuneration Report on pages 08, 55 and 62 respectively attributable to the interests of all Ordinary respectively, form part of this Directors Report.
Shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held by Results them: and ii holders of other equity securities if this is The Groups profit after tax for the financial year of US$12.6 required by the rights of those securities, or if the Directors million 2016: US$51.5 million is reported in the consolidated consider it necessary, as permitted by the rights of those income statement on page 90.
The Board is recommending a securities: so that the Directors may make such exclusions final dividend of 5.9 per share plus an additional one-off 5.6 or other arrangements as they consider expedient in per share which together with the interim dividend equals relation to treasury shares, fractional entitlements, record 15.5 per share for the year 2016: 19.4 per share.
dates, shares represented by depositary receipts, legal or practical problems under the laws in any territory or the Directors and their interests requirements of any relevant regulatory body or stock Biographical details of the current Board of Directors, setting exchange or any other matter: out their relevant skills and experience and their professional commitments, are shown on pages 46 and 47.
The Directors b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to subwho served during the year are shown below.
In line with paragraphs a above and c below of equity securities the UK Corporate Governance Code and as required by the up to an aggregate nominal value of 89,870.25: and Companys Articles of Association Articles, all Directors retire at each Annual General Meeting and those who wish c to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to to continue to serve offer themselves for re-election.
sub-paragraphs a and b above of equity securities in connection with an acquisition or specified capital Brian Mattingley first appointed 30 August 2005. investment up to an aggregate nominal value Itai Frieberger first appointed 13 May 2015. of 89,870.25: Aviad Kobrine first appointed 30 August 2005.
Ron McMillan first appointed 15 May 2014. and shall expire upon the earlier of: i the conclusion of the Amos Pickel first appointed 14 March 2006, next Annual General Meeting of the Company after passing stepped down 9 May 2017. the resolution, save that the Company may before such expiry Zvika Zivlin first appointed 9 May 2017. make an offer or agreement which would or might require Anne fide Kerckhove first appointed 28 November 2017. equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Board may allot equity securities in pursuance of such an offer or The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Directors and agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired: their closely associated persons pursuant to Article 19 of the and ii 30 June 2018.
European Market Abuse Regulation in shares of the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 63 In paragraph c specified capital investment means one to 76.
There has been no change in the interests of Directors or more specific capital investments in respect of which in shares of the Company between 31 December 2017 and the sufficient information regarding the effect of the transaction date of this Report.
on the Company, the assets the subject of the transaction and where appropriate the profits attributable to those assets Except as noted above, none of the Directors had any interests is made available to shareholders to enable them to reach an in the shares of the Company or in any material contract or assessment of the potential return.
arrangement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
In 2017, the Company did not exercise any of the foregoing Share capital powers and authorities.
Changes in share capital of the Company during the financial year are given in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in The Directors do not have any power in relation to the buy Equity.
As at 31 December 2017, the issued share capital of back by the Company of its own Ordinary Shares.
In 2017, the the Company comprised 359,679,561 Ordinary Shares of GBP Company did not seek authority to and did not purchase any 0.005 each Ordinary Shares.
of its own Ordinary Shares.
At the Annual General Meeting held in May 2017, the Board Rights attaching to Ordinary Shares in the Company was empowered to allot securities of a value up to 66.66% of The rights and obligations attaching to Ordinary Shares are the Companys ordinary share capital in issue as at 31 March set out in the Articles of the Company.
2017, provided that, in accordance with institutional guidelines issued by the Investment Association, this would permit up Holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to attend and speak to a maximum nominal value of 1,198,150.18 66.66% to at general meetings, to appoint one or more proxies and to be allotted pursuant to a rights issue and up to a maximum exercise voting rights.
Holders of Ordinary Shares may receive nominal value of 599,075.09 33.33% to be allotted a dividend and on liquidation may share in the Companys otherwise.
Furthermore, the Board was empowered to allot assets.
Holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive the equity securities of the Company for cash without application Annual Report.
Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of pre-emptive rights under the Companys Articles, provided of Ordinary Shares may requisition a general meeting or the that such power is limited: proposal of resolutions at general meetings.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 49 GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT continued Memorandum & Articles of Association Many jurisdictions require any person who acquires beneficial The Memorandum & Articles of the Company can only be ownership of more than a certain percentage typically 5% of the Companys securities, to report the acquisition to the amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
There were no changes to the Memorandum gaming authorities and apply for a finding of suitability.
Many & Articles of the Company during 2017. gaming authorities allow an institutional investor to apply for a waiver that allows such institutional investor to acquire Deadlines for exercising voting rights at the up to a certain percentage of securities without applying for a finding of suitability, subject to the fulfilment of certain 2018 Annual General Meeting Electronic and paper proxy appointment and voting conditions.
In some jurisdictions, suitability investigations instructions must be received by the Companys registrars may require extensive personal and financial disclosure.
not later than 9.00am CET 8.00am GMT on 7 May 2018.
The failure of any such individuals or entities to submit to Forms of Direction from persons holding depository interests such background checks and provide the required disclosure could jeopardise the Groups eligibility for a required licence in the Company in uncertificated form through CREST must be received by the Companys registrars not later than or approval.
Any person who is found unsuitable by a relevant gaming Restrictions on transfer of shares and limitations authority may be prohibited by applicable gaming laws or regulations from holding, directly or indirectly, the beneficial on holdings There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the ownership of any of the Companys securities.
holding of Ordinary Shares other than under restrictions imposed by law or regulation for example, insider trading The Companys Articles include provisions to ensure that 888 laws or pursuant to the Companys share dealing code.
has the required powers to continue to comply with applicable gaming regulations.
Requirements of gaming regulations Amongst others, the Group: These provisions include providing the Company, in the event of a Shareholder Regulatory Event as defined in the Articles, i holds a licence from the Nevada Gaming Commission with the right to: as the sole shareholder of an Interactive Gaming Service Provider licencee, and as such is subject to the Nevada a suspend certain rights of its members who do not comply Gaming Control Act and to the licensing and regulatory with the provisions of the gaming regulations the Affected control of the Nevada State Gaming Control Board Members : and the Nevada Gaming Commission: b require such Affected Members to dispose of their ii holds a transactional waiver from the New Jersey Ordinary Shares: and Division of Gaming Enforcement permitting it to c subject to b above, dispose of the Ordinary Shares of be the sole shareholder of a Casino Service Industry such Affected Members.
Enterprise licence applicant presently holder of a transactional waiver allowing it to conduct online gaming The Company considers that these rights are required in order related business in New Jersey, and as such is subject to mitigate the risk that an interest in Ordinary Shares held to the New Jersey Casino Control Act and to the licensing by a particular person could lead to action being taken by and regulatory control of the New Jersey Division a relevant Regulatory Authority as defined in the Articles of Gaming Enforcement: and which in turn could lead to the withdrawal of existing iii holds a Gaming Vendor Licence from the Delaware licences held by the Group or the exclusion of being awarded Department of Finance, State Lottery Office, and as further licences in other jurisdictions that the Group seeks such is subject to Title 29 of the Delaware Code and to pursue.
This potential Regulatory Authority action could therefore cause substantial damage to the Groups business to the licensing and regulatory control of the Delaware Department of Finance, State Lottery Office.
The Company and holders of Ordinary Shares therein may Entities holding Company shares on behalf also in the future be subject to similar restrictions in other of Group employees At 31 December 2017, Virtual Share Services Limited a wholly jurisdictions where the Group secures a gaming licence.
owned subsidiary of the Company held 3,277,821 Ordinary The criteria used by relevant regulatory authorities to make Shares in its administrative capacity in connection with the 888 determinations as to suitability of an applicant for licensure All-Employee Share Plan and under the 888 Holdings plc Long varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally require Term Incentive Plan 2015.
Full details are set out on page 65. the submission of detailed personal and financial information followed by a thorough investigation.
Gaming authorities have very broad discretion in determining whether an applicant corporate or individual qualifies for licensing or should be found suitable.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 50 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE.
COM Substantial shareholdings As at 31 December 2017, the Company had been notified of the following interests in 5% or more of its share capital under Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR Rule 5 of the UK Financial Conduct Authority: % issued Number of share Nature of Principal shareholders shares capital Holding Sinitus Nominees Limited in trust on behalf of Dalia Shaked 86,283,534 24.1% Indirect Majedie Asset Management Limited 35,336,801 9.9% Indirect Standard Life Investments Limited 17,996,793 5.0% Indirect Holding disclosed under Rule 8.3 of the Takeover Code.
In accordance with DTR 5, Sinitus Nominees Limited as trustee of the O Shaked Shares Trust notified the Company that, in June 2017, it disposed of shares comprising 11.23% of the Ordinary Shares, and in October 2017 disposed of its remaining Ordinary Shares comprising 12.87% of the Companys issued share capital.
Between 31 December 2017 and the date of this Annual Report, a further notification was received from BlackRock, Inc. regarding its holdings comprising 5.0% of the Companys issued share capital.
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the DTRs is publicly available via the regulatory information services and the Companys corporate website corporate.
Shareholder agreements and consent requirements There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares.
Relationship Agreement The Company is a party to a relationship agreement with, among others, Sinitus Nominees Limited as trustee for Dalia Shaked DS Trust dated 14 September 2005 which was amended on 16 July 2015 the Amended Relationship Agreement.
The O Shaked Shares Trust and the Ben Yitzhak Family Shares Trust together with Dalia Shaked Bare Trust, the Principal Shareholder Trusts are also party to the Amended Relationship Agreement but are no longer bound by certain material provisions since they are no longer shareholders of the Company.
The Amended Relationship Agreement includes the following provisions in respect of the independence of 888 Holdings plc in accordance with the UK Listing Rules which provide that DS Trust shall, and shall procure as far as it is legally able, that its respective associates: conduct all transactions and relationships with 888 Holdings plc and any member of the Group on an arms length basis and on a normal commercial basis: not take any action which precludes or inhibits 888 Holdings plc, or any member of the Group, from carrying on its business independently of it: not take any action that would have the effect of preventing the Company, or any member of the Group, from complying with its obligations under the UK Listing Rules: and not propose or procure the proposal of any shareholder resolution which is intended, or appears to be intended, to circumvent any proper application of the UK Listing Rules.
It further provides that the DS Trust will not solicit Group employees without consent, that only independent directors can vote on proposals to further amend the Amended Relationship Agreement, that the DS Trust will consult the Company prior to disposing of a significant number of shares in order to maintain an orderly market and shall not disclose confidential information unless required to do so by law or relevant regulation or having first received the Companys consent.
The Amended Relationship Agreement also includes restrictions on the DS Trusts power to appoint Directors and includes obligations on the DS Trust to exercise its voting rights to ensure that the majority of the Board, excluding the Chairman, is independent.
The DS Trust can nominate a Non-Executive Director for appointment to the Board.
In the event that this right is exercised and it results in fewer than half the Board excluding the Chairman of the Board being Independent Directors, such appointment shall only become effective upon the appointment to the Board of an additional Independent Director acceptable to the Nominations Committee.
There are no such nominated Directors at present.
Such restrictions and obligations apply in respect of the DS Trust whilst it holds not less than 7.5% of the issued share capital of the Company.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 51 GOVERNANCE & DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT continued The obligations of the parties to the Amended Relationship Financial instruments Agreement are at all times subject to all relevant legal and The Company considers the Groups exposure to financial regulatory requirements and obligations of the parties thereto risks, including exposure to specific countries and trading in the United Kingdom, Gibraltar or elsewhere.
During 2017, hedging of the Groups foreign currency risks was carried out solely with leading Confirmation of independence banks including Barclays plc.
Further information on the As required pursuant to LR 9.8.
4 R 14, the Board confirms Groups use of financial instruments is set out in note 24 with regard to the portion of financial year 2017 during which to the annual accounts on page 120. the Company had a controlling shareholder: Directors indemnities the Company has complied with the independence The Companys Articles of Association permit the Company to provisions included in the Amended Relationship indemnify its Directors in certain circumstances, as well as to Agreement: provide insurance for the benefit of its Directors.
The Company so far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions has undertaken to indemnify certain of its Non-Executive included in the Amended Relationship Agreement have been Directors: a in defending any proceedings, whether civil or complied with by the controlling shareholders and their criminal, in which judgment is given in favour of such Nonassociates: and Executive Director or in which such Non-Executive Director so far as the Company is aware, none of the Principal is acquitted: or b in connection with any application under Shareholder Trusts or any of their respective associates Section 477 of the Gibraltar Companies Act pursuant to which proposed or procured the proposal of any shareholder the court may provide relief to such Non-Executive Director resolution which circumvented the proper application in any proceedings for negligence, default, breach of duty or of the UK Listing Rules.
breach of trust on grounds that such Non-Executive Director has acted honestly and reasonably, and that, having regard There were no instances in which an independent Director of to all circumstances of the case, including those connected the Company did not support the Boards statements regarding with his appointment, he ought fairly to be excused from compliance with the aforementioned independence criteria.
liability on such terms as the court thinks fit.
The Company also undertook in favour of Aviad Kobrine to indemnify him As a result of the sale of shares by O Shaked Shares Trust to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law and 888s in the Company, as at the date of this Annual Report, the Articles in connection with the execution of his duties and Company no longer has a controlling shareholder as defined or exercise of his powers, authorities and discretions pursuant under the UK Listing Rules.
In addition, certain special indemnities were provided to the Executive Directors in Shareholders Agreement connection with the compliance and licensing procedures The Principal Shareholder Trusts and certain other relating to 888s business in the United States, details of shareholders entered into a shareholders agreement on which were provided in 888s 2011 Annual Report.
Finally, 14 September 2005 the Shareholders Agreement.
However, the Company entered into qualifying third-party indemnity following disposal of their Ordinary Shares in the Company, the arrangements for the benefit of all of its Directors in a form obligations in the Shareholders Agreement no longer apply and scope which comply with the requirements of the UK to O Shaked Shares Trust and the Ben Yitzhak Family Shares Companies Act 2006 and the Gibraltar Companies Act 2014 Trust and it is referenced herein only in connection with the which were in force from 1 November 2017 and remain in force.
portion of 2017 prior to such disposals.
Corporate governance Change of control The Corporate Governance Statement is on pages 55 to 61 A change of control in the Company may, in the event and is incorporated in this Directors Report by reference.
of failure to fulfil any applicable consent requirement, give rise to certain revocation or termination rights under the Going concern and viability statement Groups gaming licences or certain contracts to which Group The going concern and viability statement required to be companies are a party.
included in the Annual Report pursuant to the UK Corporate Governance Code are on page 44 and are incorporated Donations in this Directors Report by reference.
The Group did not make any donations to any political party including any non-EU political party or organisation Principal subsidiary undertakings or independent election candidate or incurred any political The principal subsidiary undertakings are listed on page 116. expenditure during the year.
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 52
