PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 20 CAN DO Our people, our greatestasset Our CAN DO values are as relevant as ever Our operating model, and as a result, our job roles have changed over the past few years and we remain focused on recruiting people who embody our CAN DO values.
It is these enduring values that make PZ Cussons the unique business it is today.
Itisalso these values that attract people to PZ Cussons as an employer and motivate people to want to stay with us.
Over 27% of our employee population hasover 15 years service with the business, and following a three year period ofsignificant change, our overall employee retention is still greater than 90%.
We have been transforming our organisation to work more effectively both globally and regionally.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 21 Over the past three years, to promote As a result of this work, we created the executive coaching to provide focused sustainable growth, we have been PZLeader profile.
This in-depth profile and intensive leadership development transforming our organisation to work provides clarity on what we expect from support to drive specific more effectively both globally and our leaders and also informs the design of behavioural shifts.
Moving to an integrated our global leadership curriculum, ThePZ matrix organisation has required ashift Way of Leading.
Our leadership curriculum In addition to leadership development, in skills, capabilities and behaviours.
targets senior and mid-level leaders with we have continued to build sales the aim of building the skills, capabilities capability in traditional and modern In particular, we identified the need for and mind-sets needed to successfully lead trade across commercial teams in a different method of leadership than in our matrix organisation.
Africa and Asia, as well as marketing we previously exercised.
Last year, our capabilities with our marketeers.
organisational leaders came together Over the past year, we have rolled out and developed the definition of a the curriculum globally across all our Following our global implementation PZLeader who will drive and sustain functions and at multiple levels, building of SAP, employees have been trained our business through change and a pool of local talent in our Asia and Africa accordingly on both system and demanding business priorities, regions.
Additionally, for some of our process changes.
future leaders, we have invested in What we value Courage Networking We challenge convention, ourselves We are one Company across all and each other.
We have the strength, functions and geographies, working willingness and determination to towards a common goal through initiate, make things happen and cooperation and teamwork.
Drive Accountability We are relentless in our pursuit We are all champions of our Company, of success and together we approach take responsibility for achieving our each day with the energy, passion and objectives, and do what we say we will persistence to exceed expectations.
We do what is right, not merely what is expected, act with openness, Oneness integrity and trust, ask for help, admit We are all PZ Cussons people and to our mistakes and put things right.
We treat each other with respect regardless of status.
Weact professionally and together wecelebrate success with understated pride.
