PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 22 Good4Business On a mission to beGood4Business We are G4B We are on a mission to be Good4Business G4B in every Our G4B approach provides us with a clear framework aspect of our organisation.
We believe passionately that forhow we should conduct our business activities in business can be a force for positive change.
We have always ourdifferent geographies and across all of our product aimed to make a positive impact on society through the categories.
It ensures that creating sustainable value products which we sell, the way in which our products are forallsits at the heart of everything we do.
Specifically, it designed, manufactured and packaged and through the provides four areas of focus that we call lenses, through contributions we make to the communities in which which we can assess our business and ensure that creating weoperate.
sustainable value is integrated into all of our day-to-day decision-making: We do this because we know that its the right thing to Business Governance & Ethics do, but also because we believe that it is Good4Business.
Environment Byforging strong links with our local communities and mutually beneficial relationships with our business partners, Sourcing conducting our activities with integrity and responsibility Community & Charity andby helping to conserve the planets precious natural Read more on pages 40-43 resources, we are creating sustainable value for all of our stakeholders, now and into thefuture.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 23 Safety starts with me The continued health and safety of our employees, contractors and visitors is of critical importance.
During theyear we have continued to invest in health & safety initiatives across all parts of the business.
Each of our operations around the world is now accredited to the international OHSAS18001 safety standard, with one exception which has plans in place to achieve accreditation within the next 18 months.
Initiatives like Safety starts with me at our Tangerang factory in Indonesia have established a robust safety culture and a pride in the workplace.
Environmental progress This year we have continued to embed G4B globally within our supply chain and manufacturing processes to reduce carbon, water and waste.
Building on our good progress of previous years, we are pleased to confirm that we have once again exceeded our absolute reduction targets in all areas.
Water usage was reduced by 16%, carbon footprint was reduced by 9.7% and waste has been reduced by 54%.
G4B in action Our long-time association with Seashell Trust enables the business and its employees to help transform the lives of children who are living with complex and severe learning disabilities and their families and we continue to provide funding to help them to thrive in a happy and secure environment.
Our funding helps Seashell Trust work with pupils such as Daniel Follon, pictured with artist Lauren Mullarkey, to be part of art projects.
This felt picture was presented to Her Majesty The Queen, Patron of Seashell Trust, to celebrate Her Majestys 90th birthday and will be exhibited at Buckingham Palace this summer.
Training for modern plantations PZ Wilmar operates approximately 26,500 hectares of oil palm plantations in Cross River State in Nigeria, providing direct employment to over 3,000 people.
This makes the company the second largest employer in the state after the Nigerian Government.
To address the industrys skills gap, PZ Wilmar started atraining programme to equip new university graduates with modern plantation management skills.
Recruits gothrough an intensive six month classroom and field training programme before joining the company at supervisory level.
PZ Wilmar has also prioritised infrastructure development, as well as building and maintaining schools and medical facilities to benefit workers and local communities.
