PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 02 Governance Board of Directors Name and Appointed PZC length Committee Skills and Other position to the Board of service memberships experiences appointments Alex Kanellis 2003 24 years Executive Committee Alex Kanellis joined PZ Cussons in 1993.
He was appointed Managing Director of Chief Executive Nomination Committee the Groups Thailand operations in 1998 Officer Good4Business Committee and Managing Director of Indonesia in 2001.
He joined the Board in 2003 as Regional Director of Asia before becoming Chief Executive Officer in June 2006.
Alex has a PhD in mechanical engineering.
Brandon Leigh 2006 20 years Executive Committee Brandon Leigh joined PZ Cussons in 1997 and held a number of senior finance Chief Financial Good4Business Committee roles within the Group before being Officer appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer in 2006.
Previous to joining PZCussons, Brandon worked at Deloitte & Touche where he qualified as a chartered accountant.
Chris Davis 2006 24 years Executive Committee Chris Davis joined PZ Cussons in 1993.
After holding various senior posts, he was Chief Operating Good4Business Committee appointed as Managing Director of the Officer Groups Australian operations.
In 2006 hejoined the Board as Regional Director ofAfrica and in 2008 moved into the role of Group Commercial Director.
Chris was appointed to his present position in 2013.
Previous to joining PZ Cussons, Chris worked in senior sales and marketing roles in various consumer goods companies including BTR Nylex Group.
Caroline Silver 2014 3 years Chair of Nomination Caroline Silver joined the PZ Cussons Partner and Committee Board as a Non-executive Director Managing Director Non-executive in 2014, becoming Senior Independent Moelis & Company Chair Good4Business Committee Director in 2016 and Chair in 2017.
She has Trustee of the worked within the investment banking Victoria & Albert sector for over 25 years and is Partner and Museum Managing Director at Moelis & Company.
She is a chartered accountant and has previously held senior corporate finance and M&A positions at Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch.
She has a wealth of international experience especially within Africanmarkets.
Ngozi Edozien 2012 5 years Nomination Committee Ngozi Edozien joined PZ Cussons in 2012.
Non-executive She has a background in financial services Director of Non-executive Remuneration Committee investment banking and private equity, Stanbic IBTC Director Audit & Risk Committee management consulting and general Holdings Chair of Good4Business management.
She held senior positions Standard Bank, Committee as an Associate at JP Morgan NY and Nigeria Associate Principal at McKinsey & Co. Non-executive UK, France where she advised businesses Director of predominantly in the consumer products Guinness Diageo and healthcare sectors.
She has also held Nigeria roles as Head Chief Executive Officer at Non-executive Actis West Africa, a leading private equity Director of investor in emerging markets based in Barloworld Plc theUK and as VP Strategic Planning and South Africa Business Development for Pfizer Inc. in the New York headquarters and subsequently Regional Director East, West and Central Africa.
She is currently Managing Director of InVivo Partners, a principal investments and advisory firm in Nigeria.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2017 03 Name and Appointed PZC length Committee Skills and Other position to the Board of service memberships experiences appointments Jez Maiden 1 November 9 months Chair of the Audit Jez Maiden joined the PZ Cussons Board as Group Finance 2016 & Risk Committee a Non-executive Director on 1 November Director of Croda Non-executive 2016.
He currently holds the post of Group International Plc Director Nomination Committee Finance Director at Croda International Plc, Remuneration Committee the FTSE 100 global speciality chemicals Good4Business Committee company.
He has previously held similar positions at National Express Group Plc, Northern Foods Plc and British Vita Plc and was, until 2015, Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Audit Committee of Synthomer Plc.
Helen Owers 2012 5 years Nomination Committee Helen Owers joined the PZ Cussons Non-executive Board as a Non-executive Director in 2012.
Director of Non-executive Chair of Remuneration Prior to this she held senior roles within Informa Plc Director Committee Thomson Reuters, including Chief Non-executive Audit & Risk Committee Development Officer with responsibility Director of Good4Business Committee for the companys expansion in rapidly Wragge Lawrence developing economies and the Graham & Co. LLP implementation of the companys digital Non-executive strategy, and President of Global Director of the Businesses for Thomson Reuters Legal, Eden Project responsible for building new businesses in emerging markets.
She also has extensive experience working as a consultant for Gemini Consulting, developing and implementing corporate and operational strategies for consumer products clients.
John Nicolson 2016 1 year Nomination Committee John Nicolson joined the PZ Cussons Non-executive Board as a Non-executive Director Chairman Senior Remuneration Committee on1May 2016.
John has significant of A G Barr Plc Independent Audit & Risk Committee experience of global consumer goods Director Non-executive Good4Business Committee businesses for both developed and Director of Stocks emerging markets, having held senior Spirits Group Plc positions in the FMCG sector, including Non-executive being Regional President and Executive Director of Committee member of Heineken NV North American andExecutive Board Director for Breweries Inc. international markets at Scottish Member of the &Newcastle.
Advisory Board at Edinburgh University Business School
