PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 12 Our Categories No1 or No2 leading market share positions We create consumer brands to remember and enjoy and we operate in four main categories where our brands have a distinct strategic advantage and occupy No1 or No2 leading market share positions.
Personal Care Home Care In our Personal Care category we manufacture and sell bar In our Home Care category we sell brands that fall into two soap, liquid hand wash, shower gel, skincare and haircare segments Dish Care and Fabric Care.
products in each of our Africa, Asia and Europe geographies.
Dish Care The Groups Beauty division is included within this category Our Dish Care brand is called Morning Fresh and is sold in with brands such as St. Tropez, Sanctuary Spa and Being by most of our geographies.
It is also an example of where we Sanctuary Spa.
utilise our liquid production synergies across Personal Care and Dish Care.
In this category we have a diverse portfolio split into international, regional and local brands.
An example of Fabric Care aninternational brand is Imperial Leather as this brand We have Fabric Care brands in both developed and emerging ismarketed globally.
Cussons Baby is one of our regional markets.
The majority of the Groups Fabric Care brands of brands and is available within Asia and Africa.
A local brand laundry soap, bulk and packaged washing powders are sold example is Venus which is only marketed in Nigeria.
in our emerging markets, particularly in Nigeria.
Examples of our main African brands are Canoe and Zip.
In our developed In all of our operating markets we aim to take advantage Australian and New Zealand markets we have two Fabric of the Groups supply chain and distribution synergies Care brands called Radiant and Duo.
andwhere possible, we market our brands across multiple geographies.
We match the needs of our local, regional andinternational consumers to our brand portfolio, helping to balance the demand through group sourcing, including common formulations, packaging, fragrances and the fulfilment capabilities of our supply chain.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 13 Electricals Africa only Nigeria is the home of our Electricals operations and where we are partnered with Haier, one of the worlds largest producers of white goods.
Products are sold under the brand name Haier Thermocool and are designed specifically for the African market.
We are No1 in Nigeria for refrigerators and freezers, whilst market shares in other sub categories, such as air conditioners and washing machines continue to grow.
To retail and market these products, we operate a small chainof retail outlets in Nigeria and Ghana.
Sales through thestores account for around 5% of total electrical sales.
Food & Nutrition Our Food & Nutrition category is where we have seen the Cooking ingredients most expansion in recent years, adding to our brand portfolio We have two cooking ingredients businesses located in through acquisition.
The focus in this category is on value add Nigeria and Greece.
Our largest cooking ingredient operation nutritional or organic products and we have brands in three is in Nigeria through our joint venture partnership with Wilmar segments: dairy products, cooking ingredients and baby food.
Here we sell cooking oil under the brands of Mamador and Devon Kings.
Dairy products Our largest dairy market is in Nigeria served by our Nutricima Our food and cooking ingredient business in Greece operates business.
Here we sell powdered, evaporated and UHT dairy under the Minerva brand and offers edible oils, spreads, based products under the brands Nunu and Olympic.
Australia is the base for our other dairy business five:am, Baby food which we acquired in 2014.
The core product range was Our baby food brand Raffertys Garden was acquired in 2013 originally organic yoghurt, however in the past year we have and is based in Australia.
Our products are made from natural extended the portfolio to include granolas and smoothies.
ingredients and sold in pouch format.
In the past 12 months the brand has successfully expanded its product range to include snacks and is currently sold in Australia, New Zealand and China.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 14 Our Categories helping us to win throughinnovation PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 15 We win through keeping Imperial Leather Sweet Treat range our brands fresh and Inspired by consumer trends relating to food ingredients, relevant for consumers Imperial Leather launched a sweet treats range of shower and bath products in 2015 which continues to go from through a programme of strength to strength.
Key variants are Marshmallow and renovation and innovation.
Cherry Bakewell, which have proven very popular and are now among the best sellers for the whole Imperial Leather range.
Additionally, these variants offer something very distinctive and have attracted a younger consumer to the brand.
A great deal of organic social media coverage has been created to achieve significantly increased year-on-year sales.
Morning Fresh Ultimates breakthrough innovation Morning Fresh is Australias No1 Dish Care expert, delivering breakthrough innovation into the Australian market in 2017.
Our best formulation yet, Morning Fresh Ultimate is formulated with enzymes, to remove tough baked-on food.
The key benefit is the power of an overnight soak with one squirt delivering the best result indishwashing and getting the job done first time.
This best in class formula development has created a premium category in dishwashing.
Thermocool delivers Peace of Mind The Haier Thermocool brand has further reinforced its leadership position in our African Electricals category with its recently launched Peace of Mind campaign.
The campaign highlights the brands pedigree of performance, durability and after sales service, building onthe consumers trust and confidence in the brand.
ThePeace of Mind campaign was launched across billboards, our Coolworld retail stores and online, giving consumers one more reason to choose HaierThermocool over our competitors.
Creativity and inspiration reaches TOP level The new balsamic glazes portfolio has strengthened TOP brands popularity within the Food & Nutrition category.
TOP is the No1 vinegar in the Greek market and has 83years of brand heritage, creating innovative products which inspire cooks throughout Greece.
This versatile range is now enriched with new salty flavours that straddle the borders between balsamic glazes and cooking sauces, befitting their brand motto of fits everywhere.
