PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 08 Our Geographies Our diverse and global operations We operate in a carefully selected balance ofgeographies in Africa, Asia and Europe.
35% 38% Our largest markets are located in Nigeria, Revenue by theUK, Indonesia and Australia.
geography Trading history Maximising geographical opportunities We have a long-standing trading history 27% in all of our markets and this plays a Our Groups business interests span the significant part in the reason why we developed economies of the UK and trade in the geographies that we do.
Australia, as well as two of the worlds Inthe Groups early days over 133 years largest emerging economies, Nigeria and ago, our trade was focused solely on Indonesia.
Operating in both developed Africa, in particular West Africa, where and emerging global economies helps us our roots are deeply entrenched today.
to balance our risk profile.
Within the African market we have operations in each of our four categories.
Over the years, strategic acquisitions have reduced our dependence on the Our expansion into the diverse global Nigerian market.
Careful rebalancing balance of geographies we operate in andexpansion into new categories have today started in the 1970s, through provided us with a greater proportion strategic acquisition on entry into new ofprofit and cash flow from developed markets which included the UK, Australia markets to balance the short-term and Kenya.
This geographical expansion volatility in emerging markets, which continued throughout the 1980s and offer medium and long-term 1990s into markets such as Poland, growthopportunities.
We have built an effective model whichenables us to capitalise on brand expansion opportunities as they arise inneighbouring geographies without establishing a significant on the ground presence.
This model uses third party distributors and is working well for us within South East Asian markets for our Food & Nutrition products and also inAmerica and Canada for our Beauty ranges.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 09 Europe Revenue 280.9m 2016: 275.8m Read more on pages 32-33 Asia Revenue UK Poland 222.7m 2016: 188.2m Greece Read more on pages 30-31 Middle East Thailand Nigeria Ghana Kenya Indonesia Australia Africa Revenue New Zealand 305.6m 2016: 357.2m Read more on pages 28-29 PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 10 Our Geographies providing global brand reach and opportunities PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 11 Our diverse geographies spanning developed and emerging economies provide significant market knowledge, global reach and opportunities for our Group brands.
Mamador creates consumer choice Mamadors quality cooking oil and flexible pack sizes have weathered the markets volatile economic conditions to deliver strong market share growth and financial results.
The brands consumer metrics showed strong brand health development, with growing consumer loyalty, penetration and buying rates.
These results were achieved by defining and developing brand positioning and through a number of key initiatives including the Mamador Million Hearts Campaign, whilst also offering consumers a greater choiceof affordable pack sizes.
Raffertys Garden range expansion In Australia, Raffertys Garden continues to cement itsleadership in the Baby Food category with the launch of 17 new products.
The range extension offers nutritionally enhanced products to support childrens growth and development, launching across multiple segments of cereals, meals and snacking.
Altogether, this sees the brand reaching an unprecedented 40% volume market share against our key competitors, especially in Woolworths supermarkets.
Transforming the way women moisturise Our No1 indulgent pampering brand Sanctuary Spa has launched the ultimate body moisturizer, Wet Skin Moisture Miracle.
This leave-on body lotion is a UK first to market for the brand and is applied to soaking wet skin immediately after showering.
The product uses new technology which works with humidity and water to absorb faster into the skin and lock in double the moisture.
Following its launch inmid 2017, Wet Skin Moisture Miracle is already trending as the No1 product across the brand.
