PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 03 Chairs statement Growing and maintaining market share We would also like to extend our thanks The Groups strategy of ongoing brand to Ngozi for the input and wise counsel which she has given during her six years innovation and renovation continues on the Board, both in respect of Nigeria but also more broadly, given her extensive tounderpin our ability to maintain international business experience.
We andgrow our market share.
wish her well in the future and thank her for her commitment to PZ Cussons.
Future growth The Groups balance sheet remains strong with net debt at only 1.1 x EBITDA and, together with lower capital expenditure requirements following the completion of the SAP project, provides flexibility to take advantage of new investment opportunities as they arise.
Solid performance Board changes Despite consumer confidence remaining fragile in most markets, the Group This is my first Annual Report as Chair, In addition to Richard Harvey, remains well placed to deliver full year following the retirement of Richard ProfessorJohn Arnold also retired as expectations.
The Board is pleased Harvey on 31 December 2016.
I am aNon-executive Director in December to declare a final dividend of 5.61p, pleased to report the Group has 2016.
The Board welcomed Jez Maiden which represents the Companys delivered a solid set of results for the as a Non-executive Director in November 44th consecutive year of full year year ended 31 May 2017, with profits 2016 and he was appointed Chair ofthe dividend growth.
slightly ahead of the previous year.
Audit & Risk Committee in January 2017.
These results have been achieved On 25 July 2017 we announced the Caroline Silver despite a significant year-on-year impending retirements of Chris Davis, Chair currency devaluation in the Groups Group Chief Operating Officer and 25 July 2017 largest market Nigeria and general Ngozi Edozien as Non-executive toughtrading conditions in most Director.
Chris joined the PZ Cussons ofthemarkets where we operate.
Board in 2006 and the Board wishes toexpress its thanks to Chris for his The Groups strategy of ongoing brand significant contribution to PZ Cussons innovation and renovation continues to over the past 24 years and for the underpin our ability to maintain or grow leading role he played in the Companys our market share throughout all of the recent business transformation Groups major operating markets.
On retirement, Chris will bereturning to his native Australia and, In Nigeria, our experience and flexibility on behalf of the Board and the wider to ensure our products are sold in the business, I would like to wish him a long right sizes and at the right price points and happy retirement.
has enabled us to deliver a creditable result against the backdrop of a weaker currency and poor liquidity.
