PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 16 Our World-class Supply Chain Modern supply chain operations Athens, Greece Our factories Africa Asia Europe Agecroft, manufacture Manchester, UK Food & Nutrition including: Edible oils, Our factory vinegars, spreads manufactures and cheeses Personal Care and Home Care including: liquid hand wash, shower gel and dish wash products Pathum Thani, Thailand Our factories manufacture Personal care including: toilet soap Nairobi, Kenya Our factories manufacture Personal Care Singapore including: Melbourne, Australia toilet soap Global procurement Our factories Nigeria hub manufacture Food & Nutrition including: Ikorodu dairy products Our factories manufacture Personal Care, Home Care and Food & Nutrition including: Liquid soap, detergents and edible oils Tangerang, Aba Our factories manufacture Jakarta, Indonesia Home Care and Personal Care including: laundry soap and toilet soaps Our factories Lagos manufacture Our factories manufacture Personal Care Electrical products including: including: freezers and fridges liquid soap and baby products National distribution network Multi-depot logistics footprint PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 17 Our flexible supply chain capabilities are the Managing regional challenges backbone of our international businesses, Within our African operations we encounter a number of regional reinforced by a modern factory footprint challenges including inconsistency and excellent distribution networks.
of power and raw material supply.
To ensure the continuity of production we run on-site electricity generators and, where possible, have introduced vertical integration for raw material and packaging supply.
In Kenya our production facility focuses on Personal Care products for the East Africa region.
Regional product distribution Our manufacturing processes Europe We tailor our regional product distribution to the needs of our We manufacture products throughout In the UK we operate an integrated local markets.
We source our centre of excellence and state-of-the-art products through a combination of our liquid manufacturing facility in Agecroft, Our developed market distribution own factories, whilst also outsourcing Manchester which mainly supplies our process for consumers in Europe and production to carefully selected third UK and Polish markets.
To maximise Asia is mainly through supermarkets party manufacturers.
In this way we efficiencies this facility operates on a and other retail chains, utilising third ensure we maximise efficiencies and can just in time basis.
party logistics providers to dispatch flex our production output to meet our products direct from our factories future short to medium-term needs.
Our in-house perfumery, Seven Scent is and third party manufacturers also located at Agecroft and focuses on to retailers.
Our modern factory footprint spans: fragrance innovation and manufacturing for the majority of the Groups product For the emerging markets of Nigeria, Africa portfolio.
Our personal wash innovation Ghana, Kenya and Indonesia, we facility is also housed on the Agecroft In Nigeria the Group operates three large believe our supply chain footprint site and gives the Group an integrated factory sites serving our West Africa and local regional know-how is one centre of excellence for personal wash consumers.
These factory operations of the Groups greatest assets.
In research, development and manufacture.
represent one of our key strengths these markets we have tailored our within the region and are significant logistics model to specific markets.
In Greece our modern food production Group assets.
An example of this is in Nigeria where facilities produce a range of edible oils, there are very few supermarket vinegars, spreads and cheeses.
Our largest site is at Ikorodu just outside chains and consumers shop within a Lagos.
This is where most of our Personal mix of open wet markets, individual Asia Care and Home Care products are traders and small stores.
It is also the home of our Manufacturing activities at our Thailand years to successfully serve the regions Food & Nutrition operations.
Our second factory concentrate on bar soap vast geography and respond to the factory facility is located at Aba in South production for both the Europe and Asia needs of the consumer and the market East Nigeria and is responsible for our markets.
Liquid products for all of our traders, we have developed a laundry and toilet soap manufacture.
Asian personal care markets are produced comprehensive Active Distributor in our Jakarta factory in Indonesia.
This means ournational Our third location is in Lagos next to multi-depot distribution network theGroups Nigeria headquarters and Global procurement dispatches directly to approved Active contains our white goods production Singapore is the headquarters for our Distributors whothen supply locally facility.
global procurement operations and to smaller retailers and wet markets.
covers all categories and markets across the Group.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 18 Our World-class Supply Chain flexible, agile and world-class PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 19 Supported by new technology and processes we are building a world-class supply chain.
Weare delivering increased business flexibility, greater agility to market and a first class distribution network.
Business transformation Eagle We are flying Our three year global SAP business transformation programme called Eagle is now live across all of our markets Africa, Asia and Europe.
The standard SAP solution has been delivered over three years in three separate waves.
Wave 1 in Asia January 2016, Wave 2 in Africa November 2016 and the final stage of the SAP project was delivered in June 2017 when Wave 3 went live in Europe.
Eagle forms the core part of delivering the Groups new operating model.
It will enable the Group to simplify our processes, systems and data, whilst ensuring best practice andconsistency to support future sustainable growth.
All three waves went live on schedule drawing from expertise throughout the business and working with across-functional team comprising 18 nationalities, representing employees from all of our geographies andcultures.
The standard SAP solution was delivered working closely with our implementation partners IBM andT-Systems.
The Group is already seeing significant improvements in business process, controls and visibility across the business and expects to see additional improvements during this financial year.
