PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 42 Good4Business Sourcing As part of an action plan to address Working together to deliver Working with suppliers issues identified on the ground, in early palm oil transformation We enjoy working with like-minded 2017 we funded a programme of TFT Securing a long-term sustainable supply suppliers and contractors who are training for a third party grower for of palm oil for our global operations is a diligent, responsible, honest and fair.
one of our core suppliers.
We know that we can only meet We expect them to mirror our high was designed to embed social and this significant goal through working ethical standards and we scrutinise how environmental practices consistent with collaboratively.
Therefore, we continue suppliers work when establishing or our PZ Palm Oil Promise.
Working with to work with our NGO partner the Forest continuing business relationships.
our supplier and TFT, we will continue Trust TFT, our suppliers, joint venture to monitor the outcomes and deliver partners and other stakeholders to actively We have developed robust procedures additional training.
support the responsible development of togovern how suppliers are selected, the palm oil supply chain.
ourengagement with them and how Through PZ Wilmar, our joint venture wemonitor and conduct audits.
For with Wilmar in Nigeria, we are talking We are committed to ensuring that the thepast few years our Global Technical tothe National Bank of Nigeria and palm oil used in our range of Personal Team has been using the Supplier Heritage Bank to create access to finance Care and Home Care, Beauty and Ethical Data Exchange SEDEX to drive for smallholders with verifiable land Food & Nutrition products is responsibly improvements and standardise how titles.
PZ Wilmar is also contributing sourced, respects local and indigenous wework with suppliers.
In a programme expertise and hybrid seedlings communities, protects animal habitats of continuous improvement we screen tosmallholder farmers, through and does not contribute to deforestation.
our supplier landscape to check SEDEX collaboration with the Nigerian Institute membership status and to monitor for Oil Palm Research.
Once successful, Our priority is to achieve a fully ethical and environmental compliance these initiatives will enable independent transparent and traceable supply via this industry platform.
farmers to revitalise old and inefficient chain and in 2016, we achieved 100% plantations, improve their yield and meet traceability to refinery and 89% Health & safety update Round Table on Sustainable Palm Oil traceability back to the mill.
This Our business spans diverse geographies RSPO criteria.
enhanced visibility enabled TFT to with differing levels of regulation and spend time on the ground with weare committed to delivering globally We will continue to deepen our our key suppliers in Indonesia and consistent and excellent standards of engagement with suppliers to improve Nigeria to identify priority issues.
health & safety across all operations.
traceability and fund action in Indonesia We seek to provide safe working and Nigeria to address practices which environments for all of our employees, conflict with the PZ Palm Oil Promise, contractors and visitors.
To that end, driving real transformation on the ground.
our operations meet local rules and regulations but also comply with our For more G4B case studies see pages robust Group-wide standards, which 22and 23.
Read the PZ Cussons Palm Oil invariably exceed local law.
All of our sites are either accredited orseeking accreditation to the internationally recognised Occupational Health & Safety Management System OHSAS18001.
We employ a team of Change from Change health & safety specialists to develop, 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 11 12 baseline year-on-year monitor and implement best practices Fatalities 2 0 0 0 0 0 and we empower and encourage our LTI absolute number 24 14 7 15 18 8 employees to identify and report hazards LTI frequency rate 0.33 0.17 0.12 0.29 0.12 0.17 or near misses.
