PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 24 Q&A with Alex Kanellis Finding solutions and reacting quickly to opportunities is fundamental tothe way we do business trading conditions and low consumer Key to this successful implementation is What are your views on the confidence in all of our markets.
Our that we chose to adopt the standard SAP businesss performance this year?
results have been aided by our ongoing solution and to mobilise staff in all of our Its been another challenging year for strategy, underpinned by brand regions to work closely with system international trade, so to return a solid innovation and renovation which plays integration partners IBM and T-Systems.
set of results with profits slightly higher ahuge part in thecontinued consumer The completion of the SAP project marks than last year is pleasing.
I believe it success and relevance of our brands and animportant step towards completion reflects our long-gained experience of products, while our ongoing programme ofour business transformation journey adapting how we operate within difficult of margin improvement initiatives has and firmly sets us up to deliver future markets.
The impact of currency also been key in ensuring our bottom sustainable growth.
depreciation has meant that we have lineis delivered.
needed to work harder to achieve these What steps is the Group taking to results, whilst also combatting tough How do you feel about successfully mitigate the effects of currency completing the three year SAP fluctuation on the business?
Ongoing currency fluctuations remain The Board is delighted that we have achallenge for the business and this successfully implemented SAP across all long-term situation is likely to persist.
of our operations and delivered the Working on this basis, margin project on schedule.
It has been a huge improvement initiatives have taken achievement and, since June, the entire placeacross the Groups supply chain Group is now working on one system.
tomitigate the largely currency related increases in raw material costs combined with tight control of overheads to ensure our cost base is optimised.
Helping our consumers to buy the trusted brands they want at prices they can afford is important to us.
In particular, in our African markets where consumers are under significant inflationary pressure, we have built on our local knowledge and created new product sizes at different The Groups balance sheet remains strong with net debt at only 1.1 x EBITDA and, together with lower capital expenditure requirements following the completion of the SAP project, provides us with the flexibility to take advantage of new investment opportunities as they arise.
PZ Cussons Plc Strategic Report 2017 25 price points to reflect their budgets.
exceeded the environmental KPIs of Weare sensitive to the needs of our reducing carbon, water and waste.
The consumers and we are being rewarded targets were achieved through positive for our approach with increased market action: from investing in new factory 44 years share and consumer loyalty.
water recycling technology to replacement LED lighting schemes and of consecutive What affect do you think Brexit by reviewing our recycling processes.
dividend growth will have on the business?
Strong values and ethics have always been our guiding philosophies and our When the time comes our business G4B principles continue to give the willbe ready.
We have been balancing business this strong, ethical framework.
macroeconomic and political conditions in other markets around the world since What appetite does the Group 1884.
Our established UK factory and have for future merger and supply chain operations give us the acquisition opportunities?
agility and flexibility to help us respond to the needs of our UK consumers and We are always on the lookout for the future developing market conditions.
right opportunities to enhance our UKconsumer confidence is likely to existing brand portfolios and to grow our remain low until the impact of Brexit business.
We are extremely discerning in isclearer, and our focus will remain on our choices, the businesses we consider launching exciting new products which and how we evaluate new prospects.
serve and enhance their daily needs.
Allaspects of a business are scrutinised, from their ethics and culture to how their What does the Groups brands are differentiated and can meet Good4Business Policy mean our long-term growth agenda.
balance sheet means that we are well placed to take advantage of the right I am very proud of how the business future opportunities as they arise.
hasembraced our Good4Business G4B Policy, and the way the Group continues to operate with integrity and consideration for our stakeholders and the environment.
G4B has been integrated throughout our international businesses and coordinated via the G4B Committee who ensure that initiatives are driven forward.
We have made some good progress this year and
