SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Viability Statement.
Our Governance To assist the Directors assessment, the financial projections in the Assessment of the Groups Prospects long-term business model were subject to severe but plausible The Directors have assessed the future prospects of the Group Financial scenarios in relation to the principal risks both individually and Statements for the purposes of both the Going Concern and Viability collectively with consideration taken of mitigating actions that might Statements.
The Directors have concluded that the Group is be undertaken.
These scenarios include a protracted reduction operationally and financially strong and has a track record of in the Groups forecast like-for-like revenues due to the impact generating profits and cash.
of brand damage in both current and key development markets, This assessment is made by reference to the Groups historic including the USA and China.
activities, current financial position and prospects, and the Groups Whilst all the principal risks have the potential to affect future growth strategy, which considers factors likely to affect its future performance, the scenarios confirmed that none of them, either development and position and is set out in the Strategic Report individually or collectively, would threaten the viability of the business on pages 5 to 14.
Our Performance section on pages 36 to 44 over the four-year assessment period when mitigating actions are demonstrate the strength of the current position.
This assessment is taken into account.
closely linked to the principal risks facing the Group, and how they are identified and mitigated.
These are outlined on pages 48 to 54.
Viability Statement Based on their assessment, the Directors have a reasonable Assessment of viability expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate meet its liabilities as they fall due over the four-year period ending on Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the viability of the 24 April 2021.
The Directors believe this time frame represents an appropriate duration over which to assess the viability and prospects of the Group and is consistent with the Groups longterm financial plan, which is used as a planning tool for strategic decisions and resource allocations.
The Directors have relied on a number of existing processes in preparing the Viability Statement, including the annual budget and long-term financial plan, the current and projected financing needs of the Group, and ongoing cash and investment requirements.
co. uk 55 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our Governance.
Good corporate governance is good business.
Our governance framework supports and enables effective execution of our strategy together with high quality and timely decision making.
Rigorous analysis, robust challenge, close monitoring of performance, and an appropriate system of checks and balances are combined with the entrepreneurial and creative culture of the Company.
As SuperGroup grows and develops we continually evolve and improve our governance framework in line with the maturity of the Company.
Over the last year we have placed greater emphasis on our Sustainability Programme, made further enhancements to our risk management process, increased our focus on culture and values and the Board has made visits to the USA and in May of this year China to develop its understanding of those markets and the Companys investments.
Peter Bamford Chairman 6 July 2017 www.
