SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Directors Report.
We present the Directors Report together with the Groups audited We aim to apply a consistent and transparent tax policy across our Tax governance Financial Statements for financial year 2017.
We will act proactively to improve our tax risk decision Our documented tax strategy is determined by the Board as a Governance Report set out on pages 56 to 64 forms part of this making.
Our tax policy, which is reviewed by the Audit Committee sub-set of our overall business strategy and is overseen by the Directors Report.
We are UK domiciled but have a number of and recommended for Board approval each year, does not look to Audit Committee.
Operational responsibility for the execution of overseas subsidiaries as well as branches in Austria, Italy, Portugal achieve a tax advantage and is risk averse.
the Groups tax strategy rests with the Chief Financial Officer, who and Switzerland.
reports the Groups tax position to the Audit Committee on a We operate in a growing number of countries, which leads regular basis.
The Directors Report and Strategic Report comprise the to increasing complexity in our tax affairs particularly as large management report for the purposes of the Financial Conduct companies are increasingly subject to greater scrutiny.
We aim The Audit Committee considers tax risks that may arise as a result Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
R. to manage our tax affairs in a manner supportive of business of business operations through the Groups risk management operations, such that the tax consequences match the economic framework.
The consideration of such tax risks includes actions to Please refer to pages 57 to 59 for full details of the Directors.
and commercial consequences of those operations.
Naturally, mitigate the risks or to prevent their occurrence or recurrence.
we wish to ensure that profits are not taxed twice by different Results and dividends As a clothing brand with international Retail and Wholesale jurisdictions and transactions between subsidiary and associated Our Financial Statements for financial year 2017 are set out on operations, we have a presence in some countries with lower tax companies are conducted on an arms length basis and in line with pages 104 to 150, which should be read in conjunction with Our rates than the UK and in a number of countries with much higher our transfer pricing agreements.
Performance on pages 36 to 44. rates.
All territories are chosen for their strategic importance to the Where a tax rule, regulation or incentive permitted by local law An interim ordinary dividend of 7.8p per share was paid on growth of the business rather than their tax regimes and we aim to exists that may result in a tax adjustment, for example using losses 27 January 2017. pay appropriate taxes in all countries where we have a presence.
incurred in prior years, we will use that rule, regulation or incentive to The Directors have proposed a final ordinary dividend of 20.2p support the business.
Related party transactions per ordinary share being payable on 22 September 2017 to all Other than in respect of arrangements set out in note 20 to the Our internal tax manager is supported by external, expert shareholders on the register at the close of business on 14 July Financial Statements and in relation to the employment of Directors, tax advisers to provide input into our tax affairs, such as the 2017, giving a total ordinary dividend in respect of financial year details of which are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report management of compliance in the UK and overseas jurisdictions 2017 of 28.0p.
on pages 72 to 91, there is no material indebtedness owed to or by and the impact of changes in tax legislation on us.
As the Group us to any employee or any other person or entity considered to be a is enjoying growth in the USA and given the complex tax regime Post balance sheet events related party.
in operation there, we have appointed a financial accountant There have been no post balance sheet events that either require with relevant USA tax experience to ensure the Group meets its adjustment to the Financial Statements or are important in the Details of related party transactions are set out in note 20 to the compliance obligations.
Grant Thornton continue as our primary understanding of our current financial position.
Approach to tax Details of UK taxes paid during the period are detailed on page 126.
Our approach to tax matters is to comply fully with all relevant tax laws and regulations in operation in all countries in which we are present, whilst managing the overall tax burden.
We will pay the right and fair amount of tax in each territory we trade from in accordance with the letter and spirit of local laws and regimes.
We understand that taxes we pay to governments are an important source of revenue for them in providing a stable infrastructure and environment, in the markets in which we operate, and we seek to comply in a responsible manner.
co. uk 92 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance Share capital, control and Share buy-backs UK Corporate Governance Code In order to maintain maximum flexibility the Company proposes to Our statement on corporate governance and compliance with the Financial restriction on voting rights Statements renew the authority granted by shareholders at the AGM in 2016 to Code can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages Details of our issued share capital, together with details of repurchase up to 10% of its issued share capital.
During financial 56 to 64 and is incorporated into the Directors Report by reference.
movements in our share capital during the year, are shown in note year 2017, we did not purchase any of our own shares.
Further 32 to the Financial Statements on page 149 which is deemed to be The Takeover Directive details are set out in the notice of the AGM.
part of this Directors Report.
We have one class of ordinary shares, The rights and obligations attached to the issued share capital are which carries no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right Share schemes set out in the Articles of Association available on to one vote at our general meetings.
The ordinary shares are listed We have four types of share scheme: PSP, SAYE, BAYE and www.
on the Official List and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
As at a company share option plan currently not active.
All shares 29 April 2017, we had 81,358,746 ordinary shares of 5 pence each At the AGM in 2016, shareholders approved resolutions authorising allotted under these share schemes have the same rights as those in nominal value in issue.
the Company to: already issued.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the allot shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,353,955 Under the rules of the BAYE share scheme eligible colleagues are Company other than: representing one-third of our issued share capital as at 29 July entitled to acquire shares in the Company.
These shares are held 2016 : certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by in trust for participants by Computershare Trustees Limited the laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt approve the disapplication of pre-emption rights for cash issues of participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an of shares in respect of ordinary shares with a nominal value of pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority instruction to the Trustees no vote is registered.
In addition the 203,093 representing approximately 5% of our issued share and SuperGroups share dealing code whereby certain employees Trustees do not vote on any unawarded shares held under the BAYE capital as at 29 July 2016 : and of the Group require the approval of the Company to deal in its share scheme as surplus assets.
The Trustees have also elected ordinary shares.
approve an additional authority following changes in The Preto waive dividends on any unawarded shares held under trust Emption Groups Statement of Principles which provided that an relating to dividends payable during the year.
As at 29 April 2017 the We are not aware of any agreements between shareholders that allotment of up to an additional 5% of our issued share capital Trustees held two unawarded shares in trust.
may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting may also be made on a non pre-emptive basis if that allotment rights.
The SuperGroup Employee Benefit Trust Trust has also waived was used only for the purposes of financing a transaction which all dividends payable by the Company in respect of the ordinary The rules relating to the appointment and replacement of Directors the Board determined to be an acquisition or other capital shares held by it.
As at 29 April 2017 no shares were held by the are contained in our Articles of Association.
Specific rules regarding investment within the meaning of The Pre-Emption Groups Trust.
the election and re-election of Directors are referred to in the Statement of Principles.
Corporate Governance Report on pages 56 to 64.
Changes to the Resolutions will be proposed at this years AGM to renew these Directors interests Articles of Association must be approved by our shareholders.
Further details are set out in the notice of the AGM.
The interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company Powers relating to the issue and buy back of shares are included are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 89.
Other relevant disclosure requirements from the Takeover Directive in our Articles of Association and such authorities are renewed by are included in the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance No Director has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of any shareholders each year at the AGM.
Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Notes to the Group company or was or is materially interested in any contract, Group and Company Financial Statements.
other than his service contract, which was subsisting during or existing at the year-end and which was significant in relation to the There are no agreements in place between us and our employees Groups business.
or Directors for compensation for loss of office or employment that trigger as a result of a takeover bid.
co. uk 93 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Directors Report.
Financial risk management Health and safety Please refer to note 31 to the Financial Statements.
We are committed to providing a safe place for our colleagues to work, both those employed by us and by our key business Legal and regulatory compliance partners, and customers to shop.
Policies applicable to colleagues The legal function is responsible for identifying and carrying out are reviewed on an ongoing basis to ensure that the approach to assessments of those areas of the business where material legal training, risk assessments, safe systems of working and accident and regulatory risks may be present.
In the last financial year management are appropriate.
An ongoing audit programme we have continued to support the Group in its arrangements assesses health and safety, environmental and security risks and with customers, franchisees, distributors, agents, joint venture ensures robust control measures are in place to limit these risks.
partners and suppliers to ensure that appropriate contracts are in For further information, please refer to the Strategic Report on place.
We have carried out colleague training on anti-bribery and page 32. competition law, and we have undertaken work in preparation for the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation in Greenhouse gas emissions May 2018.
We have measured our operational and wider carbon footprint for We continue to strengthen our in-house intellectual property IP the past seven years, providing insight into where the largest climate team.
The team is responsible for the strategic management of our impacts are and to prioritise resources accordingly.
global trade mark and brand portfolio and the enforcement of our The Sustainability Report contains a table detailing our global IP rights.
It works closely with our designers to help mitigate risk.
greenhouse gas carbon emissions on page 34 and is incorporated The last 12 months have seen the business make new trade mark into the Directors Report by reference.
and design filings to support our expansion into new products and markets, adopt a robust, rational and cost-effective approach to the Disclosure of information to auditors enforcement of our IP rights, and mitigate the risk of any significant Each Director who held office on the date of approval of this IP litigation.
Directors Report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are Where issues are identified, mitigating actions are built into an action unaware.
Furthermore, each Director has taken all the steps that plan involving the drafting and communication of policies and the he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make him or herself delivery of training where appropriate, or are approached by way aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the of a revision to key contractual terms.
The Board receives regular Companys auditor is aware of that information.
reports on material litigation and the legal activities taken to support our strategy, and the Audit Committee monitors progress against set Approved and signed on behalf of the Board.
Simon Callander Whistleblowing hotlines are in place internationally and are Company Secretary managed through a third party provider.
These cover all countries 6 July 2017 in which we operate.
All matters arising from the use of the whistleblowing hotline are referred to the company secretarial team and investigated.
The Audit Committee receives a summary of all matters arising through the whistleblowing hotline on a regular basis.
