SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our Strategy.
Our four pillar strategy is clear, grounded in a thorough understanding of our brand, customer and product.
In the table below we detail a description of each element in our four pillar strategy together with what we have achieved against each of the components.
The achievements reflect a considerable investment in people, systems and infrastructure which has established a strong platform to support the future growth of the business.
While investment will continue in the medium-term to underpin long-term sustainable growth, our global distribution infrastructure and Design to Customer process are now sufficiently developed to allow a number of targeted efficiencies to crystallise.
Achievement Our founding principles and brand values that bring our brand to life and Our brand values for long-term is directly linked to the success of our business.
We will embed these Growing brand awareness and shopping frequency benefiting from established brand principles and values with every single colleague, every single store and sustainable growth hierarchy.
online and in every country in which we operate so that there is a real Read more on page 18 Insight led, based on customer research in key markets for core categories.
understanding and appreciation of what our brand stands for.
Social media marketing campaigns resonating with key customer groups.
An extensive understanding of our customers into everything we do to ensure that they feel valued and are loyal to Superdry.
Next Generation concept stores performing well, roll-out programme established.
The strong link between our brand values and our four product attributes, Colleague engagement measured and growing.
which are: design detail: quality obsession: end-to-end innovation: and affordability.
The knowledge, skills, drive, passion and enthusiasm of our colleagues, wherever they are in the world.
Growth by continued investment in our colleagues, systems and Achievement Future growth through investment infrastructure so that we drive more efficiency and greater profit opportunity Single integrated Retail stock pool delivered, materially increasing as we grow our business.
in people, systems and on-line availability.
infrastructure The entrepreneurial and innovative culture we inherited from our founders Global logistics infrastructure established via two additional distribution centres.
to remain at the heart of our way of working, allowing colleagues to flourish Read more on page 20 Future Design to Customer processes defined, with good initial traction, leading towards a single and fulfil their potential through working in a creative environment.
product range across all channels.
The optimisation of our Design to Customer process including the ongoing Leadership cadre significantly strengthened through four key recruits to the Executive Committee.
investment in our IT systems, including our transactional and internal business systems, and our infrastructure.
Wholesale go to market approach upgraded to deliver strong sales uplifts.
co. uk 06 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance Description Extend.
Achievement Our product opportunities by constant innovation both within our core Financial Our key categories to achieve Statements mainline offer, particularly in womenswear, premium and denim, but also in Heritage range innovation continues: adjacent categories including active sportswear, ski and footwear.
our brand growth potential Handwriting, shape and fabric development.
Our category management and Design to Customer process to offer Bombers, Rookies and Fuji established as iconic ranges.
Read more on page 22 newness more frequently as we go through the seasons.
Womenswear consistently strongest growing category.
Superdry Sport and Premium established as new growth categories.
SuperDesign Lab provides dedicated, skilled capability to fuel innovation pipeline.
Achievement Opportunities to expand Superdrys points of sale globally based upon a Growth opportunities in new and disciplined territorybyterritory approach.
Country route to market plans established to optimise financial returns.
Superdry product is sold existing markets and on-line in 863 global retail locations financial year 2015: 573.
The significant opportunity for new retail space in both our existing key markets in mainland Europe and new markets.
EU store footprint increased from 66 stores to 101 stores 53%, across ten countries.
Strong Read more on page 24 return on capital maintained.
A multi-channel relationship with our customers that enables them to order anywhere, on any device, using any payment method, and have their order Franchise portfolio of 319 stores in 49 countries, nine new countries 2015 to 2017. delivered to wherever they choose.
Market leading e-commerce proposition established extending brand reach to 148 countries.
Increasing e-commerce penetration across the world including developing Revenue growth of 113% financial year 2015 to financial year 2017. our partner programme, where we offer our product for sale on third party North America turnaround executed: break-even achieved, store roll-out commenced, retailer sites.
The growth and development of our Wholesale division.
China presence established: strong partner in place, brand landed well, franchise roll-out commenced.
Achievement Description Long-term sustainable Revenue: Deliver long-term sustainable growth in revenue and earnings.
growth in revenue and Consistent like-for-like sales growth in key territories and channels.
Total revenue growth of 54.5% financial year 2015 to financial year 2017. earnings Progressive dividend policy.
Growth in underlying Profit Before Income Tax of 37.7% financial year 2015 to financial year 2017 : Gross margin increase of 10bps before channel mix impact.
On track to deliver operating cost leverage in financial year 2018.
Capital investment of 114.1m over the two-year period.
Strong operating cash generation funds organic growth opportunities and capital policy: Ordinary and Special Dividends of 41.5m.
