SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Our Market.
The Superdry brand competes with all clothing and accessory retailers on an indirect basis and occupies a niche position within the branded fashion market defined by our unique product range and the design detail we are famous for.
From this established position, we continue to innovate and extend our product range to adapt to customer needs and market trends.
We believe there are very few brands with our global reach and diverse customer base.
We sell our product to our customers through stores and e-commerce channels, competing with traditional retailers and brands, pure e-commerce and multi-channel businesses.
The impact of online retailing is becoming more evident as customers shopping habits change with online channels increasingly used to research and purchase products.
We are embracing this and continually enhance our customers experience on-line to provide a sector leading multi-channel proposition.
For more information on our E-commerce strategy, please refer to page 25.
Superdry started its international expansion early on in its development and is now sold in 49 countries with 72% of total sales volume generated outside of the UK based on retail selling price.
Of the 555 Superdry branded stores globally 82% are outside of the UK.
The development of our global E-commerce and Wholesale businesses with further expansion into Continental Europe all provide sustained growth opportunities whilst we build our businesses in North America and China, which each represent a further significant growth opportunity in the longer term.
We will continue to adopt a tailored approach to our customer offering n Superdry presence in each of these markets allowing our customers to interact with Superdry in the way that suits them.
REST OF AMERICAS EUROPE WORLD 575 own stores, 53 own stores 235 franchises, franchises and and concessions concessions and concessions Chinese JV www.
co. uk 10 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements www.
