SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Board of Directors.
Our Governance Financial Statements Peter Bamford Euan Sutherland Julian Dunkerton Nick Wharton Chairman Chief Executive Officer Founder, Product & Brand Director Chief Financial Officer Appointed: 29 January 2010 Appointed: 1 December 2012 Appointed: 3 February 2010 Appointed: 24 June 2015 N Committee membership: Chairman Euan was appointed as Chief Executive Officer Julian has worked exclusively in the retail sector Nick was appointed Chief Financial Officer in in October 2014, having previously been an for over 30 years, co-founding the Cult retail June 2015.
Previously he was Chief Executive Peter is Chairman of the Board and of the independent Non-Executive Director.
He is also chain from a market stall in Cheltenham and Officer of Dunelm Group plc between 2010 and Nomination Committee.
He is also Deputy a Non-Executive Director of Britvic plc.
Euan turning it into a successful retail chain.
Together 2014 and before that he was Chief Financial Chairman and Senior Independent Director of previously served as Group Chief Executive with James Holder, Julian established the Officer of Halfords Group Plc.
In his eight year Spire Healthcare Group plc.
Previously Peter was Officer of the Co-operative Group, Group Chief Superdry clothing brand in 2003.
Julian has career at Halfords, he held both finance and Chairman of Six Degrees Holdings Limited from Operating Officer at Kingfisher plc and as a Nona deep understanding of the Superdry brand, strategy roles.
Prior to this, Nick worked in 2011 to 2015 and a Non-Executive Director of Executive Director with the Co-operative Food strong commercial instincts and a feel for its senior finance positions at Boots Opticians, Rentokil Initial Plc from 2006 until 2016.
Prior to this he was Chief Executive of AS target customers, developed through his handsBoots Healthcare International, Do-it-All Limited also a Director of Vodafone Group Plc from 1998 Watson UK, the owner of Superdrug.
Euan has on experience of building SuperGroup from and Cadbury Schweppes.
Nick is a chartered to 2006 where he held senior executive roles, over 20 years experience within the retail sector the ground up.
accountant and has been a Non-Executive including Chief Marketing Officer, Chief Executive having held roles with Boots, Dixons, Coca-Cola, Director of Mothercare plc since November 2013. of Northern Europe, Middle East and Africa and Matalan and Mars.
Chief Executive of Vodafone UK.
Prior to this he held senior positions with WH Smith Plc, Tesco Plc and Kingfisher plc.
Peter has served on the boards of public companies for over 20 years and has extensive experience in developing and growing businesses and brands internationally.
co. uk 57 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Board of Directors.
Keith Edelman Penny Hughes Minnow Powell Steve Sunnucks Senior Independent Independent Independent Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: 4 February 2010 Appointed: 1 April 2015 Appointed: 1 December 2012 Appointed: 1 March 2016 N R A N R A R A R Committee membership: Chairman Committee membership: Committee membership: Chairman, Committee membership: Penny is a member of the Audit, Nomination and Minnow is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a Steve is a member of the Audit and Remuneration Keith is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Remuneration Committees.
She is also the Nonmember of the Remuneration Committee.
He is also Non-Executive Chairman of a member of the Nomination Committee.
He is also Executive Chairman of The Gym Group plc and a Non-Executive Director of Computacenter plc where Helly Hansen.
Steve has significant expertise in the Non-Executive Chairman of Revolution Bars Group Non-Executive Director of The Royal Bank of Scotland he is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Minnow was a apparel retail sector, having held senior executive and Plc, a Non-Executive Director at Pennpetro Energy Plc Group plc, where she is Chairman of the Sustainable Non-Executive Director of TUI Travel Plc from 2011 prior non-executive roles in the UK and USA.
His experience and the London Legacy Development Corporation.
Pennys previous Non-Executive to the merger with TUI AG, when he became a member includes nine years in leadership positions with NYSEKeith was previously Non-Executive Chairman of Directorships include Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc, of the Supervisory Board and Audit Committee of TUI listed The Gap Inc. culminating in being appointed Goal Soccer Centres Plc, Non-Executive Director of Home Retail Group Plc, The Gap Inc. Next Group Plc, AG until February 2016.
Prior to that Minnow spent 35 Global President Gap, and four years as Chief Executive Safestore Holdings Plc, Chairman of Beale Plc, Managing The Body Shop International Plc, Thomson Reuters years with Deloitte.
He is a Chartered Accountant and Officer of New Look Plc.
Steves executive career also Director of Arsenal Holdings Plc and Chief Executive of Group Limited, Vodafone Group Plc and Trinity Mirror was a member of the UKs Audit Practices Board for six included senior roles at Burton Group Plc, J. Sainsbury Storehouse Plc encompassing BHS and Mothercare.
During her executive career Penny spent ten years years.
Minnow has extensive experience in external and Plc and Marks & Spencer Plc.
Keith has extensive retail and international experience and at The Coca-Cola Company, initially as Marketing and internal audit, risk management, financial controls and has served on the boards of public companies for over 30 Steve is not standing for re-election and will retire from Commercial Director, before being made President of corporate financial reporting in a wide range of sectors.
years across a wide range of businesses and markets.
the conclusion of the AGM.
Coca-Cola Great Britain and Ireland.
Keith has been appointed to the Audit Committee Penny has been appointed Chairman of the from the conclusion of the AGM.
Following Penny Remuneration Committee, succeeding Keith Edelman, Hughes appointment as Chairman of the Remuneration from the conclusion of the AGM.
Committee, also from the conclusion of the AGM, Keith will remain Senior Independent Director and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
co. uk 58 25382.04 26 July 2017 9:15 AM Proof 2 SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Governance Financial Statements Beatrice Lafon Simon Callander Committee Membership Key Independent Group General Counsel Non-Executive Director and Company Secretary Appointed: 14 September 2016 Appointed: 2 May 2017 Nomination Committee N A Committee membership: Simon was appointed Group General Counsel and Beatrice is a member of the Audit Committee.
She is Audit Committee A Company Secretary in May 2017.
Previously he had currently Chief Executive Officer of Kondor Limited and been General Counsel and Partnership Secretary at law a Non-Executive Director of HappyChic and Oosterdam, firms Addleshaw Goddard and Olswang between 2010 which comprise the eight international fashion brands Remuneration Committee R and 2017.
Prior to this Simon had held various positions of AFM Association Familiale Mulliez.
Beatrice has with Watson Wyatt now Willis Towers Watson including significant expertise in international retailing including General Counsel, Europe and Head of Business over 30 years experience in senior roles in the UK, USA Services, Europe, and before that with Ernst & Young.
Since 2000, Beatrice has operated at CEO Simon is a qualified solicitor and originally trained and levels across Europe and the USA.
Beatrice was most practised with media and intellectual property law recently CEO of USA based Claires Accessories, having firm Dentons.
been previously President of Claires European division.
Prior to Claires, she led the sale of TJ Hughes in the UK, and the repositioning and return to profitability of The Etam Group in The Netherlands.
Beatrices previous experience includes executive positions with retailers such as Marks & Spencer Plc, J Sainsbury Plc, BSkyB, Kingfisher plc, River Island, Tchibo and Animal.
Beatrice will not stand for election and will retire at the conclusion of the AGM.
