SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Strategic Report Our Brand.
Our Governance Superdry: a global lifestyle brand Financial Statements The Superdry brand was launched in 2003 by our founders, Julian Dunkerton and James Holder, Brand strategy and is a lifestyle brand designed for attitude, not age.
Our brand has democratic appeal, offering In 2015 we set out a clear vision to build a global lifestyle brand, encompassing all aspects of our affordable, premium-quality clothing, accessories and footwear complemented by other lifestyle product, brand and retail experience.
This strategy will broaden and strengthen the appeal of the categories such as Sport and Snow.
iconic Superdry brand building Superdry into a brand with longevity that will appeal to customers As we develop the breadth and nature of our product range, we are widening our appeal to a through all life stages and be a part of their lives beyond any individual product.
broader, aspirational customer group: those who want to feel amazing in what they wear and Our brand strategy is based on a clear definition of the brand purpose focused on helping our appreciate style, quality and attention to detail at market leading value for money.
Through our customers feel amazing and has three key elements: obsession with quality, our focus on design detail and our continued innovation we create highquality, contemporary products that fuse vintage Americana and Japanese-inspired graphics with a Drive awareness of the breadth of the Superdry range There is a clear opportunity 1 British style, characterised by: to ensure our existing and potential customers are aware of and buy into the breadth of both our heritage product range and recent and future innovations.
This opportunity is particularly quality fabrics with authentic vintage washes: relevant for women and will allow us to increase consideration and purchase across a broader unique vintage detailing: customer spectrum.
world leading hand-drawn graphics: and Build a broad cross-channel relationship with customers Making it easy for our 2 customers to interact with the Superdry brand across all our channels.
We recognise that tailored fits with diverse styling.
customers interact with us in different ways with some preferring our E-commerce offering, others preferring to shop in store and the most engaged looking to interact through multiple channels.
We will let our customers determine how they want to best interact with us in whichever way suits them best and will always seek to provide them with a market leading experience whatever that choice.
Deliver a consistent global brand proposition We will achieve consistency by applying 3 best practice in each market and channel leveraging our global capability in merchandising and range selection together with a clear understanding of how we optimise retail space.
As an additional refinement to our brand strategy we categorise each territory by the stage it has reached in developing the brand: Market Strategy Evolve Grow Build Target Brand Status Established Engaged Emerging Expected Territories UK, Belgium Western Europe, Australia Scandinavia, Middle East, Asia, South Eastern Europe, Canada, Africa, USA, and China South America Reaffirm and refresh our Bring clarity to the brand to Position and build the brand Understand how the brand should be Brand Development current brand position enhance growth in the market in new territories positioned and developed before entry www.
