OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 79 ANNUAL REMUNERATION STATEMENT Introduction by Russell King, Remuneration Committee Chairman The Remuneration Committee is made up of five independent Nonexecutive Directors Ken Hanna was considered by the Board to be independent on his appointment as Chairman of the Company.
Rebecca McDonald retired from the Board in December 2015 and Ian Marchant joined the Committee in January 2016.
I have been Chairman of the Committee since September 2010.
Peter Kennerley is secretary to the Committee.
We also invite the Chief Executive officer and Group HR Director to attend our meetings.
In 2015, we held seven meetings of the Committee: we also took a number of decisions based on papers circulated outside the context Russell King of a formal meeting.
This greater volume of activity was accounted for Remuneration Committee Chairman partly in order to implement the new LTIP and partly to consider issues arising from the Groups reorganisation announced in June 2015.
To the left there is a summary of the key achievements of the Committee in 2015 and intended areas of focus in 2016 and on the THE ROLE OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE opposite page there is a quick read summary of some of the key IS TO DETERMINE THE REMUNERATION FOR elements of remuneration in 2015.
Further details of our actions in 2015 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE are included in the full Remuneration Committee report detailed over COMMITTEE MEMBERS.
WE OVERSEE AGGREKOS the next few pages.
OVERALL REMUNERATION POLICY, STRATEGY AND IMPLEMENTATION.
Role of the Remuneration Committee Determine and agree with the Board the policy for remuneration for the Chairman, Executive Directors and Executive Committee.
2015 Key achievements Within the terms of the remuneration policy, determine the total individual remuneration package for the Chairman, each Implemented new incentive arrangements following their approval by Shareholders at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Executive Director and each member of the Executive Committee, including base salary, pension, benets, annual bonus and longFinalised framework for new incentives.
Agreed remuneration package for the new appointments of Managing Director, Power Solutions and President, Rental Solutions.
Determine, having taken appropriate legal advice, the level of any payment made to the Chairman, Executive Directors or member of Agreed the termination arrangements for David Taylor-Smith and Debajit Das.
the Executive Committee by way of compensation for, or otherwise Undertook a detailed review of base pay for the Chief Financial officer upon her in connection with, loss of ofce or employment.
becoming fully established in her role.
Approve the design of, and determine targets for, performance related pay schemes operated by the Company and approve the Members in 2015 total annual payments made under such schemes.
Meetings attended Review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Russell King Remuneration Committee Chairman Board and Shareholders.
For any plan, determine each year the overall amount of awards, along with the individual awards to Ken Hanna Company Chairman Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee.
1 Uwe Krueger Non-executive Director Determine the policy for and scope of pension arrangements for Robert MacLeod Non-executive Director each Executive Director and members of the Executive Committee.
1, 2 Rebecca McDonald Non-executive Director Oversee any major changes in employee benets structures 1 The two cases of absence related to two separate telephone meetings convened at short notice to consider issues relating to the Groups reorganisation.
In each case the Director concerned had a prior engagement, throughout the Group.
butwas able to share his or her views on the issue with the Committee before the call.
2 Rebecca McDonald retired from the Board on 1 December 2015.
Agree the policy for authorising claims for expenses from the Directors.
Areas of focus for 2016 Set targets for the new Annual Bonus Plan, both financial and the new personal strategic objectives.
Decide awards under the Long-term Incentive Plan.
Review the financial performance measures for the LTIP to ensure they continue to be aligned with the Groups strategy for growth.
We will consult shareholders before proposing any change.
Remuneration Committee terms of reference: www.
pdf 80 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REMUNERATION STATEMENT Directors were not entitled to the 2015 bonus unless they continued Our remuneration policy to be employed, and had not given or been given notice, at the time The aim of our remuneration policy is to reward executives for achieving the bonus became payable, although the Committee has discretion the principal objective our strategy of delivering long-term value to torelax this requirement, for example by agreeing a payment pro-rata.
The initial regional financial elements of the bonus were to be based Our reward package for Executive Directors is structured such that: on the 2015 full year outcome.
However, following the reorganisation announced in June, the three regions ceased to exist.
Moreover, two the xed element of pay salary, pension and benets is around of the three regional Directors would be stepping down from the Board the median for companies of similar size and complexity: as a result of the reorganisation and subsequently leaving the business.
the majority of executive remuneration is linked to Aggrekos In these circumstances, the Committee decided that: performance, with a heavier weighting on long-term performance regional financial performance would be measured based on the than on short-term performance: and July full year forecast: and the remuneration packages reward a balanced portfolio of measures personal strategic element performance for Debajit Das and David which deliver long-term value to Shareholders, a safe operating Taylor-Smith would be assessed at the effective date of their ceasing environment, outstanding service to customers and rewarding to have executive responsibilities.
careers to our employees, each of which can be independently veried, and which give clear line-of-sight to the Executives.
The financial measure which we give most emphasis to is D-EPS.
The threshold D-EPS, at which level Executive Directors would start to receive bonus was set at 83.86 pence, with budget D-EPS at 88.27 Performance outcomes for 2015 pence.
The actual outcome was 69.1 pence on a constant currency basis, which meant that no bonus was payable on that element.
Performance and annual bonus We have set out the details of all of the 2015 targets and outcomes In line with our remuneration policy, Aggreko operates an annual for the financial and personal strategic objectives on page 86, but bonus plan with the aim of focussing Executive Directors on achieving in summary: demanding annual targets relating to company financial performance and personal strategic objectives.
as D-EPS fell short of budget, none of that element will be payable: In summary, the bonus payout for Executive Directors for 2015 was as Group operating cash ow fell short of budget, none of that as follows: element will be payable: Chris Weston, Chief Executive officer and Carole Cran, Chief for APAC and the Americas, both regional trading profit and Financial officer received no bonus: ROCE fell short of budget, and so no element attributable to those measures will be payable to Debajit Das or Asterios Satrazemis: Debajit Das and David Taylor-Smith, both regional Directors received for EMEA, as the July full year forecast trading profit exceeded 110% part of their bonus: and of budget and July full year forecast ROCE exceeded budget, the Asterios Satrazemis, regional Director received no bonus.
elements attributable to each of those measures will be payable to David Taylor-Smith pro-rata for the period he was a Director: I explain below how the Committee set bonus targets for 2015, how weassessed performance against those targets, and how we decided each of the Executive Directors largely met their personal strategic on the level of bonus to be paid.
However, as noted above, if EPS performance is below threshold, the Committee has discretion to reduce the For 2015, annual bonus payments were determined as to 80% amount of annual bonus that would be paid under the personal based on financial performance and, for the first time, 20% based strategic element.
In deciding whether to exercise that discretion, onpersonal strategic objectives.
weconsidered the position of each Director individually.
David Taylor-Smith and Debajit Das stepped down from the Board as a The 80% financial element was measured as follows: result of the reorganisation.
They contributed to the business review Chris Weston and Carole Cran: and assisted in a smooth transmission to the new structure, but will not share in Aggrekos new opportunities.
In the circumstances, 75% against D-EPS and 25% against operating cash ow.
the Committee decided that to the extent that they had achieved their personal objectives, it would not be appropriate to reduce the Debajit Das, Asterios Satrazemis and David Taylor-Smith: amount that would otherwise be payable.
But for the remaining 50% against Group D-EPS, 40% against regional trading profit Directors different considerations applied, and we decided that their and10% against regional ROCE.
bonus outcome should more closely reect the underlying financial performance of the Company, and so exercised our discretion to The 20% personal strategic element was based on personal objectives reduce the personal element to zero.
In reaching that decision, set individually for each Director by the Committee.
we also took into account the fact other employees whose annual bonus was based on the overall performance of the Group would be All included measurable improvements in safety indicators and agreed receiving no bonus for the year: and outcomes for set strategic objectives specic to their roles.
Those for Directors with regional responsibilities included improvements in Asterios Satrazemis was not entitled to a bonus for 2015, as he customer satisfaction, as measured by Net Promotor Scores, and resigned as a Director in December.
improvements in regional debtor days.
If personal strategic objectives Full details of the performance outcomes for the Annual Bonus are set are achieved but D-EPS is below threshold performance then the out on page 86.
Committee has the discretion to reduce the amount that would be paid Read more and see our bonus entitlement and outcome tables under the personal strategic element.
Page 86 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS & OTHER INFORMATION AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 81 Performance and LTIPs Executive Directors leaving during the year Based on performance to 31 December 2015, Executive Directors As a consequence of the new organisational structure, we also will receive only the Minimum Match Award under their 2013 longannounced that David Taylor-Smith, Regional Director for EMEA, and term incentives.
Debajit Das, Regional Director for Asia Pacic, would remain with the Group for a period of time to assist with the transition and then step Our LTIPs are designed to align the interests of management with down from the Board in due course.
Asterios Satrazemis resigned those of Shareholders in growing the value of the business over the as a Director on 17 December 2015 and received no compensation long term.
The awards which vest in August 2016 were granted in relating to his departure.
2013, subject to demanding performance conditions based on real i. e. excluding ination D-EPS annualised growth of 3-10% and return Details of the exit arrangements are set out on page 89. on capital employed ROCE of 20-25% measured over a three-year period to 31 December 2015.
In summary, during that period real D-EPS showed no growth, and as a result, none of the shares subject to the D-EPS growth criterion will vest: average ROCE was 19% as against a target range of 20-25%, and similarly none of the shares subject to the ROCE condition will vest.
Therefore, none of the performance element of the 2013 awards will vest: only the matching element, equivalent in each case to 15% of salary at the time of grant will vest.
Further details of LTIPs which vested in 2015 are included in the table on page 87.
Pay reviews for 2016 In June 2015, the Company announced a new organisational structure, with the appointment of Asterios Satrazemis as President of the Rental Solutions business.
Given his new responsibilities, the Committee reviewed his base salary, taking into account the scope and size of the new Rental Solutions business and his global remit for Sales & Marketing and Global Events.
Having considered comparable roles with our advisers, we agreed that the base pay for Asterios Satrazemis should be increased from $556,200 to $605,000 8.8% increase.
The increase took effect from 1 August 2015.
Considering the context of a challenging performance year and a significant cost reduction programme, the Committee decided that it would not generally be appropriate for Executive Directors and other members of the Executive Committee to receive salary increases as part of the December 2015 review, which would usually take effect from January 2016.
However, as we explained in last years Annual Remuneration Statement, we committed to undertake a more detailed review for Carole Cran, in particular, once she was fully established in her role as Chief Financial officer.
In view of Caroles excellent performance and this commitment, the Committee conducted an external benchmarking exercise and proposed a base salary increase of 9.2% which would have positioned her at the market median in line with our policy and an increase in her maximum bonus opportunity for 2016 from 150% to 175% of base salary.
However, given the challenges of 2015, Carole has said that she does not wish to receive the proposed base salary increase.
The annual bonus for 2016 will operate broadly on the same basis as in 2015, with financial performance measured against D-EPS and operating cash ow accounting for 80% of total opportunity and the remaining 20% measured against personal strategic objectives.
Awards under the Long-term Incentive Plan will be made at the same level as the previous year.
Further details can be found on page 92.
