Governance GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The economic challenges and business performance are Sir Philip Hampton reflected in the remuneration received in 2015.
Specifically: Chairman, Remuneration Committee despite strong performance by individuals, the earnings per share performance resulted in significantly lower bonus outcomes than in recent years the steep fall in prices and the impact on earnings over the last three years mean that the required three-year earnings growth was not achieved: therefore, of the The role of the Companys Remuneration Enhancement Shares initially awarded in 2013, none vested at the end of 2015 Committee remains to ensure that the half of the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards remuneration arrangements for executive initially granted to executive directors in 2013 will not vest as the Total Shareholder Return TSR target was not directors offer every encouragement for them met.
The results of the Companys longer term efficiency to enhance the Companys performance and programmes mean that the remainder of the award will vest.
The Committee has carefully reviewed this outcome deliver our strategy in a responsible manner.
in the context of total variable pay, and is satisfied that the vesting level is appropriate, particularly in the light of overall variable pay delivered to executive directors in 1.
This means, for example, that for the CEO variable Dear Shareholder, pay represents 33% of target and 21% of maximum.
The role of the Companys Remuneration Committee In the light of the current challenging conditions faced by remains to ensure that the remuneration arrangements the Company, the Remuneration Committee has decided for executive directors and other members of the Group not to increase the executive directors salaries in 2016.
Management Committee offer them every encouragement Tony ONeill joined the Company in 2013, and was appointed to enhance the Companys performance and deliver our to the Board in July 2015.
His remuneration arrangements, strategy in a responsible manner.
It is also our task to which are described on page 93, are consistent with the ensure that the rewards received by the executive directors Companys approved remuneration policy.
are proportionate to the levels of performance achieved and the returns received by you as shareholders.
As a We have again chosen to reproduce the Companys Committee, we therefore have to give full consideration Remuneration Policy as approved at the 2014 Annual to the Companys strategy, its performance, your interests General Meeting AGM in full, rather than an abridged and the interests of the wider communities we affect.
This version, so that the Implementation Report for 2015, is particularly pertinent in light of the ongoing challenges starting on page 93, will be more meaningful for you, being faced by the Company and by the mining industry and Tony ONeills arrangements will be in context.
The Remuneration Policy continues to support the As reported by the chief executive in his introduction to this delivery of our strategic objectives as demonstrated by years Annual Report, it has been a very challenging year for the performance measures and targets for both the Anglo American.
Against the strong headwinds of a 24% Bonus Share Plan BSP and LTIP awards made in 2015, decrease in the basket price of our products, our ongoing both of which are outlined in the Implementation Report.
intense focus on operational costs and productivity has I am pleased to report that the strengthening of the malus 1 generated a $1.3 billion underlying EBIT benefit in the year, and clawback provisions of the BSP and LTIP, introduced providing some mitigation.
for awards made from 2014 onwards, meet the requirements of the revised Corporate Governance Code now in force.
Sir Philip Hampton Chairman, Remuneration Committee 1 Excludes $0.8 billion volume downside at fide Beers in response to market conditions.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2015 83
