Corporate Governance Statement continued The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors, The review covered all material controls, including financial, operational including the expected time commitment, are available for inspection and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The Board at the Companys registered office.
confirms that the actions it considers necessary have been, or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from its Diversity review of the system of internal control.
This has involved considering The Committee will take into account a variety of factors before the matters reported to it and developing plans and programmes that it recommending any new appointments to the Board, including considers are reasonable in the circumstances.
The Board also confirms relevant skills to perform the role, experience, knowledge, that it has not been advised of material weaknesses in the part of the ethnicity and gender.
internal control system that relates to financial reporting.
The key elements of the Groups system of internal controls, which have been in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of this report, include: Risk management: Our Risk Management Committee has a clear framework for identifying, evaluation and managing risk faced by To find out more about the Group on an ongoing basis, both at an operational and strategic the industry knowledge level.
This internal control process starts with the identification of of our Board go to pages risks through regular routine reviews with our designated risk owners 46 and 47. facilitated by our internal audit team with appropriate action taken to manage and mitigate the risks identified.
These risks are recorded in a central risk register and the implications and consequences for The Company currently has one female Board member and AO the Group together with the likelihood of occurrence are assessed.
endeavours to achieve appropriate diversity, including gender diversity, This register is reviewed and discussed on a bi-monthly basis by the throughout the Company and concurs with the recommendations of Risk Management Committee and follow-up actions are assigned Lord Davies review.
However, the most important priority of the as appropriate.
The Risk Management Committee issues a quarterly Committee has been and will continue to be ensuring that members of report to the Audit Committee and the key risks are included within the Board should collectively possess the broad range of skills, expertise the Groups Corporate Risk Register which is then reviewed and and industry knowledge, and business and other experience necessary scrutinised by the Board.
for the effective oversight of the Group.
Management structure: There is a clearly defined organisational structure throughout the Group with established lines of reporting and Our policy is, therefore, to ensure that the best candidate is selected to delegation of authority based on job responsibilities and experience.
join the Board and this approach will remain in place going forward, Within the businesses, Group Executive Team meetings and senior without prescriptive or quantitative targets.
management meetings occur regularly to allow prompt discussion of relevant business issues.
I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions on the work of Financial reporting: Monthly management accounts provide the Nomination Committee.
relevant, reliable and up-to-date financial and non-financial information to management and the Board.
Analysis is undertaken of the differences between actual results and budgeted results Richard Rose on a monthly basis.
Annual plans, forecasts, performance targets Chairman, Nomination Committee and long-range financial plans allow management to monitor the AO World Plc key business and financial activities, and the progress towards achieving the financial objectives.
The annual budget is approved by the Board.
The Group reports half-yearly based on a standardised reporting process.
In addition the Company intend to publish interim management statements on a quarterly basis.
Information systems: Information systems are developed to support the Groups long-term objectives and are managed by Internal controls professionally staffed teams.
During the reporting period work The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing and commenced to implement a new financial reporting system across maintaining the Groups system of internal controls and it receives the Group to improve internal controls and the efficiency of our regular reports from management identifying, evaluating and processes, assist with the segregation of duties and standardise managing the risks within the business.
The system of internal procedures across the Group.
Appropriate policies and procedures controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of are in place covering all significant areas of the business.
failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable Contractual commitments: There are clearly defined policies and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
and procedures for entering into contractual commitments.
This system of internal controls complies with the Financial Reporting These include detailed requirements that must be completed Councils Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the prior to submitting proposals and or tenders for work, both in Combined Code formerly the Turnbull Guidance.
The Audit respect of the commercial, control and risk management aspects Committee reviews the system of internal controls through reports of the obligations being entered into.
Significant capital projects received from management, along with those from both internal and and acquisitions and disposals require Board approval.
Management continues to focus on how internal Monitoring of controls: the Audit Committee receives regular control and risk management can be further embedded into the reports from the internal and external auditors and assures itself operations of the business and to deal with areas of improvement that the internal control environment of the Group is operating which come to the attention of management and the Board.
There are formal policies and procedures in place to ensure the integrity and accuracy of the accounting records and The Board and the Audit Committee review on an ongoing basis the to safeguard the Groups assets.
There are formal procedures effectiveness of the system of internal controls and did so during the by which staff can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible year ended 31 March 2015 and for the period up to the date of approval improprieties in financial and pensions administration and other of the consolidated financial statements contained in the Annual Report.
matters often referred to as whistleblowing procedures.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 52
