Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 The Code recommends that the Audit Committee should comprise Report of the Audit Committee at least three members, all of whom should be independent NonExecutive Directors with at least one member having recent and relevant financial experience.
I am the independent Non-Executive Director considered to have recent and relevant financial experience and am pleased to confirm that all members have had extensive experience in large organisations Directors biographies appear on pages 46 and 47.
Bill Holroyd is not regarded as an independent Non-Executive Director for the purposes of the Code and therefore during the year the Committee was not fully compliant in this respect.
However, Bill Holroyd will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Companys forthcoming AGM and Chris Hopkinson will replace him as a member of the Audit Committee.
Although Chris is not deemed to be independent, his financial experience and knowledge will be valuable to the Committee and will help to ensure that the Committee is run effectively.
Julie Finnemore Head of Group Legal and Company Secretary serves as Secretary to the Committee.
By invitation, the meetings of the Audit Committee may be attended by the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Director of Group Finance and the Head of Marisa Cassoni Chair, Audit Committee Internal Audit.
The Deloitte LLP Deloitte audit engagement partner and team are also invited to attend Audit Committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters relating to the audit.
As Chair of the Audit Committee, I met regularly with both the internal and external auditors during the year.
Ensuring fair, Role of Audit Committee The Audit Committee has particular responsibility for monitoring the balanced and Groups financial reporting process, the adequacy and effectiveness of the operation of internal controls and risk management and the integrity of the financial statements.
This includes a review of understandable significant issues and judgements, policies, and disclosures.
Our duties include keeping under review the scope and results of the audit and its cost effectiveness, consideration of managements response reporting.
to any major external or internal audit recommendations and the independence and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
Additionally, the Board requests that the Audit Committee advises I am pleased to report on the role and activities of the Audit Committee whether we believe the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as for the year.
a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Membership of the Audit Committee performance, business model and strategy.
The members of the Committee who served during the year were as follows: A forward agenda will be used for the coming years activities focused around the review of the annual financial statements, the results of Composition of the Audit Committee the external annual audit and quarterly and interim reviews, relevant quarterly and interim financial reporting and the external audit plan: Marisa Cassoni Chair review of risk management reports: review of internal audit plans Rudi Lamprecht Independent Non-Executive Director and findings and recommendations.
Bill Holroyd Non-Executive Director A key responsibility of the Audit Committee is to ensure that the external audit process and audit quality are effective.
We do this During the year ended 31 March 2015, the Audit Committee held four by relying on: meetings.
The table below summarises the attendance.
i the engagement with the Audit Committee Chair and the lead audit engagement partner which will generally be through Meetings eligible to attend Meetings attended face-to-face meetings: Marisa Cassoni 4 4 ii the reports which are brought to the Committee by the lead audit Rudi Lamprecht 4 3 engagement partner and other senior members of the audit team: iii the quality of the management responses to audit queries: meetings Bill Holroyd 4 4 held by the Chief Financial Officer, Director of Group Finance and the Chairman with the lead audit engagement partner which are Meetings are scheduled to review the Annual Report and Accounts reported to myself as Audit Chair and the Committee: and and the half-yearly report.
Other meetings are scheduled as required.
iv a review of the independence and objectivity of the audit firm and also the quality of the formal audit report given by the Auditor to shareholders.
Feedback is also sought from members of the finance team, the Company Secretary and the Group Audit Manager.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53 Corporate Governance Statement continued Audit Committee meetings are generally scheduled to take place in Significant financial accounting matters advance of a Company Board meeting.
As the Committees Chair, I Revenue The Company sells product protection plans to report to the Board as part of a separate agenda item on the activity of recognition, customers purchasing electrical appliances, on the Committee and matters of particular relevance to the Board in the debtor behalf of a third party D&G, who administer the conduct of their work.
All members of the Board have access to Audit recoverability plans, collect money from the customers and pay Committee papers and minutes of meetings, and may, on request to and legal risk a commission to the Company for each plan sold.
the Chair, attend the meetings.
in respect The revenue recognition policy is set out in note 3 of product to the financial statements page 85.
Revenue Main activities of the Committee during the year protection recognised for the plans sold is based on a fair During the year to 31 March 2015 the Audit Committee reviewed plans value calculation of commissions due over the life and endorsed, prior to submission to the Board, full-year financial of the plan at each period end.
There is a risk statements and the preliminary results announcements.
We therefore that the revenues are being recognised considered internal audit reports and risk management updates, in the incorrect period based on the weighted agreed external and internal audit plans and approved the review average calculation performed by management.
There is also an associated risk around the recoverability of the receivable balance The internal audit annual plan was reviewed and approved by the attributable to the product protection plans.
Committee and all reports arising therefrom were reviewed and Additionally, the basis upon which the Company assessed, along with managements actions to findings and offers and sells product protection plans could recommendations.
change due to a change in law or regulation or the interpretation of existing law or regulation, Our risk management procedure was significantly enhanced during or the Company could be subject to claims or the year as the Groups existing risk management processes were proceedings in relation to such production strengthened and broadened.
Although it is the Board, supported protection plans.
by the Audit Committee, which remains ultimately responsible for establishing and maintaining risk management internal controls, The management team has prepared detailed the composition of our Risk Management Committee was expanded policies setting out the key assumptions and to reflect a multitude of skills and experience and to reflect new judgments in this area.
The Committee has risk arising from operating in new categories and territories.
reviewed the judgements made in this area by This Committee has responsibility for ensuring the development, management and following appropriate challenge, maintenance, operation and review of robust risk management we consider the policy and practice appropriate.
controls to help support AOs strategic objectives and the achievement of its financial targets.
Over the coming year the Audit Committee Audio Visual During the financial year to 31 March 2015 the will continue to support the work of the Risk Management Committee inventory Company expanded its offering to include a in ensuring that the Company adheres to best practice in this area.
valuation and range of audio visual AV stock to customers.
provisioning In selling these items there is an inherent risk of The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups obsolescence due to the shorter lifespan of processes for handling reports from whistleblowers and we encourage these items in comparison to white goods and all employees to report any potential improprieties in financial reporting the specific agreements with suppliers for or other matters.
During the year we introduced an independent repositioning credits for these items.
compliance hotline operated by an external agency.
Any contact received is reported to the Audit Committee.
If appropriate our Legal The management team has prepared detailed and Internal Audit teams may be asked to investigate the issue.
policies setting out the key assumptions and judgments in this area.
The Committee has During the reporting period we commenced work on implementing a reviewed the judgements made in this area by new financial reporting system across all our operations.
This system management and, after due challenge and was successfully integrated into our German operations prior to the debate, was content with the assumptions made commencement of trading and rolled-out across the UK to coincide and the judgements applied.
with the start of our new financial year.
This new system will further Commercial The Group has a number of contracts with its improve our internal controls and the efficiency of our processes, income suppliers where additional discounts can be assist with the segregation of duties and standardise procedures arrangements applied based on purchase levels.
The Group across the Group for the year ahead.
accrues the additional discounts by reference to the expected level of purchases.
The Significant accounting matters percentage discount accrued may differ to the In reviewing the financial statements with management and the current run rate of purchases as the calculation Auditors, the Committee has discussed and debated the critical takes seasonality into account.
There is a risk accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty set therefore that the level of rebates provided for out in note 4 to the financial statements.
As a result of our review, at the year-end could materially differ from the the Committee has identified the following three issues that require actual number of purchases when compared a high level of judgement or have significant impact on interpretation to assumptions made by management.
The management team has prepared detailed policies setting out the key assumptions and judgments in this area.
The Committee has reviewed the judgements made in this area by management and, after due challenge and debate, was content with the assumptions Note 4 to the financial made and the judgements applied.
statements can be found on pages 86 to 87.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 54 Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 External Auditor AO World Plc is a member of the FTSE 350 index and the Committee notes the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills BIS and the Financial Reporting Council FRC consultation on the options The Company recognises the importance of communicating with for the UK implementation of the EU Audit Directive & Regulation.
its shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance are The current auditors, Deloitte LLP, were appointed in 2010 for the understood and that it remains accountable to shareholders.
There are no contractual obligations the year, the Company established an Investor Relations function, that restrict the Audit Committees choice of external auditor.
headed by the Group Finance Director.
Damian Sanders, the current audit engagement partner, has served The Investor Relations function deals with queries from individual six years.
Four years of this six-year term were whilst the business was shareholders with support as appropriate from the Executive under private ownership and not listed.
As disclosed in the prior year, Directors.
The Investor Relations team ensures that there is effective as we became a listed entity in the prior year, in this situation, Ethical communications with shareholders on matters such as strategy Standard 3 ES3 allows the audit engagement partner to continue and, together with the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial for not more than two more years, with the current period end being and Operating Officer, is responsible for ensuring that the Board the last year of his term.
In certain situations, ES3 allows for the understands the views of major shareholders on such matters.
audit partner appointment to be extended for a further year but to not exceed seven years in total.
In the current period, due to the There is an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings between substantial change in nature and structure of the Group over recent the Executive Directors and institutional investors, fund managers and months I wrote to Deloitte LLP, with a request to extend Damians analysts.
This includes formal meetings with investors to discuss interim tenure for one more year to maintain audit quality.
This request was and final results and maintaining an ongoing dialogue with the investment approved and Damian Sanders will serve one more year taking his community through regular contact with existing and potential total term to seven years.
shareholders, attendance at investment conferences and holding investor roadshows as required.
At these meetings, a wide range of relevant issues As Deloitte became our external auditor within the last 10 years, including strategy, performance, management and governance are based on the EU regulations, Deloitte could not be re-appointed discussed within the constraints of information which has already been for the period ending 31 March 2020 without a competitive tender.
The Board is aware that institutional shareholders may be in more regular contact with the Company than other shareholders, but care The timing of a competitive tender will continue to be assessed on is exercised to ensure that any price-sensitive information is released to an annual basis.
For the period ending 31 March 2016, the Committee all shareholders, institutional and private, at the same time in accordance has provided to the Board its recommendation to the shareholders with legal and regulatory requirements.
on the reappointment of Deloitte as the Groups auditor.
During the year, Deloitte charged the Group 0.2m 2014: 0.1m for audit and The Senior Independent Director, Brian McBride, is available to audit-related services.
shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be raised through the normal channels or if such concerns have not been resolved.
Arrangements Non-audit services can be made to meet with him through the Company Secretary.
The Companys external Auditor may also be used to provide specialist advice where, as a result of their position as Auditor, they The Board obtains feedback from its joint corporate brokers, either must, or are best placed to, perform the work in question.
J. P. Morgan Cazenove, Jefferies and Numis, on the views of A formal policy is in place in relation to the provision of non-audit institutional investors on a non-attributed and attributed basis.
Any services by the external Auditor to ensure that there is adequate concerns of major shareholders would be communicated to the Board protection of their independence and objectivity.
As a matter of routine, the Board receives regular reports on issues relating to share price and trading activity, Fees charged by Deloitte in respect of non-audit services generally and details of movements in institutional investor shareholdings.
The require the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
A breakdown Board is also provided with current analyst opinions and forecasts.
of the fees paid to Deloitte during the year is set out in note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.
During the year, Deloitte charged the Group 0.019m 2014: 0.655m for non-audit related services.
These fees related to an annual review of the potential impact of certain changes in employment legislation.
Deloitte were best placed to perform their work given their knowledge All shareholders can access announcements, of the business.
investor presentations and the Annual Report on the Companys corporate website It is the Companys practice that it will seek quotes from several www.
firms, which may include Deloitte, before work on non-audit projects is awarded.
Contracts are awarded to our suppliers based on individual merits.
We receive advice from other firms for specific projects.
In particular, the Company will regularly seek advice from KPMG on tax matters.
I will be available at the Companys forthcoming AGM to answer any questions on the work of the Audit Committee.
Marisa Cassoni Chair, Audit Committee AO World Plc AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55 Directors Remuneration Report Report of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Policy Prior to our IPO, we undertook a full review of our remuneration structure to ensure that, as a public company, we would be operating within a framework consistent with best practice, while being mindful of the need to pay no more than is necessary to retain and attract high-quality talent.
The resulting remuneration policy the Policy is straightforward, transparent and in keeping with the strategic and financial objectives of the business: it delivers market competitive packages to the senior executives at base level and rewards the achievement of stretching targets at the other end.
The aim is simple to align executive pay with the interests of shareholders and to promote the long-term success of the AO Group for all stakeholders.
Performance and reward for 2014 15 and looking forward The Annual Report on Remuneration set out on pages 63 to 67, describes how the policy has been implemented in the year under review and how it will be implemented for the year ahead.
It will Brian McBride be the subject of an advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM.
Chairman, Remuneration Committee Owing to the fact that the Companys financial performance missed the threshold set which was around market expectations for this Our Directors Remuneration Report sets out details of financial year, neither of the Executive Directors received nor were the remuneration policy for Executive and Non-Executive entitled to receive a bonus for the year under review.
For the year Directors, describes how the remuneration policy is being ahead, the Executives will be entitled to participate in the annual implemented for the financial year ending 31 March 2016 bonus scheme where, again, performance targets have been set and discloses the amounts paid to them in the financial in line with the Companys strategic and financial goals.
As was year ended 31 March 2015. the case last year, both of the Executive Directors have requested to waive their entitlement to participate in the Companys PSP Scheme The Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at our and the Committee has approved such request due to their existing AGM on 17 July 2014.
There are no changes to the policy approved holdings and their stated long-term commitment to the Company.
last year but, for ease of reference, this is set out in full for Further details of the variable elements of remuneration for the shareholders information on pages 57 to 62.
The Annual Report Executive Directors are set out on pages 60 to 61, but there are no on Remuneration set out on pages 63 to 67 describes how the significant changes to the previous year.
policy has been implemented in the year under review and how it will be implemented for the year ahead.
The Annual Report on Shareholder feedback Remuneration along with the Remuneration Committee Chairmans The Remuneration Committee recognises that the fostering Annual Statement will be the subject of an advisory vote at the of a close relationship with shareholders can complement the forthcoming AGM.
work of the Committee in developing the remuneration policy and welcomes any feedback that shareholders may have.
Annual Statement by the Chairman of the I will be available at the AGM on 21 July 2015 to answer any Remuneration Committee questions shareholders may have regarding the work of the Remuneration Committee.
Dear Shareholder, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors Brian McBride Remuneration Report for our financial year ended 31 March 2015.
Chairman, Remuneration Committee AO World Plc Remuneration Committee During the year under review, Bill Holroyd stepped down as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and I was appointed to replace him.
Bill still remains on the Committee at present but has indicated he will not stand for re-election as a Director of the Company at the forthcoming AGM.
I thank Bill for his contribution to the work of the Committee through our first full year in the public company environment.
Rudi Lamprecht will replace Bill on the Committee going forward and Rudi and I will continue to be supported by Marisa Cassoni, our Audit Committee Chair, who has considerable experience in the remuneration and governance fields.
The Remuneration Committee will therefore meet the independence criteria set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code following these changes and we will continue to ensure that the remuneration of our key Executives is appropriate, transparent and aligns long-term strategic objectives with the corporate culture throughout the organisation and with the interests of shareholders.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 56 Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 How the views of shareholders are taken into account Policy Report The Committee understands that constructive dialogue with This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the shareholders plays a key role in informing the development of a remuneration policy for the Company the Policy and has been successful remuneration policy and will seek to actively engage prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 of with shareholders in these matters.
The Committee will consider The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year.
Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and the UKLAs Listing Rules.
Any such feedback, plus any additional feedback received from The Policy has been developed taking into account the principles of the time to time, will be considered as part of the Companys annual UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Policy was put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM In addition, when it is proposed that any material changes are to and received approval from the vast majority of shareholders.
It is be made to the remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee intended that the policy will apply for three years from the date of Chairman will inform major shareholders of these in advance and approval.
For the purpose of clarity and transparency the Policy is will ensure that there is opportunity for discussion, in order that any being restated in full here.
Slight amendments have been made to the views can be properly reflected in the Policy formulation process.
report such that it can be read in the context of the 2015 16 financial year e. g. the reward scenarios charts have been updated.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Role of the Remuneration Committee in setting policy The Company does not formally consult with employees on executive The Remuneration Committee the Committee is responsible for remuneration.
However, when setting the remuneration policy for determining, on behalf of the Board, the Companys policy on the Executive Directors, the Committee takes into account the overall remuneration of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and other approach to reward for, and the pay and employment conditions of, senior executives of the Group.
other employees in the Group.
This process ensures that any increase to the pay of Executive Directors is set in an appropriate context and The Committees overarching aims in setting the remuneration policy is appropriate relative to increases proposed for other employees.
are to attract, retain and motivate high-calibre senior management The Committee is also provided with periodic updates on employee and to focus them on the delivery of the Groups strategic and business remuneration practices and trends across the Group.
objectives, to promote a strong and sustainable performance culture, to incentivise growth and to align the interests of Executive Directors Consideration of the impact of remuneration on risk and senior managers with those of shareholders.
In promoting these The Committee is committed to keeping the balance between reward objectives the Committee aims to ensure that no more than is and risk under review to ensure the remuneration policy is aligned necessary is paid and has set a policy framework that is structured appropriately with the risk appetite of the Company.
The Committee so as to adhere to the principles of good corporate governance and remains satisfied that the current remuneration policy is appropriately appropriate risk management.
The Committee also recognises the aligned with the risk profile of the Company and that the remuneration importance of promoting a strong collegiate culture and this is arrangements do not encourage excessive risk taking.
reflected in the approach to consistency in the application of the policy across the whole senior management population.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website at ao.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57 Directors Remuneration Report continued Summary of our remuneration policy The table below provides a summary of the key aspects of the Companys remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
Element Base salary Annual bonus Performance Share Plan PSP Pension Other benefits Purpose and To aid the recruitment and retention of To reward the delivery of annual objectives relating Intended to align the long-term interests of To aid recruitment and To provide a competitive benefits package link to strategy high-calibre executives to the business strategy Executives with those of shareholders retention to aid recruitment and retention To reflect experience and expertise To incentivise the delivery of key strategic To provide an appropriate To provide an appropriate level of fixed objectives over the longer term level of fixed income basic income Operation Reviewed annually, effective 1 April All bonus payments are at the discretion of the The PSP was introduced on Admission in 2014.
Executive Directors may Directors are entitled to benefits including Set initially at a level required to recruit suitable Committee Awards of free performance shares may be granted receive an employers a car allowance or company car, private executives reflecting their experience and expertise Not pensionable annually in the form of conditional awards or nil pension contribution family medical cover, death in service life Any subsequent increase influenced by a scope Payable in cash following the end of the year based cost options assurance and other Group-wide benefits of the role: b experience and personal performance on targets set at the start of the year Vesting is dependent on performance targets being offered by the Company.
Executive in the role: c average change in total workforce Targets are set and reviewed annually met during the performance period and continued Directors are also eligible to participate in salary: d performance of the Company: and e Clawback provisions apply in certain circumstances service of the Directors any all-employee share plans operated external economic conditions, such as inflation including where there has been a misstatement of A dividend equivalent provision exists which allows by the Company, in line with HMRC Periodic account of practice in comparable accounts, an error in assessing any applicable the Committee to pay dividends on vested shares guidelines currently prevailing where companies e. g. those of a similar size and performance condition, or in the event of misconduct at the time of vesting relevant, on the same basis as for other complexity taken on the part of the participant Clawback provisions apply in certain circumstances eligible employees No clawback or recovery provisions apply including where there has been a misstatement of accounts, an error in assessing any applicable performance condition, or in the event of misconduct on the part of the participant Maximum Annual increases will generally be linked to those Up to 150% of salary for all Executive Directors, Maximum limit contained within the plan rules is Employers defined The value of benefits may vary from opportunity of the average of the wider workforce dependent on performance, but a lower maximum 200% of salary although up to 300% of salary may contribution up to 12.75% year to year depending on the cost to Increases beyond those awarded to the wider may be operated be made in exceptional circumstances of salary the Company workforce in percentage of salary terms may be Normal policy awards may be made at lower levels awarded in certain circumstances such as where than this there is a change in responsibility, experience or a significant increase in the scale of the role and or size, value and or complexity of the Group Framework used The Committee reviews the salaries of Executive Bonuses are based on performance measures Awards vest based on challenging targets N A N A to assess Directors each year taking due account of all the with stretching targets as set and assessed by the measured over a three-year period, the majority performance factors described in how the salary policy operates Committee in its discretion of which will normally be based on financial Financial measures e. g. EBITDA will represent performance metrics the majority of bonus, with any other measures Prior to each award the Committee will set representing the balance threshold and stretch targets along with an Up to 25% of bonus will be payable for achievement intermediate vesting range.
Details of this will be of a threshold level of performance disclosed in advance in the Annual Report on Measures and weightings may change each year Remuneration unless the targets are commercially to reflect any year-on-year changes to business priorities sensitive, in which case they will be disclosed retrospectively No more than 25% vests at threshold Bonuses are based on performance measures with stretching targets.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 58 Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 Performance metrics and targets are carefully selected and aligned to the Companys strategic plan.
Summary of our remuneration policy The table below provides a summary of the key aspects of the Companys remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
Details of this will be of a threshold level of performance disclosed in advance in the Annual Report on Measures and weightings may change each year Remuneration unless the targets are commercially to reflect any year-on-year changes to business priorities sensitive, in which case they will be disclosed retrospectively No more than 25% vests at threshold AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59 Directors Remuneration Report continued Challenging targets are set whereby modest rewards are payable for Awards granted prior to the effective date For the avoidance of doubt, authority is given to the Company to the delivery of threshold levels of performance, rising to maximum rewards for the delivery of substantial out-performance of our honour any commitments entered into with Directors prior to adoption of the Policy.
Annual bonus plan and PSP policy Share ownership guidelines The Committees policy is to have formal shareholding guidelines for The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan and PSP according to the rules of each respective plan and taking into account normal the Executive Directors which create alignment between their interests and those of shareholders.
market practice and the Listing Rules, including flexibility in a number of regards.
While it does not intend to alter the operation of these plans The required level is set at up to 100% of salary.
Where the holding is frequently, the Committee retains discretion over the following areas working within the Policy : not already attained it is required to be achieved through retention of shares or the vesting of awards on a net of tax basis from share plans.
Who participates in the plans.
When to make awards and payments.
Differences in remuneration policy for Executive How to determine the size of an award, a payment, or when and how much of an award should vest.
Directors compared to other employees The Committee has regard to pay structures across the wider How to deal with a change of control or restructuring of the Group.
Whether a Director is a good bad leaver for incentive plan Group when setting the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
The Committee considers the general basic salary increase for the purposes and whether and what proportion of awards vest at the time of leaving or at the original vesting date s. broader workforce when determining the annual salary review for the Executive Directors.
How and whether an award may be adjusted in certain circumstances e. g. for a rights issue, a corporate restructuring Overall, the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is more or for special dividends.
What the weighting, measures and targets should be for the heavily weighted towards performance-related pay than for other employees.
In particular, performance-related long-term incentives annual bonus plan and PSP from year to year.
are not provided outside of senior management as they are reserved for those considered to have the greatest potential to influence overall The Committee also retains the discretion within the policy to adjust targets and or set different measures and alter weightings for the levels of performance.
That said, whilst the use of the PSP is confined to the senior managers in the Group, the Company is committed to annual bonus plan and to adjust targets for the PSP if events happen that cause it to determine that the conditions are unable to fulfil their widespread equity ownership and intends to roll-out an all-employee SAYE scheme on an annual basis, in which Executive Directors are original intended purpose.
eligible to participate on a consistent basis to all other employees.
Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting The level of performance-related pay varies within the Group by grade of employee, but the Policy is applied consistently across each grade The performance metrics and targets that are set for the Executive Directors via the annual bonus plan and PSP are carefully selected of the senior management population.
to align closely with the Companys strategic plan.
Reward scenarios Under the Policy, a significant proportion of remuneration received In terms of annual performance targets the bonus is determined on the basis of performance against specific performance indicators and by Executive Directors is variable and dependent on the performance of the Company.
The charts below illustrate how the total pay strategic objectives set annually.
The precise metrics chosen, along with the weightings of each, may vary in line with the Companys opportunities for the Executive Directors vary under three different performance scenarios: below target, on-target and maximum, based evolving strategy from year to year.
The Committee will review the performance measures and targets each year and vary them as on implementation of the bonus and PSP for the year ahead.
Given the Remuneration Committee have agreed to the wishes of the Executive appropriate to reflect the priorities for the business in the year ahead.
Directors to not be granted PSP awards in 2015 16 two sets of data have been presented one to show the overarching policy i. e. to In terms of the long-term performance targets, PSP awards will be set at the time of each grant but will normally include a majority based on include normal policy level PSP awards and one to show the policy as it will be implemented for 2015 16 i. e. to recognise that the financial performance in line with our key objectives of delivering profitable growth and delivering superior returns to our shareholders.
Executive Directors will not be granted PSP awards.
Where possible, the Committee will disclose the targets for each of the Executive Directors awards in advance in the Annual Report on Remuneration, but targets will generally be disclosed retrospectively where they are considered to be commercially sensitive.
The Committee will review the choice of performance measures and the appropriateness of the performance targets prior to each PSP grant and will consult with major shareholders in the event of any significant proposed change.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 60 Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 The charts are indicative as share price movement and dividend accrual have been excluded.
Assumptions: CEO total remuneration opportunity at different levels of performance Below threshold fixed pay only i. e. latest salary, benefits 000 and pension.
Target fixed pay plus 40% of maximum bonus payout and 58% 2,000 vesting under the PSP assuming awards equivalent to 150% of 1,873 36% base salary are granted.
Maximum fixed pay plus 100% of bonus payout and 100% PSP vesting assuming awards equivalent to 150% of base salary 1,500 are granted.
Fixed pay includes the base salaries for each Executive Director 1,198 1,187 applying on 1 April 2015 together with pension at 12.75% of base 56% 36% 33% 1,000 salary, a car allowance of 12,000 for each Executive Director and the value of other taxable benefits such as gym membership and 793 medical cover based on the cost of supplying those benefits.
23% 34% 523 525 500 Service contracts and loss of office payments 28% 100% 66% 44% 100% 44% Service contracts normally continue until the Executive Directors agreed retirement date or such other date as the parties agree.
The Companys policy is that Executive Directors will be employed on a 0 contract that can be terminated by the Company on giving no less than Below Target Maximum Below Target Maximum one years notice, with the Executive Director required to give no less Threshold Threshold than one years notice of termination also.
Overarching Policy Implementation for 2015 16 A Directors service contract may be terminated without notice and without any further payment or compensation, except for sums Fixed Pay Annual Bonus PSP earned up to the date of termination, on the occurrence of certain events such as gross misconduct.
The circumstances of the Pursuant to the CEOs decision not to participate in the current PSP.
CFO COO total remuneration opportunity at different termination taking into account the individuals performance and an individuals duty and opportunity to mitigate losses are taken levels of performance 000 into account by the Committee when determining amounts payable on following termination.
Our Policy is to reduce compensatory 2,000 payments to former Executive Directors where they receive remuneration from other employment during the notice period.
1,626 The Committee will consider the particular circumstances of each 36% leaver on a case-by-case basis and retains flexibility as to at what 1,500 point, and the extent to which, payments would be reduced.
Details will be provided in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration should such circumstances arise.
1,031 1,041 1,000 36% 56% 33% In summary, the contractual provisions are as follows: 690 34% Provision Detailed terms 23% 456 456 500 Notice period 12 months from both the Company and the 100% 44% 28% 100% 66% 44% Executive Directors Termination Payment in lieu of notice of 115% of base 0 payment salary, which is calculated so as to cover the Below Target Maximum Below Target Maximum value of contractual benefits and pension, Threshold Threshold normally subject to mitigation and paid monthly Overarching Policy Implementation for 2015 16 In addition, any statutory entitlements would Fixed Pay Annual Bonus PSP be paid as necessary Pursuant to the CEOs and the COO CFOs decision not to participate in the current PSP.
Change of control There will be no enhanced provisions on a Pursuant to the CFOs decision not to participate in the current PSP.
change of control The Committee may elect to make a lump sum termination payment up to a maximum of 12 months base salary and contractual benefits as part of an Executive Directors termination arrangements where it considers it appropriate to do so.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61 Directors Remuneration Report continued may also offer additional cash and or share-based elements when Annual bonus on termination There is no contractual entitlement to any part of the annual bonus it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and shareholders.
Any such additional payments would be based on termination.
At the discretion of the Committee, in certain circumstances a pro-rata bonus may become payable at the normal solely on remuneration relinquished when leaving the former employer and would reflect as far as possible the nature and time payment date for the period of active service only.
In all cases performance targets would apply, normally measured over the horizons attaching to that remuneration and the impact of any performance conditions.
Replacement share awards, if used, will whole financial year.
be granted using the Companys PSP up to the plan limit of 300% of salary to the extent possible.
Awards may also be granted PSP on termination Any share-based entitlements granted under the Companys share outside of the Companys existing PSP if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
Shareholders will be informed plans will be determined on the basis of the relevant plan rules.
In determining whether an Executive Director should be treated as a of any such payments at the time of appointment.
The maximum variable pay that could be awarded excluding good leaver under the plan rules the Committee will take into account the performance of the individual and the reasons for their departure.
buy-out awards is 450% of salary bonus of 150% of salary and PSP of 300% of salary.
In the event the Committee does class an Executive as a good leaver, the Committee will set out its rationale in the Annual Report on The annual bonus would operate in accordance with the terms of the approved policy then in force, albeit with the opportunity Remuneration following departure.
Awards ordinarily vest on a time pro-rata basis subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance pro-rated for the period of employment.
Depending on the timing and responsibilities of the appointment it may be necessary to set criteria with the balance of the awards lapsing.
The Committee retains discretion to alter the basis of time pro-rating if it deems this different performance measures and targets in the first year.
For an internal executive appointment, any variable pay element appropriate.
However, if the time pro-rating is varied from the default position, an explanation will be set out in the Annual Report on awarded in respect of the former role would be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account Remuneration following departure.
For the avoidance of doubt, performance conditions will always apply to awards for good the appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment would continue.
leavers, although the Committee may determine that it is appropriate to assess performance over a different period than the default For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses three-year period.
Approach to recruitment and promotions The remuneration package for any new Executive Director would For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved be set in accordance with the terms of the Companys approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment.
In addition, fee structure policy in force at that time.
with specific regard to the recruitment of new Executive Directors whether by external recruitment or internal promotion, the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment remuneration policy will allow for the following: Where new joiners or recent promotions have been given a starting The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company, but instead have letters of appointment.
salary at a discount to the mid-market level, a series of increases above those granted to the wider workforce in percentage of salary The letters of appointment are usually renewed every three years.
Termination of the appointment may be earlier at the discretion of either terms may be awarded over the proceeding few years, subject to satisfactory individual performance and development in the role.
party on three months written notice.
None of the Non-Executive Directors is entitled to any compensation if their appointment is The Policy permits PSP awards of up to 300% of salary in exceptional circumstances such as recruitment.
Appointments will be subject to re-election at the AGM.
Non-Executive Directors fees The Non-Executive Directors fees policy is described below: Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Fees To recruit and retain high calibre Fees are determined by the Board, with Non-Executive There is no cap on fees.
non-executives Directors abstaining from any discussion or decision Non-Executive Directors are in relation to their fees.
eligible for fee increases Non-Executive Directors are paid an annual fee and during the three-year period do not participate in any of the Companys incentive that the remuneration policy arrangements or receive any pension provision.
operates to ensure they The Chairman is paid a consolidated all-inclusive fee continue to appropriately for all Board responsibilities.
recognise the time The Non-Executive Directors receive a basic Board commitment of the role, fee, with additional fees payable for chairing the Audit, increases to fee levels for Nomination and Remuneration Committees and for Non-Executive Directors in performing the Senior Independent Director role.
general and fee levels in The fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis, with companies of a similar size reference to the time commitment of the role and and complexity.
market levels in companies of comparable size and complexity.
Non-Executive Directors shall be entitled to have reimbursed all fees that they reasonably incur in the performance of their duties.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 62 Overview 1-11 Strategic Report 12-41 Our Governance 42-71 Our Results 72-107 Shareholders Information 108 Annual Report on Remuneration As set out in our last Annual Report, the Annual Remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2015 was structured with the framework of the Policy and has been implemented accordingly.
This will be put to an advisory vote at the Companys AGM on 21 July 2015.
Single figure of total remuneration for 2014 2015 The audited table below shows the aggregate emoluments earned by the Directors of the Company during the period 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015 and those earned during the period 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014.
In 2013 2014 John Roberts received his annual 12,000 car allowance plus a further car allowance of 12,000 which was outstanding from the previous financial year.
Similarly, in 2013 2014 Steve Caunce received 9,000 car allowance plus 9,000 outstanding from the previous financial year.
2 Employers pension contributions of 12.75% of salary were paid to the Executive Directors in both years.
3 John Roberts participated in full in the 2014 AO Sharesave Scheme launched in May 2014 on the same basis as other employees and was granted 7,093 SAYE options.
Steve Caunce participated in full in the 2015 AO Sharesave Scheme launched in January 2015 on the same basis as other employees and was granted 7,929 SAYE options.
The SAYE value is calculated by multiplying the number of shares under option by the value of discount in pounds at the time the scheme was launched.
The exercise price for each award was set at 80% of the market value of the share price prior to the scheme launch.
4 The Chairmans fee is comprised of 130,000 for basic duties and 5,000 for chairing the Nomination Committee.
AO World Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63
