Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 86 Remuneration report The Committee has noted the key changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code, made in late 2014, that relate to remuneration, namely the greater emphasis on ensuring that remuneration policies are designed with the long-term success of the Company in mind and clawback arrangements.
Currently the Company has malus provisions in place which provide that unvested mandatorily deferred annual bonuses and any unvested matching awards attached to these mandatorily deferred shares may be reduced in certain circumstances.
The Committee intends to review its policy regarding clawback provisions with the intention of including any changes in a revised remuneration policy at the next formal approval of policy, scheduled for 2017.
Remuneration in 2014 15 In August 2014 Bill Tame, who had been Group Finance Jeff Randall Director since 2002, took on a new Board role as Chief Committee Chairman Executive, International Division and Franco Martinelli was promoted to the role of Group Finance Director.
Mr Tame retained the remuneration arrangements he had in his post Annual Statement of the as Group Finance Director.
Mr Martinelli was appointed on a remuneration package equivalent to those of the Divisional Remuneration Committee Chairman Chief Executives.
Further details of his package, which was Dear Shareholder set within the parameters of the approved remuneration policy, Following my appointment as Remuneration Committee are contained in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Chairman in July 2014, I am pleased to present the The Company continues to perform at a high level, delivering Directors remuneration report for 2014 15. once again record results for the financial year.
These results This Directors remuneration report is, as last year, split into reinforce the Boards belief in the Companys strategy, and give three parts: this Annual Statement, a Policy Report and an the Committee the reassurance that executive incentives are Annual Report on Remuneration.
These sections work together driving the right behaviours and are rewarding the executive to give you full and transparent disclosure of the Companys team appropriately.
This performance over the year resulted intentions as to Directors remuneration and how that in annual bonus payments of between 75% and 84% of remuneration operates.
Our remuneration policy, outlined in maximum, and sustained performance over the last three years the Policy Report, which was approved at the 21 July 2014 has resulted in 83.5% vesting of the PSP and 88.4% vesting of AGM, contains some minor updates and clarifications to the DBMP, with relative TSR and ROCE performance ahead of improve the readability of the report.
There are no changes to the stretching targets, and EPS performance in the performance the underlying policy: this section is included for shareholders range set by the Committee in 2012. convenience and there will be no shareholder vote on the Remuneration for 2015 16 Policy Report at the 2015 AGM.
We will, however, be seeking The remuneration policy for 2015 16 remains unchanged from an advisory vote as to your approval of this Annual Statement 2014 15, and the Committee continues to operate Directors and the Annual Report on Remuneration at the Annual General remuneration arrangements within the approved policy.
The Committee reviewed Executive Director base salaries The Committee has had a full agenda during the year, during the year and determined that salaries for Executive and continued to take into consideration evolving corporate Directors should be increased in line with those for the wider governance requirements and to seek to ensure that Group in the UK for 2015 16.
As explained in last years remuneration policy is aligned with Company strategy and Annual Report on Remuneration, the Committee has agreed rewards the right behaviours.
I believe that the work carried that this years increase would apply to the salary levels out by the Committee over the past few years means that we approved by the Committee for 2014 15, even though the are well placed to operate within our shareholder approved Directors chose voluntarily not to draw their increases last remuneration policy for the foreseeable future, subject to any year.
Bill Tames salary for 2015 16 remains unchanged from changes required by new regulatory or corporate governance the level awarded in 2014 15. requirements that may arise.
Our remuneration structure remains weighted towards long-term equity components of pay, which the Committee believes is appropriate for our business.
Governance 87 As part of its annual review of remuneration arrangements, The Committee reviews PSP and DBMP performance conditions the Committee assesses whether we are meeting our stated in advance of grant each year.
For 2015 the TSR performance policy that remuneration arrangements align Directors and targets remain unchanged.
Given the Company is increasingly shareholders interests, and take account of risk, and are both international, and in light of current inflation levels in the UK fair and capable of providing enhanced rewards for delivery approaching zero, the Committee considers EPS comparisons of superior performance by allowing for the possibility of upper to UK RPI no longer relevant.
The Committee therefore prefers, quartile rewards for upper quartile performance.
Following a going forward, to calibrate the EPS growth targets for 2015 thorough review, the Committee has decided to align the awards in nominal terms of 4% p. a. to 11% p. a. over three annual bonus opportunity at 150% of salary for all Executive years.
2015 DBMP ROCE targets have been set to be relevant Directors, in line with the approved remuneration policy and for the Company strategy, and awards will vest for average the level already being offered to Mr Rogers as Chief Executive ROCE over the performance period of 12% to 15%.
and Mr Tame formerly Group Finance Director and now Jeff Randall a Divisional Chief Executive.
Committee Chairman 18 May 2015 Glossary of terms As used in this remuneration report CSOP means the 2009 Babcock Company Share Option Plan DBP means the 2009 Babcock Deferred Bonus Plan DBMP means the 2012 Babcock Deferred Bonus Matching Plan PSP means the 2009 Babcock Performance Share Plan PBT means underlying Profit Before Tax PBIT means underlying Profit Before Interest and Tax OCF means Operating Cash Flow as determined for management purposes ROCE means Return on Capital Employed EPS means basic underlying Earnings per Share Remuneration Committee Compliance statement Terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee This report covers the reporting period from 1 April 2014 the Committee have been approved by the Board and to 31 March 2015 and provides details of the Committees were reviewed during the year.
Duties of the Committee membership, details of its deliberations on executive include the review of the policy for the remuneration of the remuneration during the year under review and remuneration Executive Directors and the Chairman, as well as their specific policy for the Company.
This report has been prepared by the remuneration packages.
In determining the remuneration Committee according to the requirements of the Companies policy, the Committee takes into account all factors which Act 2006 the Act, Regulation 11 and Schedule 8 of the it deems necessary to ensure that members of the senior Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts executive management of the Group are provided with and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations appropriate incentives to encourage strong performance and and other relevant requirements of the FCA Listing Rules.
In that they are rewarded for their individual contributions to the addition, the Committee has applied the principles of good success of the Company, in a fair and responsible manner.
corporate governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012, and has considered guidelines issued by its leading The composition of the Committee and its terms of reference shareholders and bodies such as the Investment Association, comply with the provisions of the Corporate Governance Code.
Institutional Shareholder Services and the National Association The terms of reference are available for inspection on the of Pension Funds.
In accordance with Section 439 and 439A Companys website.
of the Act, an advisory resolution to approve this Annual Statement and the Annual Report on Remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 30 July 2015.
This report contains both auditable and non-auditable information.
The information subject to audit is so marked.
The Regulations require the Companys auditors to report that the Audited information in this report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 88 Remuneration report continued heavily on the value of variable performance-related rewards, Remuneration Policy Report rather than on the fixed elements of pay.
The rationale is Key principles of the remuneration policy to incentivise and reward success.
Objective Weighting towards long-term, performance-related pay To provide fair remuneration arrangements that allow The focus of our executive remuneration is, therefore, for enhanced rewards for delivery of superior performance weighted towards performance-related pay with a significant by allowing for the possibility of upper quartile rewards for element weighted towards long-term rather than short-term upper quartile performance, that align Directors and performance.
We believe that, properly structured and with shareholders interests and take account of risk.
suitable safeguards, variable, performance-related rewards Our policy for executives reflects a preference that we believe are the best way of linking pay to strategy, risk management is shared by the majority of our shareholders to rely more and shareholders interests.
Directors Remuneration Policy Summary of Babcocks remuneration policy for Executive Directors Policy Table Purpose and link to strategy Operation Fixed pay Base salary Base salaries are reviewed annually, with reference to the individuals role, experience Should be at a level that is i fair and performance: salary levels at relevant comparators are considered but do not in and ii capable, when taken with themselves drive decision-making.
the gearing effect of performancerelated pay, of delivering upper quartile actual remuneration for upper quartile performance.
Pension Cash supplement in lieu wholly or partly of pension benefits for ongoing service and or To provide market competitive membership of the groups Defined Benefit or Defined Contribution pension scheme.
Benefits A range of benefits are provided which may include life insurance: medical insurance: Designed to be competitive in the car and fuel benefits and allowances: home to work travel and related costs if agreed market in which the individual is on an individual basis or if incurred at the request of the Company: accommodation employed or to meet costs effectively benefits and related costs if based away from home at the request of the Company: incurred at the Companys request.
Board function-related costs: and, in certain circumstances, cash allowances in respect of the tax charge on accommodation or travel to work benefit if incurred at the request of the Company or with its prior approval.
Other benefits e. g. relocation may be offered if considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee.
Governance 89 Opportunity Performance metrics In respect of existing Executive Directors, it is anticipated that decisions Business and individual performance are on any salary increases will be guided by the increases for the wider considerations in setting base salary.
employee population over the term of this policy.
In certain circumstances including, but not limited to, a material increase in job size or complexity, market forces, promotion or recruitment the Committee has discretion to make appropriate adjustments to salary levels to ensure they remain fair and competitive.
Latest salaries are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 100.
Executive Directors, other than John Davies, currently receive a cash Not performance related.
supplement of 25% of base pay in lieu of pension benefits.
John Davies is a member of the Babcock International Group Pension Scheme which offers 1 60th accrual and receives a cash supplement, currently 20% of base pay above the scheme earnings cap.
Mr Martinelli ceased active membership of the Babcock International Group Pension Scheme with 1 45th accrual effective 31 March 2015 since when he has been receiving the 25% salary supplement mentioned above.
Whilst still a member of the Scheme, in addition to his pension accrual he received a cash supplement of approximately 15% for earnings above the scheme earnings cap applicable to him.
The cash supplement payable, whether in lieu of all pension benefits or on pay in excess of any applicable scheme earnings cap, and the level of any employer contribution into a defined contribution pension scheme for Executive Directors is set having regard to market practice, and in the context of the other elements of the remuneration package, notably base salary.
Other than in exceptional cases such as to replace existing arrangements for new recruits the Committee does not anticipate employer contributions into a defined contribution pension scheme or cash in lieu of benefit as being at a cost to the Company that would exceed 30% of base salary or, in the case of internal promotions to the Board or for Executive Directors subsequently leaving existing Group pension schemes, in excess of the cost to the Company as a percentage of base salary of their current pension provision.
Benefit values vary by role and are periodically reviewed and set at a Not performance related.
level which the Committee considers appropriate in light of relevant market practice for the role and individual circumstances.
The cost of the benefits provided changes in accordance with market conditions and will, therefore, determine the maximum amount that would be paid in the form of benefits during the period of this policy.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in certain circumstances e. g. relocation or in circumstances where factors outside the Companys control have changed materially.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 90 Remuneration report continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Variable pay Annual bonus Performance targets are set at the start of the year and reflect the responsibilities of the To underpin delivery of executive in relation to the delivery of our strategy.
year-on-year financial At the end of the year, the Committee determines the extent to which these targets have performance and progress been achieved.
The Committee has the discretion to adjust the outcome up or down within towards strategic non-financial the limits of the plan for corporate transactions, unforeseen events, factors outside reasonable objectives, being structured management control, changes to business priorities or operational arrangements, to ensure to motivate delivery against targets represent and remain a fair measure of performance.
In addition, the Committee considers targets and achievement of health and safety performance and it may reduce or cancel any annual bonus otherwise payable stretching outperformance, if it considers it appropriate to do so in light of that performance.
whilst mindful of achievement of long-term strategy and At least 40% of annual bonus payments for Executive Directors must be deferred into awards longer-term risks to the over Company shares for three years under the DBMP.
Mandatory deferred bonus awards Company.
Deferred annual bonus are subject to potential forfeiture if the holder leaves before the awards vest.
Malus applies to unvested deferred annual bonuses if the accounts used to determine the The requirement to defer bonus level have to be materially corrected or the Committee subsequently comes to a view a substantial part of bonus that bonus year performance was materially worse than originally believed or will have material into Babcock shares adverse impacts in future years.
strengthens the link to long-term sustainable growth.
Deferred bonus matching The Committee may grant performance-related matching awards to Executive Directors who plan DBMP are granted deferred bonus awards.
To ensure that a substantial Participants can make an investment including by voluntary extra deferral of bonus regardless part of the Directors shortof any annual bonus earned of up to 100% of salary including mandatory and voluntary term incentive rewards is investment.
Participants may make an additional voluntary investment of up to 40% of salary.
exposed to the longer-term impact of decision-making and An additional benefit is provided in cash or shares equal to dividends that would have been to further align their interests paid over the vesting period on shares that vest.
The Committee has the ability to exercise discretion to override the DBMP matching outcome in circumstances where application of the formula would produce a result inconsistent with the Companys remuneration principles.
Performance Share Plan PSP The Remuneration Committee has the ability to grant nil-cost options or conditional share and Company Share Option awards under the PSP, and may grant a portion of an award in CSOP options.
To date, the Plan CSOP Remuneration Committee has only awarded nil-cost options and CSOP options to executives.
To incentivise delivery of The award levels and performance conditions on which vesting depends are reviewed from top quartile shareholder time to time to ensure they remain appropriate.
returns and earnings growth over the longer term.
An additional benefit is provided in cash or shares equal to dividends that would have been paid over the vesting period on shares that vest.
Long-term measures guard against short-term steps being Options may also be granted under the CSOP, an HMRC approved option scheme, which have taken to maximise annual an exercise price based on market price at the award date and can be linked to PSP awards as rewards at the expense of explained further on page 117, but are otherwise the same as for PSP awards.
The Committee has the ability to exercise discretion to override the PSP outcome in circumstances where strict application of the performance conditions would produce a result inconsistent with the Companys remuneration principles.
All-employee plans Babcock Open to all UK tax resident employees of participating Group companies.
Executive Directors Employee Share Plan are eligible to participate.
To encourage employee The plan is an HMRC approved share incentive plan that allows an employee to purchase ownership of Babcock shares.
shares through the plan trustees out of pre-tax salary which, if held for periods of time approved by HMRC currently three to five years, are taxed on a favourable basis.
The Company can match purchased shares with an award of free shares.
Matching shares are forfeited if employees leave within three years of their award other than for good leaver reasons.
Governance 91 Opportunity Performance metrics Maximum bonus opportunity is 150% of salary.
Performance is determined by the Committee on an annual basis by reference to Group and or divisional financial measures, e. g. EPS growth, For achievement of threshold, up to 15% of PBIT, PBT, OCF, as well as the achievement of non-financial objectives.
maximum bonus is earned: for achievement of target up to 55% of maximum bonus is earned.
The financial and personal strategic objectives are typically weighted 80% and 20% of maximum, respectively.
The Committee retains discretion to vary the weightings -20% for individual measures within the financial element at the start of each year, to ensure alignment with the business priorities for the year.
Measures used for the 2014 15 annual bonus and proposed for 2015 16 are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The maximum match would be 2 for 1 on any Vesting of DBMP awards is subject to continued employment and shares held under the DBMP up to a maximum Company performance over a three year performance period.
of 200% of salary based on maximum voluntary Awards in recent cycles have been based on the achievement of stretching investment.
EPS, TSR and or ROCE targets.
The Committee will review the performance For each performance condition applying to measures, their weightings, and performance targets annually to ensure matching awards, 12.5% of the maximum continued alignment with Company strategy.
Should the Committee make award will vest for threshold performance.
changes to the measures, the weighting on EPS, TSR and ROCE combined will be not less than 66% of the total award.
Details of measures and targets used for specific DBMP grants are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Maximum annual PSP awards of up to 200% of Vesting of PSP awards is subject to continued employment and Company base pay though currently only the Chief Executive performance over a three year performance period.
receives awards at this level.
Awards in recent cycles have been based on the achievement of stretching For each performance condition applying to an EPS and TSR targets.
The Committee will review the performance measures, award, 16.7% of the maximum award will vest their weightings, and performance targets annually to ensure continued for threshold performance.
Should the Committee make changes to the measures, the weighting on EPS and or TSR combined will be not less than 66% of the total award.
Details of measures and targets used for specific PSP and CSOP grants are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Participants can purchase shares up to the Not performance related.
prevailing HMRC limit at the time employees are invited to participate.
The Company currently offers to match purchases made through the plan at the rate of 1 free matching share for every 10 shares purchased.
The matching rate is reviewed periodically, and any future offer will be bound by the prevailing HMRC limit.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 92 Remuneration report continued Approach to recruitment remuneration Recruitment policy In the cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee may make use of any of the existing components of remuneration, as follows: Pay element Policy on recruitment Maximum Salary Based on size and nature of responsibilities of the proposed role: the N A candidates experience: implications for total remuneration positioning vs. market pay levels for comparable roles: internal relativities: and the candidates current salary.
Pension Membership of pension scheme or salary supplement on a similar basis N A to other executives, as described in the policy table.
Benefits Provision of benefits on a similar basis to other executives, as described N A in the policy table.
Annual bonus As described in the policy table, and may be pro-rated for proportion 150% of salary of year served.
Deferred Bonus Matching Plan New appointees may participate in the DBMP on similar terms to 200% of salary other executives.
Performance Share Plan and New appointees may be granted awards under the PSP on similar terms 200% of salary Company Share Option Plan CSOP to other executives.
Other In determining appropriate remuneration for new Executive Directors, N A the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors including quantum, the nature of remuneration and where the candidate was recruited from to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The Committee may also make an award in respect of a new appointment to replace incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, time to vesting and the likelihood of those conditions being met.
The fair value of the compensatory award would not be greater than the awards being replaced.
In order to facilitate like-for-like compensatory awards on recruitment, the Committee may avail itself of Listing Rule 9.4.
Other recruitment events Internal promotion When appointing a new Executive Director by way of promotion from N A an internal role, the Committee will be consistent with the policy for external hires detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments, outstanding incentive awards and or pension arrangements prior to their promotion to Executive Director, the Company may honour those arrangements: however, where appropriate, these would be expected to transition over time to the arrangements as stated above.
Non-Executive Director When recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Committee or Board N A will structure pay in line with the existing policy, namely a base fee in line with the current fee schedule, with additional fees for fulfilling the role of Senior Independent Director and Chairmanship of the Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees.
Governance 93 Minor text changes have been made to this Policy Report to The TSR performance measure is tested by reference to the improve its readability and provide clarifications.
These include: Companys relative long-term share price performance against Inclusion of information specific to Franco Martinelli, who suitable peers.
The Committee believes that the use of relative was appointed as Group Finance Director and an TSR provides strong alignment with shareholders interests Executive Director on 1 August 2014 by incentivising management for the delivery of above-market Inclusion of information specific to Myles Lee, who was returns.
The TSR calculation would normally use a 12-month appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2015 average for opening and closing share prices adjusted for Removal of information specific to Justin Crookenden, dividends paid during the period.
The Company feels that this who retired from the Board on 30 November 2014 is the most appropriate period because a 12-month average Clarification of malus provisions previously referred to as ensures both that short-term market volatility is excluded clawback in line with emerging consensus on terminology and that for each company a 12-month period will capture Updating of charts illustrating the balance of remuneration the impact of the announcement of results and payment of for Executive Directors to be relevant for 2015 16 dividends.
A shorter period would not capture all these Updating page references, references to year ends, and other events and would not necessarily put all companies on an minor text changes equal footing.
The remuneration policy approved at the Annual General The use of an EPS growth performance measure, in the opinion Meeting held in July 2014 is available on the Companys of the Committee, focuses management on continued strong website at www.
com investors, financial performance and is heavily dependent on the together with this Policy Report.
Companys success in achieving its strategic goals.
The Committee believes that ROCE reinforces the focus on Payments from existing awards and commitments returns for shareholders and encourages capital discipline.
Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from It also provides good line of sight for management.
any award or other commitment made prior to the approval and implementation of the remuneration policy detailed in The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to make this report.
adjustments to the calculation of short and long-term performance outcomes in circumstances where application Performance measure selection and approach of the formula would produce a result inconsistent with the to target setting Companys remuneration principles.
Such circumstances may The measures used under annual bonus schemes are selected include: changes in accounting standards, certain major annually to reflect the Groups main strategic objectives for corporate events such as rights issues, share buybacks, special the year and reflect both financial and non-financial priorities.
dividends, corporate restructurings, acquisitions and disposals.
Performance targets are set to be stretching but achievable, The Committee reviews the performance conditions for share taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and awards prior to the start of each cycle to ensure they remain the economic environment in which the Company operates.
No material reduction in long-term incentive Financial targets are set taking into account a range of reference targets for future awards would be made without prior points including the Groups strategic and operating plan.
consultation with our major shareholders.
The Committee considers at length the appropriate financial conditions and non-financial objectives to attach to annual Differences between Executive Director and bonus awards and the financial targets to attach to share awards general employee remuneration to ensure they continue to be: i relevant to our strategic The policy and practice with regard to the remuneration objectives and aligned with shareholders interests mindful of of senior executives below the Board is consistent with that for risk management: and ii fair by being suitably stretching the Executive Directors.
Senior executives generally participate whilst realistic.
in the same long-term incentives as the Executive Directors with The Committee believes that Total Shareholder Return similar performance measures applied.
The remuneration policy TSR, Underlying Earnings per Share EPS and Return on for our Executive Directors is considered with the remuneration Capital Employed ROCE continue to be effective measures philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration for the of long-term performance for the Company, providing a good wider Group in mind.
The remuneration arrangements for other balance between shareholder value creation and line of sight employees reflect local market practice and seniority of each for executives.
As a result, the levels and structure of remuneration for different groups of employees will differ from the policy for executives as set out above but with the common intention that remuneration arrangements for all groups might reasonably be considered to be fair having regard to such factors.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 94 Remuneration report continued Potential reward opportunities are based on Babcocks Balance of remuneration for Executive Directors remuneration policy, applied to base salaries as at 1 April 2015.
The charts below provide an estimate of the potential future Note that the projected values exclude the impact of any share reward opportunities for the Executive Directors, and the price movements.
For this reason, were the DBMP or PSP shares potential split between the different elements of remuneration to vest in full, actual total remuneration may exceed the value under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, shown in the chart below.
Chief Executive Group Finance Director Chief Executive, Marine and Peter Rogers 000 Franco Martinelli 000 Technology Archie Bethel 000 5,000 3,000 3,000 59% 4,000 56% 56% 2,000 2,000 3,000 2,000 22% 20% 24% 1,000 24% 1,000 17% 17% 31% 32% 32% 1,000 19% 49% 100% 21% 51% 100% 20% 50% 100% 0 Maximum On-target Minimum 0 Maximum On-target Minimum 0 Maximum On-target Minimum Fixed remuneration Fixed remuneration Fixed remuneration Annual variable remuneration Annual variable remuneration Annual variable remuneration Long-term incentives Long-term incentives Long-term incentives Chief Executive, Defence Chief Executive, Support Chief Executive, International and Security John Davies 000 Services Kevin Thomas 000 Division Bill Tame 000 3,000 3,000 3,000 56% 56% 56% 2,000 2,000 2,000 24% 17% 24% 1,000 24% 1,000 1,000 17% 17% 32% 33% 33% 20% 50% 100% 20% 50% 100% 20% 50% 100% 0 Maximum On-target Minimum 0 Maximum On-target Minimum 0 Maximum On-target Minimum Fixed remuneration Fixed remuneration Fixed remuneration Annual variable remuneration Annual variable remuneration Annual variable remuneration Long-term incentives Long-term incentives Long-term incentives 2,112 4,363 847 1,690 XX.
X 461 509 Governance 95 The Minimum scenario shows base salary, pension and or Company equivalent in value to at least twice the Executive pay in lieu of pension and benefits i. e. fixed remuneration.
Directors annual base salary three times for the CEO.
These are the only elements of the Executive Directors The guidelines also state that an Executive Director is expected remuneration packages which are not at risk.
to retain at least half of any shares acquired on the exercise of a share award that remain after the sale of sufficient shares to The On-target scenario reflects fixed remuneration as above, cover tax and national insurance triggered by the exercise and plus a pay-out of 50% of the annual bonus and threshold vesting associated dealing costs until the guideline level is achieved of 12.5% and 16.7% of the maximum award under the DBMP and thereafter maintained.
The Executive Directors compliance and PSP, respectively.
All scenarios assume full voluntary with these guidelines is shown in the table on page 111. investment under the DBMP.
Details of Directors service contracts and exit The Maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus full payments and treatment of awards on a change pay-out of all incentives.
of control Shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors The following summarises the key terms excluding The Committee sets shareholding guidelines for Executive remuneration of the Directors service contracts or terms Directors.
The current guideline is to build and maintain, of appointment: over time, a personal and or spousal holding of shares in the Executive Directors Name Date of service contract Notice period Peter Rogers Chief Executive 31 July 2003 amended by letters 12 months from Company, dated 5 May 2004 and 3 April 2006 6 months from Director Franco Martinelli Group Finance Director 1 August 2014 12 months from Company, 12 months from Director Bill Tame Chief Executive, International Division 1 October 2001 amended by letters 12 months from Company, dated 5 May 2004 and 3 April 2006 6 months from Director Archie Bethel Chief Executive, Marine and Technology 21 April 2010 12 months from Company, 6 months from Director Kevin Thomas Chief Executive, Support Services 20 April 2010 12 months from Company, 6 months from Director John Davies Chief Executive, Defence and Security 20 December 2012 12 months from Company, 12 months from Director The latest service contracts are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and will also be available at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The Companys policy is that Executive Directors service salary plus 40% compared to a maximum entitlement under contracts should be capable of being terminated by the the annual bonus scheme of 150% in lieu of bonus and all Company on not more than 12 months notice.
The Executive other contractual entitlements.
From this payment there is to Directors service contracts entitle the Company to terminate be deducted any amount that the Executive Director receives their employment without notice by making a payment of by way of income, if it exceeds 10% of his Babcock salary, from salary and benefits in lieu of notice.
In these circumstances, other sources that he would not have been able to earn had since 2012, new Executive Director contracts those for John he continued in employment with the Company.
Davies and Franco Martinelli allow the Company to choose The contracts for Peter Rogers and Bill Tame but not for to make the payment in lieu by monthly instalments and Kevin Thomas, Archie Bethel, John Davies and Franco Martinelli mitigation applies such that the Committee may decide to also provide that if the Company terminates their appointment reduce or discontinue further instalments.
For contracts made within 12 months of a change of control, they would be entitled before 2012 namely those for the Executive Directors other to a termination payment equal to 100% of annual salary than John Davies and Franco Martinelli such a payment would plus 40% in lieu of bonus and all other benefits, subject to any be by way of a lump sum payment on termination.
If the additional entitlement as outlined below.
Company terminates an Executive Directors service contract it will have regard to all the circumstances including the scope In addition to the contractual provisions regarding payment for mitigation and the Companys interests in determining the on termination set out above, the Companys incentive amount of compensation, if any, payable to him in connection plans contain provisions for termination of employment, with that termination.
where the Committee has the discretion to determine the level of award vesting.
The contracts for Peter Rogers and Bill Tame but not for Archie Bethel, Kevin Thomas, John Davies and Franco Martinelli contain provisions which provide that within 90 days of the occurrence of a change of control of the Company, each may terminate his employment forthwith.
If he exercises this right, he is entitled, for a 12-month period, to be paid on a monthly basis his base Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 96 Remuneration report continued 2 Component Treatment on a change of control Treatment for a good leaver Treatment for other leavers Annual bonus Will be paid a time pro-rated Will be paid a time pro-rated No annual bonus proportion, subject to performance proportion, subject to performance entitlement, unless the during the year, generally paid during the year, generally paid Committee exercises immediately, with Committee immediately, with Committee discretion to treat 1 discretion to treat otherwise discretion to treat otherwise otherwise PSP, CSOP, DBP and DBMP Awards generally vest immediately, Entitled to retain a time pro-rated Outstanding awards are mandatorily deferred and, for performance-related proportion, which remains subject forfeited, unless the bonus awards and awards, will be pro-rated for time to performance conditions.
Committee exercises matching awards and remain subject to performance Committee has discretion to allow discretion to treat conditions, with Committee immediate vesting and or more otherwise discretion to treat otherwise than time pro-rated vesting 1.
Treatment of bonus on a change of control for Peter Rogers and Bill Tame is also subject of the provisions outlined on page 95 and above.
An individual would generally be considered a good leaver if they leave the Groups employment by reason of injury, ill-health, disability, redundancy or retirement in each case evidenced to the Committees satisfaction.
The treatment of share awards held by Directors who leave on other grounds is entirely at the discretion of the Committee and in deciding whether and the extent to which it would be appropriate to exercise that discretion the Committee will have regard to all the circumstances.
The Committee has discretion to allow awards held by leavers the business and the extent to which that contribution is to vest immediately and or in full or for a good leaver or expected to still have an impact during the remainder of the on a change of control at a higher proportion than strict applicable performance period.
The Committee may also make time-apportionment if it considers this to be appropriate.
any favourable exercise of its discretion subject to conditions.
In deciding how to exercise its discretion the Committee will External appointments of Executive Directors take account of all the circumstances arising including, in the The Executive Directors may accept external appointments case of a leaver, the reasons for and circumstances of the with the prior approval of the Chairman, provided that such termination of employment, the leavers length of service, appointments do not prejudice the individuals ability to fulfil level of responsibility and business impact, individual their duties at the Group.
Any fees for outside appointments performance during their tenure, exceptional contribution to are retained by the Director.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Anticipated expiry of present term of Date of appointment as a Date of current appointment subject to Name Director appointment letters annual re-election Mike Turner Chairman 1 June 2008 20 March 2014 AGM for 2017 David Omand 1 April 2009 26 March 2015 AGM for 2018 Ian Duncan 10 November 2010 5 March 2013 AGM for 2016 Kate Swann 1 June 2011 20 March 2014 AGM for 2017 Anna Stewart 1 November 2012 26 March 2015 AGM for 2018 Jeff Randall 1 April 2014 6 December 2013 AGM for 2017 Myles Lee 1 April 2015 3 March 2015 AGM for 2018 The latest written terms of appointment are available for Details of the Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment inspection at the Companys registered office and at the are shown in the table.
The appointment and re-appointment Companys Annual General Meeting.
The expected time and the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors are matters commitment of Non-Executive Directors is set out in their reserved for the Nominations Committee and Executive current written terms of appointment.
The Groups Non-Executive Directors serve under letters The Non-Executive Directors fees have been set at a level to of appointment as detailed in the table above, normally for reflect the amount of time and level of involvement required no more than three-year terms at a time: however, in all in order to carry out their duties as members of the Board and cases appointments are terminable at will at any time by the its Committees.
The Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to Company or the Director.
All Non-Executive Directors are participate in the Companys performance-related incentive subject to annual re-election by the Company in general plans and do not receive any pension contributions.
meeting in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Governance 97 Details of the policy on fees paid to our Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below: Function Operation Opportunity Performance measures To attract and retain Fee levels are reviewed against Non-Executive Director fee None high-calibre Non-Executive market practice from time to increases are applied in line Directors with commercial time by the Chairman and with the outcome of the and other experience relevant the Executive Directors in the periodic fee review to the Company case of Non-Executive Director Any increases to the Nonfees and by the Remuneration Executive Director fee will Committee in respect of fees typically be in line with general payable to the Chairman, movements in market levels with any adjustments normally of Non-Executive Director fees being made on 1 April in the review year In the event that there is a material misalignment with Additional fees are payable the market or a change in the for acting as Chairman of complexity, responsibility or the Audit and Risk, and time commitment required to Remuneration Committees fulfil a Non-Executive Director Fee levels are reviewed role, the Board has discretion by reference to FTSE listed to make an appropriate companies of similar size and adjustment to the fee level complexity.
Time commitment, level of involvement required and responsibility are taken into account when reviewing fee levels Fees for the year ending 31 March 2015 and those for the year ending 31 March 2016 are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 110.
Consideration of employee views Consideration of shareholder views When reviewing Executive Director pay the Committee is When determining remuneration, the Committee takes aware of the proposals for review of remuneration of all into account views of leading shareholders and best employees.
The Committee receives regular updates on practice guidelines issued by institutional shareholder bodies.
salary increases, bonus and share awards made to employees The Committee is always open to feedback from shareholders throughout the Group.
These matters are considered when on remuneration policy and arrangements, and commits to conducting the annual review of executive remuneration.
undergoing consultation with leading shareholders in advance The Company seeks to promote and maintain good relationships of any significant changes to remuneration policy.
The with employee representative bodies as part of its employee Committee will continue to monitor trends and developments engagement strategy and consults on matters affecting in corporate governance and market practice to ensure the employees and business performance as required in each case structure of the executive remuneration remains appropriate.
by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Company Further detail on the votes received on the 2014 Directors operates.
The Company now formally presents a summary of Remuneration report and the Committees response are its policy for remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 99. to the Babcock Employee Forum, which is attended by representatives from across the UK business operations, and will consider any feedback from that Forum.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 98 Remuneration report continued The Committee periodically considers whether Kepler remains Annual Report on Remuneration independent of the Company and that the advice provided The Remuneration Committee is impartial and objective.
The Committee is satisfied that the The members of the Committee are appointed by the Board advice provided by Kepler is independent and that Kepler has on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee and, no other connection to the Company.
in accordance with provision D 2.1 of the UK Corporate How often it meets Governance Code, the Committee is made up of the In total there were six meetings in the year to 31 March 2015. independent Non-Executive Directors.
The membership of the The Committee plans to meet at least six times in the current Committee currently and during the year to 31 March 2015 financial year.
with each member serving throughout the year unless otherwise stated as well as attendance at Committee meetings Matters considered in the year is shown below.
The Company Secretary is Secretary The Committee considered a number of matters during the to the Committee.
year to 31 March 2015, including: The Committees terms of reference Committee attendance Trends in executive remuneration, remuneration governance Number of Meetings and investor views attended Number of meetings possible Year Executive remuneration policy and any changes that might Member to 31 March 2015 be needed Jeff Randall Chairman from 21 July 2014 6 of 6 The making of share awards under the Companys share plans and the performance measures and targets to be applied Sir David Omand 6 of 6 The impact, if any, of the acquisition of Avincis and of Ian Duncan 6 of 6 IAS 19 Pensions accounting on performance targets 1 Kate Swann 5 of 6 attached to already granted share awards and bonus Anna Stewart 6 of 6 schemes and the assessment of performance against them 2 Justin Crookenden 3 of 3 The finalisation of performance targets and non-financial 3 objectives for the 2014 15 annual bonus scheme and 2014 Myles Lee N A share awards in light of the acquisition of Avincis and IAS 19 1.
Kate Swann was unable to attend one meeting due to a long-standing Adjustments to outstanding share awards to take account prior personal commitment.
of the rights issue made by the Company in April May 2014 2.
Justin Crookenden was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee until Foreign currency exchange rate movements and their impact, 21 July 2014 and a member until 30 November 2014, when he also if any, in target setting and performance assessment retired from the Board.
The level of vesting of PSP and CSOP awards granted in 2011 3.
Myles Lee joined the Board and the Remuneration Committee on The vesting of DBP awards made in 2012 1 April 2015.
The level of annual bonuses to be paid for the year to 31 March 2014 in light of financial and non-financial The Group Chairman and the Chief Executive normally attend measures applying meetings by invitation, as does the Group Finance Director Setting of annual bonus financial targets and non-financial on occasion, but they are not present when their own objectives for the year to 31 March 2016 remuneration is being decided.
The Company Secretary attends Review of share ownership guidelines for senior executives meetings as Secretary to the Committee.
The Group Director The terms of appointment of Mr Martinelli as an of Organisation and Development also attends meetings.
Executive Director Advisers Pay reviews for Executive Directors and other senior Kepler Associates Kepler was appointed by the Committee executives for the year to 31 March 2016 in late 2008, following a selection process including Review of the Chairmans fees interviewing a number of candidate firms, to provide it with Review of the Babcock Directors Remuneration report independent analysis, information and advice on all aspects of Approval of procedure for the authorisation of Chairman executive remuneration and market practice, within the context and CEO expenses of the objectives and policy set by the Committee.
Kepler Review of the continued appointment of the Committees reports directly to the Committee Chairman.
from Kepler typically attends Committee meetings.
Kepler also provides participant communications and non-executive directors fee benchmarking services to the Company.
Kepler is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and is a signatory to the Code of Conduct for consultants to remuneration committees of UK listed companies, details of which can be found at www.
Kepler adheres to this Code of Conduct.
The fees paid to Kepler in respect of work for the Committee carried out in the year under review totalled 129,254 on the basis of time and materials, excluding expenses and VAT.
Governance 99 Summary of shareholder voting at the 2014 AGM The following table shows the results of the advisory shareholder vote on the 2014 remuneration report at the 2014 AGM: Remuneration Policy Annual Report on Remuneration Total number of Total number of Votes cast votes % of votes cast votes % of votes cast For including discretionary 322,568,767 98.9% 336,785,258 99.7% Against 3,734,746 1.1% 1,108,155 0.3% Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 326,303,513 100% 337,893,413 100% Votes withheld 38,245,712 26,655,930 Total votes cast including withheld votes 364,549,225 364,549,343 The Committee is pleased to note the high level of shareholder support for both the Remuneration Policy and Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Committee will continue to engage with its major shareholders to facilitate a better understanding of the Company, the environment in which it operates and how this translates into the Groups executive remuneration policy.
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the years ending 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2014.
Salary: basic salary amount drawn for the year see page 100.
Benefits in kind and cash: the value of benefits and salary supplements other than those in lieu of pensions including medical insurance, home to work travel expenses incurred at the request of the Company, accommodation benefits, car and fuel benefits and costs in connection with accommodation.
Pension: for Peter Rogers, Bill Tame, Archie Bethel and Kevin Thomas, value of the cash supplement: for John Davies and Franco Martinelli i 20 times the increase in his accrued benefit over the year, less Directors contributions plus ii the value of the cash supplement.
Annual bonus cash or voluntarily deferred bonus : this is the part of total annual bonus earned for performance during the year see page 102 that is not required to be mandatorily deferred into a basic award of shares under the DBMP see page 103 and that is to be satisfied in cash and or, if the Director has so elected, by the making of a voluntary deferral award of shares under the DBMP.
DBMP deferred annual bonus: this is the mandatorily deferred element of the annual bonus earned for performance during the year, which will vest after three years.
DBMP matching awards : the market value of awards that vest on performance to 31 March 2015: based on vesting as to 88.4% of the total award see page 105 and an average share price in the 3 months to 31 March 2015 of 1,010p.
No DBMP awards vested on performance to 31 March 2014.
PSP: the market value of awards that vest on performance to i 31 March 2015: based on vesting as to 82.5% of the total award and an average share price in the 3 months to 31 March 2015 of 1,010p and ii 31 March 2014: based on vesting as to 94.7% of the total award to Peter Rogers and 93.0% of the awards to other Executive Directors and a vest date share price on 14 June 2014 of 1,209p.
Note: the difference for 2013 14 PSP figures versus that disclosed in last years Annual Report on Remuneration reflects truing up for the actual share price on vesting.
Dividends: the total value of dividends accruing on long-term incentive awards other than on mandatory and voluntary deferral of bonus awards under the DBMP DBP vesting on performance to i 31 March 2015 and ii 31 March 2014, payable in cash on exercise of the award.
a. Franco Martinelli: reflects period from appointment as a Director on 1 August 2014 to 31 March 2015.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 100 Remuneration report continued Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director for the year ended 31 March 2015 and the prior year: Base fee 000 Additional fees 000 Total 000 14 15 13 14 14 15 13 14 14 15 13 14 Mike Turner 295 295 0 0 295 295 1 Jeff Randall 55 N A 9 N A 64 N A David Omand 65 65 0 0 65 65 Ian Duncan 55 55 13 13 68 68 Kate Swann 55 55 0 0 55 55 Anna Stewart 55 55 0 0 55 55 2 Justin Crookenden 37 55 5 13 42 68 1.
Fees reflect period from 1 April 2014 to date of retiring from the Board on 30 November 2014.
Summary of the structure of Executive Directors remuneration Based on the Committees policy, the principal elements of the remuneration arrangements other than pension benefits or supplements in lieu of pension benefits for Executive Directors in the year to 31 March 2015 and for the year to 31 March 2016 are summarised in the table below.
Further details on the annual bonus schemes, share awards, and pension schemes and pension benefits are to be found in the following pages of this remuneration report.
2015 16 2014 15 Maximum Maximum Matching Matching Share Share Annual bonus Performance opportunity Annual bonus Performance opportunity 1 1 Base pay potential share awards under DBMP Base pay potential share awards under DBMP Director % of salary % of salary % of salary % of salary % of salary % of salary See See Peter Rogers 150% 200% 200% 150% 200% 200% 2 table table Franco Martinelli 150% 150% 200% 125% 150% 180% below below Bill Tame 150% 150% 200% 150% 150% 200% Archie Bethel 150% 150% 200% 125% 150% 180% Kevin Thomas 150% 150% 200% 125% 150% 180% John Davies 150% 150% 200% 125% 150% 180% 1.
Assumes maximum bonus and maximum self-investment and 2 for 1 share match.
Rate of annual salary and bonus for 2014 15 shown as the rate applying from appointment as a director on 1 August 2014 Actual salary Awarded Base salary drawn salary for Salary Executive Directors base salaries and benefits are reviewed 2014 15 2014 15 2015 16 % each year with any changes usually taking effect from 1 April.
increase The Committee determined that base salaries and benefits Peter Rogers 611,871 627,168 642,850 2,5% for 2015 16 for Executive Directors should be increased in 1 Franco Martinelli 336,810 345,230 353,861 2.5% line with those for the wider Group in the UK.
As described in Bill Tame 387,332 397,014 397,014 0% last years report, the Committee was informed by the Archie Bethel 336,810 345,230 353,861 2.5% Executive Directors that exceptionally they would not be Kevin Thomas 336,810 345,230 353,861 2.5% drawing the awarded 2.5 % increase granted for 2014 15.
2 The Committee welcomed that one-year restraint, and agreed John Davies 321,810 329,855 338,101 2.5% that the increase it had awarded for 2014 15 2.5% would 1.
Franco Martinelli was not a director at the time of the pay review for be included in the baseline for the salary review in 2015.
The amount drawn by him in the table above is the amount Bill Tames salary for 2015 16, however, remains unchanged paid since his appointment as a director on 1 August 2014 which, from the level awarded in 2014 15. annualised, was 336,810.
This rate was set to be in line with the salaries being drawn by the Divisional Chief Executives on the same understanding as to the review for 2015 16 as described above.
Salary reflects that he receives car and fuel benefits.
Governance 101 Internal relativity Pension entitlements under the Scheme defined benefit for As noted above, when reviewing Executive Directors the year to 31 March 2015 are set out in the following table: remuneration, the Committee takes note of proposals for pay Accrued in the wider Group.
Each business within the Group determines pension at 31 March Normal its own pay structures and remuneration in light of its own 2015 retirement position and the employment market in which it operates.
1 Director p. a. date The overall average salary increases for employees in the UK 2 Bill Tame 46,987 60 generally for the year to 31 March 2016 is expected to be in 2 Archie Bethel 38,862 65 the order of 2.5% with individual increases significantly above 2 this amount in some cases dependent on business and personal Kevin Thomas 62,420 65 performance and local market conditions.
John Davies 53,694 65 Franco Martinelli Pensions appointed 1 August 2014 59,200 65 The Executive Directors, other than John Davies and Franco Martinelli did not participate in a Group pension scheme or 1.
Date from which payment can be drawn with no actuarial reduction.
otherwise receive pension benefits from the Group for service 2.
Bill Tame, Archie Bethel and Kevin Thomas were not active members of during the year to 31 March 2015.
These Executive Directors the scheme during the year.
received a cash supplement equal to 25% of their base salary Note: The figures in the above table make no allowance for the cost of in lieu of pension benefits.
There are no additional early death in service benefits under the Scheme, or for any benefits in respect of retirement benefits.
earnings in excess of the earnings cap.
In calculating the above figures no account has been taken of any retained benefits that the Director may have John Davies is a member of the Babcock International Group from previous employments.
Franco Martinelli was until 31 March 2015 an active member of the Babcock International Group Pension Directors also benefit from life assurance cover of four times Scheme.
During the year to 31 March 2015, John Davies base salary.
The cost of providing that life assurance cover was: received a cash supplement of 36k in lieu of pension benefits 2014 15 2013 14 on that part of his salary as exceeded the applicable scheme Director 000 000 earnings cap and Franco Martinelli received a supplement of Bill Tame 2 3 10k for the period since his appointment as a Director.
Archie Bethel 2 3 Supplements paid in lieu of pension do not count for pension, Kevin Thomas 2 3 share award or bonus purposes.
John Davies 2 2 Babcock International Group Pension Scheme Franco Martinelli 1 the Scheme audited appointed 1 August 2014 1 N A Bill Tame was an active member of the senior executive tier 1.
Proforma amount for the period since appointment.
of the Scheme until 30 September 2011.
Archie Bethel and Kevin Thomas were active members of the executive tier of Annual Bonus Scheme the Scheme until 31 March 2012.
Franco Martinelli was an 2014 15 Annual bonus audited active member of the executive tier of the Scheme until For our Executive Directors annual bonus schemes in 2014 15, 31 March 2015.
Whilst still members of the Scheme, Bill Tame as in previous years, a mix of financial and non-financial accrued benefits at the rate of one-thirtieth, and for Archie measures was used.
The non-financial measures were principally Bethel, Kevin Thomas and Franco Martinelli the rate of accrual based on the key themes that the Committee considers to be was one-forty-fifth, of pensionable salary for each year of of material importance to the continued success of the service, with a cash supplement on earnings over the applicable Company.
Objectives for the 2014 15 bonus were set by scheme earnings cap.
the Committee at the beginning of the year.
Following his John Davies is a member of the VT Upper Section Ex-Short appointment as Divisional Chief Executive, International Division Brothers section of the Scheme.
He accrues benefits on earnings during the year, Bill Tames bonus scheme was adjusted from up to the scheme earnings cap for the year to 31 March 2015, 1 August 2014 to incorporate Divisional measures in lieu of 145,000 at the rate of one-sixtieth of pensionable salary for Group measures other than EPS performance.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 102 Remuneration report continued The table below sets out the annual bonus schemes in place for the Executive Directors and the outturn under them in 2014 15.
Threshold Maximum Actual Peter Franco Archie Kevin John Bonus element target target outturn Rogers Martinelli Bill Tame Bethel Thomas Davies 1 Maximum potential EPS performance % of salary 90% 70% 90% 70% 70% 70% Stretching targets, with a sliding scale between threshold and maximum 64.8p 70.2p 69.0p Outturn % of salary 63.6% 49.5% 63.6% 49.5% 49.5% 49.5% Maximum potential % of salary 15% 15% 5% Achieving budgeted 96% of Budget Group cash flow budget 301m 315m Outturn % of salary 15.0% 15.0% 5.0% Maximum potential % of salary 15% 15% 5% Achieving budgeted 96% of Budget 2 Group PBT budget 402m 418m Outturn % of salary 15.0% 15.0% 5.0% Maximum potential % of salary 10% 15% 15% 15% Achieving budgeted 96% of 3 Divisional cash flow budget Budget Outturn % of salary 10.0% 15.0% 15.0% 15.0% Maximum potential % of salary 10% 15% 15% 15% Achieving budgeted 96% of 2 3 Divisional PBIT budget Budget Outturn % of salary 5.0% 15.0% 15.0% 15.0% Maximum potential % of salary 30% 25% 30% 25% 25% 25% 4 Non-financial objectives Outturn % of salary 23.8% 25.0% 29.8% 23.7% 14.6% 25.0% Maximum potential % of salary 150% 125% 150% 125% 125% 125% Total Outturn % of salary 117.4% 104.5% 118.4% 103.2% 94.0% 104.5% 1.
Threshold vesting is 20% of maximum for each financial bonus element except for EPS performance, where 13% of maximum vests at threshold.
In line with our policy, overall vesting at threshold is no more than 15% when all measures are taken into account.
EPS for the annual bonus was adjusted to exclude the effects of changes in exchange rates.
Before amortisation of acquired intangibles.
The treatment of exceptional items is at the discretion of the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the divisional budgets remain commercially sensitive given the strategic nature of some of our customers or their activities and they would also be of assistance to competitors, and will not be published.
Non-financial objectives were set around the following priority strategic and risk management themes: Successful integration of Avincis Mission Critical Services into the Group: Maintenance and development of reputation with customers and investors, including specified improved strategic and customer engagement and key relationship objectives: ethical training and compliance : Growth relating to strategy planning and business development, progress against existing strategic plans, particularly for territories outside the UK, specific bidding or market targets and objectives, win rates, development and leveraging of identified strategic partnerships, organisational and management changes to support growth and strategic objectives : Employees developing or progressing employee engagement, communications and cultural initiatives, for example in connection with diversity and inclusion: talent identification, development and succession planning initiatives and programmes, developing graduate and apprentice recruitment and development strategies and the groups relationships with universities : Process improvements for example in IT, IT strategy, management information systems, cyber-security and information assurance objectives.
Health and safety performance is an overriding underpin to the scheme allowing the Committee to reduce or withhold entirely any bonus otherwise payable if it considers performance to have been unsatisfactory.
The actual objectives set are considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive relating as they do to customer relationships, specific bids, specific strategic steps or objectives, security measures and personnel issues or they are effectively discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report.
2015 16 Annual bonus subject to these no longer being considered by the Board to For our annual bonus schemes for 2015 16 we are continuing be commercially sensitive.
to use the structure adopted in 2014 15 as set out in the The weighting of the elements of bonus is kept under review.
The bonus opportunity for all Executive Directors will, however, be set at the same level, 150% of salary, and Annual bonus deferral into shares audited bonuses will be based on the same measures and weightings To ensure that a substantial part of the Directors annual bonus as those used in 2014 15 for Peter Rogers although for is exposed to the longer term impact of decision-making and Divisional Chief Executives, budget measures will be based on to further align their interests with shareholders, 40% of any Divisional performance.
The Committee intends to disclose annual bonus earned by Executive Directors and other senior financial performance targets and personal objectives executives must be deferred into Babcock shares by means of retrospectively in next years Annual Report on Remuneration, an award of nil-cost options.
Since 2012, deferred awards have Governance 103 been made to Directors under the Deferred Bonus Matching under that scheme and will be doing the same in respect of Plan DBMP under which the deferral period is three years.
bonus for 2014 15 mandatorily or voluntarily deferred into In addition to mandatory deferral of 40% of bonus the DBMP share awards.
The performance conditions relating to matching allows for Directors to be invited to make a voluntary additional awards made in 2014 and those proposed for matching awards investment including by way of accepting deferral of extra to be made in 2015 are discussed on pages 104 and 105. amounts of bonus of an amount equal to up to 40% of salary.
Mandatorily Deferred annual bonus awards and Matching Both mandatorily deferred and voluntary investments are Awards under the DBMP are subject to potential forfeiture if eligible for matching share awards of up to a 2 for 1 match.
the holder leaves before the awards vest other than by reason The Committee granted performance-related matching awards of death, disability, redundancy, retirement or the company under the DBMP to Directors on the amount of bonus for or business in which they are employed ceasing to be part of 2013 14 mandatorily or voluntarily deferred into share awards the Group.
Long-term incentive schemes PSP and DBMP PSP awards made in 2014 15 audited % receivable Face value Face value for threshold End of performance 1 2 Director Basis % of salary performance period Peter Rogers 1,223,743 200% 16.7% 31 March 2017 3 3 Franco Martinelli 505,204 150% 16.7% 31 March 2017 As per the Policy.
Based, for directors other than Franco Martinelli, on 3 day average share price of 1,224p at time of grant.
Based, for Directors other than Franco Martinelli, on salary being drawn at the date of the award 3.
For Franco Martinelli: the award was granted in two tranches.
At the time of the grant of the first tranche 27,090 shares, which was made at the same time as the grants to the other directors, namely 12 June 2014, the 3 day average price was 1,224p.
At the date of the grant of the second tranche, on 29 January 2015, 14,196 shares the 3 day average price was 1,015.00p making a total value for the two grants, based on the share price at the time the relevant tranche was granted, of 475,671.
However, for the purpose of the above table to allow comparison to the awards to the other directors, the face value of the total award made to him uses the higher share price applicable for the awards made in June 2014 to the executive directors then in post and what it represented as a percentage of salary is that value expressed as a percentage of his annual salary being drawn from his appointment as a director.
In the form of nil-cost options.
The performance targets that were attached to these awards split equally between TSR performance relative to the peer group and real EPS growth are illustrated in the charts below: EPS element 50% of award TSR element 50% of award 100% 100% 80% 80% 60% 60% Note: EPS growth is that in excess 40% 40% of the change in the UK retail prices index.
TSR comparators are the 16.7% 16.7% 20% 20% companies comprised in the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and financial services companies.
0% 4% 11% 0% Median Median 9% Babcocks three-year annualised Babcocks three-year TSR out-performance EPS growth in excess of RPI % p. a. of FTSE 350 Median % p. a.
% of EPS element % of TSR element Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 104 Remuneration report continued Threshold vesting 16.7% of this element for the EPS element threshold vesting 16.7% of this element would be for was set at growth in excess of RPI of 4% per annum and performance in line with the median of the FTSE 350 maximum vesting at growth in excess of RPI of 11% per annum.
excluding investment trusts and financial services companies We believe that growth of 11% in excess of RPI would represent and maximum vesting would be for 9% p. a. outperformance of exceptional performance.
For the comparative TSR element, the median, representing upper quartile performance.
Deferred Bonus Matching Plan awards made in 2014 15 audited % receivable Face value Face value for threshold End of performance 1 2 Director Basis % of salary performance period Peter Rogers 1,171,848 192% 12.5% 31 March 2017 Franco Martinelli 146,008 43% 12.5% 31 March 2017 As per the Policy.
Based on 3 day average share price of 1,224p at time of grant.
Expressed as a percentage of salary being drawn down at the date of award, except in Mr Martinellis case when it is expressed as a percentage of the rate of annual salary being drawn from the date of his appointment as a director the award having been made prior to such appointment.
The DBMP allows the Committee to make matching share performance period.
For the 2014 cycle, the performance awards of up to two times the deferred bonus shares 40% of period runs from 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2017, the same bonus and any additional shares or extra bonus deferral as for PSP awards made in 2014.
The performance targets self-invested under the scheme by the Director of an amount attached to those matching awards split equally between equal to up to 40% of salary.
The matching share award is TSR performance relative to the peer group, EPS growth in performance-related and only vests to the extent that the excess of RPI, and return on capital employed ROCE are performance criteria are met in respect of the three-year illustrated in the charts below: EPS element 33% of award TSR element 33% of award ROCE element 33% of award 2x 2x 2x 1.5x 1.5x 1.5x 1x 1x 1x 0.5x 0.5x 0.5x 0.25x 0.25x 0.25x 0x 4% 11% 0x Median Median 9% 0x 15% 17% Babcocks three-year annualised Babcocks three-year TSR out-performance Babcocks 2016 17 ROCE % EPS growth in excess of RPI % p. a. of FTSE 350 Median % p. a.
The target for maximum vesting of these awards was set as the plan: 0.25 matching shares would be released for each ROCE of 17% and for threshold vesting it is 15%.
For these 2014 such share at threshold vesting.
Therefore for each measure, DBMP awards, due to the then pending integration of Avincis, threshold vesting would be a 0.25 3 for 1 match 4.2% of ROCE is to be measured in the final year whereas 2012 and maximum and maximum vesting would be a 2 3 for 1 match 2013 awards measure average ROCE over the performance 33% of maximum.
The maximum match is 2 for 1 on any shares held under Match on EPS element Match on TSR element Match on ROCE element Governance 105 For 2014 15 Executive Directors received awards in lieu of mandatorily and voluntarily deferred bonus and matching awards in respect of the 2013 14 bonus as follows: Deferred annual bonus mandatorily Total shares invested Potential Maximum deferred bonus no Voluntarily Deferral in the DBMP in number of matching Director of shares Awards no of shares 2014 15 shares Peter Rogers 27,881 20,001 47,882 95,764 1 Franco Martinelli 5,966 0 5,966 11,932 Bill Tame 17,649 0 17,649 35,298 Archie Bethel 12,705 10,215 22,920 45,840 Kevin Thomas 12,980 11,081 24,061 48,122 John Davies 12,139 8,172 20,311 40,622 1.
Franco Martinellis bonus deferral related to bonus payable on salary prior to his appointment as a director.
2012 PSP and CSOP awards vesting audited 2012 DBMP awards vesting audited Awards granted in 2012 under the PSP and CSOP were Awards granted in 2012 under the DBMP were subject to subject to 3-year TSR and EPS targets outlined on page 106. the 3-year TSR, EPS and average ROCE targets outlined on Performance against these measures, and resulting vesting, page 110.
The maximum match is 2 for 1 on any shares held is as follows: under the plan: 0.25 matching shares would be released for each such share at threshold vesting.
Performance against these % measures, and resulting vesting, is as follows: weighting % of each on each element % element vesting weighting Match on Outcome of 9.4% p. a. above median 50% 100% on each each element element 3-year TSR to TSR for the FTSE350 31 March excluding investment trusts Outcome of 9.4% p. a. above median 33% 2.0x 2015 and financial services 3-year TSR to TSR for the FTSE350 31 March excluding investment trusts Outcome of 9.1% p. a. in excess of RPI 50% 66.9% 2015 and financial services 3-year adjusted historical EPS numbers were basic restated to ensure they were Outcome of 9.1% p. a. in excess of RPI 33% 1.31x underlying EPS on the same accounting basis 3-year adjusted historical EPS numbers were growth to 31 basic restated to ensure they were March 2015 underlying EPS on the same accounting basis growth to 31 2012 PSP and CSOP awards expected to vest to 83.5% March 2015 Executive Directors in June 2015: Outcome of 22.3% 33% 2.0x Number 3-year average Director Award expected to vest ROCE Peter Rogers PSP 2012 90,890 Match expected on 2012 DBMP awards for Executive 1.77x 2 Franco Martinelli PSP 2012 33,093 Directors on vesting in July 2015: PSP 2012 1 Number Funding TBC Director Award expected to vest CSOP 2012 1,009 Peter Rogers DBMP 2012 127,120 Bill Tame PSP 2012 57,536 Bill Tame DBMP 2012 47,515 Archie Bethel PSP 2012 50,032 Archie Bethel DBMP 2012 63,436 Kevin Thomas PSP 2012 47,820 Kevin Thomas DBMP 2012 63,436 PSP 2012 1 John Davies DBMP 2012 26,083 Funding TBC CSOP 2012 2,210 1.
Franco Martinelli was not granted a DBMP award in 2012.
Instead he was granted an award under the DBP, which was contingent on continued John Davies PSP 2012 40,478 employment only, and which vested in June 2014 as to 9,376 shares, prior to his appointment as a director.
The actual number of PSP 2012 funding shares capable of being exercised can only be determined on the CSOP exercise date, but cannot exceed PSP and DBMP awards for 2015 16 1,009 for Franco Martinelli and 2,210 for Kevin Thomas.
The Committee intends to grant awards under the PSP and 2.
Franco Martinellis awards were made prior to his appointment as DBMP with the same maximum opportunities and performance a director.
Given the Company is increasingly international, and in light of current low levels of inflation in the UK approaching zero, the Committee considers comparisons to UK RPI no longer relevant.
The Committee therefore prefers, Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 106 Remuneration report continued going forward, to calibrate the EPS growth targets for 2015 Sourcing of shares awards in nominal terms of 4% p. a. to 11% p. a. over three years.
Shares needed to satisfy share awards for Directors are either TSR targets for 2015 awards will continue to vest between fresh issue shares issued to the Groups employee share trusts median and median 9% relative to the peer group: ROCE to meet share awards or shares purchased in the market by the targets for 2015 DBMP awards based, as was the case with trusts using funds advanced by the Company.
The source the awards before 2014, on the average return over the selection is finalised on or before vesting, the choice being performance period will vest from 12% to 15%, set to be based on what the Board considers to be in the best interests relevant for the Company strategy.
of the Company at the time, and what is permissible within available headroom and dilution limits.
Outstanding share awards summaries: grants made up to and during 2014 The following tables on pages 106 to 108 summarise the performance targets if applicable and other information about the schemes relevant to currently outstanding share awards held by Executive Directors i. e. those awards yet to vest and those that vested during the year to 31 March 2015 the awards made in 2011 under the PSP and the CSOP and under the DBP in 2012.
Scheme Performance Share Plan nil price options and Company Share Option Plan market price options 20112014 Performance For the 2011 awards: 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2014 vested in June 2014 as to 94.7% for Peter Rogers period and 93.0% for other Executive Directors.
For the 2012 awards: 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2015 expected to vest in June July 2015 as to 83.5% for Executive Directors.
Proportion of total award that can vest General performance target EPS growth test Comparative TSR test under each measure Maximum Compound annual growth Outperformance of the 50% in excess of RPI of median TSR performance for 12.5% 2011-2012 11% the peer group taken as 2013-2014 or more a whole by 9% or more Threshold Compound annual growth in TSR performance equivalent 8.3% excess of RPI of 4% to the median for the peer group as a whole Intermediate growth between Intermediate ranking Straightline basis between the above points between the above points 8.3% and 50% Compound annual growth in Performance less 0% excess of RPI of less than 4% than equivalent to median for the whole peer group Chief Executives additional If comparative TSR performance exceeded median TSR performance for the peer group taken award in 2011 over as a whole by more than 9% per annum further shares vest, with full vesting of this additional shares equal to a further award for more than 12.5% per annum.
This will affect the relative proportion of the award vesting 50% of salary in his case.
For 2011, the additional award vested in full.
TSR comparator group For the TSR element the peer group is the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and financial services.
This group was chosen after careful review due to the fact that Babcocks closest peers straddle multiple sectors, not just support services, and the broader group makes the calibration more robust.
Other information The awards are not subject to re-testing.
The TSR element will vest only to the extent the Committee is satisfied that the recorded TSR is a genuine reflection of the underlying performance of the Company over the performance period.
EPS is adjusted to exclude acquired intangible amortisation, but, unless the Committee decides otherwise in respect of any item, is after exceptional items.
EPS growth is that in excess of the change in the retail prices index.
The awards carry the right to receive on vesting a payment equal to the value of any dividends in the period between grant and vesting but this right applies only to the shares that actually vest under the award.
Exercise periods commence not less than three years from actual or nominal award grant date.
CSOP and PSP awards are linked so that in aggregate the holder cannot receive more gross value from them than a standalone PSP award of shares equal to the relevant award multiple of the Directors base salary.
Governance 107 Deferred Bonus Plan DBP 2012 awards applicable only to Franco Martinelli: Deferred Bonus Matching Plan DBMP deferred Scheme annual bonus and voluntary deferral awards nil price options 20122014 Performance Not applicable: these awards represent amounts of bonus mandatorily DBP and DBMP and voluntarily DBMP period deferred into awards.
The Awards vest and become exercisable after, in the case of the DBP, two years and, in the case of the DBMP, three years, after the date of grant.
Other Mandatorily deferred annual bonus awards are subject to potential forfeiture if the holder leaves before information the awards vest other than by reason of death, disability, redundancy, retirement or the company or business in which they are employed ceasing to be part of the Group.
The number of shares into which bonus has been mandatorily deferred may be reduced by the Committee if the accounts by reference to which the bonus was calculated have to be materially corrected or if, in the opinion of the Committee, there is evidence that performance against performance conditions in the bonus year or the impact of that performance on the Group in respect of future financial years was or will be materially worse than was believed to be the case at the time of the original assessment.
The shares carry the right to dividends in the period of deferral, but payable only when the shares are released.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 108 Remuneration report continued Scheme Deferred Bonus Matching Plan nil price options 20122014 matching awards Performance For the 2012 awards: 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2015 expected to vest in July 2015 as to 88.4% for period Executive Directors.
General Match that can vest Performance target EPS growth test Comparative TSR test ROCE test under each measure Maximum Compound annual growth Outperformance of the ROCE of 20.5% 2012 23.5% 0.33x maximum in excess of RPI of median TSR performance 2013 17% 2014, or more 12.5% 2012 11% for the peer group taken as 2013-2014 or more a whole by 9% or more Threshold Compound annual growth TSR performance equivalent ROCE of 17.5% 2012 0.042x in excess of RPI of 4% to the median for the peer 21.5% 2013 15% 2014 maximum group as a whole Intermediate growth Intermediate ranking Intermediate ROCE Straightline between the above points between the above points between the above points basis between 0.042x and 0.33x maximum Compound annual growth Performance less than ROCE of less than 17.5% 0x in excess of RPI of less than equivalent to median for 2012 21.5% 2013 15% 4% the whole peer group 2014 TSR comparator For the TSR element the peer group is the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and financial services.
group This group was chosen after careful review due to the fact that Babcocks closest peers straddle multiple sectors, not just support services, and the broader group makes the calibration more robust.
Other Matching awards are not subject to re-testing.
The TSR element will vest only to the extent the Committee information is satisfied that the recorded TSR is a genuine reflection of the underlying performance of the Company over the performance period.
For the 2012 and 2013 awards ROCE is underlying Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT after amortisation of acquired intangibles but before exceptional items and including IFRIC 12 investment income and the Groups share of the EBIT of JVs, as a percentage of Average Capital Employed over the Performance Period where Capital Employed is calculated as Total Shareholders Equity plus Net Debt or minus Net Funds, as stated in the Companys consolidated audited accounts for the relevant Financial Year: and Average Capital Employed will be calculated as the average of the opening and closing value of Capital Employed for each year of the Performance Period.
For 2014 awards, the test is based on Average Capital Employed in the 2016 17 Financial Year, with EBIT for the Babcock businesses excluding Avincis being calculated after amortisation of acquired intangibles and EBIT for the Avincis business being calculated before amortisation of acquired intangibles in each case before exceptional items and including IFRIC 12 investment income and the Groups share of the EBIT of JVs, as a percentage of Capital Employed calculated as the average of the opening and closing value of Capital Employed for that year.
In addition, for these 2014 awards, the Committee has to be satisfied that ROCE for 2014 15 and 2015 16 was satisfactory, and that the recorded ROCE performance is a genuine reflection of the underlying performance of the Company.
ROCE targets set at the start of each cycle represent challenging returns in relation to the capital structure at that time, including the impact of any acquisitions or disposal made in the period prior to grant.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to adjust the ROCE outcome for significant changes to the capital structure made during the performance period e. g. acquisitions and disposals to ensure a fair outcome for participants and shareholders.
Governance 109 Linkage of remuneration to strategic objectives, risk management and its alignment with shareholder interests The Committee links the remuneration of executives to the long-term interests of shareholders and key strategic and risk management objectives by the performance criteria it uses in the annual bonus and long-term incentive schemes.
Examples include the following: Strategic Objective SO Risk R Annual bonus scheme metric Long-term incentive metric SO R: Delivering superior Financial measures focused on annual delivery of Incentivising delivery of and sustainable value for our sustainable earnings and or profits with stretch targets, top quartile shareholder shareholders, whilst balancing whilst maintaining strict control of cash.
returns and earnings growth risk and reward.
Long-term measures and deferral of significant part of annual bonus to guard against short-term steps being taken to maximise annual rewards at the expense of future performance.
Setting challenging budgets and stretch targets, as well as non-financial measures specifically aimed at: laying the foundations for sustainable growth in specific geographical and existing and new business markets: winning key bids and re-bids: fostering strategically important partnering arrangements.
SO: Developing and maintaining Specific non-financial objectives for: leading market positions in the UK progressing plans for entry into or expansion in targeted and selected overseas markets.
domestic and overseas markets: securing key business development milestones.
SO: Building and maintaining Non-financial objectives linked to: customer-focused, long-term customer satisfaction: relationships with strategically continuing improvement of management processes: important customers.
R: Loss of business reputation, poor meeting and planning for existing and future customer contract performance.
expectations on capability and compliance, for example, in the field of security and information assurance.
SO R: Ensuring the Group will Non-financial objectives linked to recruitment and Retentive nature of the continue to retain and attract the development, resource and succession planning, and long-term schemes.
suitably qualified and experienced fostering diversity and employee engagement.
people it needs to deliver its growth Retentive nature of the requirement for deferral into shares and strategic plans, maintain and of 40% of annual bonuses earned by senior executives.
develop its technical and management expertise.
SO R: Maintenance of an Overriding health, safety and environmental performance excellent health, safety and criterion in annual bonus schemes.
Exit payments made in year audited No exit payments were made to Executive Directors during the year under review.
Payments to past Directors audited No payments were made to past Directors in the year.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 110 Remuneration report continued 2.
Committee chairmanship fees are paid in addition to the basic applicable Non-Executive Directors fees Non-Executive Directors fee.
No additional fees are paid for membership including the Chairman of Committees.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors receive fixed fees.
Percentage change in CEO remuneration These fees are reviewed against market practice from time to The table below shows the percentage change in CEO time by the Chairman and the Executive Directors in the case remuneration as disclosed in the single total figure of of the Non-Executive Director fees and by the Remuneration remuneration table on page 99 from the prior year compared Committee in respect of the fees payable to the Chairman.
to the average percentage change in remuneration for The Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees have been other employees.
reviewed and set as of 1 April 2015 the last review before that having been as of 1 April 2013.
The analysis is based on UK employees as they are operating in Year to 31 Year to 31 the same geography and economic background as the CEO.
March 2016 March 2015 % change 2013 14 to Annual rate of fees 2014 15 Chairman 310,000 295,000 Other Senior Independent Director inclusive CEO employees of basic fee 69,000 65,000 Base salary 0% 2.4% Basic Non-Executive Directors fee UK Taxable benefits -31% 2.0% 1 based directors 58,000 55,000 Single-year variable -16% 5.8% Chairmanship of Audit and Risk 2 Committee 15,000 12,500 Relative importance of spend on pay Chairmanship of Remuneration 2013 14 2014 15 % change 2 Committee 15,000 12,500 Distribution to shareholders 107m 119m 11% 1.
Fees for non-UK based directors will be set having regard to the extra time Employee remuneration 1,151m 1,384m 20% commitment involved in attending meetings.
For Myles Lee, appointed 1 April 2015 and based in Ireland, the fee has been set at 62,000.
Performance graphs The following graph shows the TSR Total Shareholder Return for the Company compared to the FTSE100 Index and FTSE350 Support Services Index, assuming 100 was invested on 31 March 2009 investment in the Company was worth 293 on 31 March 2015.
The Board considers that these indices currently represent the most appropriate of the published indices for these purposes as they provide a view of performance against the broad equity market and sector index of which the Company is a constituent.
The table below details the CEOs single figure remuneration and actual variable pay outcomes over the same period.
Babcock International vs: FTSE Support Services Index and FTSE 100 Index 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Babcock FTSE350 Support Services Index FTSE 100 Index Babcock CEO single figure of remuneration and % of variable awards vesting 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 Single figure k 1,706 1,792 2,185 2,731 3,809 4,160 Bonus vesting % max 97% 98% 99% 99% 93% 78% DBMP matching shares vesting % max n a n a n a n a n a 88.4% PSP CSOP vesting % max 100% 82.9% 57.8% 58.8% 94.7% 83.5% Value of 100 invested on 1 April 2009 Governance 111 Directors share ownership Directors interests in shares audited The interests of the Directors and or their spouses in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 March 2015, and Directors interests in shares and options under Babcocks long-term incentives are set out in the sections below: At 31 March At 31 March 2014 2015 Shares held Shares held Options held Unvested Owned Owned Vested but and subject Unvested outright by outright by subject to to and subject S holding Current director or director or holding Vested but performance to continued req.
shareholding 1 1 2 2 Director spouse spouse period not exercised conditions employment % salary % of salary Req.
Current shareholdings for comparison with the shareholding requirements for Executive Directors is calculated based on salary as at 31 March 2015 and by reference to shares owned outright by Director or spouse, options vested but subject to holding periods, options vested but not exercised and options unvested but subject only to continued employment, valued assuming exercise of options on 31 March 2015 and calculated post-tax.
Disclosure of these shareholdings reflects any adjustments made due to the rights issue which completed during May 2014.
Myles Lee joined the board on 1 April 2015.
Justin Crookenden retired from the Board on 30 November 2014 and the shareholding is shown as at that date.
There have been no changes to the continuing directors or their spouses shareholdings between 31 March 2015 and 18 May 2015.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2015 112 Remuneration report continued Directors share-based awards and options audited The table below shows the various share awards held by Directors under the Companys various share schemes.
The Companys mid-market share price at close of business on 31 March 2015 was 984.5p.
The highest and lowest mid-market share prices in the year ended 31 March 2015 were 933.5p and 1,251.0p, respectively.
Market value of each share at date of exercise 25 Jun 2014 1,148.74p.
For other notes to the table see page 117.
Market value of each share at date of exercise 23 Jun 2014 1,157.76p.
Market value of each share at date of exercise 25 June 2014 1,148.74p.
Notes applicable to all tables on pages 112 to 117.
Outstanding awards granted prior to June 2014 were adjusted to reflect the rights issue which completed during May 2014 using a standard adjustment factor of 1.13417.
Any reference price, including the exercise prices shown was also adjusted.
PSP 2009 Performance Share Plan: CSOP 2009 Company Share Option Plan: DBP 2009 Deferred Bonus Plan.
DBMP 2012 Deferred Bonus Matching Plan.
Further details about these plans and, where applicable, performance conditions attaching to the awards listed are to be found on pages 112 to 117.
The PSP, DBP and DBMP awards are structured as nil priced options.
DBP awards and DBMP basic awards represent the amount of the annual bonus mandatorily deferred and DBMP voluntary deferral awards represent the amount voluntarily deferred by the Director, in each case converted into shares at their value at the award date.
Subject to the rules of the scheme concerned, including as to meeting performance targets for PSP, CSOP and DBMP Matching Awards.
Where this date is less than ten years from the date of award, the Committee may extend the expiry date on one or more occasions, but not beyond the tenth anniversary of the award.
The vesting of the CSOP award is subject to performance measures that are identical to those for the PSP award granted on the same date.
When a CSOP award is granted at the same time as a PSP award, the PSP award has two parts.
The CSOP and PSP awards are linked so that the maximum aggregate number of shares that can be acquired on exercise of the two awards is limited to that number of shares that had a market value on the date of the awards and after deducting any exercise price payable on exercise of the CSOP award equal to the relevant grant multiple of the Directors base salary at the date of the awards the Limit.
This is achieved by making the level of vesting of Part B of the PSP Award accord to the level of vesting of the linked CSOP award but the actual number of vested Part B award shares that can be exercised is then limited according to the market price on the day of exercise such that the total value of Part B PSP award shares so exercisable does not then exceed the exercise price payable on exercise of the vested CSOP award.
If there is less than full vesting, it is possible for the Director to choose to exercise the CSOP to its fullest extent within the Limit and then to exercise the PSP award to the extent of any balance left within the Limit.
The actual number of shares capable of being exercised under Part B of the PSP award can only be determined on the exercise date as explained in note 5 above.
Awards shown in the table for John Davies for 2010, 2011, and 2012 were made prior to his appointment as a Director, which took effect on 1 January 2013.
Awards shown in the table for Franco Martinelli for 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 and June 2014 were made prior to his appointment as a Director, which took effect on 1 August 2014.
The actual number of PSP 2011 Funding shares capable of being exercised was determined on the CSOP exercise date.
Market value on vesting could not have exceeded market value on award of relating CSOP 2011 awards.
General Notes: 1. Dividend equivalent cash an amount representing dividends earned of 61.8p per vested share had accrued on the PSP 2011 awards and of 44.3p per vested share on the DBP 2012 awards, in each case for the period between grant and vesting.
It is payable by the Company to the award holder on exercise of the award concerned.
Closing Share Price on the last dealing date before vesting was for PSP 2011, CSOP 2011 and DBP 2012 awards 1,209p 13 June 2014.
Other interests None of the Directors had an interest in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking of the Company or in any significant contracts of the Group.
External appointments of Executive Directors in 2014 15 The table below details the fees received by Peter Rogers and Bill Tame during the year, in respect of their other directorships, which are retained by the Executive Director.
Fees received Name of director Company 000 Peter Rogers Galliford Try plc 41.8 Bill Tame Carclo plc 37.5 Southern Water 12.5 Harvey Nash Kevin Thomas Group plc 38.6 This remuneration report was approved by the Board on 18 May 2015 and signed on its behalf by: Jeff Randall Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 18 May 2015
