Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 88 Directors remuneration policy It is intended in practice to operate the Directors remuneration policy the Policy from the 2014 AGM.
For the purposes of the Companies Act 2006, the Policy will only take legal effect on 1 January 2015 subject to shareholder approval at 1 the 2014 AGM.
The Committee considers remuneration policy annually to ensure that it remains aligned with business needs and is appropriately positioned relative to the market.
However, in the absence of exceptional or unexpected circumstances which may necessitate a change to the Policy, there is currently no intention to revise the Policy more frequently than every three years.
We use target performance to estimate the total potential reward and benchmark it against reward packages paid by BAE Systems competitors.
Our Policy is to set base salary with reference to the relevant market-competitive level.
Actual total direct reward reects the performance of the individual and the Company as a whole.
The aim is to deliver an overall remuneration package for executive directors which provides an appropriate balance between short-term and long-term reward and between xed and variable reward as described in the table below.
Whilst our long-term incentive plans provide the Committee with discretion in respect of vesting outcomes that affect the actual level of reward payable to individuals, such discretion would only be used in exceptional circumstances and, if exercised, disclosed at the latest in the report on implementation of the remuneration policy i. e. the Annual remuneration report for the year in question.
Executive directors policy table Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Recognise market value ofrole and individuals skills, experience and performance to ensurethe business can attract andretaintalent.
Operation Salaries are reviewed annually.
Business and individual performance, skills, the scope of the role and the individuals time in the rolearetaken into account when assessing salaries, as is market data for similar roles in the relevant market comparator group.
The comparator group for UK executive directors is comprised of selected companies from the top 70 of the FTSE 100 and is constructed to position BAESystems around the median in terms of market capitalisation.
For the President and Chief Executive officer of BAESystems, Inc. the comparator group is drawn from companies in the US aerospace and defence sectors, together withsimilar organisations in the general industry sector where BAESystems, Inc. is positioned at the median of the comparator groupby reference to revenue size.
Maximum opportunity When considering salary increases for the executive directors in their current roles, the Committee considers the general level ofsalaryincrease across the Group and in the relevant external market.
Actual increases for the executive directors in their current roles will generally not exceed the average percentage increase for employees as a whole, taking account of the level of movement within the relevant UK US comparator group.
As a maximum, in exceptional circumstances such as a material increase in job size or complexity, or arecently appointed executive director where the salary is positioned low against the market, the increase will not exceed 10% in any single year.
Performance metrics used, weighting and time period applicable None.
Annual incentive Purpose and link to strategy Drive and reward annual performance of individuals and teams on both financial and non-financial metrics, including leadership behaviours in order to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value.
Compulsory deferral into shares increases alignment with shareholder interests.
Operation 7580% of the annual incentive is driven off in-year financial performance, and 2025% is based on driving performance and improvement in the area of corporate responsibility and other non-financial objectives supporting the Groups strategy.
One-third of the total annual incentive amount is subject to compulsory deferral for three years in BAE Systems shares without anymatching.
A clawback mechanism exists under which part or all of the deferred bonus can be recovered if performance for which the bonus wasawarded is subsequently restated orshown to be materially inaccurate or misleading or where the executives employment can beterminated for cause.
Cash dividends are payable to the participants on the shares during this three-year deferral period.
Maximum opportunity Chief Executive and the President and Chief Executive officer of BAESystems, Inc. : 225% of salary Group Finance Director: 160% of salary The pay-out for maximum performance is 200% of on-target.
The pay-out for achieving a threshold performance is 40% of the target, with no pay-out for achieving less than this.
Pay-out for performance between targets is calculated on a straight-line basis.
