Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 71 Remuneration Committee report Dear Shareholders, Paula Rosput Reynolds On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committees report for 2015.
Chairman of the Remuneration Iassumed the chairmanship in June 2015 and, Committee with the support of my fellow committee members, have undertaken an immersion in thehistory, policies and practices relating to remuneration.
Like my Board colleagues, I am keenly aware of the sensitivity of investors and the public regarding remuneration.
We are equally sensitive to these concerns and, at all Members times, seek to balance views about excessive or Paula Rosput Reynolds Chairman inappropriate remuneration with the legitimate need for incentives to drive value creation within Elizabeth Corley the agreed-upon risk parameters.
Nick Rose We were pleased by the level of shareholder support received for our 2014 Remuneration Carl Symon served as Chairman until 12 June 2015.
Chris Grigg served as a Committee report, our second year of reporting member of the Committee throughout 2015 until 16 February 2016.
Elizabeth under the new reporting regulations.
The Corley joined the Committee on 1 February 2016.
Committee has previously stated that it does not Governance intend to make any revisions to the Directors The Remuneration Committee was in place throughout 2015 and held four remuneration policy the Policy ahead of the 2017 meetings.
All its members are independent in accordance with the provisions AGM.
I am conrming that, for 2016, no revisions ofthe Code.
are proposed to our executive remuneration framework which would constitute a change The Chief Executive and the Companys Chairman attend Committee meetings tothe Policy.
They do not attend where their individual remuneration is discussed and no director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
The Committee did undertake a thorough reviewof the effectiveness of our current Summary of responsibilities remuneration framework in 2015 and concluded Agreeing a policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, executive directors, that some modest changes in compensation members of the Executive Committee EC, the Company Secretary and other design and levels were warranted.
Therefore, senior executives while remaining within the bounds of the agreed Within the agreed policy, determining individual remuneration packages for policy, described below are the changes to the the Chairman, executive directors and EC members executive remuneration framework proposed for2016.
In line with our commitment to Agreeing the policy on terms and conditions to be included in service continued transparency and engagement with agreements for the Chairman, executive directors, EC members, the Company our shareholders, we have consulted with our Secretary and other senior executives, including termination payments and major shareholders on these proposed changes compensation commitments, where applicable for 2016.
Approving any employee share-based incentive schemes and any performance Context to the Committees decisions conditions to be used for such schemes Our remuneration strategy is designed to motivate Determining any share scheme performance targets our key talent to achieve the Companys strategic objectives, deliver on customer commitments, The Committees full Terms of Reference, which are reviewed each year by the lead and inspire employees, and drive value for Board, are available on the Companys website.
It recognises the need to be competitive in those markets in which we operate and compete for talent.
A core design objective isto balance short-term and long-term incentives, focused on Group performance, business segment performance and leadership behaviours that underpin a Total Performance culture.
The focus of changes to our reward framework inrecent years has been to build more direct alignment with shareholder value creation and toreduce the complexity of our long-term incentive arrangements.
We believe the approval of the single Long-Term Incentive LTI plan at the 2014 AGM achieved simplication of our arrangements.
The focus for 2015 has been on ensuring that our long-term incentives are appropriately rewarding our executive team only when their performance BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 | Strategic report Directors report Financial statements | | 72 Remuneration Committee report continued delivers tangible business results in line with The current methodology considers TSR performance being below the median the Groups strategy.
As noted below, the BAE Systems TSR performance against a performance of companies in our focus of 2016 isessentially unchanged, but peergroup of 13 other defence and security comparator group: and certain modest adjustments are being companies, of which more than two-thirds EPS growth being below the 5% per annum implemented to improve the effectiveness of aredrawn from the US.
The Committee requirement with 2015 performance being the rewards structure.
reviewed this methodology in some detail impacted by the Typhoon production because it was concerned that: i the slowdown and Australian shipyard Earnings per Share EPS performance comparator group was not fully reective of impairment and rationalisation charges.
condition applicable toLTIgrants the interests of investment decisions of the Following consultation with our major Decisions for 2015 majority of our shareholder base: and ii the shareholders at the beginning of 2015, a 2015 annual bonus pay-outs for the comparator group was not well matched to performance range of 3% to 7% average executive directors ranged from 72.4% the particular dynamics of BAE Systems annual growth was set for the EPS performance to85.7%of maximum.
The Committee believes condition with 25% vesting at threshold.
The itshould continue to evaluate performance Performance Share Plan PSP awards changes were reective of the inherently against our industry peers worldwide and granted in March 2013 to UK executive challenging market conditions in the defence sought advice from its independent directors will lapse in 2016 as the TSR and sector, the impact of pivotal orders on the consultants on how BAE Systems performance EPS performance measures were not met.
overall results, and to ensure alignment with might also be measured relative to peers listed Share options granted in March 2013 to the shareholder interests and market practice.
As it reviewed the results of the executive directors will lapse as the TSR analysis, the Committee decided that applying The Committee stated at the time it made condition was not met.
a split TSR measure would provide a more these changes that it would consider the Share Matching Plan SMP matching award balanced assessment.
Consequently, for 2016, performance condition again for 2016. granted in March 2013 will lapse in 2016 as the Committee is proposing to base 50% of TheCommittee carefully reviewed how the EPS condition was not met.
the TSR measure on the current peer thebusiness plan approved by the Board First awards granted in Spring 2015 of comparator group and 50% on a TSR would betranslated into targets that are Performance Shares, Share Options and percentile ranking against the companies in appropriately challenging, aligned with toUS executive director only Restricted the FTSE 100 index.
Each element will be shareholder expectations and would provide Shares under the single umbrella LTI plan.
considered independently of the other, with the ameaningful incentive for executives to drive overall vesting outcome reecting the average Application of a performance range of 3% performance.
Taking account of the continued result of the two assessments.
to 7% average annual EPS growth with market conditions and outlook, including the 25% vesting at threshold to LTI awards.
continued dependency on winning a number Business performance in 2015 of pivotal orders, the Committee believes that Strengthened malus and clawback In 2015, BAE Systems continued to perform this performance range and vesting prole provisions applicable to the executive robustly under challenging conditions.
Page should continue to apply for awards of directors and members of the Executive 16sets out the performance against 2015 Performance Shares to be granted in 2016.
Committee reecting the changes in the financial key performance indicators, with These conditions will be reviewed at the end 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code.
order intake, underlying earnings per share of 2016 to ensure the reward remains aligned and net debt determining 80% of the UK Key changes for 2016 with the challenge for 2017. executive directors annual bonus, and safety For the first time since 2012, the salary of The EPS performance condition will continue and key strategic objectives determining the the Chief Executive officer is increased by to be subject to the same quality of earnings remaining 20%.
In summary, for the purpose 2% with effect from 1 January 2016. performance hurdle as applies to the Total of the annual bonus: To recognise the skills, experience and Shareholder Return TSR condition, namely performance of the Group Finance Director Order intake at 14.9bn was similar to 2014, awards will not vest unless the Board is and President and Chief Executive officer although below threshold performance.
satisfied that there has been a sustained ofBAE Systems, Inc. increases of 2.5% will improvement in the underlying financial Underlying earnings per share included a apply to their base salaries with effect from performance of the Company takingaccount 4.3p benefit from tax provision releases and 1 January 2016. of items such as cash, order book, risk and increased to 40.2p, which was between Proposal to base 50% of the TSR measure project performance.
This condition ensures target and stretch performance.
on the current peer comparator group and that the effort to achieve one years EPS and Net debt of 1,422m, a net increase of 50% on a TSR percentile ranking against the other financial measures does not come at the 390m from 2014, resulted in performance companies in the FTSE 100 index.
expense of the long-term capacity of the between target and stretch.
Performance range of 3% to 7% average Company to producefuture value.
annual EPS growth with 25% vesting at Whilst the Group achieved a 15% reduction TSR condition applicable to LTI grants threshold will continue to apply to 2016 in the Recordable Accident Rate, this was The Committee has also considered whether LTIawards.
not achieved across all businesses and so the current TSR metric applicable to resulted in performance between target and A Chief Operating officer has been newly Performance Shares and Share Options remains stretch.
The number of major injuries appointed, effective in the second quarter appropriate.
No changes are proposed to the increased by 21%.
of2016, and the details of his remuneration current TSR vesting scale, with no vesting package are set out on page 75. below median, 25% vesting for median No LTI awards made to the current executive performance, 100% vesting if the Companys directors have vested based on performance On behalf of the Board TSR is in the top quintile and vesting on a over the three-year period 2013 to 2015 Paula Rosput Reynolds straight-line basis for intermediate performance.
dueto: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee BAE Systems Annual Report 2015 |
