78 Report on directors remuneration Strategically aligned remuneration continues todeliver Our simplied and strategically aligned remuneration structure means that our executives remain completely focused on delivering shareholder value.
David Lowden Chairman of the remuneration committee Throughout this process we have This report is structured Annual statement engaged with our major shareholders asfollows: and are pleased to report that Dear shareholder 78 Annual statement our proposals were well received.
As chairman of the remuneration I am confident that we now have An overview from our remuneration committee and on behalf of the board, committee chairman, outlining key a remuneration framework that is I am pleased to present our directors developments and decisions made appropriately aligned both to our remuneration report for 2015 comprising during 2015. business and to the interests and current this statement, a remuneration 81 Policy report expectations of our shareholders.
policy report and the annual report A description of the policies, As such, we are asking shareholders to on remuneration.
principles and structures that guide approve the new remuneration policy at the remuneration committees In 2015 we undertook a comprehensive our 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM decision-making process in the area of review of our remuneration policy.
including a renewal of the companys executive remuneration.
If approved This was conducted on the back of the by shareholders at the 2016 AGM, it will Performance Share Plan PSP and replace the current policy report.
business strategy review to ensure that Sharesave Plan.
our policy was effectively aligned to the 88 Annual report on remuneration companys evolving business needs.
An explanation of how we have 2016 onwards changes to the As highlighted last year, the committee implemented our remuneration policy remuneration policy during 2015. also wanted to ensure that the policy was capable of satisfying increased 101 Schedules to the annual report Remuneration linked to strategy investor preference for greater simplicity As our Chief Executive Officer outlined Supplementary information to the above and transparency.
on pages 01 to 06, the main conclusions of the business strategy review were The key themes and changes to our that we needed to be more customer policy are discussed in greater detail If you would like to and market focused, that we should overleaf but are summarised below: discuss any aspect of our continue to challenge ourselves to be remuneration strategy, a Remuneration linked to strategy: operationally better organised and that please feel free to email me at Especially, greater emphasis on we should remain disciplined about using remcochairman@berendsen.
eu linking annual bonus payouts to capital effectively.
In a remuneration improved earnings: context, this translates into rewarding performance which targets: a Simplied remuneration arrangements and reduction in a Revenue growth ahead of GDP: quantum: In particular, the removal of a EPS growth ahead of revenue: the Co-Investment Plan CIP resulting in a reduced long-term incentive a Strong underlying cash ow and cash maximum total pay opportunity: and conversion: and a Shareholder alignment: To further a Superior post-tax ROIC, well ahead of align the interests of management the companys cost of capital.
with shareholders, we are doubling the executive directors share ownership requirements from 100% of salary to 200% of salary and introducing malus and clawback for variable remuneration.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015
