88 Report on directors remuneration continued The financial information in this part of the directors remuneration report has been audited where indicated.
Annual report on remuneration This part of the directors remuneration report explains how we have implemented our remuneration policy during 2015.
The policy in place for the year was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
This annual report on remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2016 AGM.
Role and membership of the remuneration committee The role of the committee is to determine and recommend to the board a fair and responsible remuneration framework for ensuring that the companys most senior executives are appropriately rewarded and incentivised for their contribution to company performance.
The committees primary purpose is to ensure that there is a clear link between reward and performance and that the policy, structure and levels of remuneration for both the executive directors and throughout the group: a Reinforce the strategic aims and objectives of the business, whilst mitigating any risk factors: a Are aligned to maximise shareholder value on a sustainable basis: a Are capable of securing, retaining and motivating high calibre individuals to deliver results for shareholders, customers and employees alike: a Are market competitive, rewarding individuals in line with genuine group performance: and a Encourage and promote appropriate behaviours and outcomes consistent with the culture of the group.
The committees composition, responsibilities and operation comply with the principles of good governance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, with the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and with the Companies Act 2006.
The revised terms of reference for the committee can be found on the companys website at www.
Committee membership in 2015 Appointed to the Committee Chairman David Lowden March 2010 Committee Maarit Aarni-Sirvi March 2014 Lucy Dimes June 2012 Iain Ferguson March 2010 Andrew Wood March 2010 Management attendees by invitation Chief Executive Officer from 1 August James Drummond Chief Executive Officer until 31 July Peter Ventress Group Director, Human Resources Chris Thrush Company Secretary David Lawler Committee attendance in 2015 Independent Committee meetings Attendance Feb Apr Jul Sep Oct Dec David Lowden Yes 100% Maarit Aarni-Sirvi Yes 100% Lucy Dimes Yes 100% Iain Ferguson No 100% Andrew Wood Yes 100% % based on the meetings entitled to attend.
All members of the committee are considered independent non-executive directors and no member or attendee was present when their own remuneration was considered.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2015
