Board report on remuneration Committee membership No.
of meetings 2015: 7 Main committee responsibilities Director Attendance Responsibility for setting the remuneration policy for all executive directors and the Companys Chairman.
E. Lindqvist 7 A. M. Thomson 7 Recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for I.
R. Rajagopal 7 Review the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration J.
Approve the design of and determine targets for executive directors and other senior executives performance-related pay schemes.
Review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and shareholders.
Determine whether awards will be made on an annual basis.
Chairmans letter As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee the Committee and on behalf of the Board of Directors, I am pleased to present our Directors Remuneration Report for the 2015 financial year, in line with the requirements of the Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
Consistent with last year, this report comprises two sections.
The first part Section A summarises the policy of the Board with regard to the remuneration of the directors, which will be put to shareholders for approval at the Companys 2016 AGM.
The second part Section B describes how the existing policy, approved at the 2014 AGM, was implemented in 2015.
This section will be subject to an advisory vote.
Context to the Committees decisions 2015 was another successful year for Bodycote.
Although we faced strong challenges from the softening of the energy and industrial machinery markets and significant fluctuations in the exchange rates used to translate the results of our subsidiaries, the Company has made firm progress in the execution of our strategy under the leadership of Stephen Harris and David Landless.
Our profitability remains good despite these difficult trading conditions, and strong cash generation and return on capital employed has been delivered in the year.
The external market pressures we face will continue to impact the business over the coming years, in part motivating the review of remuneration undertaken by the Committee in 2015, with a revised policy developed to ensure that we are able to motivate, reward and retain our exceptional executive team as they work to deliver strong performance for the Company in the years ahead.
Remuneration decisions in 2015 Key decisions made by the Committee in the year included: A salary increase of 2.5% was awarded to S. C. Harris, taking his salary to 511,309 from 1 January 2016.
D. F. Landless has also received an increase of 2.5%, taking his salary to 326,556.
No financial performance targets set for the 2015 bonus plan were achieved, but personal strategic objectives were achieved and annual bonus payments of 20% and 26% of base salary for the Group Finance Director and the Group Chief Executive respectively equivalent to 20% maximum opportunity for both, were paid out.
The vesting outcome of the Bodycote Incentive Plan BIP award made in 2013 which had a performance period ending on 31 December 2015 was determined.
As the EPS underpin set at 42p was not achieved, awards made to S. C. Harris and D. F. Landless will not vest.
The 2012 Co-Investment Plan CIP vested at 100% of maximum in May 2015, reflecting the strong TSR performance of Bodycote over the three year performance period.
Performance targets were determined for 2016 BIP awards, based on current and stretch performance for the business and the sector, together with broker consensus forecasts.
Targets have been revised in the context of significant pressures in the sector particularly in the oil & gas market and the tax rate changes which will affect Bodycote in future years, and to ensure the Committee is able to deliver upper quartile reward for upper quartile performance.
The calibration of the underpin has also been amended to ensure it represents a baseline affordability threshold below which no vesting under the BIP is considered appropriate.
The Committee has determined that the underpin should be set at 85% of the threshold EPS performance level.
Review of executive remuneration and development of new policy see below.
54 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 New Directors Remuneration Policy In 2015 the Committee undertook an in-depth review of the remuneration arrangements in place at Bodycote, and determined that a number of changes should be made to the existing policy which was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
These changes are set out below, and will be incorporated into the revised policy that will be put to shareholders at the 2016 AGM: 1.
Removal of the current CIP opportunity in order to simplify our arrangements and improve line of sight for participants.
Increasing the existing annual bonus opportunity to 200% of salary for the CEO and 150% of salary for the CFO.
This increase partially replaces the value forgone through the removal of the CIP.
Introduction of bonus deferral to support alignment with shareholders and with market best practice.
From 2018 onwards, 35% of any bonus earned will be deferred as shares, with a transitional arrangement operating in 2016 and 2017 to preserve cash flow to participants in the initial years of the new policys operation.
Introduction of clawback into incentives, reflecting the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and best practice.
We believe that the new structure which is set out in full in Section A of this report will continue to reward and motivate our executive directors, and support the Company in achieving its short and long-term strategic ambitions.
In particular, these changes reflect the following key drivers: Simplicity: The Committee believes that the previous structure, comprising two long-term elements CIP and BIP was excessively complex, and reduced transparency for all stakeholders and line of sight for participants.
We also recognise that simplicity is a key theme for investors, with the use of a single long-term incentive plan viewed as best practice by many.
Competitive reward: To allow the Committee to continue to deliver upper quartile reward for upper quartile performance.
Retention: The introduction of deferral on the annual bonus provides a retention tool for key management.
To align with corporate governance and best practice: To comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code by introducing clawback alongside the existing malus arrangements, and to meet shareholder expectations of bonus deferral and long-term alignment.
Our proposed amendments to the policy were shared with the Companys ten largest shareholders, together with the Investment Association IA and Institutional Shareholder Service ISS.
I was able to talk to many of these stakeholders, and discussed with them in depth the rationale for our proposals.
We received broadly supportive responses, and through consideration of shareholder feedback identified a number of areas in which changes to our initial proposals were appropriate.
The Committee is extremely appreciative of the input we received from shareholders as part of this process.
I would also like to thank my fellow Committee members as well as all those who supported the Committee in the year for their support throughout this review.
As a Committee we are fully committed to continue an open dialogue with our shareholders, and so I would welcome your views on any part of our revised remuneration policy.
E. Lindqvist Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 25 February 2016 55 Stock code: BOY www.
com 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Board report on remuneration continued Section A: Directors Remuneration Policy Remuneration Policy Bodycotes Executive Remuneration Policy is to attract and motivate our senior executive team to execute our strategy and deliver value to our shareholders while ensuring the Group pays no more than is necessary.
In order to ensure continued alignment between remuneration and the evolving strategic direction of our business, the Committee has determined it appropriate that a revised policy be put to our shareholders for approval.
This policy is set out below, with the intention that it will apply for three years from the date of the 2016 AGM.
Summary of changes from the 2014 Remuneration Policy The table below sets out a summary of the proposed changes under the new Remuneration Policy from the previous Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
It is the intention that the new Remuneration Policy will apply for the three years from the date of the 2016 AGM.
Element Summary of changes from 2014 Remuneration Policy Base salary No change in policy.
Benefits No change in policy.
Pension No change in policy.
Annual bonus Incentive opportunity has been increased from 130% to 200% of salary for the CEO and from 100% to 150% of salary for the CFO.
This increase has been made to replace the opportunity previously provided to executive directors under the Co-Investment Plan.
Mandatory deferral of 35% of any bonus earned into shares for three years from 2018 with phased introduction of deferral in 2016 and 2017.
Introduction of clawback in conjunction with existing malus provisions.
Bodycote Incentive Plan BIP Introduction of clawback in conjunction with existing malus provisions.
Co-Investment Plan CIP Removed from 2016 onwards final award was in 2015.
Shareholding requirement Increased from 100% of salary to 200% and 150% for the CEO and CFO and other executive directors respectively.
Discretion The Committee has discretion in several areas of Policy as set out in this report.
The Committee may also exercise operational and administrative discretions under relevant Plan rules approved by shareholders as set out in those rules.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
Executive Remuneration Policy The table below sets out the key components of executive directors pay packages, including why they are used and how they are operated in practice.
56 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Future policy table Element and how it supports our Maximum opportunity strategy Operation of the element under the element Performance measures Base salary Base salaries for executive directors Whilst the Committee has not None To award competitive are typically reviewed annually or more set a maximum level of salary, salaries to attract frequently if specific circumstances ordinarily, salary increases and retain the talent necessitate this by the Committee in will not exceed the average required to execute December each year.
increase awarded to other the strategy while Group employees.
Salary levels are set and reviewed ensuring the Group taking into account a number of factors Increases may be above this pays no more than is including: level in certain exceptional necessary.
circumstances, which may, for Role, experience and performance example, include: of the executive.
Increase in scope or The Companys guidelines for salaries responsibility.
for all employees in the Group for the forthcoming year.
A new executive director who is being moved to The competitiveness of total market positioning over remuneration assessed against FTSE time.
250 companies and other companies of similar size and complexity, as appropriate.
Benefits The Company provides a range of cash The Committee has not set None Provides marketbenefits and benefits in kind to executive a maximum level of benefit, competitive benefits directors in line with market practice.
given that the cost of certain at an appropriate These include the provision of company benefits will depend on cost.
car or allowance, private medical the individuals particular insurance, shortand long-term sick pay circumstances.
However and death in service cover.
This will also benefits will be set at an extend to the reimbursement of taxable appropriate level against work-related expenses, such as travel and market practice and needs for relocation.
specific roles and individual circumstances.
The provision of other benefits payable to an executive director is reviewed by the Committee on an annual basis to ensure appropriateness in terms of the type and level of benefits provided.
The Company provides a long-term savings vehicle into which the executive directors may elect to waive a proportion of pension allowance.
In the case of non-UK executives, the Committee may consider providing additional allowances in line with relevant market practice.
Pension The Group operates a defined contribution Company contribution or cash None Provides a marketscheme.
Executive directors are provided equivalent of up to 30% of competitive benefit with a contribution to this scheme or a salary.
in order to attract the cash allowance of equivalent value.
Base talent required to salary is the only pensionable element of execute the strategy remuneration.
and provide a marketThe same general approach applies to all competitive level of employees, although contribution levels provision for postvary by seniority.
com 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Board report on remuneration continued Element and how it supports our Maximum opportunity strategy Operation of the element under the element Performance measures Annual bonus The level of bonus paid each year is The maximum potential is The Committee considers the To incentivise delivery determined by the Committee after the year- 200% of base salary for performance conditions selected for the of corporate strategy end based on performance against targets.
the CEO and 150% of base annual bonus to appropriately support on an annual basis salary for the CFO and other the Companys strategic objectives and A portion of the annual bonus is paid in cash and reward delivery of executive directors.
provide a balance between generating shortly after the financial year-end with the superior performance.
profit and cash to enable the Group to remaining portion deferred for three years At the threshold performance The deferred portion pay a dividend, reward its employees in Bodycote shares see details below.
level there will normally be of the bonus supports and make future investments: and Vesting of the deferred shares is not subject no more than 30% vesting.
longer-term shareholder achieve other strategic goals to drive to further performance conditions please Awards commence vesting alignment.
see the 2016 AGM Notice for a summary of progressively from this point the Plan.
The weighting of the measures and with maximum performance specific targets are reviewed on an Dividend equivalents are payable in resulting in awards vesting in annual basis to ensure alignment to respect of the shares which vest.
strategy and are set to be in line with From 2018 onwards, 35% of any bonus budget.
Information on measures and earned is deferred into shares for weights that will apply for specific three years, conditional on continued years will be included in the relevant employment until vesting date.
years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Transitional treatment applies to deferral At least 70% of the bonus will be for 2016 and 2017.
For 2016, any bonus based on the achievement of Group earned over 130% of base salary is financial targets.
The Committee retains discretion in For 2017, 15% of any bonus paid up to a exceptional circumstances to change value of 130% of base salary is deferred, performance measures and targets with bonus earned over 130% also deferred and the weightings attached to in full.
The deferral above 130% of salary performance measures part-way through would be capped so that no more than 35% a performance year if there is a significant of the total bonus is deferred.
and material event which causes the Malus provisions apply for the duration Committee to believe the original of the performance period and to shares measures, weightings and targets are no held under deferral.
Clawback provisions apply to cash amounts Discretion may also be exercised in paid for three years following payment.
cases where the Committee believe that the bonus outcome is not a fair Malus and or clawback may be applied in and accurate reflection of business the following scenarios: performance.
The exercise of this Discovery of a material misstatement discretion may result in a downward resulting in an adjustment in the or upward movement in the amount audited accounts of the Group or any of bonus earned resulting from Group Company: the application of the performance The assessment of any performance measures.
condition or condition was based Any adjustments or discretion applied by on error, or inaccurate or misleading the Committee will be fully disclosed in information: the following years Remuneration Report.
The discovery that any information The Committee is of the opinion that used to determine the cash payment given the commercial sensitivity under the bonus or the number of arising in relation to the detailed shares subject to deferral was based financial targets used for the annual on error, or inaccurate or misleading bonus, disclosing precise targets for information: or the Annual Bonus Plan in advance Action or conduct of a participant would not be in shareholder interests.
which amounts to fraud or gross Actual targets, performance achieved misconduct.
and awards made will be published at The Committee believes that the rules the end of the performance periods of the Plan provide sufficient powers so shareholders can fully assess the to enforce malus and clawback where basis for any pay-outs under the annual required.
58 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Element and how it supports our Maximum opportunity strategy Operation of the element under the element Performance measures Bodycote Incentive Awards will be granted annually under The maximum face value of an Awards vest based on performance Plan BIP 2016 the Bodycote Incentive Plan please see award which may be granted over three years against performance To incentivise the 2016 AGM Notice for a summary of under the plan in any year is up measures chosen by the Committee delivery of long-term the Plan subject to a three year vesting to 175 % of base salary for the to align with business and strategic strategic goals and period and stretching performance executive directors.
For the 2016 financial year shareholder value conditions measured over three years.
the measures for executive directors At the threshold performance and aid retention of are: Dividend equivalents are payable in level there will normally be senior management.
respect of the shares which vest.
50% ROCE Awards commence vesting The Committee retains the discretion 50% headline EPS progressively from this point in exceptional circumstances to adjust with maximum performance In addition, the vesting of awards may the vesting outcome or the targets for resulting in awards vesting in only occur if headline EPS is above a awards as long as the adjusted targets full.
In such an event the Committee will consult with major The Committee considers these shareholders and will clearly explain the performance conditions selected for rationale for the changes in the report on the BIP to currently appropriately remuneration.
underpin the Companys strategic objectives.
Due to the nature Discretion may also be exercised in cases of the Companys activities the where the Committee believes that Committee consider ROCE to provide the outcome is not a fair and accurate shareholders with an appropriate reflection of business performance.
The measure of how well the Company exercise of this discretion may result in is performing and is being managed, a downward or upward movement in while EPS provides a measure of the the amount of the LTIP vesting resulting level of value created for shareholders.
from the application of the performance ROCE and EPS are our top two KPIs measures.
as shown on page 69 of the Annual Malus provisions apply for the duration of Report.
The Committee may adjust the Clawback provisions apply to amounts for performance measures attaching to two years following vest.
awards and the weighting of these measures if it feels this will create Malus and or clawback may be applied in greater alignment with business and the following scenarios: strategic priorities.
Discovery of a material misstatement A significant change to the measures resulting in an adjustment in the used would only be adopted following audited accounts of the Group or any consultation with major shareholders.
Group Company: The targets for the performance The assessment of any performance measures are reviewed on an annual condition or condition was based basis to ensure alignment to strategy on error, or inaccurate or misleading and are set to be in line with budget.
information: Details of performance targets will be included in the relevant years Annual The discovery that any information Report on Remuneration.
used to determine the number of shares subject to an award was based on error, or inaccurate or misleading information: or Action or conduct of a participant which amounts to fraud or gross misconduct.
The Committee believes that the rules of the Plan provide sufficient powers to enforce malus and clawback where required.
com 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Board report on remuneration continued Element and how it supports our Maximum opportunity strategy Operation of the element under the element Performance measures Shareholding The Board operates a shareholding The CEO and CFO and other None requirement retention policy under which executive executive directors are To provide alignment directors are expected, within five required to build up a holding of of interest between years from appointment, to build up a 200% and 150% of base salary participants and shareholding in the Company.
Legacy awards The CIP provides for the grant of awards Executive directors are invited The matching shares are subject to Co-Investment Plan of performance based matching shares annually to purchase shares up an absolute Total Shareholder Return CIP to participants on an annual basis in to 40% of basic salary net of TSR performance measure which is To provide a link a maximum ratio of 1:1 to the gross tax against which performance expressed as percentage Compound between short and investment made in deferred shares.
based matching shares are Annual Growth Rate CAGR in excess long-term incentive The deferred shares must be held for at granted on a 1:1 basis.
of CPI: arrangements and least three years.
The vesting of matching Threshold performance results in a to provide further shares will be based on share price related 0.5:1 match alignment with performance conditions as determined by Maximum performance results in a 1:1 shareholders.
Final award made in Dividend equivalents are payable in respect 2015. of the matching shares which vest.
Legacy awards Awards are granted annually under the The maximum face value of an Awards vest based on performance Bodycote Incentive Bodycote Incentive Plan subject to a award which may be granted over three years against performance Plan BIP 2006 three year vesting period and stretching under the plan in any year is up measures chosen by the Committee To incentivise performance conditions measured over to 175% of base salary for the to align with business and strategic delivery of long-term three years.
For recent grants the shareholder value.
measures for executive directors have Shares delivered following the vest of At the threshold performance been: Aids retention of an award attract additional dividend level there will normally be senior management.
shares calculated on the basis of the no more than 0% vesting.
50% ROCE re-investment back into shares of the Awards commence vesting 50% headline EPS Final award made in dividend that would have been received progressively from this point In addition, the vesting of awards may 2015. had the shares been beneficially held.
with maximum performance only occur if headline EPS is above a resulting in awards vesting in defined hurdle level.
The Committee retains the discretion in full.
exceptional circumstances to adjust the vesting outcome or the targets for awards as long as the adjusted targets are no less stretching.
In such an event the Committee will consult with major shareholders and will clearly explain the rationale for the changes in the report on remuneration.
Malus provisions apply for the duration of the performance period and to shares held under deferral.
Notes to the Remuneration Policy table The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out on pages 57 to 65 where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes payments include the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment being agreed at the time the award is granted.
Executive directors remuneration is reviewed annually and takes into account a number of factors.
The Company adopts a policy of positioning fixed pay for all its employees at a level which is competitive to market but which does not require the Company to pay any more than is necessary.
Senior and high performing individuals at all levels and across all functions within the organisation are invited to participate in both annual and long-term incentive arrangements, which are similar to those offered to the executive directors to ensure reward strategy is calibrated to provide substantive reward only on achievement of superior performance.
60 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Illustrations of application of remuneration policy The remuneration package for the executive directors is designed to provide an appropriate balance between fixed and variable performance-related components.
The Committee is satisfied that the composition and structure of the remuneration package is appropriate, clearly supports the Companys strategic ambitions and does not incentivise inappropriate risk taking and reviews this on an annual basis.
Fixed Elements Annual Variable Element Long-Term Variable Elements 3,000,000 2,524,958 2,500,000 2,000,000 48% 1,493,454 1,500,000 1,407,564 25% 48% 818,997 1,000,000 26% 27% 28% 656,731 24% 27% 500,000 398,244 100% 47% 26% 49% 100% 25% 0 Minimum On-Target Maximum Minimum On-Target Maximum Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director For the purposes of this analysis, the following methodology has been used: Fixed elements comprise base salary and other benefits: Base salary reflects the base salary as at 1 January 2016.
Benefits reflect benefits received in 2015.
For on-target performance, an assumption of 60% of annual bonus is applied and vesting of 50% of the maximum for the BIP.
No share price increase has been assumed or dividend reinvestment.
Fixed Elements are salary, benefits and pension.
Annual Variable Element is the annual bonus both cash and deferred shares.
Long-Term Variable Element is the BIP award.
com 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Board report on remuneration continued Non-Executive Director NED fee policy The policy on non-executive director NED and Chairman fees is set out below.
Element and how it Maximum opportunity under the supports our strategy Operation of the element element Performance measures Fees for non-executive The fees for the non-executives are Fees for non-executive directors are None directors determined by the Chairman and the set out in the statement of To attract NEDs who Chief Executive.
implementation of policy in the have a broad range following financial year section on The fee for the Chairman is reviewed of experience and page 71. by the Board in the absence of the skills to oversee the Chairman.
The Companys policy is that the implementation of our Chairman and non-executive directors strategy.
The Chairman and non-executive fees receive a fixed fee for their services are reviewed on an annual basis.
When as members of the Board and its reviewing fees, the primary source Committees.
The fee structure may of comparative market data is FTSE also include additional fees for chairing 250 companies and other companies a Board Committee and or further of similar size and complexity, as responsibilities for example, Senior appropriate.
The fees for the Chairman and nonIn line with the Articles of Association, executives are set a level that will accumulative total fees for nonattract individuals with the necessary executive directors are capped at experience and ability to make a 500,000 p. a. significant contribution to the Groups affairs.
The fees reflect the time commitment and responsibilities of the roles.
The Chairman and non-executive directors are not entitled to any pension or other employment benefits or to participate in any incentive scheme.
Appropriate benefits may be provided to non-executives and the Chairman from time to time.
The Company will pay reasonable expenses incurred by the non-executive directors and Chairman and may settle any tax incurred in relation to these.
Fees retained for external Non-Executive Directorships To broaden the experience of executive directors, they may hold positions in other companies as non-executive directors provided that permission is sought in advance.
Any external appointment must not conflict with the directors duties and commitments to Bodycote plc.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Company adopts a policy of positioning fixed pay for all its employees at a level which is competitive to market but which does not require the Company to pay any more than is necessary.
Senior and high performing individuals at all levels and across all functions within the organisation are invited to participate in both annual and long-term incentive arrangements, similar to the executive directors to ensure reward strategy is calibrated to provide substantive reward only on achievement of superior performance.
The Committee does not consult directly with employees when formulating executive director pay policy.
However, it does take into account information provided by the Human Resources function and feedback from employee satisfaction surveys.
In formulating executive director pay policy, the Committee receives information on all employee pay conditions throughout the Group.
The Committee does not use any remuneration comparison metrics.
62 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Committee always welcomes the views of shareholders in respect of pay policy as well as those views expressed on behalf of shareholders by their respective proxy advisers.
The Committee documents all remuneration related comments made at the Companys AGM and feedback received during consultation with shareholders throughout the year.
Any feedback received is fully considered by the Committee.
In developing the proposed Remuneration Policy for 2016 and beyond the Remuneration Committee engaged extensively with the Companys key shareholders and their representative bodies.
Through this process the Remuneration Committee took on board the feedback received and refined the proposed Remuneration Policy as appropriate to ensure it meets the expectations of our shareholders.
Approach to recruitment remuneration When recruiting new executive directors, the Companys policy is to pay what is necessary to attract individuals with the skills and experience appropriate to the role to be filled, taking into account remuneration across the Group, including other senior executives, and that offered by other FTSE 250 companies and other companies of similar size and complexity.
New executive directors will generally be appointed on remuneration packages with the same structure and pay elements as described in the pay policy table on pages 62 and 63.
Each element of remuneration to be included in the package offered to a new director would be considered separately and collectively in this context.
Component Policy General The Companys policy is to pay what is necessary to attract individuals with the skills and experience appropriate to the role to be filled.
The initial notice period may be longer than the Companys one year policy up to a maximum of two years.
However, this will reduce by one month for every month served, until the Companys policy position is reached.
Base salary Base salary levels will be set at an appropriate level to recruit the best candidate in consideration of the new recruits existing salary, location, skills and experience and expected contribution to the new role, the current salaries of other executive directors in the Company and current market levels for the role.
Other benefits Other benefits will be considered in light of the provision in place for the other executive director s. If it is in the best interests of the Company and shareholders, the Committee may consider providing additional benefits, potentially including relocation costs, tax equalisation or advisers fees.
Pension Pension will be considered in light of the retirement arrangements which are in place for the other executive director s with a contribution level considered by the Committee to be appropriate in light of the new recruits package as a whole, market practice at the time and on a broadly equivalent basis to existing provisions for other executives.
Annual bonus Normal awards will be made under the annual bonus plan in line with the Remuneration Policy.
The executive director may be invited to participate in the bonus on a pro rated basis in the first year of appointment.
Long-term Normal awards will be made under the BIP in line with the Remuneration Policy.
The executive director may be invited to incentives participate in in flight BIP awards on a pro rated basis when appointed.
The Company is required to set out the maximum amount of variable pay which could be paid to a new director in respect of his her recruitment.
In order to provide the Company with sufficient flexibility in a recruitment scenario, the Committee has set this figure as 450% of base salary.
This covers the maximum annual bonus and the maximum face value of any long-term incentive awards.
This level of variable pay would only be available in exceptional circumstances, and in order to achieve such a level of variable pay, stretching targets would need to be met.
For the avoidance of doubt, this 450% variable pay limit excludes the value of any buyout payments or awards associated with forfeited awards.
Replacement For an external appointment, although there are no plans to offer additional cash and or share-based payments on awards recruitment, the Committee reserves the right to do so when it considers this to be in the best interests of the Company and shareholders.
Such payments may take into account remuneration relinquished when leaving the former employer and would reflect the nature, time horizons and performance requirements attached to that remuneration.
Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at the time of appointment.
The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to buyout awards which will be forfeited on leaving the previous employer.
Our approach to this is to carry out a detailed review of the awards which the individual will lose and calculate the estimated value of them.
In doing so, we will consider the vesting period, the option exercise period if applicable, whether the awards are cash or share based, performance related or not, the Companys recent performance and payout levels and any other factors we consider appropriate.
If a buyout award is to be made, the structure and level will be carefully designed and will generally reflect and replicate the previous awards as accurately as possible.
We will make the award subject to appropriate malus and clawback provisions in the event that the individual resigns or is summarily terminated within a certain timeframe.
An explanation will be provided at the time of recruitment of why a buyout award has been granted.
Internal For internal promotions any commitments made prior to appointment may continue to be honoured as the executive is promotions transitioned to the new remuneration arrangements.
Shareholders will be informed of any director appointment and the individuals remuneration arrangements as soon as practicable following the appointment via an announcement to the regulatory news services.
Fee levels for a new Chairman or new non-executive directors will be determined in accordance with the policy set out on pages 62 and 63.
com 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Board report on remuneration continued Service contracts All directors service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
A summary of the key terms of the executive directors service contracts is set out below.
S. C. Harris, Group Chief Executive D. F. Landless, Group Finance Director Date of service contract 6 October 2008 26 September 2001 Notice period 12 months 12 months Remuneration Annual base salary.
Potential for cash in lieu of pension.
Reimbursement of expenses if satisfactory Reimbursement of expenses if satisfactory evidence provided.
Entitlement to receive an annual performance Entitlement to receive an annual performance related bonus award.
Entitlement to one years remuneration if employment is terminated on a change of control.
Termination Company has right to terminate on payment of a Company has right to terminate on payment of a termination payment with agreement of executive.
Non-Competition During employment and for 12 months thereafter.
During employment and for 12 months thereafter.
Other than the contents of the contracts, there are no obligations that may give rise to remuneration.
Director Date of appointment Notice period A. M. Thomson 1 December 2007 6 months J.
A. Biles 16 August 2007 6 months R. Rajagopal 24 September 2008 6 months E. Lindqvist 1 June 2012 6 months I.
B. Duncan 17 November 2014 6 months The non-executive directors of the Company including the Chairman do not have service contracts.
The non-executive directors are appointed by letters of appointment.
Each independent non-executive directors term of office runs for a maximum three year period.
The initial terms of the non-executive directors positions are subject to their re-election by the Companys shareholders at the next AGM and to re-election at any subsequent AGM at which the non-executive directors stand for re-election.
All directors will be put forward for re-election by shareholders on an annual basis.
Termination remuneration policy It is the Companys policy that executive directors have service contracts with a one-year notice period and terminable by one years notice by the employer at any time, and by payment of one years basic salary and other fixed benefits in lieu of notice by the employer.
All future appointments to the Board will comply with this requirement.
The Committee will honour executive directors contractual entitlements.
Service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
If a contract is to be terminated, the Committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each case.
There are no contractual arrangements that would guarantee a pension with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
There is no agreement between the Company and its executive directors or employees, providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid other than a legacy arrangement for D. F. Landless.
64 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Component Policy Compensation for Currently, under the terms of the executive directors contracts, the Company may at its choice, in lieu of giving loss of office in notice, terminate an executive directors service contract by making a payment equivalent to: service contracts One years annual base salary, 25% of base salary in respect of all other remuneration and benefits other than annual bonus and incentives and annual bonus equal to the average bonus paid up to three years prior to the date of notice.
Treatment of cash If termination is by way of death, injury, illness, disability, redundancy, retirement, or any other circumstances element of the the Committee determines a good leaver, the level of bonus will be measured at the bonus measurement bonus under plan date.
Bonus will normally be pro-rated for the period worked during the financial year.
The Committee retains the rules discretion: to determine that an executive is a good leaver.
It is the Committees intention to only use this discretion in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: not to pro-rate the bonus to time.
The Committees policy is that it will pro-rate bonus for time.
It is the Committees intention to use its discretion to not pro-rate in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders.
Under all other circumstances no bonus will be earned on cessation of employment other than set out above in the legacy arrangements for current executive directors.
Treatment of If termination is by way of death, injury, illness, disability, redundancy, retirement, or any other circumstances the unvested deferred Committee determines a good leaver, deferred shares may be released to the participant at the normal vesting date.
bonus awards Under all other circumstances unvested awards will lapse on cessation of employment.
under plan rules The Committee has the following elements of discretion: to determine that an executive is a good leaver.
It is the Committees intention to only use this discretion in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: to vest deferred shares at the end of the original deferral period or at the date of cessation.
The Committees policy is that shares will vest on the original date of vesting.
The Committee will make this determination depending on the type of good leaver reason resulting in the cessation.
Treatment of On cessation of employment, awards under the BIP and CIP will lapse in full, unless the Committee determines that unvested BIP 2016, the individual is a good leaver see above for definition.
In instances where the Committee determines that awards BIP 2006 and CIP should not lapse in full, awards will normally vest at the normal vesting date, pro-rated for time served and subject to awards the achievement of the original performance conditions.
The Committee has the following elements of discretion: to determine that an executive is a good leaver.
It is the Committees intention to only use this discretion in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: to measure performance over the original performance period or at the date of cessation.
The Committee will make this determination depending on the type of good leaver reason resulting in the cessation: and to pro-rate the maximum number of shares to the time from the date of grant to the date of cessation.
The Committees policy is that it will pro-rate awards for time.
It is the Committees intention to use discretion to not pro-rate in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders.
Exercise of In the event that an executive director leaves the Company, the Committees policy for exit payments is to consider discretion the reasons for cessation and consequently whether any exit payments other than those contractually required are warranted.
Further, in the event of a compromise or settlement agreement, the Committee may agree payments it considers reasonable in settlement of legal claims.
This may include an entitlement to compensation in respect of their statutory rights under employment protection legislation in the UK or in other jurisdictions.
The Committee may also include in such payments reasonable reimbursement of professional fees in connection with such agreements.
Change of control Our policy is not to have a change in control clause in executive directors service contracts.
S. C. Harris does not have a change of control clause.
D. F. Landless service contract was agreed in accordance with what was considered best practice at the time of its execution in 2001 and provides for one years remuneration if his employment is terminated on a change of control.
This provision has been preserved.
To the extent that executive contracts are renewed, or new appointments made, the Committee will continue to adopt a policy of not having change of control clauses in service contracts.
In any case, legally appropriate factors would be taken into account to mitigate any compensation payment, covering basic salary, annual incentives and benefits, which may arise on the termination of employment of any executive director, other than payments made on a change in control or for payments in lieu of notice.
On change of control the awards under the Companys incentive plans will generally vest subject to performance and time apportionment as determined by the Committee and in accordance with the rules of the relevant plan.
com 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Board report on remuneration continued Section B: Annual report on remuneration Committee membership During 2015 the Committee was chaired by E. Lindqvist.
A. Biles retired on 23 April 2015, A. M. Thomson, R. Rajagopal and I.
The Committees full terms of reference are available on the Groups website.
No Committee members have any personal financial interest other than as a shareholder, conflict of interest, cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in the running of the business.
Committee activities During 2015 the Committee met seven times and once in February 2016 to consider, amongst other matters: Theme Agenda items Best practice The Groups Remuneration Policy, discussions and feedback from the Groups AGM in 2015 and the revised Corporate Governance Code and Investment Management Association IMA guidelines on executive remuneration Review of the current UK corporate governance environment and the implications for the Group Remuneration policy Consideration and approval of the revised Remuneration Policy to be put to shareholders, as summarised in Section A of the Board report on remuneration Implementation policy Consideration and approval of the Implementation Report to be put to shareholders and as summarised in Section B of the Board report on remuneration Executive directors Basic salaries payable to each of the executive directors and senior executives The annual bonus and payments for the year ended 31 December 2015 remuneration The annual bonus structure and performance targets for the year ended 31 December 2016 The conditional awards and vestings made under the Bodycote Incentive Plan BIP and Co-investment Plan CIP during the year Pension arrangements for senior executives Design of a new bonus and share plan as part of benefit package Reporting Consideration and approval of the Board report on remuneration Advisers to the Committee The Committee was until July 2015 advised by Towers Watson on remuneration matters including providing advice on matters under consideration by the Committee, updates on good practice, legislative requirements and market practice.
Towers Watsons fees for this work amounted to 40,250.
Following a competitive tender, in July 2015 PwC was appointed by the Remuneration Committee as remuneration committee advisers.
PwCs fees for the year, based on the quantity and complexity of the work undertaken, amounted to 25,500.
PwC also undertakes tax and accounting work for the Company.
Legal advice was provided by Eversheds and fees amounted to 1,926.
All fees are based on the quantity and complexity of work undertaken.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the advice provided on executive remuneration is objective and independent, and that no conflict of interest arises as a result of these services.
PwC and Towers Watson have signed up to the Remuneration Consultant Groups code of conduct.
The Committee also received assistance from the Group Chief Executive and Group Company Secretary, although they do not participate in discussions relating to the setting of their own remuneration.
The Committee in particular consulted with the Group Chief Executive and received recommendations from him in respect of his direct reports.
66 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Statement of shareholder voting The table below displays the voting results on the remuneration resolution at the 2015 AGM as well as the result of the remuneration policy at the 2014 AGM: 2015 Board report on 2014 Directors remuneration Remuneration Policy % votes % votes Votes cast 84% 79% For 97% 96% Against 3% 4% Number of abstentions 14,666 40,318 Remuneration for 2015 This section of the report explains how Bodycotes Remuneration Policy has been implemented during the financial year.
Base salary The base salaries of the executive directors are reviewed on an annual basis.
As described in Section A: Directors Remuneration Policy, a number of factors are taken into account when salaries are reviewed, principally market level salaries payable in FTSE 250 companies and other companies of similar size and complexity, and the individuals role, experience and performance.
The 2015 base salary increases and comparative figures can be found in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans letter.
Base salaries are reviewed in January every year.
Name Position Salary from 1 January 2015 Salary from 1 January 2016 S. C. Harris Group Chief Executive 498,838 511,309 D. F. Landless Group Finance Director 318,591 326,556 The 2015 increase compares to the average 2015 salary increase across the Group of 2.3%.
Fees retained for external non-executive directorships To broaden the experience of executive directors, the position of non-executive director may be held in other companies, provided that permission is sought in advance.
S. C. Harris has held such a position at Mondi plc since 1 March 2011 and in accordance with Group policy he retained fees for the year of 87,068.
D. F. Landless was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Luxfer Holdings plc with effect from 1 March 2013 and retained fees for the year of 50,586.
In addition D. F. Landless was given 3,168 of Luxfer American Depositary Receipts valued at $12.23 at the date of grant on 29 May 2015.
D. F. Landless has been appointed a Non-Executive Director of Innospec Inc. with effect from 1 January 2016.
No fees have been retained for the 2015 reporting period.
Pension Following a contractual review of pension provision during 2015, it was decided that D. F. Landless salary supplement above the defined benefit scheme cap should be increased from 16% to 20%.
This was decided in March 2015 with effect from 1 January 2015.
S. C. Harris is entitled to a salary supplement in lieu of pension at a rate of 25% of basic salary.
In addition, a death in service benefit of eight times basic salary is payable.
D. F. Landless no longer participates in the Groups UK contributory defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes due to him prospectively reaching the lifetime limit.
Instead D. F. Landless receives a salary supplement of 25% of basic salary up to the defined benefit scheme cap and 20% of basic salary above the cap, of which 50,095 was waived during the year.
Taxable benefits The Group provides other cash benefits and benefits in kind to directors as well as sick pay and life insurance.
These include the provision of company car or allowance and family level private medical insurance.
Car car Salary Name allowance Fuel Healthcare supplement S. C. Harris 13,939 2,400 1,256 124,710 D. F. Landless 18,822 1,200 1,570 50,095 Long-term savings vehicle During the financial year the Group made discretionary contributions into the Bodycote Investment Incentive Plan.
The plan is entirely cashbased to provide an alternative long-term savings vehicle for senior executives.
The Committee considers the plan an essential tool to aid retention while recognising the need for executives to have flexibility in long-term financial planning.
Group contributions are discretionary, vary year-on-year and are made in lieu of other elements of pay and therefore are cost neutral to the Group.
Any risk in relation to the value of investments made in the plan is borne entirely by participants.
com 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Board report on remuneration continued Annual performance related bonus Retrospective disclosure of 2014 annual bonus targets In the 2013 Annual report on remuneration, the Committee communicated its intention to retrospectively disclose information in respect of the prior year annual bonus targets.
The table below provides details of the annual bonus awards received in respect of the Group and individual performances in the 2014 financial year.
While our reported revenues decreased by 1.7%, there was an increase of 4.0% at constant exchange rates.
Headline operating profit grew by 3.4% and headline earnings per share increased by 6.3%.
The actual payout, as a percentage of the total award, in respect of Group headline operating profit and Group headline operating cash flow, was 46.5% and 10.0% respectively.
The targets for Group headline operating profit and Group headline operating cash flow were 128.9m and 93.4m respectively.
The Committee also assessed the Group Chief Executives and Group Finance Directors performance against their personal objectives, which included targets relating to safety, customer service and implementation of major projects.
The Committee concluded that personal strategic objectives were achieved on target at a level of 16.0% and 14.6% for the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director respectively.
Actual Actual payout perform- % of award ance Threshold Target Maximum % of award achieved CEO FD Group headline operating profit 107.4m 115.1m 128.9m 70% 111.1m 46.5% 46.5% Group headline operating cash flow 88.7m 93.4m 93.4m 10% 100.0m 10.0% 10.0% Personal scorecard 20% 16.0% 14.6% Total 72.5% 71.1% 2015 Annual bonus During the year the Committee has decided, in line with market practice, to disclose information in respect of last years annual bonus targets.
The table below provides the details of the annual bonus awards received in respect of the Group and individual performances in the 2015 financial year.
The annual bonus potential for the period to 31 December 2015 for executive directors was split 70% in respect of Group headline operating profit, 10% on Group headline operating cash flow and 20% on personal strategic objectives.
These performance conditions and their respective weightings reflected the Committees belief that any incentive compensation should be linked both to the overall performance of the Group and to those areas of the business that the relevant individual can directly influence.
Due to significant pressures particularly in the oil & gas sector, the performance of the Group during the year included headline operating profit of 102.1m 8.1% decrease on the previous year, 6.0% decrease at constant exchange rates and headline operating cash flow of 81.6m 18.4% decrease on last year.
No bonus is payable on the financial elements of the performance targets.
The Committee also assessed the performance of both the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director against their personal objectives, which included targets relating to safety, focus on preservation and maximisation of value and cash flow as well as implementation of major projects.
The Committee concluded that personal strategic objectives were achieved at a level of 20% of the maximum award for both the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
Actual Actual payout perform- % of award ance Threshold Target Maximum % of award achieved CEO FD Group headline operating profit 111.1m 116.0m 122.0m 70% 102.1m 0% 0% Group headline operating cash flow 99.0m 104.2m 104.2m 10% 81.6m 0% 0% Personal scorecard 20% 20% 20% Total 20% 20% 68 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 10 March 2016 9:06 AM PROOF 5 Bodycote Annual Report 2015 - Front and middle.
indd 68 10 03 2016 09:09:46 Bodycote Incentive Plan BIP Awards with performance periods ending in the year BIP awards made in 2013 had a three-year performance period ending on 31 December 2015, with 50% of the award subject to satisfaction of a ROCE target and 50% subject to a headline EPS target.
The threshold and maximum targets along with the vesting schedule are set out in the tables below.
ROCE Headline EPS Vesting of element Vesting of element Performance target % of maximum Performance target % of maximum Threshold performance 18.7% 0% 42.0p 0% Maximum performance 23.0% 100% 61.3p 100% Performance achieved 19.0% 6.6% 39.5p 0% If headline EPS at the end of the performance period was below 42.0p, then no awards will vest.
Over the period, ROCE was 19.0% and the headline EPS figure for the year was 39.5p.
As the underpin was not achieved, the Committee concluded that the 2013 share award will not vest.
Awards made in the year BIP awards with a face value of 175% of salary were granted to both executive directors in April 2015 and will vest in March 2018, subject to the achievement of ROCE and headline EPS growth performance targets.
The performance period will end on 31 December 2017.
The vesting of these awards will be based on ROCE and headline EPS targets summarised in the table below.
The Committee has reviewed the performance targets and these have been altered accordingly to ensure that they remain stretching targets which underpin the Groups objectives.
ROCE Headline EPS Vesting of element Vesting of element Performance target % of maximum Performance target % of maximum Threshold performance 18.7% 0% 45.0p 0% Maximum performance 23.0% 100% 61.3p 100% If headline EPS at the end of the performance period is below 41.8p, then no awards will vest.
The Committee has decided that the ROCE figure of 23% is a good aspiration for the Group and is cognisant of the fact that over-incentivising on capital employed can lead to unintended consequences in terms of short-term capital underinvestment for the business.
Dividend equivalents are payable in respect of those shares that vest.
The number and value of shares that were awarded to the executive directors during the year is set out on page 72.
Co-Investment Plan CIP Awards with performance periods ending in the year As described in Section A: Directors Remuneration Policy, CIP awards are subject to an absolute TSR target.
The CIP awards made in 2012 had a three-year performance period ending on 30 April 2015.
The absolute TSR performance targets applicable to this award are set out below.
Absolute TSR performance target Vesting level 4% CAGR CPI 50% 0.5:1 match 10% CAGR CPI 100% 1:1 match Over the three-year period, the Group achieved absolute TSR growth of 25.4%.
This performance resulted in the TSR targets being achieved at a level of 100%.
The number and value of shares which vested to each of the executive directors is set out on page 72.
com 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Board report on remuneration continued Awards made in the year CIP awards were made to both executive directors in May 2015 and will vest in May 2018, subject to the achievement of absolute TSR targets summarised in the table below.
The Committee reviewed the performance targets and felt that they remain appropriately stretching.
Therefore, no change has been made to the absolute TSR performance targets used in the previous year.
Dividend equivalents will be payable in respect of the shares which vest.
Threshold Maximum Performance target Target Vest Target Vest Absolute TSR 4% CAGR CPI 50% 0.5:1 match 10% CAGR CPI 100% 1:1 match The number and value of shares that were awarded to the executive directors during the year is set out on page 72.
Implementation of policy in 2016 In 2015 the Committee undertook an in-depth review of the remuneration arrangements and determined that a number of changes should be made to the existing policy to be approved by shareholders at the May 2016 AGM.
These changes are set out below: 1.
Increase in the existing annual bonus opportunity to 200% of salary for the CEO and 150% for the CFO.
Introduction of clawback onto incentives, reflecting the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and best practice.
Base salary is reviewed on an annual basis.
The 2016 base salary increases from 1 January 2016 were 2.5% for the Group Chief Executive and 2.5% for the Group Finance Director.
As 2016 base salary increases for the Group are applied after the publication of this report, the comparative figure for 2016 can only be provided in next years report.
The comparative figure for 2015 is disclosed in the base salary section on page 67.
For 2016 the Committee has determined that the annual bonus opportunity for executive directors and senior executives will again be contingent on meeting targets relating to operating profit, cash management and personal objectives.
The Committee has reviewed targets for the year to ensure they remain appropriately stretching and relevant for the Groups business strategy.
The Committee has determined to set the targets for the 2016 BIP awards as disclosed in the consultation exercise.
The targets below were set in the context of significant pressures in the sector, and to ensure that the Committee are able to deliver upper quartile reward for upper quartile performance.
BIP Targets for 2016 Award Performance metric EPS ROCE Weighting % of total award 50% 50% Performance period 3 years 3 years Threshold Performance 31.7p 15.5% Vesting level 0% 0% Maximum performance 52p 23% Vesting level Full vesting Full vesting EPS underpin 27p 70 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 10 March 2016 9:06 AM PROOF 5 Bodycote Annual Report 2015 - Front and middle.
B. Duncan 2015 60 60 60 2014 8 8 8 Notes accompanying the total single figure table 1.
Other benefits consist of company car or allowance, family level private medical insurance and salary supplement.
Life assurance cover, sick pay and Board travel expenses are also provided.
The only benefit received by the non-executive directors is the payment of Board travel expenses.
The 2015 figures relate to BIP awards made in 2013 with performance periods ending on 31 December 2015.
No shares vested as the underpin was not achieved.
The 2015 figures relate to CIP awards made in 2012 with performance periods ending 30 April 2015.
The shares vested in May 2015 at a share price of 740.5p.
A. Biles resigned at the AGM on 23 April 2015.
B. Duncan was appointed in November 2014.
Payments to past directors and for loss of office During the year no payments were made to past directors or for loss of office.
CIP and BIP Awards granted and vested during the year Awards or grants were made under the CIP and BIP Schemes as follows: BIP: Awards consisting of conditional shares were granted to both executive directors, equivalent in value to 175% of their base salaries on 13 April 2015, and will vest after three years.
Details of the awards are set out below.
Awards are subject to continued employment and the achievement of the performance conditions specified on page 69.
CIP: Awards consisting of shares were granted to both executive directors, equivalent in value to 8% of S. C. Harris base salary and 12% of D. F. Landless base salary on 27 May 2015, and will vest after three years.
The maximum take up is 40% of the base salary and awards are subject to continued employment and the achievement of the performance conditions specified on pages 69 and 70.
com 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report Board report on remuneration continued Directors interests under the Bodycote Incentive Plan Interests Market as at At 31 Market value at 1 January Awarded Vested in Lapsed in December price at date of Vesting 1 2 2015 in year year year 2015 award date vesting date S. C. Harris 449,728 85,761 107,892 3.94 7.61 2 March 2015 110,687 366,762 7.66 March 2018 D. F. Landless 287,248 54,780 68,918 3.94 7.61 2 March 2015 70,691 234,241 7.66 March 2018 1.
Mid-market closing price of a share on the day before grant was 7.16.
The face value of the award to S. C. Harris was 847,530.
The face value of the award to D. F. Landless was 541,281.
Subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions details of which are set on page 69.
The awards that vested during the year did so at 44.3% of the maximum.
Directors interests under the Bodycote Co-investment Plan Interests Market as at 1 At 31 Market value at January Awarded Vested in Lapsed in December price at date of Vesting 1 2 2015 in year year year 2015 award date vesting date S. C. Harris 11,450 5,113 16,563 7.49 May 2017 D. F. Landless 23,299 8,187 3.79 7.41 22 May 2015 5,113 20,225 7.49 May 2017 1.
Mid-market closing price of a share on the day before grant was 7.44.
The face value of the award to S. C. Harris was 38,271.
The face value of the award to D. F. Landless was 38,271.
Subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions details of which are set on pages 69 and 70.
The awards that vested during the year did so in full.
Directors shareholdings The interests in ordinary shares of directors and their connected persons as at 31 December 2015, including any interests awarded under the CIP or BIP, are presented below.
As at 25 February 2016, the interests of the directors were unchanged from those at 31 December 2015.
Shares subject Shares subject to performance to performance 1 1 Beneficial conditions BIP conditions CIP Executive Directors S. C. Harris 177,422 366,762 16,563 D. F. Landless 125,203 234,241 20,225 Non-Executive Directors A. M. Thomson 46,071 R. Rajagopal 22,368 E. Lindqvist 5,000 I.
Figures relate to unvested awards under the BIP and the CIP.
As described in Section A: Directors Remuneration Policy, the Board operates a shareholding retention policy under which executive directors and other senior executives are expected, within five years of appointment, to build up a shareholding in the Company.
In respect of executive directors, the expectation is to hold at least 100% of basic salary.
For the purposes of this requirement, only beneficially-owned shares will be counted.
At the December 2015 Remuneration Committee meeting it was decided to increase the minimum shareholding requirement to 200% of salary for the Chief Executive and to 150% of salary for the Group Finance Director.
The new shareholding requirement will not need to be achieved until five years after the adoption of the new requirement.
As at 31 December 2015, the Committee is satisfied that executive directors have fulfilled this requirement.
At the 31 December 2015 share price, S. C. Harris held 202% of salary and D. F. Landless held 223% of salary.
End of auditable section 72 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2015 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Comparison of overall performance and pay The chart below shows the value over the last seven financial years of 100 invested in Bodycote plc compared with that of 100 invested in the FTSE All Share Industrial index.
The Committee has chosen this index as the most reasonable comparison in terms of performance.
The points plotted represent the values at each financial year end.
700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 15 Bodycote FTSE All Share Industrial Index The table below shows how total remuneration for the Group Chief Executive, S. C. Harris, developed over the last seven years.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Single figure of remuneration 000 531 906 3,252 3,840 3,089 1,803 771 Annual variable element award as a % of maximum opportunity 5% 98% 95% 73% 46% 73% 20% Long-term incentive vesting as a % of maximum 0% 0% 100% 100% 99% 44% 0% Percentage change in remuneration of Chief Executive The total value of salary, non-pension benefits and bonus decreased by 32.6% for the Group Chief Executive in 2015 compared to the previous financial year 2014: 957,998: 2015: 646,132.
The equivalent average percentage change for the senior management population as a whole was a 3.7% increase on 2014.
The Remuneration Committee has chosen the senior management population as the group which should provide the most appropriate comparator.
The salary increase for the Group Chief Executive in 2015 compared to the previous financial year was 3.0% 2014: 484,306: 2015: 498,838.
Non-pension benefits increased by 2.2% for the Group Chief Executive in 2015 compared to 2014 2014: 17,214: 2015:17,596.
Bonus payable to the Group Chief Executive decreased by 72% in 2015 compared to 2014 2014: 456,478: 2015: 129,698.
The equivalent average percentage change in 2014 for the senior management population was 3.2% for salary and a 4.7% increase for bonus.
Relative importance of pay spend The table below shows the total expenditure in relation to staff and employee costs, distributions to shareholders and the Groups corporation tax paid in 2014 and 2015.
2015 2014 m m % change Staff and employee costs 220.3 234.9 6.2 % Distributions to shareholders 66.0 45.2 46.0% Corporation tax paid 23.2 19.0 22.1% E. Lindqvist Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 25 February 2016 73 Stock code: BOY www.
com 24472.04 4 March 2016 10:52 AM PROOF 5 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
