Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Remuneration Report Annual Statement In summary those issues were, and remain: a disconnect, in the design of the current long-term incentive plan, between managements performance in delivering against its longterm strategic objectives and compensation outcomes to reward that performance.
In particular, sterlings persistent strength, against the currencies in a number of countries where the Group operates, adversely impacts the financial results on translation from their local currencies into sterling.
The Groups objective is to deliver high single figure growth rates for earnings per share measured at constant rates of exchange.
Management has continued to deliver on that objective but our current long-term incentive plan LTIP vesting outcomes Kieran Poynter have not recognised and rewarded that performance.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee a lack of competitiveness in the design of our Executive Directors compensation.
We need to increase the amount of incentive opportunity to bring it more into line with the marketplace.
Actual earnings will, of Dear Shareholder course, continue to be driven by the levels ofperformance delivered.
It is essential that we attract and retain top international talent in order to deliver the high levels of performance that the Board and The proposed changes to our current Policy, as set out in the shareholders want and expect.
accompanying report, reflect key elements of the investor feedback we have received and which theCommittee believes will address the two In order to do this, our remuneration structure must be competitive issues highlighted above.
in that global talent market.
We also need to ensure there is a strong and clear relationship between delivery on key strategic metrics with First, we propose the introduction of a new LTIP, replacing our existing stretching performance targets and reward outcomes.
plan, with a re-configured set of balanced metrics.
We believe this will both reward management for strong delivery against key strategic In other words, management needs to be rewarded appropriately, objectives and align them with the interests of our shareholders.
based on competitive opportunity for delivering long-term sustainable Those metrics, their respective weights and performance ranges are set shareholder value.
We believe that the interests of shareholders and senior management Secondly, we propose increases in the maximum potential award levels should be strongly aligned over the long term.
of variable pay for the 2016 and future awards as follows: Last year my predecessor highlighted the issues affecting the existing a Chief Executive maximum LTIP award increases from 400% Remuneration Policy which had prompted dialogue with shareholders ofsalary to 500%: at the end of 2014.
Given the diversity of feedback received during that consultation, the Committee decided not to proceed with any b Finance Director maximum LTIP award increases from 300% Policy changes at that time and to evaluate the proposals in the light ofsalary to 350%: of the investor responses.
Nevertheless, his 2014 Statement also c Chief Executive target and maximum short-term incentive noted that the underlying issues that had prompted engagement STI opportunity will increase from 100% and 200% of salary remained unresolved.
respectively to 125% and 250%: Shareholder consultation proposals d Finance Director target and maximum STI opportunity will increase Consequently, in 2015, the Committees agenda has been focused on from 90% and 180% to 95% and 190% respectively.
its review of proposals to address and eliminate these persistent issues In order to instil greater alignment between the Groups management and to re-engage with shareholders.
Over the last few months I have and its shareholders, the Committee has determined that the new LTIP consulted with shareholders representing about 60% of our shares.
will include an additional two-year vesting period which will follow During this most recent dialogue, I am pleased to say that the response the three-year performance period for LTIP awards made in 2016 and has been encouraging, with shareholders recognising the degree to subsequent years.
Directors will be unable to exercise any LTIP awards, which our redesigned proposals reflected earlier concerns whilst at following the completion of the performance period, for a further the same time addressing the underlying issues compromising the two years.
effectiveness of the existing Policy.
Measure % of award Performance range Threshold vesting % Growth in earnings per share EPS at 5% 10% compound annual growth rate CAGR over current exchange rates 20 performance period 3 Growth in EPS at constant exchange rates 20 5% 10% CAGR over performance period 3 Total shareholder return TSR relative to global FMCG peers 20 Median performance vs. peer group to upper quartile 3 Growth in Net Turnover 20 3% 5% CAGR over performance period 3 Operating cash flow as a % of adjusted operating profit AOP 20 Cash flow is 85% 95% of AOP over performance period 3 Total 100 15 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2015 67
