BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors remuneration report Structure of the report The report is divided into three parts: i the Annual Statement summarising the business context in which the Committee has operated: ii the Directors Remuneration Policy Report: and iii the Annual Report on Remuneration which provides shareholders with details of the major decisions made by the Committee and the remuneration actually delivered to the Companys directors during the 2014 15 financial year.
The full Policy Report has been included again this year for information only.
The chart showing remuneration scenarios on page 62 has however been updated to 56 reflect proposed 2015 remuneration levels.
Additional Governance information has been included to assist with Dear Shareholder comprehension.
I am pleased to present the directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2015.
2015 Annual Statement Overall it has been a positive year for the Company The Committee reviews the Companys remuneration and I have taken the opportunity to describe below strategy at least annually.
In light of the significant some of the major developments which set the changes to the policy approved by shareholders in context within which remuneration decisions have 2014 no changes have been made during the year.
We believe executive directors should be incentivised to promote the long-term success of the Company and As previously communicated, the Committee rewarded based on performance and by reference to undertook a strategic review of the approach transparent and demanding performance targets, to remuneration in 2013 to ensure it was aligned reflecting best practice.
In June 2014, awards were with the Companys goal of sustainable profitable granted under the PSP.
The Core award element of the growth and the creation of long-term value for our awards will be capable of vesting in June 2017 subject shareholders.
The revised remuneration policy was to EPS and relative Total Shareholder Return TSR put to a shareholder vote at the 2014 Annual General performance conditions measured over three financial Meeting and was approved by 95.1% of shareholders.
In line with our Policy, the executive directors will There is no requirement to vote on the policy again then have the opportunity to roll-over these awards so this year as no changes are being proposed at this that they are at risk and in return receive a Multiplier time.
The Performance Share Plan PSP Multiplier award that can reduce or enhance the awards based award structure introduced in 2013 will be reviewed on TSR performance measured over five years to by the Committee this year and the overall policy will 31 March 2019.
In addition, as a result of a successful be required to be put to a binding shareholder vote period of sustained growth, 100% of the shares again in 2017.
In the interim the Annual Report on subject to the 2011 PSP were due to vest in 2014.
Remuneration will continue to be subject to the However, both of the executive directors instead advisory shareholder vote at the AGM.
The 2014 elected to roll-over 100% of the shares that would Annual Report on Remuneration was approved by otherwise have vested, in order to receive an 99.3% of shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
equivalent Multiplier award, putting their entire awards at risk for a further two years.
Vesting of the 2011 Core and Multiplier awards will be assessed in 2016 based on relative TSR performance over the full five-year period from grant.
This election to roll-over vesting, at risk, demonstrates the executive directors commitment to the long-term success of the Company.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Shareholding guidelines for the executive directors Whilst the financial targets are being fully were increased two years ago to 250% of salary for disclosed the Committee is only able to provide Louise Makin and 150% of salary for Rolf Soderstrom a high level summary of the personal and and both currently have shareholdings significantly in corporate non-financial targets.
excess of these guidelines, aligning their interests with The Group has seen revenues grow 87% over the those of shareholders.
last three years, an approximate 98% increase in Progress during the year: the number of employees and an increase in market capitalisation of approximately 150% over the same The Company has continued its strategy of both organic period.
As a result of this financial performance and and acquisitive growth and realised a number of sustained growth, there will be 100% vesting under significant milestones during the year.
These include: the 2012 Option and PSP awards, subject to the The commercial launch of Varithena in the United decision to be made by each director whether to 57 States, which represents a significant development roll-over 50% or 100% of the PSP amounts that Governance for the Companys Interventional Medicine business would otherwise vest, in order to receive an equivalent Multiplier award that can increase or decrease the EKOS Corporation securing FDA approval for the actual level of awards vesting based on relative TSR use of the EkoSonic device in a new indication performance up to the end of year five after grant.
pulmonary embolism and delivering 67% With respect to the 2012 PSPs, the actual amount revenue growth from prior year reported revenues vesting will depend on whether the executive directors Establishment of direct sales activities in Europe elect to roll-over an award from a Core award to a by the Interventional Oncology business, with that Multiplier award.
If no such election is made, vesting business unit achieving revenue growth of 30% overall will occur in June 2015.
Vesting will occur in June 2017 from prior year reported revenues in relation to any part of the Award for which an election is made.
Opening of offices in Taiwan and Hong Kong as part of the Groups Asia strategy and approval The 2015 salary increases for both the executive of DC Bead in China where the Company has directors were 3%, compared to an average of those partnered with SciClone Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to be awarded to the wider workforce at 3.9% with the full range of increases across the Company being The acquisition of PneumRx completed in January, 0 to 15%.
This change resulted in salaries for the year providing the Company with a presence starting 1 April 2015 of 586,327 for Louise Makin in the new area of Interventional Pulmonology and 384,310 for Rolf Soderstrom.
Settlement of the patent dispute in the US At the time of his reappointment on 1 January 2015, relating to use of snake antivenoms, securing the the annual fee for the Chairman, Garry Watts which Companys leadership in the area, with the Specialty had been fixed for his initial three-year term was Pharmaceutical business achieving 18% revenue increased from 175,000 to 235,000 10% p. a. and growth from prior year reported revenues again fixed for a further three years.
As a result, there has been a significant increase in We continue to be committed to maintaining an open shareholder value over the course of the year, with dialogue with shareholders and welcome feedback.
the share price increasing from 545.5p on 1 April We hope for the continued support of shareholders at 2014 to 715.0p on 31 March 2015.
The above events the AGM on 15 July 2015 where you will be invited to contributed to the assessment that the Company and vote on the 2015 Annual Remuneration Report.
executive directors each met substantially all of their financial and operations bonus criteria, which will result in an 89% bonus payout for the executive Ian Much directors 70% of which related to Company objectives Remuneration Committee Chairman and 30% of which related to personal performance.
The personal and corporate objectives are targets that are linked to the longer-term development of the 18 May 2015 business.
They are therefore commercially sensitive as they relate to the measures that will drive developments over the next three to five years.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors remuneration report continued aligns executives with shareholders and helps to retain Directors Remuneration Policy Report them by delivering a significant element of remuneration restated from the 2014 Annual Report in shares: and The present Policy was approved by binding shareholder vote is flexible enough to cope with the Companys changing at the AGM on 16 July 2014 and became formally effective needs as it grows and the strategy evolves.
The Committee believes that the salary and bonus structure The Policy enables the Company to offer a package of and forfeiture provisions, together with the shareholding rewards that: guidelines and participation in long-term incentive plans with performance measured over three to five years from grant, is sufficiently competitive to enable the Company to attract provide a balanced market-competitive package for the and retain the management talent it needs to ensure the executive team which is aligned with shareholder interests.
Group is successful: The Committee will, however, keep the approach under supports the achievement of the Companys strategy by review in order to ensure it remains appropriate.
providing the potential to receive significant rewards linked 58 to the long-term performance of the Company: The Committees specific policy for each element of 1,3 Governance remuneration is as follows.
Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Base salary Provides market Set at a broadly Other than to reflect None, although overall individual and competitive fixed mid-market level and a change in the size corporate performance is a factor remuneration that takes normally reviewed and complexity of the considered when reviewing salaries.
account of individual annually taking role or Company or to Details of the salary review in the period responsibilities, and account of individual reflect experience in the are set out on page 74. enables the Company responsibilities, role, salary increases to recruit and retain experience and will normally be no executives that are performance.
higher than the average capable of delivering increases taking place Benchmarked using the Groups strategic across the Company data for a general objectives.
taking into account, industry group selected where appropriate, the on the basis of market relevant pay groups.
capitalisation and a sector group of UKlisted pharmaceutical, device and biotechnology companies.
Benefits Provide a competitive The main benefits The quantum of benefits N A package of benefits that currently provided will be in line with local assists with attracting comprise medical market practice.
benefits and permanent value of each benefit is health insurance, but based on the cost to the the components will Company which may have regard to the vary from year to year.
market practice in the location of any future appointment.
This could include relocation allowances or other appropriate benefits.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Annual bonus A reward that is linked All employees, including Maximum of 100% of Performance targets for the executive to the Companys shortthe executive directors, salary for executive directors are set annually by the term aims and value participate except directors.
Committee and focus on Company creation objectives.
PneumRx employees financial performance measures such who joined during the as revenue, trading profit, operating Deferral of part of the year and who will be cash although the Committee has bonus under the Deferred integrated into current discretion to select other measures Share Bonus Plan DSBP arrangements for the and performance against a number provides an element of next fiscal year.
of corporate and individual objectives lock-in and alignment intended to stimulate future growth.
May be paid as a mix of cash and deferred shares Financial objectives account for the under the DSBP.
59 DSBP awards are Targets are set annually on a sliding scale Governance structured as conditional with 50% of maximum bonus potential awards over shares to be payable for on-target performance and held for three years and up to 25% of maximum bonus potential 6 are subject to clawback.
payable for performance at threshold.
The level of deferral is The Committee has discretion to adjust linked to the achievement the bonus pay-out if in its opinion, of the individuals the pay-out would not otherwise applicable shareholding appropriately reflect the performance guidelines as follows: achieved.
In addition, the Committee must be satisfied that a minimum level Holding less than 50% of financial performance has been of guideline 50% of achieved before any bonus is paid.
If, in exceptional circumstances, it was Holding equal to 50% decided to apply upward discretion, of guideline all bonus it would first be discussed with major in excess of 50% of the shareholders and the reasons fully maximum deferred.
disclosed in the annual report on Holding between 50% remuneration for the relevant year.
and 100% of guideline defer all bonus in excess of percentage of guideline achieved i. e. if achieved 75% of guideline, only bonus in excess of 75% of maximum deferred.
When the shareholding guideline is reached no part of the bonus would be required to be deferred.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors remuneration report continued Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Long-term Support the strategy Annual awards of Maximum Core award Awards prior to 2013 are subject to incentives to transition the performance shares of 150% of salary conditions which are described in the business from an Core awards are made 200% in exceptional annual report on remuneration on R&D-focused specialty under the PSP, vesting circumstances.
Award pages 71 and 72. pharma company to of which is subject can be increased to up to Core awards granted from 2013 are an earnings-driven to the achievement 300% of salary subject subject to relative TSR and EPS growth international specialist of targets measured to further performance performance conditions.
over a minimum of measures if executive measured relative to companies in the 2,5 three years.
directors elect to forego Ensure remuneration FTSE 250 index and EPS is measured as vesting of the Core includes a strong Awards of performance growth in adjusted EPS in the final year award at year three in emphasis on the shares are subject to of the three year performance period.
6 exchange for a Multiplier delivery of growth, clawback.
25% of each element vests at median award.
They may elect 60 sustained financial Executives are offered threshold performance, rising to full to roll over 50 or 100% performance and Governance the opportunity to vesting at upper quartile stretch of a Core award vesting superior shareholder rollover 50% or 100% performance.
Details of the targets for right to secure the returns.
of any PSP awards these awards are provided in the Annual opportunity to receive representing up to 150% Report on Remuneration.
of salary vesting in year For the 2013 and 2014 awards EPS and three in return for a TSR conditions have equal weightings.
In Multiplier award, vesting future years the weighting between EPS of which is subject to TSR and TSR conditions would be decided by performance measured the Remuneration Committee prior to over five years from each grant.
the date of grant of the Multiplier awards are measured by original Core award.
reference to TSR performance only over Executives are entitled a five-year period.
to receive the value Multiplier awards 2013 PSP awards of dividend payments onwards: Each 1% outperformance that would otherwise underperformance of the FTSE 250 have been paid on index at the end of five years increases vested awards.
or decreases the total number of shares that would have vested under the PSP by 1% i. e. rolled over awards could be increased or decreased by 100% so that the number of shares the subject of the award could be doubled or be reduced to zero.
Multiplier awards 2011 and 2012 PSP awards only: Each 1% outperformance underperformance of the FTSE 250 index at the end of five years increases or decreases the total number of shares that would have vested under the PSP by 1.5% i. e. rolled over awards could be increased by 150% or reduced by -100% down to zero.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Pension Provides competitive For longer serving Defined benefit N A retirement benefits employees: participation provision: 1 60ths that reward sustained in contributory defined accrual up to cap contribution.
benefit pension reviewed annually, arrangements up to a normal retirement scheme specific cap or age of 60.
Defined contribution For more recent hires or cash allowance: and provision above the 25% of salary.
cap: defined contribution pension provision and or cash allowances.
61 4 All-employee Encourages employees Executive directors can Participation limits are N A Governance share plans to acquire shares in BTG, participate in BTGs those set by the relevant increasing alignment HMRC-approved savetax authorities from with shareholders.
as-you-earn scheme time to time.
which is open to all UK employees.
A US Internal Revenue Service 423 Plan with standard terms is operated for US employees.
Shareholding Provide alignment Executive directors CEO: 250% of salary.
N A guidelines between Executives and are required to build CFO: 150% of salary.
significant shareholdings 7 in the Company.
Executive directors may sell vesting shares to meet tax liabilities.
In addition, provided that executive directors have achieved and continue to maintain the guideline level, they will be permitted to sell shares in addition to those required to meet their tax liabilities within a 30 day period from the announcement of the Companys results and completion of investor road-shows for any period.
Footnotes 1 In line with the Investment Associations Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Committee will ensure that the incentive structure for executive directors and senior management will not raise environmental, social or governance ESG risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
More generally, the Committee will ensure that the overall remuneration policy does not encourage inappropriate operational risk-taking.
2 Prior to 2013, awards consisted of a mix of market value share options granted under the ESOP and performance shares granted under the PSP.
3 A description of how the Company intends to implement the policy set out in this table for 2015 can be found in the Annual Remuneration Report.
4 All employee share plans do not have performance conditions.
Executive directors are eligible to participate in the UK Sharesave Plan on the same terms as other employees.
5 Copies of the PSP and DSBP plan rules are available on request from the Company Secretary.
6 For all awards granted post 1 July 2011 under the DSBP, PSP and ESOP are subject to clawback in the event of a material misstatement of the financial results of the Company for the financial year to which an award relates being discovered, an error in the calculation of performance for an award or individual misconduct resulting in dismissal.
7 Under the shareholding guidelines the executive directors are not permitted to hold their shares in hedging arrangements or as collateral for loans without the express permission of the Board.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors remuneration report continued Value of remuneration packages at different levels Committee discretions of performance The Committee operates the Groups variable incentive plans 000 according to their respective rules and in accordance with 3,500 HMRC rules where relevant.
To ensure the efficient 3,049,000 administration of these plans, the Committee will apply 3,000 certain operational discretions.
These include the following: 2,500 Selecting the participants in the plans on an annual basis: 1,999,000 58% 2,000 Determining the timing of grants of awards and or payment: Determining the quantum of awards and or payments 1,500 58% 1,218,000 within the limits set out in the policy table above : 18% 1,000 19% 799,000 705,000 Determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment 24% 18% 19% 463,000 500 24% of performance: 100% 58% 23% 100% 58% 23% Making the appropriate adjustments required in certain 0 62 Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum circumstances e. g. change of control, rights issues, Louise Makin, Chief Executive Officer Rolf Soderstrom, Chief Financial Officer Governance corporate restructuring events, and special dividends : Basic salary, benefits and pension Bonus LTIP award Determining good leaver status for incentive plan purposes and applying the appropriate treatment: and Undertaking the annual review of weighting of performance Assumptions measures, and setting targets for the annual bonus plan Minimum fixed pay only salary benefits pension.
On-Target 50% vesting of the annual bonus and 25% If an event occurs which results in the annual bonus plan or vesting of the core LTIP award 37.5% of salary.
PSP performance conditions and or targets being deemed no Maximum 100% vesting of the annual bonus and 100% longer appropriate e. g. a material acquisition or divestment vesting of the core Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP award the Committee will have the ability to adjust appropriately the plus 100% application of the multiplier 300% of salary.
measures and or targets and alter weightings, provided that the revised conditions or targets are not materially less Salary levels on which other elements of the package difficult to satisfy.
are calculated are based on those as at 1 April 2015.
Outstanding share incentive awards that remain unvested or The value of taxable benefits is based on the cost of unexercised at the date of this report, as detailed on pages 71 supplying those benefits as disclosed for the year and 72 of the annual report on remuneration, remain eligible ending on 31 March 2015. for vesting or exercise based on their original award terms.
Pension levels have been estimated at 20% of base salary levels.
Remuneration at a glance The maximum vesting for the LTIP award includes both The Companys policy results in a significant portion of Core and Multiplier awards.
The normal level of maximum remuneration received by executive directors being dependent LTIP vesting is 150% of salary for a Core award and 300% on Company performance.
The chart below illustrates how the if an executive director elects for a Multiplier award.
It is total pay opportunities for the executive directors vary under assumed that the full Core award is rolled over into a three different performance scenarios: minimum, target and Multiplier award.
These charts are indicative only, as share price The executive directors can participate in all employee movement and dividend accrual have been excluded.
share schemes on the same basis as other employees.
All assumptions made are noted below the chart.
The value that may be received under these schemes is subject to tax approved limits.
For simplicity, the value that may be received from participating in these schemes has been excluded from the above charts.
Amounts have been rounded to the nearest 1,000.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 BTGs workforce includes a high proportion of highly Choice of performance measures qualified scientists, technicians and professionals whose and approach to target setting skills are highly sought after by competitors.
Ensuring Annual bonus arrangements for the executive directors that levels of remuneration for the general workforce are are split between individual, corporate financial and competitive to support staff retention, development in non-financial objectives with the financial targets expanded roles and motivation is important to BTGs ongoing currently accounting for the majority of the bonus.
success and this is reflected in the level and range of salary Financial performance targets are based on the budget increases awarded to employees.
As a result BTG is required and corporate measures and are linked to the achievement to benchmark and rebase salaries from time-to-time.
The of annual objectives that are consistent with BTGs longeraverage salary increases awarded to BTGs general workforce term goals.
The Remuneration Committee reviews these for 2014 15 were 3.9%.
General workforce increases, effective KPIs each year and varies them as appropriate including June 2015, will range between 0% and 15%.
the weighting of financial and non-financial targets to reflect the priorities for the business in the year ahead.
How executive directors remuneration A sliding scale of targets is set for each KPI to encourage 63 policy relates to the wider Group continuous improvement and challenge the delivery of Governance The remuneration policy described above provides an stretch performance.
For each metric, the threshold target overview of the structure that operates for the most senior requires the Company to maintain or improve on the prior executives in the Company.
A lower incentive opportunity year performance with the stretch target requiring is available below executive level, with specific levels driven significant out performance above plan.
by market comparatives and the impact of the role.
For current and future awards under the PSP, the metrics As explained above, salaries for the Companys wider are split between adjusted EPS and relative TSR workforce are benchmarked externally against comparable outperformance of a general market index FTSE 250, which companies within the sector and wider industry.
The Company ensures focus on sustainable growth and superior returns aims to ensure that all employees salaries are positioned to shareholders with the weighting between TSR and EPS around a mid-market level for the role taking account of determined by the Committee annually.
The comparator performance and individual responsibility.
index for TSR and weighting between each measure for Employees are provided with a competitive local package Core awards will remain under review.
In order to incentivise of benefits that includes participation in the Groups the achievement of sustained outstanding returns to pension arrangements.
shareholders over the longer term and assist with retention, at the end of the normal three-year performance period All employees except PneumRx employees who joined during executives are able to elect to roll over some or all of the the year and will be integrated into current arrangements performance shares that would otherwise vest in return for for the next fiscal year are eligible to participate in the the opportunity to receive an enhanced or reduced award at bonus arrangements with targets aligned to the financial the end of five years, subject to outperformance of the FTSE performance of the Group and their individual performance 250 Index over that five year period.
This multiplier is intended within their specific area of responsibility.
to further align the interests of the executive directors with The Company believes that broad-based employee shareholders whilst rewarding performance which participation in share schemes is an important alignment demonstrably delivers value to shareholders over the longer tool helping to focus employees on delivering value for term.
Performance over a five-year period both recognises shareholders.
Other senior staff who are considered to have and takes into account the Companys strategic goals the greatest potential to influence Company performance are and its ongoing evolution and increasing maturity as also able to receive awards of long-term incentives at a lower an organisation.
TSR is measured independently for maximum percentage of salary than the executive directors.
the Committee by New Bridge Street NBS.
In addition, share ownership guidelines apply to members of BTGs Leadership Team with lower levels of holding required How employees pay is taken into 50% of salary than for executive directors.
In order to account in setting the remuneration encourage wider employee share ownership, the Company of the executive directors operates a Sharesave Plan in the UK, with an international The Committee considers the base salaries for the Leadership section for employees in Australia, Germany and Canada, and Team and, although it does not directly consult with employees a Stock Purchase Plan in the US.
These are described in more regarding remuneration policy, it receives information on general detail below.
pay levels to ensure that the Committee has due regard to salary levels across the Group in applying its remuneration policy.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors remuneration report continued How shareholders views are taken into account Approach to recruitment and promotions When shaping remuneration policy the Remuneration The remuneration package for a new director will be set Committee considers shareholder feedback received in accordance with the terms of the Companys approved in relation to the Annual General Meeting each year remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment but and guidance from shareholder representative bodies focusing on the objective of appointing the most appropriate more generally.
incumbent in the right geography.
The Remuneration Committee engages proactively with The salary for a new executive will be set to reflect their skills shareholders, and takes seriously their views.
When any and experience, the Companys target pay positioning and material changes are made to the remuneration policy, the market rate for the role in the relevant location, subject the Remuneration Committee Chairman will inform major to the overall goal of attracting the right candidate.
Where it shareholders of these in advance, and will offer a meeting is appropriate to do so, salaries may be set below the normal to discuss these.
market rate, with phased increases over the first few years as the executive gains experience in their new role.
Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve 64 last years directors remuneration report and matters discussed Benefits and pensions will be in line with those offered to Governance with shareholders during the year are provided in the Annual other executive directors, taking account of local market Report on Remuneration.
practice with relocation expenses provided if necessary.
Tax equalisation may also be considered if an executive Prior to the approval of this remuneration policy, the Committee is adversely affected by taxation due to their employment engaged with its largest shareholders regarding changes to with the Company.
Legal fees and other costs incurred by the executive directors remuneration arrangements, in the individual may also be met by the Company.
particular the changes which were made to the PSP.
These were approved at BTGs AGM in July 2013.
As a result of this It is not anticipated that the aggregate ongoing incentive engagement, the Committee decided to extend the operation opportunity offered to new recruits will be higher than that of share ownership guidelines to members of BTGs Leadership offered to existing directors.
Different measures and targets Team who are not members of the Board and to clarify that the under the bonus plan may be set initially taking account of the policy formally prohibits the hedging and pledging of shares by responsibilities of the individual and the point in the financial directors or the Leadership Team.
Any increases in quantum offered above the policy limit would be contingent on the Company All employee share plans receiving shareholder approval to its approved policy at its The Company operates other share plans as follows: next general meeting.
an HMRC-approved save-as-you-earn scheme, open to The Committee may offer additional cash and or share-based all eligible employees including executive directors, with a elements to assist with recruitment for example to buyout 36 month savings period enabling UK employees to acquire existing entitlements when it considers these to be in the shares at a price not less than 80% of the market value of best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Existing the shares at the date of grant.
The Scheme provides an arrangements will be used to the extent possible subject to international section to allow for the participation of the higher limits in exceptional circumstances set out in the Australian, German and Canadian employees: policy however, the Committee retains discretion to use the a US Internal Revenue Service 423 Plan with a 24 month flexibility provided by the Listing Rules to make such awards.
savings period under which its US employees are able to Such payments would take account of remuneration acquire shares at not less than 85% of the market value relinquished when leaving the former employer and would of the shares at the date of grant: and reflect as far as possible the nature and time horizons attached to that remuneration and the impact of any the non-shareholder approved Senior Management performance conditions.
Shareholders will be informed Performance Share Plan enables awards over market of any such payments at the time of appointment.
purchased shares to be granted to certain senior employees below Board level where it is not appropriate For an internal executive appointment, any variable pay to make awards under the PSP.
Awards under this plan element awarded in respect of the prior role will be allowed can be made over market purchase shares only and are to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take normally subject to different performance criteria to into account the appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing awards made under the PSP.
remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue, provided that they are put to shareholders for approval at the earliest opportunity.
For the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved remuneration policy in force at that time.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Companys policy on new directors service contracts Legacy arrangements is that, in line with the best practice provisions of the Code, For the avoidance of doubt, authority is given to the Company they should be terminable by the Company on a maximum to honour any commitments entered into with current or of one years notice and contracts should not provide for former directors such as the payment of a pension or the predetermined compensation in the event of termination or unwind of legacy share schemes that have been disclosed provision for enhanced payments in the event of a takeover to shareholders in this or any previous remuneration reports.
Provisions permitting the Company to make Details of any payments to former directors will be set out in any termination payments by instalments, and requiring the Annual Remuneration Report as they arise.
directors to mitigate their loss in such circumstances, will External appointments be included in new contracts.
The Remuneration Committee The Board believes that it may be beneficial to the Company will exercise discretion in determining whether termination for executives to hold non-executive directorships outside the payments should be paid by instalments, taking account of Group.
Any such appointments are subject to approval by the the reason for the departure of the director and their prior Board and the director may retain any fees payable.
Other than in gross misconduct situations, 65 Makin received fees of 65,500 for being on the Board of the Company would expect to honour the contractual Governance Intertek Group during the year to 31 March 2015 2014: entitlements of terminated directors.
Rolf Soderstrom does not currently hold any Other than in certain good leaver circumstances outside directorships.
including, but not limited to, redundancy, ill-health or retirement no bonus would be payable unless the individual Service contracts and payments for loss of office remains employed and is not under notice at the payment Executive directors have rolling service contracts, details of date.
Any bonuses paid to a good leaver would be based which are summarised in the table below: on an assessment of their individual and the Companys Provision Detailed terms performance over the period, and pro-rated for the proportion of the bonus year worked.
Contract dates Louise Makin 19 October 2004 With regards to long-term incentive awards, the PSP rules Rolf Soderstrom 4 December 2008 provide that other than in certain good leaver circumstances, Notice period Twelve months from both the Company and awards lapse on cessation of employment.
Where an individual from the executive is a good leaver, the Remuneration Committees policy for future core PSP awards will be to permit awards to remain Termination The Company may terminate the contracts of outstanding until the end of the original performance period, payment the executive directors with immediate effect by making a payment in lieu of notice.
when a pro rata reduction will be made to take account of the proportion of the vesting period that lapsed prior to termination With respect to Rolf Soderstrom, any of employment, although the Committee has discretion to payments made would be determined by reference to normal contractual principles partly or completely disapply pro-rating and the performance with mitigation being applied wherever conditions in certain circumstances.
Multiplier awards would relevant or appropriate.
As Louise Makins not be subject to pro-rating.
The Remuneration Committee has contract was established approximately discretion to deem an individual to be a good leaver.
In doing 11 years ago, it does not provide for mitigation.
so, it will take account of the reason for their departure and the Other than as specifically provided for in the performance of the individual.
policy with respect to good leavers where Deferred bonus share awards will also normally lapse on for example existing Multiplier awards cessation of employment, unless the executive director elected for are retained the directors is deemed to be a good leaver by the Remuneration contracts do not provide for automatic Committee, as referred to above.
entitlement to bonus or share-based payments.
The Committee will have authority to settle legal claims against the Company e. g. for unfair dismissal, Remuneration Louise Makins contract contains the discrimination or whistle blowing that arise on termination.
entitlements following remuneration related entitlements: The Committee may also authorise the provision of salary, membership of Company pension outplacement services and pay reasonable legal scheme or contribution to a personal expenses associated with the termination.
pension, medical benefits and permanent health insurance Rolf Soderstroms contract contains the following remuneration related entitlements: salary, contribution to a personal pension, medical benefits and permanent health insurance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors remuneration report continued The non-executive directors do not have service contracts, but have letters of appointment for an initial period of three years, which may be renewed by mutual agreement, normally for a further three-year term.
The terms of appointment provide for a notice period in the event of early termination of six months for the Chairman and three months for other non-executive directors, other than if they are not re-elected at an AGM.
Details of contracts and letters of appointment, for directors serving at the date of this report, are as set out below.
Non-executive Date of first appointment Notice period months Date of expiry of current contract Garry Watts 1 January 2012 6 31 December 2017 Giles Kerr 1 October 2007 3 30 September 2015 Ian Much 1 August 2010 3 31 July 2016 James OShea 2 April 2009 3 31 March 2016 Richard Wohanka 1 January 2013 3 31 December 2015 Susan Foden 1 March 2015 3 28 February 2018 66 Non-executive directors and Chairmans fees Governance The table below summarises the Companys policy in relation to the fees of non-executive directors.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Takes account of recognised Non-executive directors receive fees paid monthly in cash and N A N A practice and set at a level consist of an annual basic fee plus additional fees for additional that is sufficient to attract responsibilities such as a Committee Chairmanship and the role and retain high-calibre nonof Senior Independent Director.
When reviewing fee levels, account is taken of market movements in non-executive director fees, Board committee responsibilities, ongoing time commitments and the general economic environment.
In exceptional circumstances additional fees may be paid where there is a substantial increase in the time commitment required of non-executive directors.
Fee increases, if applicable, are normally effective from 1 April each year.
Non-executives do not participate in any pension, bonus or share incentive plans and do not receive any benefits.
The Chairman, in consultation with the executive directors, is responsible for proposing changes to the non-executive directors fees.
The Senior Independent Director, in consultation with the executive directors, is responsible for proposing changes to the Chairmans fees.
In each case this follows advice on market fee levels supplied by NBS.
In proposing such fees, account is also taken of the time commitments of the Companys non-executive directors.
The decision on fee changes is taken by the Board as a whole.
Individual non-executive directors do not take part in discussions on their remuneration.
Note Limited benefits relating to travel, accommodation and hospitality are provided in relation to the performance of any directors duties.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Annual report on remuneration This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The Annual Remuneration Report will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2015 AGM.
The information on pages 56 to 73 has been audited.
About the Remuneration Committee and its advisers The Remuneration Committee has been established by the Board and is responsible for executive remuneration.
During the year the Committee reviewed and updated its terms of reference, which are available in full on the Companys website or from the Company on request.
Committee member Member since Members Ian Much Chairman 28 September 2010 Giles Kerr 3 November 2009 67 Melanie Lee 23 March 2011 to 25 September 2014 Governance James OShea 25 September 2014 to 1 March 2015 Susan Foden 1 March 2015 Details of attendance at meetings are shown in the table on page 45.
Melanie Lee resigned as a director of the Company and member of the Remuneration Committee to join the Companys Leadership Team.
Other attendees at The Chairman Garry Watts, Chief Executive Officer Louise Makin, Chief Financial Officer Rolf Remuneration Committee Soderstrom and HR Director Yvonne Rogers may attend meetings by invitation, other than when their meetings own remuneration is being considered.
The Company Secretary Paul Mussenden or his deputy serves as secretary to the Committee.
Committee evaluation During the year, the Committee carried out a review of its effectiveness and the results, along with recommendations for improvement were reported to the Board.
The Committee was found to be operating effectively and it was agreed that there would be continued emphasis to ensuring a strong link was maintained between remuneration and performance and strategy and aligned with shareholder interests.
Remuneration risks, whilst not significant, would continue to be carefully managed.
Committee advisers The Committee appoints its own advisers as it sees fit and has appointed NBS a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited, part of Aon plc to act as advisers to the Committee and a representative usually attends the meetings.
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultant Groups Code of Conduct which sets out guidelines to ensure that its advice is independent and free from undue influence.
NBS advises the Committee on all remuneration issues including the vesting of long-term incentive arrangements.
The Committee reviews the performance and independence of NBS on an annual basis, and is satisfied that it remains independent.
The Group continues to use NBS to advise on other matters including remuneration matters in general.
NBS also assists with the total shareholder return TSR performance measurement and the implementation of employee share schemes and, through Aon plcs Radford brand, provides the Company with advice on matters specific to the US employment market.
The Group also uses Mercer Ltd and  to advise on remuneration issues, particularly in relation to pension schemes.
The fees paid to the Committees advisers in 2014 15 were: New Bridge Street 105,521 2013 14: 165,343.
2 Awards are included in the financial year in which the performance conditions end.
The share price used is the closing share price on the date on which performance criteria are met, i. e. the final business day of the financial year.
For 2015 this figure does not include the Core PSP award as the Core and Multiplier awards are treated as a single award and the Core award will be shown in 2016 if no election is made and both Core and Multiplier in 2017 if an election is made.
If 50% of a Core award is rolled over into a Multiplier award 50% of the Core award will be shown in 2016 and the remainder is part of the Multiplier award in 2017.
The 2014 figure has been restated to reflect the actual share price of vesting of the 2011 share options 6 July 2014: 657.5p 3 Pension consists of a cash supplement in lieu of employer pension contributions following the changes to pension legislation.
In addition, for Louise Makin, it includes 42,108 2014: 43,694, representing the value of the increase in the year of her pension entitlement in the defined benefit BTG Pension Fund.
4 All directors fees, salaries and bonuses are subject to UK income tax.
5 Benefits shown above for Louise Makin and Rolf Soderstrom relate principally to the provision of life assurance and medical benefits.
In addition, all directors receive limited benefits relating to travel, accommodation and hospitality in relation to the performance of their directors duties.
6 Other shows the value of vested Sharesave options.
7 Fees paid to Melanie Lee in 2015 were for the period to her resignation on 25 September 2014.
8 Fees paid to Susan Foden in 2015 were for the period from her appointment to the Board on 1 March 2015.
Annual bonus for the year to 31 March 2015 audited For the year ended 31 March 2015 bonuses were subject to a maximum of 100% of base salary for executive directors and up to 75% for other senior staff.
Bonus targets were set at the start of the financial year for both Louise Makin and Rolf Soderstrom based on the achievement of certain objectives.
These were the achievement of targets for revenue growth, a trading profit measure, cash generation and individual KPIs intended to drive future growth in the business.
The Committee set threshold and stretch as well as intermediate target levels for the various targets.
The bonus is calculated on base salary with a percentage pay out of between 25% at threshold, 80% at on-target and 100% at maximum.
The trading profit measure, used for both bonuses and the 2012 long-term incentive awards, is a normalised measure relating to earnings before amortisation of intangibles, restructuring and acquisition costs, group foreign exchange movements and movements in derivatives.
The cash flow measure adjusts for restructuring and acquisition costs only.
Following the acquisition of PneumRx in January 2015, the Remuneration Committee did not adjust the original bonus targets to reflect the budgeted impact of the Board-approved acquisition plans due to the proximity to year end.
Consequently, the actual metrics for the 2014 15 bonus have been adjusted to exclude the impact of the acquisition.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to adjust the final outcome upwards or downwards in the event that an exceptional event outside of the directors control occurs which, in the Committees opinion, materially affected the bonus out-turn.
During 2014 15 the Committee assessed that incremental amounts associated with the settlement of an International Trade Commission ITC filing against Instituto Bioclon of Mexico and Rare Disease Therapeutics, Inc. RDT of Tennessee, could be adjusted.
For the financial year to 31 March 2015 they are calculated as follows: Revenue Trading profit Cash flow m m m Revenue profit before tax operating cash flow 367.8 26.7 35.6 Adjustments: Derivatives and group foreign exchange movements 10.7 Amortisation and impairment of business combination intangibles 28.4 Proceeds from fundraising 145.8 Payments in relation to PneumRx 147.1 69 Restructuring and acquisition costs 5.5 3.7 Governance ITC settlement 6.2 6.2 PneumRx 2.3 2.7 1.5 Revenue trading profit operating cash flow for bonus purposes 365.5 80.2 48.3 The performance achieved against the bonus targets is summarised as follows: Performance required Louise Makin Rolf Soderstrom As a percentage of maximum Pay out Cash Pay out Cash bonus Threshold Target Stretch Actual Measure opportunity m m m m % of salary % of salary Corporate financial targets 1 Revenue 23 % 340.0 351.0 360.0 365.5 23% 23% 3 1 Trading profit 23 % 75.5 77.5 79.6 80.2 23% 23% 3 1 Operating cashflow 23 3% 46.4 48.4 50.5 48.3 18% 18% Individual corporate 1 objectives 30% 25% 25% Total 100% 89% 89% Note: 1 Covering execution across the business segments including relating to R&D and Innovation and supply chain: developing the organisational and leadership: and progression of the Interventional Medicine strategy including considering appropriate acquisitions.
The table above shows the financial targets set for the threshold, target and stretch levels.
Deferred share bonus plan awards are structured as conditional awards over shares, to be held for three years.
The level of deferral is linked to the achievement of the Companys shareholding guidelines and is described in the Policy Report.
Provided that the guidelines have been fully achieved bonuses are paid entirely in cash.
As Louise Makin and Rolf Soderstrom have already met their shareholding guidelines, the entirety of the 2015 bonus earned is to be paid in cash.
Vesting of LTIP awards Awards granted on 1 June 2012 under both the Executive Share Option Scheme and the Performance Share Plan are based on performance to the year ending 31 March 2015.
The Performance conditions for these awards are as follows: 2012 LTIP Threshold Stretch Metric Condition target target Actual % Vesting Cumulative trading Three year normalised trading profit period 133.4m 177.4m 198.1m 50% profit 50% TSR 50% Three year comparison with index between Median Upper TSR: 130.4% 50% median and upper quartile TSR: 41.4% Quartile Rank: 19 Rank 65 TSR: 110.5% Rank 33 Total Vesting 100% TSR has been calculated for the Committee by NBS.
Share options and performance share awards in 2012 were subject to a cumulative trading profit and a relative TSR condition against the FTSE 250 both of equal weighting.
The cumulative trading profit condition required a three year normalised trading profit between a threshold and stretch target, range 133.4m to 177.4m.
Both of these figures have been increased by 12.4m compared to the original approved targets to reflect the expected contribution to trading profit of the acquisitions made in July 2013.
The relative TSR target required a threshold performance of a median position and a stretch performance of finishing at or above upper quartile with straight line vesting in between these points.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors remuneration report continued 2012 Option vesting details audited Number of Number of Number of Estimated shares at grant shares to vest shares to lapse Total Value Louise Makin Options 122,288 122,288 122,288 402,328 Rolf Soderstrom Options 90,673 90,673 90,673 298,314 Value estimated as not fully vested until 1 June 2015 and is based on the closing share price on 31 March 2015 of 715.0p per share less the exercise price of 386.0p per share.
The 2012 performance share awards are subject to the optional multiplier mechanism approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
As a result the number of shares that will actually vest under the 2012 PSP this year as a Core award are subject to an election by either executive director to forego vesting of 50% or 100% of that award and roll over the award in return for the entitlement to receive a Multiplier award which may increase or decrease the number of shares vesting at year five based on relative TSR performance up to the end of that period.
The Core awards will not vest until the earlier of the expiry of the period within which directors are able to elect to roll over their awards without a valid election having been made.
Any Multiplier award will not vest until the period of five years from grant of the original Core award.
Matching awards in respect of the 2012 PSP will 70 not be granted until a valid election has been made.
Governance LTIP awards made during the year audited On 6 June 2014 and 9 June 2014, the following PSP awards were granted to executive directors.
% of shares Basis of Share price Number of shares granted that Face value award at date over which award vest at threshold of award Vesting determined by Type of award granted of grant was granted performance `000 performance over Louise Makin Core and 300% of 604.0p 282,740 12.5% 1,707,750 Core award: three Multiplier salary of financial years to award 569,250 31 March 2017 Multiplier award: five financial years to Rolf Soderstrom Core and 300% of 604.0p 185,322 12.5% 1,119,345 31 March 2019 Multiplier salary of award 373,117 Louise Makin 2011 150% of 657.5p 224,746 0% 1,477,704 Five financial Multiplier 2011 conditional years from award award 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2016 Rolf Soderstrom 2011 150% of 2011 657.5p 155,869 0% 1,024,838 Multiplier conditional award award Percentage of Core and Multiplier award.
The 300% conditional award assumes performance that would result in full vesting of the Core Award and an election by the executive directors to roll over 100% of the Core award in order to receive the Multiplier award and that the full Multiplier award ultimately vests.
25% of Core awards vest at threshold.
These awards have been attached to the 2011 Core Award that would otherwise have vested in July 2014.
This gives effect to the Multiplier mechanism approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM, which provides executive directors with an opportunity to place their 2011 Core Awards at risk in return for a matching Multiplier Award.
Depending on performance against the Multiplier performance condition the Core Award could be reduced, potentially to zero, as described in the Policy Table.
The number of awards under the 2014 Core award that will If a participant elects to roll over 50% or 100% of their vested vest will be determined according to the satisfaction of the Core awards, participants will receive matching Multiplier following performance conditions each performance awards on a one-for-one basis which, together with the vested condition applies to 50% of a Core award.
deferred Core awards, will be subject to a further performance condition.
Under the Multiplier performance condition, for each Relative TSR ranking against the FTSE 250 1% of TSR underperformance of the median TSR, the shares Index as at 1 April 2014 that vest under the deferred Core award will decrease by 1%, for for the period Percentage of vesting of EPS in the financial year from 1 April 2014 each 1% of TSR outperformance of the median TSR, the shares that portion of an award to 31 March 2017 to 31 March 2017 that vest under the Multiplier award will increase by 1%.
50% of the 50% of the Underperformance outperformance Core award Core award of the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index as at 1 April 2014 for the period from Number of Core and 0% 20.3p below Below median 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2019 Multiplier awards that will vest threshold Underperformance 0% 25% 20.3p threshold Median of 100% or more 100% 28.3p stretch Upper quartile Equal to the median 50% Vesting on a straight line basis in between threshold and stretch EPS or median and upper quartile TSR Outperformance of 100% or more 100% Vesting on a straight line basis from 0% to 100%, as set out below.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Outstanding share awards audited The table below sets out details of executive directors outstanding share awards which will vest in future years subject to performance and or continued service.
The cumulative trading profit condition required a three year normalised trading profit between a threshold and stretch target: range 61.7m to 101.7m.
The relative TSR target required a threshold performance of a median position and a stretch performance of finishing at or above upper quartile with a straight line vesting in between these points.
Following the measurement of the TSR performance condition by NBS which was measured at 164.2% against the comparators and the measurement of the performance against the profit measure, the Committee approved the vesting of 163,356 shares to Louise Makin under the 2011 ESOP award and 149,831 shares under the 2011 PSP award.
The 163,356 shares awarded under the 2011 ESOP award comprises an HMRC approved option over 10,036 shares and an unapproved option over 153,320 shares.
Louise elected to receive a Multiplier award as an alternative to the vesting of the 2011 PSP shares as a Core award and on 6 July 2014 a Multiplier award of 224,746 was granted.
2 On 6 July 2011 Louise was granted an HMRC tax approved market value option over 10,036 shares at an option price of 289.9 pence per share the CSOP and a separate conditional free share award under the PSP over shares worth on vesting a maximum of approximately 30,000 the PSP award.
The CSOP and PSP award were designed so that when taken together they deliver the same aggregate gross gain as a free share award under the PSP over 10,036 shares, but in a more tax efficient manner.
In relation to the PSP award, the maximum gain that can be realised is approximately 30,000: accordingly, if the market value of a share on the vesting of the PSP award is above 298.9p the number of shares deliverable under the PSP award will reduce so that their value remains equal to approximately 30,000.
The market value on 4 July 2014 the dealing day immediately prior to vesting was 657.5p and Louise received 4,562 shares worth 29,995.15 under the PSP and realised a gross gain i. e. before tax and after payment of the total option excercise costs of 29,997.60 of approximately 35,036 on the exercise of the CSOP share price of exercise being 648p, giving rise to an aggregate gain under the PSP award and the CSOP of 64,598 the gross gain on 10,036 free share awards of 648p being 65,033.
3 Share options and performance shares awarded in 2012 were subject to a cumulative trading profit and a relative TSR condition against the FTSE 250 both of equal weighting.
The cumulative trading profit condition required a three year normalised trading profit between a threshold and stretch target: range 133.4m to 177.4m.
Unless otherwise stated the Companys TSR will be compared with that of a peer group comprising FTSE 250 companies.
In relation to awards granted before 2013 the relevant index comprises FTSE 250 companies excluding investment trusts, companies in the financial services sector banks, life & non-life insurance, equity & non-equity investment trusts, financial services, real estate investment & services and real estate investment trusts etc.
and companies in the consumer discretionary sector general retailers, media, travel & leisure, and leisure goods with opening and closing TSR values averaged over three months prior to the start and end of the performance period.
Following the measurement of the TSR performance condition by NBS which was measured at 164.2% against the comparators and the measurement of the performance against the profit measure, the Committee approved the vesting of 99,658 shares to Rolf Soderstrom under the 2011 ESOP award and 103,913 shares under the 2011 PSP award.
Rolf has elected to receive a Multiplier award as an alternative to the vesting of the 2011 PSP shares as a Core award and on 6 July 2014 a Multiplier award of 155,869 was granted.
2 Share options and performance shares awarded in 2012 were subject to a cumulative trading profit and a relative TSR condition against the FTSE 250 both of equal weighting.
Share options and performance shares were granted for nil consideration.
The price used for calculating the number of shares awarded under the PSP and DSBP was based on the average of the closing share prices over the five days immediately prior to the award date.
Share options are awarded using the closing mid-market price on the date before grant.
Sharesave options were granted on the condition that participants agreed to enter into a monthly savings contract.
Awards other than DSBP awards are normally satisfied using new issue shares.
The Companys share plans comply with recommended guidelines on dilution limits and the Company has always operated within these limits.
Assuming none of the extant options lapse and will be exercised and, having included all exercised options, the Company has utilised 3.1% of the 10% in ten years and 2.7% of the 5% in ten years in accordance with the Association of British Insurers ABI guidance on dilution limits.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors pensions audited Louise Makin is a member of the BTG Pension Fund.
The Fund is a contracted-out defined benefit arrangement which provides a pension based on an accrual rate of either one sixtieth or one eightieth of basic salary up to the HMRC Earnings Cap, depending on the level of contributions paid by members of 7% or 5% respectively.
Members are able to retire at any time from age 60 without any actuarial reduction to the pension payable for Louise Makin this is 2020.
Under current legislation, if members continue to work beyond age 60, they may continue to pay contributions and enhance their pension entitlement, subject to a maximum of 40 years pensionable service.
Pension payments post retirement are increased annually by inflation for pensionable service earned up to 5 April 2006 and inflation subject to a ceiling of 2.5% for pensionable service earned after that date.
Members may take early retirement, once they have reached 55 years of age, although any pension paid will be subject to an actuarial reduction.
Ill-health retirements may be permitted from an earlier age subject to meeting certain medical conditions.
In the event of the death of a member, the Fund provides for a spouses pension to be payable equal to two-thirds of the deceased members pension including any pension exchanged for a retirement lump sum.
For current active members, a lump sum death benefit equal to four times basic salary up to the earnings cap plus refund of the members contributions is also payable.
73 During the year Louise Makin contributed 10,206 2014: 9,870 to the Fund, representing 7% of her salary up to the Governance earnings cap and the Company contributed 46,364 2014: 31,725.
Louise Makin receives a cash payment in lieu of pension to the value of 20% of base salary over the earnings cap.
Rolf Soderstrom receives a cash payment in lieu of pension contributions to the aggregate value of 20% of base salary.
These pension allowances are not subject to bonus or other benefits and are paid less such deductions as are required by law.
Directors shareholding and share interests audited To align the interests of the executive directors with shareholders, they are required to build and maintain a holding of Company shares worth at least 250% of salary in the case of the CEO and 150% of salary in the case of the CFO.
Vested Beneficially unexercised owned at market value 31 March 2015 Vested unexercised nil cost options options Subject to performance conditions and at the date Guideline Executive directors of this report PSP DSBP met?
Options PSP Options DSBP Louise Makin 514,732 Yes 539,752 1,198,973 122,288 54,192 Rolf Soderstrom 184,252 Yes 331,821 810,806 90,673 35,225 Non-executive directors Garry Watts 10,000 N A Giles Kerr Ian Much James OShea Richard Wohanka 26,500 Susan Foden Vested unexercised nil cost options count towards the guidelines on the basis of their net of tax value.
Market value options do not count until such time as they have been exercised.
The directors are not permitted to hold their shares in hedging arrangements or as collateral for loans without the express permission of the Board.
None of the directors currently holds or has held their shares in such an arrangement.
Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer % change from CEO 2014 to 2015 1 Salary 3.5% Benefits 6% Bonus 0.4% 2 Average per UK employee Salary 3.9% Benefits 18.0% Bonus 9.9% 1 BTG employs a high proportion of highly-qualified scientists, technicians and professionals whose skills are highly sought after and whose retention is important to BTGs success.
BTG keeps salaries under review.
General workforce salary increases in 2014 ranged between 2% and 15%.
2 We have an international workforce, however, as Louise Makin is a UK employee, the Committee considers UK employees to be the most relevant comparator group.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors remuneration report continued Total shareholder return The performance of the Companys ordinary shares compared with the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts the Index for the six-year period ended on 31 March 2015 is shown in the graph below.
700 400 100 Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14 Mar-15 BTG FTSE 250 Index Source: Thomson Reuters This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2015, of 100 invested in BTG plc on 31 March 2009 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index on the same date.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends 74 Governance The Company has chosen the Index as a comparator as it believes that it gives shareholders a reasonable comparison with the TSR of other equity investments in companies of a broadly similar size across all sectors.
The TSR performance has been measured by NBS.
The middle market price of an ordinary share on 31 March 2015 was 715.0p.
During the year the share price ranged from a low of 496.5p to a high of 830.0p.
Total remuneration for the Chief Executive Officer over time 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total Remuneration 000 1,351 1,489 1,944 2,073 1,757 1,613 Bonus outturn % 79% 70% 95% 100% 82% 89% LTIP vesting % 100% 89% 80% 92% 100% 100% The chart above shows the total remuneration for the Chief Executive during each of the financial years.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and LTIP awards which vested based on performance in those years.
The annual bonus and LTIP percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below illustrates the change in expenditure by the Company on remuneration paid to all the employees of the Group and distributions to shareholders from the financial year ending 31 March 2014 to the financial year ending 31 March 2015.
2015 2014 Percentage m m change Overall expenditure on pay 100.2 63.7 57% Dividend plus share buyback nil nil n a These matters were selected to be shown as they represent key distributions by the Group to its stakeholders.
The increase in expenditure on pay is largely linked to the increase in headcount of the Group in the year through both organic growth and the impact of current and prior year acquisitions.
How the 2014 policy will be applied in 2015 onwards 2015 salary review The executive directors salaries were reviewed in March 2015 and a 3% increase took effect from 1 April 2015 this is equal to the average salary increase provided to UK employees.
The current salaries as at 1 April 2015 are as follows: Salary as at Salary as at Increase 1 April 2015 1 April 2014 % Louise Makin 586,327 569,250 3% Rolf Soderstrom 384,310 373,117 3% BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Performance targets for the annual bonus and LTIP awards to be granted For the year 2015 16, the annual bonus will continue to be based on financial 70% of the total bonus and individual and corporate metrics 30% of the total bonus as detailed in the policy report on page 59.
The Committee has chosen not to disclose, in advance, the performance targets for the forthcoming year as these include items which the Committee considers commercially sensitive.
However, the financial metrics will continue to be based on three financial metrics, being revenue 1 3 weighting, trading profit 1 3 weighting and operating cash 1 3 weighting.
Full retrospective disclosure of the financial targets and performance against them will be seen in next years Annual Remuneration Report.
The individual and corporate metrics will also be disclosed to the extent possible given their commercial sensitivity.
The measures for the Core awards made under the PSP will be as disclosed in the policy table on page 60.
Targets for the Core awards made during 2015 16 will be measured in the final year of the three year period the 2017 18 financial year and are as follows: TSR relative to FTSE 250 75 EPS in the year ending over 3 financial years ending Percentage of each 31 March 2018 31 March 2018 element that vests Governance Below threshold Less than 23.0p Less than median 0% Threshold 23.0p Median 25% Between threshold and stretch 23.0p to 30.3p Between median and 25% to 100% on a straight upper quartile line basis Stretch 30.3p or higher Upper quartile or higher 100% Payouts for performance between Threshold and Stretch calculated on a straight line basis Targets for the Multiplier awards are as disclosed in the policy report.
Non-executive director 2015 remuneration Set out in the table below are the fees paid for the year ended 31 March 2015 and proposed fees for the year ended 31 March 2016.
As from As from 1 April 2015 1 April 2014 % Director increase 1 Chairman 235,000 175,000 34% Non-executive director 50,000 45,000 11% Senior independent director fee 5,000 5,000 0% Audit Committee chairmanship fee 10,000 10,000 0% Remuneration Committee chairmanship fee 10,000 10,000 0% 1 The fee is fixed until 31 December 2017.
Note: Last year a benchmarking exercise was carried out by NBS in relation to non-executive director fees which found that fees were below median against similar sized companies and also the sector comparator taking account of the time commitments of the current non-executive directors.
As a result, the fees were adjusted in two phases, the second phase taking place this year.
Shareholder voting at the Annual General Meeting At last years Annual General Meeting held on 16 July 2014, the following votes were received from shareholders: Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy Votes cast in favour 281,900,881 99.28% 271,700,032 95.08 Votes cast against 2,030,989 0.72% 14,049,824 4.92 Total votes cast 283,931,870 100% 285,749,856 100% Abstentions 2,976,181 1,158,195 Approval This report was approved by the Board on 18 May 2015 and signed on its behalf by Ian Much Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
