Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report the key performance indicators KPIs for The competitiveness of the remuneration package has the annual bonus, being adjusted earnings been a crucial element in retaining and attracting key per share and return on average operating capital performance for the year relative to talent joining the business by recruitment or acquisition.
a target level of return, are still appropriate and that the target levels are stretching without encouraging inappropriate levels of risk.
Statement from Vanda Murray, The Committee also considers that the Chairman of the Remuneration out-turn of our incentive plans appropriately Committee reflects Bunzls performance in 2015.
This is my first statement as Chairman of the Bunzls total shareholder return TSR Remuneration Committee, having succeeded performance continued to outperform the Peter Johnson who retired from the Board FTSE Support Services sector and the share in April 2015.
On taking up this role I was price reached another all-time high.
Against conscious of the long and successful tenure this performance, the Chief Executives of the leadership team, who together have annual bonus was 64% of the maximum created a high-performance culture which opportunity, which equated to 74% of his focuses on building shareholder value.
In addition, 100% of his executive share options and 69% of his The competitiveness of the remuneration performance shares vested during the year.
package has been a crucial element in the The Committee has not exercised any attraction of key talented individuals into discretion to adjust the relevant performance the business, whether by recruitment or conditions as a result of events that have acquisition, along with their subsequent taken place during the year.
The remuneration framework is structured in a way that allows us to compete The policy relating to the recruitment of for key talent across multiple geographies executive directors was used as the basis for while also complying with UK corporate determining the remuneration package of governance good practice.
the new Chief Executive, Frank van Zanten, as detailed on page 79.
After running an The business strategy has remained constant extensive internal and external search during 2015 with the Group continuing to grow process, this was an internal appointment both organically and by acquisition while and the remuneration package that the continuously improving the efficiency of our Committee has put in place is in accordance operations.
The Committee is satisfied that with the approved remuneration policy.
This the remuneration framework reinforces the package is substantively the same as that link between pay and performance and provided to the retiring Chief Executive, rewards senior executives appropriately.
Michael Roney, but with a reduced salary and Therefore, no major changes have been pension allowance.
Frank van Zanten is made during the year to the current currently based in Amsterdam and will be remuneration arrangements and no changes moving with his family to London so a are being proposed to the current policy at relocation package, including assistance with the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
accommodation, removal costs and school The current remuneration policy was fees has also been put in place in accordance approved at the 2014 AGM for a period of with the approved remuneration policy.
Once again we This report has been prepared on behalf of, have included the policy in the 2015 Annual Finally, the Committee, within the terms of and has been approved by, the Board.
It complies Report although, in accordance with the the approved remuneration policy and having with the Large and Medium-sized Companies Regulations, at the 2016 AGM we will only be given due consideration to the policy on and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment inviting shareholders to approve the Annual payment for departure from office and the Regulations 2013 the Regulations, the UK Report on remuneration for 2015. long and successful tenure of Michael Roney Corporate Governance Code and the Financial as Chief Executive for more than 10 years, Conduct Authority Listing Rules and takes During the year the Committee reviewed its agreed the treatment of his unvested into account the accompanying Directors stance with regard to the disclosure of annual deferred shares under the Deferred Annual Remuneration Reporting Guidance and the bonus targets for the executive directors.
The Share Bonus Scheme DASBS and the Long relevant policies of shareholder representative policy of the Committee is not to disclose Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards following bodies.
This report is presented in three main specific targets while still commercially his retirement in April 2016.
The details are sections: an annual statement from the Chairman sensitive.
After full discussion the Committee shown on page 78.
No payment in lieu of of the Committee: the Directors remuneration has agreed that, although we would continue notice will be made, no bonus payment will policy as approved by shareholders at the 2014 not to disclose the specific targets for the be made for service during 2016 and no long Annual General Meeting AGM : and the Annual year in which they operate, the specific term incentives will be granted in 2016. report on remuneration for 2015.
The report also bonus targets for the year being reported on contains information relating to the directors will now be disclosed retrospectively.
A new Vanda Murray OBE remuneration for 2016 and additional table providing this information can be seen Chairman of the Remuneration Committee information on directors share interests.
The Committee considers that 29 February 2016 60 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy report At Bunzl we continue to pursue our well defined strategy of developing the business through organic growth, consolidating the markets in which we compete through focused acquisitions in both existing and new geographies and continuously improving the efficiency of our operations.
Bunzls business model relies on excellent customer and supplier relationships and the skills, knowledge and experience of its directors and employees.
The Companys remuneration policy supports this strategy by ensuring that the overall remuneration package is set at a competitive level while ensuring that additional reward is paid for high performance over a sustained period.
This policy is designed to ensure the recruitment, retention and motivation of the executive directors and other senior executives over the long term.
The performance related elements of the remuneration package are designed to incentivise executives to meet key performance metrics which align their interests and remuneration with those of shareholders, for example targets relating to earnings per share and TSR.
In setting such targets the Committee takes due account of the potential effect such targets could have on the attitude and behaviour of executives to risk within the business.
In addition the Committee has the discretion to take into account performance on environmental, social and governance matters.
The following table summarises the policy for the remuneration of executive directors approved at and effective from the 2014 AGM which is binding until the AGM to be held in 2017.
Salary Purpose recognise knowledge, skills and experience as well as reflect the scope and size of the role reward individual performance without encouraging undue risk promote the importance of environmental, social and governance issues Operation paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year reviewed annually, normally in December with any changes usually effective from January taking into consideration individual and Group performance, salary increases across the Group are benchmarked for appropriate salary levels using a comparator group of similarly sized companies with a large international presence pensionable Maximum potential salary increases are normally considered in relation to the salary increases of other employees in the Group and performance of the individual unless there has been a major change in role or responsibility value or major market movement.
The annual salaries for the executive directors for 2015 and 2016 are on pages 71 and 77 respectively Performance individual performance in the role, as well as the performance of the Group and achievements related to metrics environmental, social and governance issues, are all taken into consideration Annual bonus Purpose incentivise the attainment of annual corporate targets retain high performing employees align with shareholders interests Operation annual award based on financial targets set by the Committee at the beginning of the year at the end of the performance period, which is the Groups financial year from 1 January until 31 December, the Committee assesses the extent to which the performance measures have been achieved.
The level of bonus for each measure is determined by reference to the actual performance relative to that measures performance targets, on a pro rata basis any bonus is paid as 50% in cash and 50% in shares with the shares normally deferred for three years under the DASBS a clawback facility is in operation by which part or the full deferred bonus award may be reduced or cancelled to the extent that the value of the bonus originally awarded is subsequently found to have been overstated as a result of a material misstatement of the financial accounts by which the bonus was originally determined non-pensionable Maximum the annual on target bonus opportunity for Michael Roney and Brian May is 70% of salary with a threshold award potential value of 49% of salary and a maximum award of 115% of salary and for Patrick Larmon is 70% of salary with a threshold award of 31% of salary and a maximum award of 110% of salary Patrick Larmons annual on target bonus opportunity has been 70% of salary since 2009.
Although correctly disclosed in the remuneration overview section of the directors remuneration policy report in the 2013 and 2014 Annual Reports, the target award level as shown in this table has been amended to 70% as it was incorrectly shown as 65% in such Annual Reports.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 61 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Annual bonus continued Performance the principal measure for performance is the growth at constant exchange rates in the Companys earnings per metrics share adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Companys underlying financial performance eps against the relevant target the bonus derived from constant exchange rate eps performance will be increased or decreased according to the Companys performance against the target return on average operating capital RAOC, referred to as the RAOC modifier the use of eps and RAOC measures are seen as appropriate as they are two of Bunzls KPIs.
The use of eps growth aligns the executive directors interests with those of the shareholders and the RAOC modifier ensures the continued focus on working capital management together with profit growth bonus awards are at the Committees discretion and may take into account performance on environmental, social and governance matters as appropriate Patrick Larmon has additional measures based on the profit before interest and tax pbit and working capital employed in the business area, both measures on a constant currency basis for which he has direct responsibility North America.
The additional measures relating to pbit and working capital are relevant for Patrick Larmon as these are both KPIs of the business area he is responsible for running and these measures, together with other performance measures, are used to incentivise the management group in North America the performance metrics and targets are reviewed annually to ensure they remain appropriate.
The Committee retains the discretion to set alternative metrics as appropriate the current relevant performance metrics are: threshold which must be exceeded to attract any payment of bonus : target: and maximum amount the level at which the bonus is capped.
These performance metrics are determined at the start of the year by reference to the Groups annual budget.
No elements of the bonus are guaranteed.
As in previous years, the specific targets will not be disclosed while still commercially sensitive Long term incentives Purpose incentivise growth in longer term eps and TSR align with shareholders interests recruit and retain senior employees Operation discretionary biannual grants of executive share option awards and performance share awards which vest subject to performance conditions measured over three years and subject to continuous Company service.
There is no opportunity to retest a clawback facility is in operation under which part or the full amount of a vested award may be recovered, by reduction in the amount of any future bonus, subsisting award, the vesting of any subsisting award or future share awards and or a requirement to make a cash payment, to the extent that the value of a vested award is subsequently found to have been overstated as a result of a material misstatement of the financial accounts by which the vesting was determined all awards are subject to the discretions contained in the relevant plan rules Maximum Executive share options potential value maximum annual award of 250% of salary normal grant levels for executive directors are expected to be between 167% and 200% of salary and the Committee would not grant above this level to incumbent executive directors without further consultation with shareholders Performance shares maximum annual award of 150% of salary normal grant levels for executive directors are expected to be between 94% and 112.5% of salary and the Committee would not grant above this level to incumbent executive directors without further consultation with shareholders 62 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Long term incentives continued Performance Performance and service conditions must be met over a three year performance period metrics Executive share options eps performance measure relates to the absolute growth in the Companys eps against the targets set for the performance period the vesting is scaled as follows: no vesting for performance below the threshold target 25% of an award will vest for achieving the threshold target 100% of an award will vest for achieving or exceeding the maximum target for performance between these targets, the level of vesting will vary on a straight line sliding scale the Committee annually reviews the performance conditions outlined above and, in line with the rules of the 2014 LTIP, reserves the right to set different targets for forthcoming annual grants provided it is deemed that the relevant performance conditions remain appropriately challenging in the prevailing economic environment the targets set for the previously approved 2004 LTIP are shown on page 66 of the 2014 Annual Report.
The targets set for the 2014 LTIP are shown on page 74 Performance shares TSR performance measure 50% of the total award compares a combination of both the Companys share price and dividend performance during the performance period against a comparator group of the constituents of the FTSE 50 150 with significant international operations, excluding companies in the financial services, oil & gas and natural resources sectors the other 50% of the award is subject to an eps performance measure which relates to the absolute growth in the Companys eps against the targets set for the performance period the vesting for both performance measures is scaled as follows: no vesting for performance below median performance TSR or the threshold target eps 25% of an award will vest for achieving median performance TSR or the threshold target eps 100% of an award will vest for achieving or exceeding upper quartile performance TSR or the maximum target eps for performance between these targets, the level of vesting will vary on a straight line sliding scale the Committee annually reviews the performance conditions outlined above and, in line with the rules of the 2014 LTIP, reserves the right to set different targets for forthcoming annual grants provided it is deemed that the relevant performance conditions remain appropriately challenging in the prevailing economic environment the targets set for the previously approved 2004 LTIP are shown on page 66 of the 2014 Annual Report.
The targets set for the 2014 LTIP are shown on pages 74 and 75 All employee share plans encourage employees including the executive directors to build a shareholding through the operation of all Purpose employee share plans such as the HM Revenue & Customs HMRC tax advantaged Sharesave Scheme in the UK and the Internal Revenue Service IRS approved Employee Stock Purchase Plan US ESPP in the US Operation the Sharesave Scheme has standard terms under which participants can normally enter into a savings contract, over a period of either three or five years, in return for which they are granted options to acquire shares at a discount of up to 20% of the market price prevailing on the day immediately preceding the date of invitation to apply for the option.
Options are normally exercisable either three or five years after they have been granted the ESPP provides an opportunity for employees in the US to purchase the Companys shares in the market at a 15% discount to the market price.
The purchase of the shares is funded by after tax payroll deductions from the employee with the employing company contributing the 15% discount rules of both of the above plans were approved by shareholders at the 2011 AGM Maximum in the UK, the Sharesave Scheme is linked to a contract for monthly savings within the HMRC limits over a period of either three or five years currently 500 per month potential value in the US, the ESPP allows the purchase in the market of shares within IRS limits currently up to an annual maximum of 10% of remuneration or US$25,000 worth of shares, whichever is lower Performance service conditions apply metrics Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 63 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Retirement benefits Purpose provision of competitive retirement benefits retain executive directors Operation all defined benefit pension plans in the Group have been closed to new entrants since 2003 with any new recruits being offered defined contribution retirement arrangements and or a pension allowance legacy arrangements exist for one UK based executive director and the US based executive director as disclosed previously pension contributions and allowances are normally paid monthly Maximum company pension contributions to defined contribution retirement arrangements or cash allowances are capped potential value at 30% of annual salary benefits under the legacy UK defined benefit pension plan accrue at a rate of 2.4% on salary up to the notional pensionable salary cap from 6 April 2016 150,000 per annum Performance Not applicable metrics Other benefits Purpose provision of competitive benefits which helps to recruit and retain executive directors Operation benefits may include a car allowance or a car which may be fully expensed, various insurances such as life, disability and medical and in some jurisdictions club expenses and other benefits provided from time to time some benefits may only be provided in the case of relocation, such as removal expenses, and in the case of an international relocation might also include fees for childrens schooling, home leave, tax equalisation and professional advice etc the value of benefits is based on the cost to the Company and varies according to individual circumstances.
Maximum potential value For example the cost of medical insurance varies according to family circumstances and the jurisdiction in which the family is based Performance Not applicable metrics Shareholding requirement Purpose strengthen the alignment between the interests of the executive directors and those of shareholders Operation executives will be normally expected to retain shares through the exercise of awards under the DASBS and the LTIP until they attain the required holding.
Three years is allowed for executives who are promoted from within the Company to achieve the required shareholding.
It is recognised that a longer time period may be required for externally recruited executives to achieve the required shareholding retain shareholdings worth equal to at least 200% of annual salary.
This does not include any holdings of Maximum potential value deferred shares or vested but unexercised share options or performance shares Performance Not applicable metrics 64 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Performance measures and targets The key measures used by the Committee for incentivising the executive directors are eps modified by RAOC for the annual bonus and eps and relative TSR for the 2014 LTIP.
The Committee considers that all of these measures are appropriate for incentive purposes.
The use of eps aligns the executive directors interests with those of shareholders.
In addition, one of the executive directors, Patrick Larmon, President and Chief Executive Officer of North America, also has part of his annual bonus determined by additional measures relating to pbit and working capital which are relevant as these are two of the KPIs of the business area he is responsible for running.
RAOC is another of Bunzls KPIs.
The RAOC modifier ensures continued focus on working capital and profit growth by rewarding efficient profit generation, taking into account acquisitions once they are established, and uses average capital employed rather than only capital at the end of the period.
Relative TSR provides an external assessment of the Companys performance against similar sized companies listed in the UK.
It also aligns the rewards received by executives with the returns received by shareholders.
This combination of performance measures provides an important balance relevant to the Groups business and market conditions as well as providing a common goal for the executive directors, senior management and shareholders.
The Committee does not feel that the introduction of non-financial measures for the executive directors is appropriate at this time.
The Committee reviews performance targets on an annual basis taking into account the Companys annual budgeting process, the economic environment in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates and external expectations.
Changes to the remuneration policy A number of changes to the Companys remuneration policy were implemented following the 2014 AGM in accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders to bring the arrangements in line with best practice.
No changes to this remuneration policy are proposed for 2016.
Differences in remuneration policy for executive directors and employees in general The main difference in remuneration policy between the executive directors and employees in general is the split of fixed and performance related pay such as bonus and long term incentives.
Overall the percentage of performance related pay, in particular longer term incentive pay, is greater for the executive directors.
This reflects that executive directors have more freedom to act and the consequences of their decisions are likely to have a broader and more far reaching time span of effect than those decisions made by employees with more limited responsibility.
As a consequence only executive directors, Executive Committee members and other key employees currently 26 people are granted both executive share option and performance share awards.
Approximately 370 senior managers are granted executive share option awards on an annual basis, which helps to provide a common focus for management in the Companys decentralised organisation structure, whereas the annual bonuses are related to the performance of individual operating units.
Bonus arrangements vary throughout the Group and are related to the specific role and the country in which the employee operates.
The majority of bonus plans have quantitative targets but the performance measures and targets vary according to each specific role.
Sales representatives often have high levels of annual bonus payments which may be commission based.
When there is a critical mass of employees within a country to make it cost-effective to do so, to encourage wider employee share ownership, an all employee share plan is offered.
Currently plans are offered to all employees based in Australia, Canada, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, US and UK.
In France employees take part in profit sharing arrangements in accordance with local regulations.
Retirement and other benefits offered to employees across the Group differ according to the country in which the job is based, as social provision and market norms differ, and the function and seniority of the relevant role.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 65 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Committee is provided annually with information on the salaries and proposed increases for the Executive Committee members and other senior direct reports of the Chief Executive, as well as data on the average salary increases within each geographical region within the Group.
In addition the Committee reviews and agrees all grants of executive share option and performance share awards.
In 2016 employees across the Group have received, on average, salary increases in the range of 1.5% 3.0%, dependent on geographical location with the exception being those employees based in Turkey, Latin America and China where, due to inflation, current market salary increases are much higher.
The actual increases received by employees have been based on each individuals contribution and performance as well as the market competitiveness of the salary.
The Company did not consult with employees when drawing up the directors remuneration policy set out in this part of the report.
Recruitment of executive directors approach to remuneration For the ongoing stability and growth of the Group, it is important to secure, as necessary, the appointment of high calibre executives to the Board by either external recruitment or internal promotion.
The overarching principles applied by the Committee in developing the remuneration package will be to set an appropriate base salary together with benefits and short and long term incentives taking into consideration the skills and experience of the individual, the complexity and breadth of the role, the particular needs and situation of the Group, internal relativities, the marketplace in which the executive will operate and an individuals current remuneration package and location.
In addition, the Committee recognises that it may need to meet certain relocation expenses as appropriate.
To ensure consistency across the Board, the expected components of the package would be in line with the remuneration policy as set out on pages 61 to 64.
In order to provide the Company with sufficient flexibility on the recruitment of an executive director, the Committee has set the maximum level of variable remuneration on recruitment at 427.5% of annual salary.
This covers the maximum annual bonus, including the deferred annual share bonus award, and the maximum face value of any long term incentive awards.
For an external appointment, the Committee may consider offering additional cash and or share based elements to the remuneration package when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Such elements, as appropriate, would be made under Section 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules and take account of any remuneration relinquished when leaving the former employer and would reflect the nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to that remuneration.
Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at the time of appointment.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element or benefit awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to remain in place according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the new appointment.
Executive directors service contracts It is the Companys policy that executive directors are normally employed on contracts that provide for 12 months notice from the Company and six months notice from the executive.
For Michael Roney and Brian May there is no predetermined compensation for termination of these contracts.
Patrick Larmons contract provides that on termination by the Company without cause he is entitled to receive payment of 12 months base salary plus health insurance coverage, reduced by any interim earnings.
The date of each service contract is noted in the table below.
Date of service contract Michael Roney 1 September 2005 Brian May 9 December 2005 Patrick Larmon 1 January 2005 66 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Policy on payment for departure from office On termination of an executive directors service contract, the Committee will take into account the departing directors duty to mitigate his loss when determining the amount of compensation.
The Committees policy in respect of the treatment of executive directors leaving the Group is described below and is designed to support a smooth transition from the Company taking into account the interests of shareholders: Component Voluntary resignation or Death, ill health, disability Departure on of pay termination for cause excluding redundancy agreed terms Base salary, Paid for the proportion Paid up to the date of death or leaving, including any untaken pension and of the notice period holidays pro rated to such date.
In the case of ill health, benefits worked and any untaken a payment in lieu of notice may be made and, according to holidays pro rated to the the circumstances, may be subject to mitigation.
In such leaving date circumstances some benefits such as company car or medical insurance may be retained until the end of the notice period Cessation of employment Cessation of employment during a bonus year or after the Annual bonus cash during a bonus year will year end but prior to the normal bonus payment date will normally result in no result in cash and deferred bonus being paid and pro rated cash bonus being paid for the relevant portion of the financial year worked and performance achieved Annual bonus Unvested deferred In the case of the death of an executive, all deferred shares will deferred shares shares will lapse be transferred to the estate as soon as possible after death.
Treatment will In all other cases, subject to the discretion of the Committee, normally fall between unvested deferred shares will be transferred to the individual the two treatments on a date determined by the Committee described in the Executive share Unvested executive share Tax advantaged options will vest in full on the cessation previous columns, options will lapse of employment and be exercisable for the following 12 months options subject to the after which any unexercised options will lapse discretion of the Committee and the Subject to the discretion of the Committee, unvested non-tax terms of any advantaged share options will normally be retained by the termination individual for the remainder of the vesting period and remain agreement subject to the relevant performance conditions.
However in the case of the death of an executive, the Committee will determine the extent of vesting within 12 months of the date of death Performance Unvested performance Subject to the discretion of the Committee, unvested shares shares will lapse performance shares will normally be retained by the individual for the remainder of the vesting period and remain subject to the relevant performance conditions.
However in the case of the death of an executive, the Committee will determine the extent of vesting within 12 months of the date of death As per HMRC regulations As per HMRC regulations Options under Sharesave Other None Disbursements such as legal costs and outplacement fees Notes a For share options granted under Part A of the 2004 LTIP, any unvested executive share options which are subject to the discretion of the Committee may vest in full on the termination date and be exercisable for the following 12 months after which any unexercised options will lapse.
b The Committee will have the authority to settle any legal claims against the Company, e. g. for unfair dismissal etc, that might arise on termination.
Discretions retained by the Committee in operating the incentive plans The Committee operates the Groups various incentive plans according to their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC and IRS rules where relevant.
To ensure the efficient administration of these plans, the Committee may apply certain operational discretions.
These include the following: selecting the participants in the plans: determining the timing of grants and or payments: determining the quantum of grants and or payments within the limits set out in the policy table above : adjusting the constituents of the TSR comparator group: determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment of performance: Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 67 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued determining good leaver status and the extent of vesting in the case of the share based plans: determining the extent of vesting of awards under share based plans in the event of a change of control: making the appropriate adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events, variation of capital and special dividends : and under the annual review of weighting of performance measures, setting targets for the annual bonus plan and 2014 LTIP from year to year.
The Committee may vary the performance conditions applying to share based awards if an event occurs which causes the Committee to consider that it would be appropriate to amend the performance conditions, provided the Committee considers the varied conditions are fair and reasonable and not materially less challenging than the original conditions would have been but for the event in question.
Remuneration overview The remuneration package comprises both core fixed elements base salary, pension and other benefits and performance based variable elements cash bonus, the DASBS and the LTIP.
The Committee has set a guideline that for on target performance approximately half of the remuneration package should be performance related.
The structure of the remuneration packages for on target and stretch performance for each of the executive directors is illustrated in the bar charts below.
Michael Roney 77% 23% Threshold performance Total 1,215,336 37% 11% 26% 26% Target performance Total 2,517,661 24% 7% 28% 41% Stretch performance Total 3,866,086 Brian May 75% 25% Threshold performance Total 731,051 38% 13% 25% 24% Target performance Total 1,455,826 25% 8% 28% 39% Stretch performance Total 2,199,151 98% 2% Patrick Larmon Threshold performance Total 710,337 42% 1% 29% 28% Target performance Total 1,636,305 27% 1% 29% 43% Stretch performance Total 2,552,115 Salary and benefits Pension Bonus Cash DASBS LTIP Notes a Salary represents annual salary for 2016.
Patrick Larmons salary is paid in US dollars but has been translated at the exchange rate of 1: US$1.53.
Benefits such as a car or car allowance and private medical insurance are as shown on page 71. b Pension represents the cost of pension accrued in 2015 in the Defined Benefit Section of the Bunzl Pension Plan for Brian May, the value of the annual pension allowance for Michael Roney and Brian May, the contributions to the Defined Contribution Section of the Bunzl Pension Plan for Michael Roney and the total of Company contributions to Patrick Larmons 401K Plan and Retirement Savings Benefit the RSB.
No further contributions were made through the Defined Contribution Senior Executive Retirement Agreement SERA, further details of which are shown on page 73.
Although there has been no change to the remuneration policy related to Patrick Larmon, the effect of the cessation of payments to the SERA has been to alter the relevant percentages of his remuneration package shown above.
c Below threshold performance comprises salary, benefits and pension only with no bonus awarded and no LTIP awards vested.
d Target performance comprises annual bonus awarded at target level i. e. 70% of base salary comprised of 50% cash and 50% deferred shares under the DASBS and, for the LTIP, an assumption that 50% of performance shares will vest and that 50% of the share options will vest and deliver 30% of their face value in gain to the executives.
e Stretch performance comprises annual bonus awarded at maximum level i. e. 115% of base salary for Michael Roney and Brian May and 110% of base salary for Patrick Larmon comprised of 50% cash and 50% deferred shares under the DASBS and, for the LTIP, an assumption that 100% of performance shares will vest delivering 100% of their face value in gain to the executive directors and 100% of share options will vest which will deliver 30% of their face value in gain to the executives.
68 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Legacy arrangements The Remuneration policy report was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and, by doing so, authority was given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration reports or internally promoted future directors in each case, such as the payment of a pension or the unwind of legacy share plans.
Details of any payments to former directors will be set out in the Remuneration report as they arise.
Policy of executive directors external appointments With the specific approval of the Board in each case, executive directors may accept external appointments as non-executive directors of other companies and retain any related fees paid to them.
Non-executive directors terms of appointment On appointment of a new Chairman of the Board or non-executive director, the fees will be set taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual and the prevailing fee rates of the other non-executive directors at that time.
The non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the Company but instead have letters of appointment.
The date of appointment and the most recent re-appointment and the length of service for each non-executive director are shown in the table below.
Date of Date of last Length of service appointment re-appointment at AGM as at 2016 AGM Philip Rogerson 1 January 2010 15 April 2015 6 years 3 months Peter Johnson 1 January 2006 n a n a David Sleath 1 September 2007 15 April 2015 8 years 7 months Eugenia Ulasewicz 1 April 2011 15 April 2015 5 years Jean-Charles Pauze 1 January 2013 15 April 2015 3 years 3 months Meinie Oldersma 1 April 2013 15 April 2015 3 years Vanda Murray 1 February 2015 15 April 2015 1 year 2 months Peter Johnson retired from the Board at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
On termination, at any time, a non-executive director is entitled to any accrued but unpaid directors fees but not to any other compensation.
Fees policy for Chairman and non-executive directors the NEDs Purpose provision of a competitive fee to attract NEDs who have a broad range of experience and skills to oversee the implementation of the Companys strategy determined in light of market practice and with reference to time commitment and responsibilities associated Operation with the roles annual fees are paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year the senior independent director and Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees are paid an extra fee to reflect their additional responsibilities the NEDs and the Chairman are not eligible to receive benefits and do not participate in pension or incentive plans.
Expenses incurred in respect of their duties as directors of the Company are reimbursed the NEDs fees are reviewed annually in January each year and the Chairmans fee is reviewed biennially, the last date being February 2014 the Board as a whole considers the policy and structure for the NEDs fees on the recommendation of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The NEDs do not participate in discussions on their specific levels of remuneration: the Chairmans fees are set by the Committee determined within the overall aggregate annual limit of 1,000,000 authorised by shareholders with Maximum potential value reference to the Companys Articles of Association Performance metrics not eligible to participate in any performance related elements of remuneration Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year and guidance from shareholder representative bodies more generally.
In addition the Committee consults proactively with its major shareholders prior to making significant changes to its policy.
There have been no significant changes to policy since 2013 when consultation was conducted with 19 major shareholders and two shareholder representative bodies with regard to the proposed changes to the remuneration policy and the introduction of a new long term incentive plan.
This policy and the 2014 LTIP were approved at the 2014 AGM.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 69 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration for 2015 Committee remit and membership The following independent non-executive directors were members of the Committee during 2015: Date of appointment Meetings eligible Meetings to the Committee to attend attendance Peter Johnson 18 January 2006 2 2 David Sleath 5 December 2007 4 4 Eugenia Ulasewicz 20 April 2011 4 4 Jean-Charles Pauze 1 January 2013 4 4 Meinie Oldersma 1 April 2013 4 4 Vanda Murray 1 February 2015 4 4 Peter Johnson retired from the Board at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
The Secretary to the Committee is Celia Baxter, Director of Group Human Resources.
No director plays any part in determining his or her remuneration.
During the year ended 31 December 2015, both the Chief Executive and the Chairman were consulted and invited to attend meetings of the Committee but were not present during any part of the meeting when their own remuneration was under consideration.
The terms of reference of the Committee have been formally adopted by the Board and are available for inspection in the Investor Centre section of the Companys website, www.
The key responsibilities of the Committee include: ensuring that executive directors and senior executives are properly incentivised to attract, retain and fairly reward them for their individual contribution to the Company and having due regard to the policies and practices applied to the rest of the employees within the Group: determining the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman and the executive directors of the Board including setting their individual remuneration packages as well as their level of remuneration and overseeing all the Companys long term incentive plans: ensuring that remuneration is aligned with and supports the Companys strategy and performance, having due regard to the shareholders and to the financial and commercial health of the Company, while at the same time not encouraging undue risk taking: and communicating and discussing any remuneration issues with the Companys stakeholders as and when appropriate.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee In carrying out these responsibilities, the Committee seeks external remuneration advice as necessary.
During the year the Committee received advice from PwC and New Bridge Street.
PwC provided external survey data on directors remuneration and benefit levels.
New Bridge Street provided information to determine whether, and if so to what extent, the performance conditions attached to existing share option and performance share awards under the LTIP had been satisfied.
The fees payable to each adviser, based on hourly rates, were: 13,290 PwC and 11,415 New Bridge Street for such work undertaken in 2015.
In addition to the work undertaken on behalf of the Committee, PwC, who are the Companys external auditors, also provide the Company with some pre-acquisition due diligence and IT security services and tax advice.
New Bridge Street may from time to time also provide services to the Company on remuneration and benefit related matters that are not subject to review by the Committee.
The Committee remains satisfied that the provision of these other services does not in any way compromise the independence of their advisers.
Statement of voting at the 2015 AGM Last year the remuneration report received a 96.43% shareholder vote in favour as set out below: Votes cast Votes For % of shares voted Votes Against % of shares voted Votes Withheld Remuneration report 265,750,509 256,264,436 96.43 9,486,073 3.57 1,080,776 Notes a The votes For include votes given at the Company Chairmans discretion.
b A vote Withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the votes For or Against the resolution.
Votes For and Against are expressed as a percentage of the votes cast.
The other 50% of the bonus shown above is deferred and conditionally awarded as shares under the rules of the DASBS.
Shares relating to the 2014 deferred bonus were awarded in 2015 as shown in the table on page 79 and the shares relating to the 2015 deferred bonus will be awarded in 2016. b Benefits provided for all executive directors are a car or car allowance and medical insurance coverage for them and their families.
In addition to these benefits Patrick Larmons club fees are paid by the Company.
c The long term incentives are in the form of awards under the 2004 LTIP which were granted in 2012 and 2013.
Long term incentive figures exclude any gain from the purchase of shares by Patrick Larmon through the ESPP described on page 63. d The figures shown in relation to 2014 for the LTIP have been restated from those figures shown in the 2014 Annual Report to reflect the difference between the relevant grant price and the value of the LTIP awards on the actual date of vesting on 1 March 2015 and 31 August 2015 at the closing mid-market share price of 1,896p and 1,739p respectively.
Consequently the 2014 total figures have also been restated to reflect the change in the LTIP valuations.
e The remuneration for Patrick Larmon is determined and paid in US dollars and has been translated at the average exchange rates for the year of 1: US$1.53 in respect of 2015 and 1: US$1.65 in respect of 2014. f Peter Johnson retired from the Board on 15 April 2015.
Vanda Murray joined the Board on 1 February 2015 and took over as Remuneration Committee Chairman on 16 April 2015.
David Sleath became the senior independent director on 16 April 2015. g There were no payments made to former directors during the year and no payments were, or are due to be, made in respect of loss of office.
Executive directors annual salary audited information Executive directors salaries were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2015 in accordance with normal policy and were increased taking into account the average salary increases for employees across the Group.
Salary from Salary from Increase in 1 January 1 January salary 2015 2014 2014 to 2015 Michael Roney 922,000 895,000 3.0% Brian May 515,000 500,000 3.0% Patrick Larmon US$1,036,000 US$1,014,000 2.2% Executive directors salaries were also reviewed with effect from 1 January 2016 and the increases awarded are shown on page 77.
Executive directors external appointments Michael Roney served as a non-executive director of BrownForman Corporation throughout 2015 and during the year retained fees of US$40,178 and was awarded 1,612 deferred stock units which will be paid to him upon completion of his service subject to the terms of the Deferred Stock Unit programme for non-employee directors.
Brian May served as a non-executive director of United Utilities Group PLC throughout 2015 and during the year retained fees of 76,767.
Patrick Larmon served as a non-executive director of Huttig Building Products, Inc. from 22 June 2015 and during the remainder of the year retained fees of US$31,868 and was awarded 12,800 deferred shares which will vest in 2016.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 71 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Non-executive directors fees audited information The Chairmans fee is reviewed every two years and, as a result, no review took place in 2015.
The fees for the non-executive directors were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2015 in accordance with normal policy.
With effect from Fees paid Increase in fees January 2015 in 2014 2014 to 2015 Chairmans fee 325,000 325,000 Non-executive director fee 66,000 64,500 2.3% Supplements: Senior independent director 16,000 16,000 Audit Committee Chairman 15,000 14,000 7.1% Remuneration Committee Chairman 15,000 14,000 7.1% The Chairmans and non-executive directors fees were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2016 and the increases awarded are shown on page 78.
Performance against annual bonus targets audited information The annual bonus plan and DASBS operate as set out in the policy section on pages 61 and 62.
All of Michael Roneys and Brian Mays and 25% of Patrick Larmons bonus potential in 2015 related to the growth in the Companys constant exchange rate eps relative to budget which was modified by the achievement of the Groups RAOC relative to budget.
For Patrick Larmon, a further 75% of his bonus potential related to the pbit performance of North America which was modified by the achievement of North Americas return on average operating capital relative to the target set and measured on a constant exchange rate basis.
The results for 2015 against the targets set were as follows: Performance against targets Primary Modifier On target % actual constant 2015 bonus as % RAOC for the 2015 bonus Group bonus opportunity exchange rate eps of salary before Group relative award as % performance as % salary Target eps relative to target modifier applied to target 57.5% of salary Michael Roney 70% 93.2p 101.6% of target 77.2% 0.956 73.8% performance Brian May 70% 93.2p 101.6% of target 77.2% 0.956 73.8% performance Patrick Larmon 17.5% 93.2p 101.6% of target 19.9% 0.956 19.0% performance Target NA % pbit of pbit constant NA businesses Bonus as % % RAOC for the North American exchange rate relative of salary before NA business relative NA performance US$ to target modifier applied to budget Patrick Larmon 52.5% US$367.3m 97.6% of target 35.5% On target RAOC%, 35.5% performance no adjustments made Notes a Annual on target bonus opportunity for Michael Roney and Brian May is 70% of salary with a threshold award of 49% of salary and a maximum award of 115% of salary and for Patrick Larmon is 70% of salary with a threshold award of 31% of salary and a maximum award of 110% of salary.
Threshold award was 95% of target and the maximum bonus award would have been paid out at 110% of the target for Group performance and 107.5% of target for NA performance.
b The bonuses derived from the primary measures shown above are increased, decreased or remain unchanged according to the actual performance against the relevant modifier.
The modifier is unlikely to change the bonus determined by the primary measure by more than 5% up or down.
c At target exchange rates the adjusted eps for 2015 was 94.7p.
Accordingly the total payments under the annual bonus plan were: Total bonus payment cash and deferred shares as a % of salary 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 % % % % % Michael Roney 73.8 98.0 104.2 77.0 114.0 Brian May 73.8 98.0 104.2 77.0 114.0 Patrick Larmon 54.5 69.7 85.3 85.9 110.0 The monetary values of the bonus payments for 2015 and 2014 are included in the table on page 71.
72 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Directors report | Directors remuneration report LTIP grants awards with performance periods ending in 2015 audited information Executive share options LTIP Part A Executive share option awards, granted three years previously, are due to vest on 28 February 2016 and 30 August 2016.
The Committee assessed the relevant performance of the Company against the performance conditions.
Eps restated on adoption of IAS 19 revised 2011 growth was 28.9% for the three years ended 31 December 2015 which compared to an increase in RPI of 5.59% over the same period.
Since the performance condition would have been satisfied if eps had grown by at least 14.86% over the period, all of the options will vest.
Included in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 71 is the estimated value of these awards based on the difference between the grant price and the average of the Companys closing mid-market share price for the three month period ended 31 December 2015 1,861p.
Performance shares LTIP Part B Awards of performance shares were made to the executive directors on 5 April 2012 and 8 October 2012 with the three year performance periods being completed on 31 March 2015 and 30 September 2015 respectively.
The Committee subsequently assessed the performance of the Company against the relevant performance conditions.
The extent to which half of the awards would vest was subject to a performance condition based on eps growth relative to RPI.
Eps growth was 27.52% for the three years ended 31 December 2014 compared to an increase in RPI of 7.56% over the same period.
A quarter of the award would have been exercisable if eps had grown by at least 20.05% over the period and the whole award would have been exercisable if eps had grown by at least 40.66%.
As a result of the Companys actual growth in eps over the period, 52.18% of this part of the awards vested 26.09% of the full awards.
The extent to which the other half of the awards vested was based on the Companys TSR performance against the relevant comparator group.
For the April 2012 award, the Company ranked eighth out of the remaining 40 companies in the comparator group of companies, as a result of which 100% of this part of the award vested 50% of the full award for performance above the upper quartile.
For the October 2012 award, the Company ranked twelfth out of the remaining 38 companies in the comparator group of companies, as a result of which 73.53% of this part of the award vested 36.77% of the full award for performance between the median and upper quartile.
Accordingly 76.09% of the total performance shares awarded in April and 62.86% of the total performance shares awarded in October 2012 vested in April and October 2015 respectively.
Included in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 71 is the value of these vested awards at the closing mid-market share price on the dates of vesting, 8 April 2015 and 8 October 2015, which were 1,888p and 1,861p respectively.
Total pension entitlements audited information Defined benefit pension DB entitlements Value of cash allowance including Pension plans any company DC normal Additional Pension value in and or 401k Total retirement value of pension on the year from contributions pension age early retirement DB scheme in 2015 2015 Michael Roney 276,600 276,600 Brian May 60 74,365 109,950 184,315 Patrick Larmon 65 14,330 14,330 Notes a Michael Roney receives a pension allowance of 30% of base salary.
He has chosen to join the Defined Contribution Section of the Bunzl Pension Plan BPP and his contribution of 5% of base salary, up to the pensionable salary cap notionally 149,500 for tax year 2015 2016 and 145,800 for tax year 2014 2015 is matched by the Company.
During 2015 such contributions amounted to 7,425 2014: 7,230 and this amount was deducted from his pension allowance.
b Brian May, who joined the Group in the UK prior to the closure of the defined benefit sections of the BPP, is a member of the Bunzl Senior Pension Section of the BPP.
His pension accrues at the rate of 2.4% per annum up to two thirds of the pensionable salary cap, as described above.
The employee contribution rate is currently 9% of pensionable salary.
c In addition to benefits from the BPP, Brian May receives a pension allowance of 30% of base salary above the pensionable salary cap which permits him to make provision, of his own choice, in respect of that part of his salary which exceeds the cap.
d Patrick Larmon originally joined the US Plan, subject to IRS limits, which accrued at a rate of 1.67% per annum up to 50% of the five year average pensionable salary less the primary social security benefit, with a normal retirement age of 65 years.
Pensionable salary in the US Plan is capped at US$140,000.
On closure of the US Plan, Patrick Larmon chose to freeze his benefit and no further benefits have accrued.
Patrick Larmon is currently a member of a defined contribution plan, the Retirement Saving Benefit RSB.
Contributions to the RSB are fully funded by the employer on a sliding scale that is age related.
The contributions are a percentage of base salary maximum 5% which is capped at US$200,000 per annum.
The Company made contributions in respect of Patrick Larmon in 2015 of 6,536 2014: 6,061. e In addition, Patrick Larmon receives a supplementary pension through a defined benefit Senior Executive Retirement Agreement SERA.
Patrick Larmons SERA, which became fully accrued in 2012, provides for a lifetime pension of US$100,000 per annum, payable upon retirement.
In 2015 the Company paid all necessary expenses, due to changes in assumptions and other factors outside of the Companys control such as change in market conditions, on actuarial advice, to the SERA which amounted to 45,007 2014: 47,268.
In 2007, this SERA arrangement was closed to new entrants and existing members benefits were frozen.
A new defined contribution SERA DC SERA was put in place for Patrick Larmon and the final contribution was paid to the DC SERA in 2013. f Patrick Larmon also participates in the Bunzl USA, Inc Deferred Savings 401k Plan.
The Company makes matching contributions to this Plan.
During 2015 contributions for Patrick Larmon amounted to 7,794 2014: 7,091.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 73 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued LTIP grant policy Conditional awards of executive share options and performance shares are granted twice a year to executive directors and other senior executives.
Executive share option awards are normally granted in February or March and August or September dependent on the date of announcement of the Companys results.
Performance share awards are normally granted in April and October each year.
Executive share options were granted in February and August and performance share awards were granted in April and October under the 2014 LTIP in accordance with the policy and performance conditions as approved at the 2014 AGM.
Options were awarded under the 2014 LTIP Part A on 26 February 2015 and on 27 August 2015 at a value of 1,920p and 1,687p per share respectively.
Performance shares were awarded under the 2014 LTIP Part B on 2 April 2015 and on 5 October 2015 at a value of 1,840p and 1,804p per share respectively.
Performance conditions for 2015 awards The performance conditions for the executive share options and performance shares awarded under the 2014 LTIP to the Companys executive directors, Executive Committee members and selected key employees in 2015 were as detailed below.
Executive options LTIP Part A Executive share options may vest based solely on the Companys eps growth adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Companys underlying financial performance over three years, based on the following sliding scale: Absolute annual growth in the Companys eps over a three year period Proportion of share option awards exercisable Below 5% Nil 5% 25% Between 5% and 8% Pro rata between 25%100% 8% or above 100% Performance share awards LTIP Part B The extent to which half of the awards may vest is subject to a performance condition based on the Companys eps growth adjusted to exclude items which do not reflect the Companys underlying financial performance over three years, based on the following sliding scale: Absolute annual growth in the Companys eps over a three year period Proportion of performance share awards exercisable Below 6% Nil 6% 25% Between 6% and 12% Pro rata between 25%100% 12% or above 100% 74 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Directors report | Directors remuneration report The extent to which the other half of the performance share awards may vest is subject to the Companys TSR performance, a combination of both the Companys share price and dividend performance during the three year performance period, relative to the TSR performance of a specified comparator group of similarly sized companies with large international presence.
These performance share awards may vest based on the following sliding scale: TSR Proportion of performance share awards exercisable Below median Nil Median 25% Between median and upper quartile Pro rata between 25%100% Upper quartile or above 100% The applicable comparator group for the 2015 awards were those companies in the FTSE 50 150 with significant international operations, excluding companies in the financial services, oil & gas and natural resources sectors.
Shareholder dilution In accordance with The Investment Association Principles of Remuneration, the Company can satisfy awards to employees under all its share plans with new issue shares or shares issued from treasury up to a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital adjusted for share issuance and cancellation in a rolling 10 year period.
Within this 10% limit, the Company can only issue as newly issued shares or from treasury, 5% of its issued share capital adjusted for share issuance and cancellation to satisfy awards under executive discretionary plans.
As well as the LTIP, the Company operates various all employee share schemes as described on page 63.
Newly issued shares are currently used to satisfy the exercise of options under the Sharesave Scheme and the International and Irish Sharesave Plans.
Awards under the LTIP of executive options and performance shares are principally satisfied by shares delivered from the Employee Benefit Trust which buys shares on the market, unless security laws in relevant jurisdictions prevent this.
Cumulative options and performance shares granted as a percentage of issued share capital Limit on awards as at 31 December 2015 10% in any rolling 10 year period 2.1% 5% in any rolling 10 year period executive discretionary plans 1.2% Statement of directors shareholding and share interests audited information As at 31 December 2015, all executive directors and their connected persons owned shares outright at a level exceeding their required shareholding of 200% of their annual salary.
Actual share ownership as a percentage of salary at 31 December 2015 at the closing mid-market price 1,885p Michael Roney 638% Brian May 385% Patrick Larmon 347% Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 75 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Interests in shares and share options The interests of the directors, and their connected persons, in the Companys ordinary shares and share options at 31 December 2015 were: Total Shares Options LTIP Part A and Sharesave interests held Unvested Unvested and subject and subject to Unvested Unvested to holding performance and subject to subject to Vested Owned period conditions performance continued but not outright DASBS LTIP Part B conditions employment exercised Michael Roney 312,263 77,520 195,549 300,853 2,533 888,718 Brian May 105,240 42,984 102,188 158,001 2,173 410,586 Patrick Larmon 124,546 49,109 124,234 191,939 111,500 601,328 Philip Rogerson 10,000 10,000 David Sleath 4,000 4,000 Eugenia Ulasewicz 4,000 4,000 Jean-Charles Pauze 2,500 2,500 Meinie Oldersma 2,500 2,500 Vanda Murray 3,000 3,000 Performance graph and table 400 Bunzl Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies FTSE 350 Support Services and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 350 requires that the Company must provide a graph comparing the TSR performance of a hypothetical 300 holding of shares in the Company with a broad equity 250 market index over a seven year period.
The Companys TSR performance against the FTSE 350 Support 200 Services Sector over a seven year period commencing 150 on 1 January 2009 is shown to the right.
100 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Source: Thomson Reuters datastream Chief Executives pay in last seven years audited information The table below summarises the Chief Executives single total figure of remuneration, as shown on page 71, annual bonus and long term incentive payout as a percentage of maximum opportunity for 2015 and the previous six years.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Single total figure of remuneration 000 1,943.2 2,314.2 3,394.1 3,502.9 4,387.6 4,766.8 3,636.2 Annual variable element award rates against maximum opportunity 45% 71% 99% 67% 91% 85% 64% Long term incentive vesting rates LTIP Part A options 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% against maximum opportunity LTIP Part B performance shares 84% 65% 29% 45% 62% 89% 69% Note The single total figure of remuneration in relation to 2014 has been restated from the figure shown in the 2014 Annual Report to reflect the difference between the grant price and the value of the relevant LTIP awards on the actual date of vesting as detailed in Note d to the table of the single total figure of remuneration 2015 on page 71.
76 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Percentage change in Chief Executives remuneration The table below sets out the increase in the salary, benefits and bonus of the Chief Executive and that of a Bunzl UK and US management population.
This population has been selected for this comparison because it is considered to be the most relevant as these countries have the Groups largest concentration of employees with a similarly structured remuneration package.
Employees from businesses acquired by Bunzl in 2015 and leavers and joiners in either year have been removed from the data to prevent distortion.
UK and US Chief Executive management population Percentage change Percentage change 2015 vs 2014 2015 vs 2014 Salary 3% 3% Benefits 0% 5% Bonus 22 % 39 % Notes a US and UK management population includes any promotional increases that occurred during either year.
b Bonus relates to the performance targets of the companies for which the relevant individuals work.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows a comparison between the overall expenditure on pay and dividends paid to shareholders for 2015 and 2014 as stated in Note 21 and Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 118 and 113 respectively.
million unless otherwise stated 2015 2014 Percentage change Overall expenditure on pay 558.1 524.2 6.5% Dividend paid in the year 116.1 105.6 9.9% Notes a Overall expenditure on pay excludes employers social security costs.
b Dividends paid in the year relate to the previous financial years interim and final dividends.
c Overall expenditure on pay for 2014 has been restated as laid out in Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements on page 118.
2016 Remuneration audited information The remuneration policy was implemented with effect from the 2014 AGM and continues to apply in 2016 as follows: Salary The salary increases for the executive directors for 2016, which are in line with increases that have been implemented for other employees in the Group as discussed on page 66, are as follows: Salary from Salary from Increase in salary 1 January 2016 1 January 2015 2015 to 2016 Michael Roney 922,000 922,000 0% Brian May 530,000 515,000 2.9% Patrick Larmon US$1,060,000 US$1,036,000 2.3% Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 77 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued 2016 bonus targets The structure for Brian Mays and 25% of Patrick Larmons annual bonus for 2016 is described on pages 61 and 62.
Due to Michael Roneys retirement he will not be eligible for a bonus in 2016.
The threshold for bonus payments on growth in constant exchange rate eps has been set above the actual result achieved in 2015 on a constant exchange rate basis.
For Patrick Larmon the other 75% of his bonus will relate to the attainment of pbit performance of North America relative to budget which will be modified, positively or negatively, by the achievement of North Americas return on average operating capital relative to the target set.
The relevant performance points are: threshold which must be exceeded to attract any payment of bonus : target: and maximum amount the level at which the bonus for that measure is capped.
These performance points are determined at the start of the year by reference to the Groups annual budget.
As in previous years, the specific performance points will not be disclosed while still commercially sensitive.
Performance measures for long term incentives to be awarded in 2016 Grants of executive share options and performance shares awarded to executive directors and senior executives in 2016 will be subject to the same performance conditions as those executive share options and performance share awards granted in 2015 as detailed on pages 74 and 75.
Non-executive directors fees for 2016 audited information The Chairmans and the non-executive directors fees were reviewed with effect from 1 January 2016.
The Chairmans fee is reviewed every two years with the previous review in January 2014.
The non-executive directors fees are reviewed annually.
The current fee structure for the non-executive directors is shown below: With effect from Fees paid Increase in fees 1 January 2016 in 2015 2015 to 2016 Chairmans fee 340,000 325,000 4.6% Non-executive director basic fee 67,500 66,000 2.3% Supplements: Senior independent director 16,000 16,000 Audit Committee Chairman 16,000 15,000 6.7% Remuneration Committee Chairman 16,000 15,000 6.7% Departure terms of Michael Roney Chief Executive until 20 April 2016 As announced on 14 January 2016 Michael Roney will retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting on 20 April 2016 and leave the Group on 30 April 2016.
Full details of his departure terms are set out in the statement required by Section 430 2B of the Companies Act 2006 which can be found on www.
com in the Investors section under Corporate governance Remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee determined the following treatment within the terms of the Companys approved remuneration policy: salary which was not increased from 1 January 2016, benefits and pension allowance will be paid as usual until the 30 April 2016 the Leaving Date : no payment in lieu of notice will be made: no annual cash bonus or DASBS award will be made for the 2016 financial year: any deferred shares outstanding at the Leaving Date, which were awarded under the DASBS in relation to the 2014 and 2015 financial years, will vest in full on 1 March 2017: no grants or awards under the LTIP will be made in 2016: and any grants and awards outstanding at the Leaving Date, which were made under the LTIP Parts A and B in 2013, 2014 and 2015, will vest at the normal vesting date subject to satisfaction of the existing performance conditions and provided that prior to the relevant vesting date Michael Roney has not worked in any capacity for a competitor organisation.
Recovery provisions will continue to apply.
78 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Remuneration arrangements for Frank van Zanten Chief Executive from 20 April 2016 As also announced on 14 January 2016, Frank van Zanten will take over as Chief Executive on 20 April 2016 following Michael Roneys retirement from the Board.
The remuneration package for Frank van Zanten, as set out below, was agreed within the terms of the Companys approved remuneration policy: salary of 800,000 per annum: pension allowance of 25% of salary: eligible to participate in a the directors annual bonus scheme up to 115% of salary half of which will be deferred for three years under the DASBS, as described on pages 61 and 62 and b the LTIP up to i an annual award of 200% of salary in respect of executive share options and ii an annual award of 112.5% of salary in respect of performance shares, as described on pages 62 and 63: and benefits including a car allowance, life and medical insurances and relocation expenses.
Additional information on directors interests Details of the executive directors interests in outstanding share awards under the DASBS, LTIP and all employee share plans are set out below.
Deferred share awards as at 31 December 2015 The outstanding awards granted to each director of the Company under the DASBS are set out in the table below.
Further information relating to the deferred bonus is provided on page 61.
No shares lapsed during the year.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2015 79 Directors report | Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued LTIP The tables below show the number of executive share options and performance shares held by the executive directors under the LTIP.
In addition Michael Roney exercised share options on 28 September 2015 in respect of 66,000 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 962p, at a market price of 1,778p resulting in a gain of 538,560 and on 9 November 2015 in respect of 57,000 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 1,116p, at a market price of 1,885p result in a gain of 438,330: ii Brian May on 4 November 2015 in respect of 34,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 962p and 29,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 1,116p, at a market price of 1,879p resulting in a total gain of 541,450: and ii Patrick Larmon on 25 February 2015 in respect of 44,000 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 746p, at a market price of 1,924p, resulting in a gain of 518,320.
In addition Patrick Larmon exercised share options on 3 December 2015 in respect of 46,500 ordinary shares at an exercise price of 724.5p, at a market price of 1,958p resulting in a gain of 573,577. b The mid-market price of a share on 31 December 2015 was 1,885p and the range during 2015 was 1,671p to 1,950p.
c The performance conditions have been satisfied in relation to options granted prior to 2014 under the 2004 LTIP Part A. d Executive share options granted in February 2014 and earlier have been granted under the 2004 LTIP Part A.
Executive share options granted since then have been granted under the 2014 LTIP Part A.
b Performance share awards granted in April 2014 and earlier have been granted under the 2004 LTIP Part B.
Performance share awards granted since then have been granted under the 2014 LTIP Part B.
All employees share scheme Sharesave Scheme The table below shows the number of share options granted to the executive directors under the Sharesave Scheme.
Details of the Sharesave Scheme are set out on page 63.
