Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT INTRODUCTION M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC PART 1 ANNUAL STATEMENT Chair of the remuneration committee FROM THE CHAIR OF THE COMMITTEE SUMMARY OF 2015 BUSINESS CONTEXT AND KEY REMUNERATION DECISIONS The work of the committee in 2015 was conducted against a backdrop of a year in which the Company fulfilled its objective of operating with a focus on safety, building a business with appropriate exposure to material frontier and mature basin exploration whilst maintaining balance sheet strength and financial flexibility.
Its key decisions relating to remuneration in 2015 are described in more detail in the Annual Report on Remuneration contained on pages 90 to 104 and can be summarised as follows: Base salary increases As the Chair of Cairns remuneration With effect from 1 January 2015, both the Companys executive committee, I am pleased to present directors being Simon Thomson and James Smith received an increase to base salary of 1.5%.
This was consistent with the level of standard our Directors Remuneration Report annual salary increase awarded to other employees at that time.
During the year we continued Annual bonus Based on an assessment of the extent to which the relevant targets to apply the executive remuneration were achieved during 2015, payments made under the annual bonus policy that was strongly supported at scheme to the executive directors during the year as a percentage of annual salary were 75% for both Simon Thomson and James Smith.
the 2014 AGM, with over 98% of the Further details of the way in which these awards were determined votes cast at that meeting being in are set out on pages 95 to 98 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP favour of its adoption.
The performance period applicable to the LTIP awards granted in 2012 came to an end during 2015.
Over this period, the Companys During 2015, the committee reviewed pay arrangements Total Shareholder Return or TSR was sufficient to place it above the throughout the organisation.
This exercise took into median level in the applicable comparator group with the result that these awards vested in respect of 23.43% of the shares over which consideration evolving best governance standards and they were granted.
remuneration policy perspectives expressed by our investors and others.
As part of our review, the committee has As part of the above vesting process, the LTIPs rules required examined all elements of executive compensation taking the committee to review the Companys overall performance over into account the Companys long-term strategy, its current the three years from the grant of the awards.
After due and careful and near term business plans and todays severe industry consideration, the committee concluded that there had been a conditions and uncertainty.
We did consider making changes sustained improvement in such overall performance during that time.
to certain aspects of the current structure in 2016.
However, APPLYING THE POLICY FOR 2016 after considering the above noted factors, and recognising While we have determined that the current remuneration structure the fact that each individual element of our remuneration should remain in place for the time being, the committee did decide within arrangements should represent a component part of an the confines of the existing policy to make changes to the performance overarching and cohesive policy, we have determined that condition weightings applicable to the 2016 annual bonus scheme.
the appropriate time to make any material variations would be on expiry of the current policy at the AGM in 2017.
An overview of the way in which the current remuneration policy will be applied in 2016 including details of the above noted variations made to the bonus scheme is set out on page 104 in the Annual Report on For ease of reference the substantive provisions of the current Remuneration.
In summary: policy that was approved in 2014 are repeated in Part 2 with effect from 1 January 2016, both the Chief Executive and the of this report.
Part 3, which contains our Annual Report on CFO received an increase to base salary of 1.5%: Remuneration, then goes on to explain how these provisions the Group KPI measures used for the annual bonus scheme and their were actually applied in 2015 and how they will be operated respective weightings have been reformulated for 2016 in order to in 2016.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject reflect appropriately the Companys strategic priorities for the period: it has also been decided that a personal performance element equal to to an advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 10% of the overall opportunity should be reintroduced into the annual 12 May 2016. bonus scheme for the Chief Executive and CFO in order to ensure that it can be used as a more bespoke incentive that reflects their individual roles within the business: and CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 81 Leadership and governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED no material changes have been made to the manner in which the LTIP SHAREHOLDER SUPPORT AND FEEDBACK ON DIRECTORS will operate in 2016, although the members of the TSR international REMUNERATION REPORT oil and gas comparator group will be updated to take account of We welcome questions and feedback from all those interested on both recent delistings.
the content and style of this report.
We hope that our shareholders will support the resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration At the same time as undertaking its review of directors remuneration, that will be proposed at our AGM on 12 May 2016. the committee also considered the pay structures for other employees.
The focus of this review was to simplify the current arrangements and to more closely align share awards made to other employees to those for the executive directors.
M. JACQUELINE SHEPPARD QC Remuneration Committee Chair 14 March 2016 PART 2 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY INTRODUCTION At the AGM held on 15 May 2014, shareholders overwhelmingly approved a new Directors Remuneration Policy for the Company.
This policy, which specifies the various pay structures operated by the Company and summarises the approach that the committee will adopt in certain circumstances such as the recruitment of new directors and or the making of any payments for loss of office, became effective immediately on receipt of such approval and was applied by the committee during 2014 and 2015.
This policy will again be operative throughout 2016.
Although not required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations, the substantive terms of the above Directors Remuneration Policy are repeated in this Part 2 for ease of reference.
However, any details that were specific to 2014 or earlier years including, for example, any disclosures relating to named directors and the illustrative remuneration scenarios set out on page 88 have, where applicable, been updated to reflect the current position.
The policy as originally approved by shareholders can be found on pages 82 to 89 of the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, a copy of which is available on the Companys website.
PURPOSE AND ROLE OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The remuneration committee determines and agrees with the Board the overall remuneration policy for the executive directors and the Groups PDMRs Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities.
Within the terms of this agreed policy, the committee is also responsible for: determining the total individual remuneration package for each executive director and PDMR: determining the level of awards made under the Companys LTIPs and share option plans and the performance conditions which are to apply: determining bonuses payable under the Companys annual cash bonus scheme: determining the vesting levels of awards under the Companys LTIPs and share option arrangements: and determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and termination payments for executive directors and PDMRs.
The committee also reviews and approves the overall remuneration levels of employees below senior management level, but does not set individual remuneration amounts for such individuals.
This oversight role allows the committee to take into account pay policies and employment conditions within the Group as a whole when designing the reward structures of the executive directors and PDMRs.
For example, the committee considers the standard increase applied to basic pay across the Group when setting executive directors base salaries for the same period.
Cairns remuneration committee operates within written terms of reference agreed by the Board.
These are reviewed periodically to ensure that the committee remains up-to-date with best practices appropriate to Cairn, its strategy and the business and regulatory environment in which it operates.
The terms of reference of the remuneration committee are available on the Companys website.
CONSULTATION WITH RELEVANT STAKEHOLDERS The committee is always keen to ensure that, in carrying out its functions, it takes into account the views and opinions of all the relevant stakeholders in the business.
Although the committee does not undertake a formal consultation exercise with employees in relation to the Groups policy on senior management remuneration, members of staff are regularly given the opportunity to raise issues on a variety of matters, including executive pay, via a number of mechanisms including employee engagement surveys.
82 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information OVERVIEW OF CURRENT REMUNERATION POLICY Cairns current policy on executive directors remuneration, which became effective on 15 May 2014 and which is set out below, is to ensure that it appropriately incentivises individuals to achieve the Groups strategic objectives to create, realise and add value for its shareholders, whilst offering a competitive package against the market.
A description of each of the elements comprised in the pay packages for Cairns directors under its remuneration policy is as follows: POLICY TABLE ELEMENTS OF DIRECTORS REMUNERATION PACKAGE Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Base salary Helps recruit and Normally reviewed annually Annual increases will not None retain employees.
with changes taking effect exceed the level of standard on 1 January and or when increase awarded to other Reflects individual an individual changes position employees except that experience and role.
more significant increases may be awarded at the Aim is to provide a discretion of the committee competitive base salary in connection with: relative to the market an increase in the scope although the committee and responsibility of the does not place undue emphasis individuals role: or on benchmarking data and the individuals exercises its own judgement development and in determining pay levels.
performance in the role following appointment: or Decision influenced by: a re-alignment with role and experience: market rates.
average change in broader workforce salaries: individual performance: and remuneration practices in companies of a broadly similar size and value and relevant oil and gas exploration and production companies.
Benefits Helps recruit and Directors are entitled to Company cars up to a value of None retain employees.
a competitive package of 70,000 or, as an alternative, benefits.
For UK executives, an annual car allowance of up the major elements include to 8,771 may be provided.
a company car, permanent Other benefits will be in line health insurance, private with the market.
health insurance, death-inservice benefit and a gym and fitness allowance.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 83 Leadership and governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Annual bonus Rewards the achievement Bonuses are awarded by Maximum % of salary: 100% The measures and targets applicable of annual KPIs and or other reference to performance to the annual bonus scheme and the objectives linked to the against specific targets different weightings ascribed to each of Companys strategic goals.
measured over a single them are set annually by the committee financial year.
in order to ensure they are relevant to participants and take account of the most Any amounts awarded up-to-date business plan and strategy.
to an individual under this arrangement are paid out All, or a significant majority, of the bonus in full shortly after the opportunity will normally be determined assessment of the performance by reference to performance against targets has been completed.
demanding Group KPIs such as: However, annual bonuses may exploration and new venture be subject to clawback where, objectives: in the period of three years development and production from the end of the relevant targets: and financial year, the committee HSE.
becomes aware of a material misstatement of the Companys Any remaining part of a directors bonus financial results or an error in will normally be based on the achievement the calculation of performance of personal objectives relevant to that targets.
individuals role within the business.
A payment scale for different levels of achievement against each KPI and or other objective is specified by the committee at the outset of each year these range from 0% for below-threshold performance up to 100% for full satisfaction of the relevant condition.
The committee has discretion to vary the measures and weightings during the year if events arise which mean that it would be inappropriate to continue with the originally prescribed structure.
The committee expects that this discretion will only be exercised in exceptional circumstances and not to make the bonus scheme for that year less demanding than when it was originally set.
In addition, the committee has discretion to ensure that the ultimate bonus payment for a financial year is fair and reasonable and properly reflects performance over that period.
84 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Long Term Incentivises executive directors Cairn currently operates one Normal maximum % of salary: Vesting of all awards granted under the Incentive Plan to deliver superior levels of LTIP that was approved by 300%.
LTIP to date is determined by comparing or LTIP long-term performance for shareholders in 2009. the growth in Total Shareholder Return the benefit of shareholders, Exceptional circumstances TSR of Cairn over a performance thereby aligning the interests Awards of conditional shares maximum % of salary: 400%.
period of three years from grant with of the directors with those of and or nil-cost options are the TSR of a comparator group of the Companys investors.
made annually with vesting international oil and gas companies that dependent on achievement is selected by the committee prior to of performance conditions each grant, with 20% vesting at median, chosen by the committee.
100% at upper decile and on a straight Performance is measured line sliding scale in between.
In order to encourage exceptional On vesting of an award, only performance, the above condition 50% of the shares to which the provides that, at upper decile levels, holder has become entitled are a multiplier of up to 1.33 is applied if released become exercisable absolute TSR growth is between 50% immediately, with the remaining and 100% or more.
It also states that 50% normally being released no part of any award will vest unless the becoming exercisable after remuneration committee is satisfied that a further period of one year.
there has been an overall satisfactory and sustained improvement in the The committee reviews the performance of the Company as quantum of awards annually, a whole over the performance period.
taking into account factors such as market rates and Although the committees intention is overall remuneration.
that the above condition will be applied to LTIP awards granted in 2016, it may Awards may be subject decide to impose different but equally to clawback where, in the challenging conditions in future years.
period of three years from The committee will consult with major the end of the relevant shareholders prior to making any such performance period, the decision and will ensure that the vesting committee becomes aware of at least 50% of all awards granted of a material misstatement of under the LTIP continues to be the Companys financial results determined by reference to the or an error in the calculation Companys TSR performance.
Share Incentive Encourages a broad range The Company established an Participation limits are those None Plan or SIP of employees to become HM Revenue and Customs set by the UK tax authorities long-term shareholders.
approved share incentive plan from time to time.
It allows the are currently as follows: Company to provide eligible Partnership shares: up to employees, including the 1,800 per tax year can executive directors, with some be deducted from salary.
or all of the following benefits: Matching shares: up to partnership shares acquired two matching shares for using deductions from every one partnership salary: share purchased.
matching shares awarded Free shares: up to 3,600 to those employees who worth in each tax year.
purchase partnership shares on the basis of a ratio specified by the Company: and free shares.
Matching and free shares awarded under the SIP must normally be held in the plan for a specified period.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 85 Leadership and governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Pension Rewards sustained The Company operates a Company contributes 15% None contribution.
defined contribution group of basic salary on behalf of personal pension plan in executive directors or pays the UK.
The scheme is them an equivalent amount non-contributory and all of additional salary.
UK permanent employees, including the executive directors, are eligible to participate.
The Company contributes a specified percentage of basic annual salary for senior employees, including executive directors.
Where an executive director has an individual personal pension plan or overseas equivalent, the Company pays its contribution to that arrangement.
If an executive directors pension arrangements are fully funded or applicable statutory limits are reached, an amount equal to the Companys contribution or the balance thereof is paid in the form of additional salary.
Non-executive Helps recruit and retain Non-executive directors Companys Articles of None directors fees high-quality, experienced fees are considered annually Association place a limit on individuals.
and are set by the executive the aggregate annual level members of the Board and the of non-executive directors Reflects time commitment Chairman taking into account and Chairmans fees and role.
a range of relevant factors currently 900,000. including: market practice: time commitment: and responsibilities associated with the roles.
Additional fees are payable to the Chairs of the audit and remuneration committees.
Chairmans fees Helps recruit and retain the The Chairmans fee is Companys Articles of None relevant individual.
considered annually and is Association place a limit on determined in light of market the aggregate annual level Reflects time commitment.
practice, the time commitment of non-executive directors and responsibilities associated and Chairmans fees with the role and other currently 900,000. relevant factors.
86 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Notes: 1 A description of how the Company intends to implement the policy set out in this table during the financial year to 31 December 2016 is provided on page 104.
2 The following differences exist between the Companys above policy for the remuneration of directors and its approach to the payment of employees generally: Participation in the LTIP is limited to the executive directors and certain selected senior managers.
Other employees have historically participated in the Companys share option schemes details of which are provided on pages 135 and 136 and will, from 2016 onwards, be eligible to participate in a new conditional share award nil cost option arrangement.
Under the Companys defined contribution pension scheme, the Company contribution for less senior employees is 10% of basic annual salary.
A lower level of maximum annual bonus opportunity applies to employees other than the executive directors and certain PDMRs.
Benefits offered to other employees generally comprise permanent health insurance, private health insurance, death-in-service benefit and gym and fitness allowance.
In general, these differences arise from the development of remuneration arrangements that are market competitive for the various categories of individuals.
They also reflect the fact that, in the case of the executive directors and PDMRs, a greater emphasis is placed on variable pay.
3 The TSR performance conditions applicable to the LTIP further details of which are provided on page 98 were selected by the remuneration committee on the basis that they improve shareholder alignment and are consistent with the Companys objective of delivering superior levels of long-term value to shareholders.
Under the terms of these performance conditions, the committee can specify the basis on which TSR for any company is calculated and has the discretion to make adjustments to this methodology to take account of exceptional circumstances, including share capital variations.
Where any company becomes unsuitable as a member of the comparator group as a result of, for example, a change of control or delisting, the committee has the discretion to treat that company in such manner as it deems appropriate including replacing it with another organisation.
4 Where a nil-cost option award under the LTIP becomes exercisable, it will generally remain so until the tenth anniversary of the date on which it was granted.
5 The choice of the performance metrics applicable to the annual bonus scheme reflect the committees belief that any incentive compensation should be tied to appropriately challenging measures of both the overall performance of the Company against its strategic KPIs and where appropriate those areas of the business that the relevant individual can directly influence.
6 The legislation applicable to the SIP does not allow performance conditions to be applied in relation to partnership or matching shares and, given that the SIP is an all-employee arrangement, the Company has decided that it is not appropriate to apply performance conditions to free shares awarded under it.
7 As highlighted on page 102, the Company has a share ownership policy which requires the executive directors to build up and maintain a target holding equal to 100% of base salary.
Until such a holding is achieved, an executive director is obliged to retain shares with a value equal to 50% of the net-of-tax gain arising from any vesting or exercise under the Companys share incentive plans.
Details of the extent to which the current executive directors had complied with this policy as at 31 December 2015 are set out on page 102.
COMMITTEE DISCRETIONS The committee will operate the annual bonus scheme, LTIP and SIP according to their respective rules and the policy described in this Part 2 of the report.
The committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of these arrangements.
These include but are not limited to the following: who participates in the plans: the timing of grant of award and or payment: the size of an award and or a payment: discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control or reconstruction: the weightings, metrics and targets for the annual bonus plan: the determination of the annual bonus payment: determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified categories for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: discretion to disapply time pro-rating in the event of a change of control or good leaver circumstances: adjustments or variations required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, change of control, special dividends and other major corporate events : and the ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional events.
LEGACY AWARDS Outstanding share incentive awards that remain unvested unexercised as detailed on page 100 of the Annual Report on Remuneration remain eligible to vest be exercised based on their original award terms.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 87 Leadership and governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION SCENARIOS RELATING TO THE ABOVE POLICY Cairns pay policy seeks to ensure that the overall package of the executive directors is generally weighted more towards variable pay and, within such variable pay element, that greater emphasis is placed on the delivery of long-term performance through the award of long-term incentives.
In the chart below, we show the make-up of remuneration of the current executive directors in 2016 under minimum, on-target and maximum scenarios.
4.0m 3,433,172 3.0m 65% 2,241,795 1,997,302 2.0m 65% 46% 1,307,895 45% 16% 21% 666,766 1.0m 16% 442,506 21% 100% 33% 19% 100% 34% 20% 0 Minimum On-Target Maximum Minimum On-Target Maximum Chief Executive CFO Fixed Elements Annual Variable Long-term Incentives In developing the above scenarios, the following assumptions have been made: The minimum columns are intended to show the fixed level of remuneration to which the executive directors are entitled in 2016 irrespective of performance levels, namely base salary at current rates, benefits using the details set out in the 2015 single-figure table provided on page 92 and pension calculated by applying the percentage entitlement set out in the policy table against latest confirmed salary.
The on-target scenario seeks to illustrate the remuneration the executive directors would receive if performance was in line with expectation.
In addition to the fixed elements summarised above, it assumes a specified level of payout vesting under the annual bonus scheme and LTIP.
Given that neither of these incentive arrangements explicitly stipulate an on-target amount, the assumed levels for this scenario are: in the case of the LTIP, a 55% vesting of awards originally granted in 2016 over shares worth 300% of salary such vesting level being broadly equal to the percentage applied in determining the grant date fair value of an LTIP award for the purposes of the Companys share-based payment charge : and in the case of the annual bonus, a payout of 75% of salary being the approximate average of such payouts for all executive directors over the five years up to and including 2015.
The maximum columns demonstrate total remuneration levels in circumstances where the variable elements pay out in full i. e. annual bonus payment of 100% of salary and 133% vesting of LTIP awards originally granted in 2016 over shares worth 300% of salary.
For the purposes of valuing the LTIP awards, any post-grant share price movements have been ignored.
The executive directors are entitled to participate in the SIP on the same basis as other employees.
The value that may be received under this arrangement is subject to legislative limits and, for simplicity, has been excluded from the above chart.
RECRUITMENT POLICY BASE SALARIES Salaries for any new director hires including internal promotions will be set to reflect their skills and experience, the Companys intended pay positioning and the market rate for the role.
Where it is appropriate to offer a below-market salary initially, the committee will have the discretion to allow phased salary increases over time for newly appointed directors, even though this may involve increases in excess of the rate for the wider workforce and inflation.
BENEFITS Benefits and pensions for new appointees to the Board will normally be provided in line with those offered to other executive directors and employees taking account of local market practice, with relocation expenses arrangements provided for if necessary.
Tax equalisation may also be considered if an executive is adversely affected by taxation due to their employment with Cairn.
Legal fees and other relevant costs and expenses incurred by the individual may also be paid by the Company.
VARIABLE PAY For external appointments, the committee will ensure that their variable remuneration arrangements are framed in accordance with the terms of, and are subject to the limits contained in, the Companys existing policy.
The committee may however, in connection with an external recruitment, offer additional cash and or share-based elements intended to compensate the individual for the forfeiture of any awards under variable remuneration schemes with a former employer.
The design of these payments would appropriately reflect the value, nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to the remuneration foregone.
Shareholders will be informed of any such arrangements at the time of appointment.
Where an individual is appointed to the Board, different performance measures may be set for the year of joining the Board for the annual bonus, taking into account the individuals role and responsibilities and the point in the year the executive joined.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
88 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS On the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive director, the fees will be set taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual.
Where specific cash or share arrangements are delivered to non-executive directors, these will not include share options or other performance-related elements.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS The current executive directors service contracts contain the key terms shown in the table below: Provision Detailed terms Remuneration Salary, pension and benefits.
Company car or cash allowance.
Private health insurance for director and dependants.
Participation in annual bonus plan, subject to plan rules.
Participation in LTIP and SIP, subject to plan rules.
1 Notice period 12 months notice by the director or by the Company.
Termination payment See separate disclosure below.
Restrictive covenants During employment and for 12 months after leaving.
Note: 1 The committee believes that this policy on notice periods provides an appropriate balance between the need to retain the services of key individuals who will benefit the business and the need to limit the potential liabilities of the Company in the event of termination.
The executive directors service contracts are available for inspection, on request, at the Companys registered office.
EXIT PAYMENT POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Executive directors contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from the Company or termination with a payment in lieu of notice, at the Companys discretion.
The contracts also allow for phased payments to be made on termination with an obligation on the individual to mitigate loss.
Neither notice nor a payment in lieu of notice will be given in the event of gross misconduct.
The committees approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason for termination and the contractual obligations of both parties as well as the relevant share plan and pension scheme rules.
In the event of termination by the Company, an executive director would be entitled to receive an amount representing base salary and the value of benefits and pension contributions due under the individuals service contract for the notice period.
Directors are not entitled to participate in any additional redundancy scheme.
On termination of employment, the committee has discretion as to the amount of bonus payable in respect of the current year.
The bonus paid would reflect the Companys and the individuals performance during that period.
However, any bonus payable on termination would not exceed a pro-rated amount to reflect the period for which the individual had worked in the relevant year.
As a general rule, if an executive director ceases employment, all unvested awards granted pursuant to the Companys long-term incentive arrangements will lapse immediately.
However, if such cessation occurs by reason of death, injury, permanent disability or redundancy, or because the individuals employing company or part of the business in which he she is employed is transferred out of the Group, or in any other exceptional circumstances determined by the committee in each case, a good leaver, those awards will not lapse and will continue to vest at the end of the original performance period but only if, and to the extent that, the applicable performance conditions are satisfied.
It is the remuneration committees normal policy to time pro-rate any awards held by such a good leaver, although it retains the discretion to refrain from doing so in exceptional circumstances.
On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination of his employment, the current Chief Executive is entitled to compensation of a sum equal to his annual basic salary as at the date of termination of employment.
As noted and explained in previous reports, the committee recognises that this provision is no longer in accordance with best practice.
It was not included in the contract of the CFO that was entered into on his appointment in 2014, and will not be included in the contracts of other future appointees to the Board: however, it continues to apply to the current Chief Executive.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR BOARD APPOINTMENTS WITH OTHER COMPANIES The Board believes, in principle, in the benefits of executive directors accepting positions as non-executive directors of other companies in order to widen their skills and knowledge for the benefit of the Company, provided that the time commitments involved are not unduly onerous.
The executive directors are permitted to retain any fees paid for such appointments.
The appointment of any executive director to a non-executive position with another company must be approved by the nomination committee.
In the case of a proposed appointment to a company within the oil and gas industry, permission will only normally be given if the two companies do not compete in the same geographical area.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 89 Leadership and governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT None of the non-executive directors nor the Chairman has a service contract but all have letters of appointment that set out their duties and responsibilities, the time commitment expected by the Company, and the basis on which their fees will be paid.
These letters of appointment can be terminated with immediate effect by either the director concerned or the Company and are subject to the Companys Articles of Association, which provide for the annual election or re-election by shareholders of all of the Companys directors.
There are no provisions for compensation payable on termination of appointment.
None of the non-executive directors nor the Chairman participates in any of the Companys share schemes and they are not entitled to a bonus or pension contributions.
The non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection, on request, at the Companys registered office.
PART 3 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION INTRODUCTION This Annual Report on Remuneration provides details of the way in which the committee operated during the financial year to 31 December 2015 and explains how Cairns approved Directors Remuneration Policy that is described on pages 82 to 90 was implemented during that period.
It also summarises how that policy will be applied in 2016.
In accordance with the Regulations, this part of the report will be subject to an advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM on 12 May 2016.
The Companys auditors are required to report to Cairns shareholders on the auditable parts of this Annual Report on Remuneration which have been highlighted as such below and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts have been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations and the Companies Act 2006.
OPERATION OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE DURING 2015 MEMBERS OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The members of the remuneration committee during the year were as follows: M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC Chair of the committee : Todd Hunt stepped down as a member of the committee on 30 June 2015 but remained an invitee : Iain McLaren: Ian Tyler: and Peter Kallos joined the committee on 1 September 2015.
With the exception of Todd Hunt, each of the above individuals is an independent non-executive director of the Company.
Mr Hunt was independent on his original appointment as a non-executive director in May 2003.
However, given his length of tenure, he is no longer considered to be independent.
As noted above, Mr Hunt stepped down as a member of the committee on 30 June 2015.
The non-executive directors who served on the committee had no personal financial interest other than as shareholders in the matters decided, no potential conflicts of interest from cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business.
Biographical information on the committee members is shown on pages 62 and 63 and details of attendance at the committees meetings during 2015 are shown on page 71.
INTERNAL ASSISTANCE PROVIDED TO THE COMMITTEE The Chief Executive is not a member of the remuneration committee but may attend its meetings by invitation and is consulted in respect of certain of its proposals.
The Chief Executive is not involved in any discussions in respect of his own remuneration.
During the year, the committee also received material assistance and advice on remuneration policy from the Company Secretary.
90 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE PROVIDED TO THE COMMITTEE As and when the remuneration committee considers it appropriate, it takes external advice on remuneration from a number of sources.
During the year, it received the following assistance: 1 Adviser Assistance provided to the committee during 2015 Fees for committee assistance in 2015 Other services provided to the Company during 2015 2 New Bridge Street Appointed by the committee to give 56,330 None periodic advice on various aspects of the directors remuneration packages.
Also assisted with the preparation of the Directors Remuneration Report and provided support on a number of miscellaneous remuneration related projects.
Ernst & Young LLP Appointed by the Company to carry N A no advice provided Internal auditors of the Company out an independent verification of to the committee.
its achievement against performance conditions applicable to the Companys LTIP and share option schemes.
Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP Appointed by the Company to carry 20,650 General legal services to the Group out regular calculations in relation to throughout the year.
Also assisted with the preparation of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Notes: 1 The bases for charging the fees set out in the table were agreed by the committee at or around the time the particular services were provided and, in general, reflected the time spent by the adviser in question on the relevant matter.
2 New Bridge Street is a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited, part of Aon plc they are a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and their work is governed by the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
3 The committee reviews the performance and independence of all its advisers on an annual basis.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 91 Leadership and governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING AT GENERAL MEETINGS The table below shows the voting outcome at the last general meeting s at which shareholders were asked by the Company to approve a resolution relating to its Directors Remuneration Report and Directors Remuneration Policy: Date of Number of general votes For and Number of votes Total number Number of votes 1 Description of resolution meeting Discretionary % of votes cast Against % of votes cast of votes cast Withheld To approve the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report 14 May 2015 410,111,848 98.59% 5,858,991 1.41% 415,970,839 1,643,831 To approve Directors Remuneration Policy 15 May 2014 379,512,480 98.06% 7,495,533 1.94% 387,008,013 1,045,923 Note: 1 A vote withheld is not a vote in law.
The committee welcomed the endorsement of both the above resolutions that was shown by the vast majority of shareholders and gave due consideration to any concerns raised by investors who did not support the resolutions.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS DURING 2015 AUDITED Dr Mike Watts and Jann Brown stood down as executive directors on 15 May 2014 and subsequently ceased employment with the Group on 17 October 2014.
As explained in last years Annual Report on Remuneration, both of these individuals were treated as good leavers for the purposes of the Companys incentive schemes and were, therefore, allowed to retain their outstanding awards under the LTIP subject to time pro-rating.
Details of these entitlements that vested and or were exercised during 2015 have been included in the relevant sections of this part of the report.
No other payments were made to past directors during the year to 31 December 2015.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE TABLE FOR 2015 AUDITED The tables below set out the remuneration received by executive directors and non-executive directors during the year in the following categories.
Long-Term Total Salary Benefits Pension SIP Bonus Incentives Remuneration EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Fixed elements of pay Pay for performance Performance Salary Award on Fixed element Long-term element Total 1 2 3 4 5 6 Financial year and fees Benefits Pension SIP recruitment subtotal Bonus incentives subtotal remuneration Directors Simon Thomson 2015 546,197 29,217 81,930 7,200 664,544 409,648 217,975 627,623 1,292,167 2014 538,125 26,126 80,719 5,997 650,967 422,458 422,458 1,073,425 4 James Smith 2015 355,250 27,840 53,288 7,200 443,578 266,438 266,438 710,016 2014 291,667 21,000 43,750 2,998 200,000 559,415 229,969 229,969 789,384 Notes: 1 Taxable benefits available to the executive directors during 2015 were a company car car allowance, private health insurance, death-in-service benefit and a gym and fitness allowance.
This package of taxable benefits was unchanged from 2014 save that, in the prior year, James Smith received certain relocation expenses.
The increase in the amounts for 2015 is largely attributable to a rise in the costs of the company car provision for the year.
2 Additional disclosures relating to the pension provision for the executive directors during 2015 are set out on page 94.
3 This column shows the face value at date of award of matching and free shares provided to the executive directors under the SIP during the relevant period.
Further details on the way in which the SIP was operated during 2015 are set out on pages 101 and 102.
4 James Smith became an employee of the Company on 3 March 2014 and was appointed as a director with effect from 15 May 2014.
The amount of his 2014 Salary and fees shown in the above table reflects the period from 3 March 2014 to 31 December 2014.
His Award on recruitment was made up of: a cash award of 100,000 that was paid on the commencement of his employment with the Group: and a conditional award of 55,096 ordinary shares at a price of 181.5 pence per share, both by way of compensation for the loss of bonus from his previous employer.
Further information in relation to these matters was provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year to 31 December 2014.
5 This column shows the amount of bonus paid or payable in respect of the year in question after the operation of any applicable time pro-rating reduction.
Further information in relation to the annual bonus scheme for 2015 is provided on pages 95 to 98.
6 This column shows the value of shares that vested in respect of LTIP awards with performance conditions that ended during the period in question.
Further details of the LTIPs operation during 2015 are provided on pages 98 to 101.
7 Following the end of the year to 31 December 2015, the committee considered whether there were any circumstances that could or should result in the recovery or withholding of any sums pursuant to the clawback arrangements contained within the Companys remuneration policy.
The conclusion reached by the committee was that it was not aware of any such circumstances.
92 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Fixed elements of pay Pay for performance Performance Salary Fixed element Long-term element Total 1 2 2 2 Financial year and fees Benefits Pension subtotal Bonus incentives subtotal remuneration Directors Ian Tyler 2015 160,000 160,000 160,000 3 2014 127,675 127,675 127,675 Todd Hunt 2015 74,900 74,900 74,900 2014 73,800 73,800 73,800 Iain McLaren 2015 84,900 84,900 84,900 2014 83,800 83,800 83,800 Alexander Berger 2015 74,900 74,900 74,900 2014 73,800 73,800 73,800 M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC 2015 84,900 84,900 84,900 2014 83,800 83,800 83,800 4 Keith Lough 2015 47,341 47,341 47,341 2014 4 Peter Kallos 2015 25,555 25,555 25,555 2014 Notes: 1 The annual fee for each of the non-executive directors other than the Chairman for 2015 was 74,900.
In addition, a further annual fee of 10,000 was payable to both Iain McLaren and M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC for their roles as Chair of the audit committee and the remuneration committee respectively.
2 The non-executive directors do not participate in any of the Companys long-term incentive arrangements and are not entitled to a bonus or pension contributions.
3 Ian Tyler, who had previously served as a non-executive director, was appointed Chairman on 15 May 2014.
The annual rate of fees payable to him on appointment to this new role was 160,000.
4 Keith Lough and Peter Kallos were appointed as directors on 14 May 2015 and 1 September 2015 respectively.
Their fees for 2015 reflect the period from those dates to the year end.
TSR PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND FURTHER INFORMATION ON CHIEF EXECUTIVE PAY INTRODUCTION The following chart demonstrates the growth in value of a 100 investment in the Company and an investment of the same amount in both the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE 350 Oil & Gas Producers Index over the last seven years.
These comparisons have been chosen on the basis that: Cairn was a constituent member of the FTSE 250 Index for the whole of 2015: and the FTSE 350 Oil & Gas Producers Index comprises companies which are exposed to broadly similar risks and opportunities as Cairn.
The table beneath the graph illustrates the movements in the total remuneration of the Companys Chief Executive during the same seven-year period.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH COMPARISON OF SEVEN-YEAR CUMULATIVE TSR ON AN INVESTMENT OF 100 350 FTSE 250 300 FTSE 350 Oil & Gas 250 Cairn Energy 200 150 100 50 0 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 15 FTSE250 Cairn FTSE350 Oil & Gas CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 93 Leadership and governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED TOTAL REMUNERATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE DURING THE SAME SEVEN-YEAR PERIOD Annual variable element award Long term incentive vesting rates for Chief Executive rates for Chief Executive 1 Financial year Chief Executive Total remuneration of Chief Executive as % of max.
opportunity as % of original award level 2015 Simon Thomson 1,292,167 75% 23.4% 2014 Simon Thomson 1,073,425 78.5% 0% 2013 Simon Thomson 962,765 63% 0% 2012 Simon Thomson 1,018,570 86% 0% 2 2011 Simon Thomson 3,405,719 82% 121% 2011 Sir Bill Gammell 4,053,822 N A 106% 2010 Sir Bill Gammell 7,302,533 58% 113% 2009 Sir Bill Gammell 962,757 54% 0% Notes: 1 The amounts disclosed in this column have been calculated using the same methodology prescribed by the Regulations for the purposes of preparing the single total figure table shown on page 92.
2 Sir Bill Gammell stood down as Chief Executive on 30 June 2011 and was replaced by Simon Thomson who had previously been Legal and Commercial Director with effect from that date.
Sir Bill Gammells total remuneration for 2011 shown in the above table reflects the amount of salary, benefits and pension paid to him in respect of the period to 30 June 2011.
However, during the year to 31 December 2011, Sir Bill Gammell also received, in connection with the termination of his employment and in settlement of his contractual entitlements, a payment of salary and benefits in lieu of his contractual notice period of one year 770,000 and a cash bonus under the Companys annual cash bonus scheme 625,000.
PERCENTAGE ANNUAL CHANGE IN CHIEF EXECUTIVES REMUNERATION ELEMENTS COMPARED TO ALL GROUP EMPLOYEES The table below illustrates, for various elements of the Chief Executives 2015 remuneration package, the percentage change from 2014 and compares it to the average percentage change for all the Groups employees in respect of that same period.
% change in % change in % change in base salary taxable benefits annual bonus 1 Chief Executive 1.5% 11.8% 3.0% 2 All Group employees 2.5% 1.6% 3.9% Note: 1 As highlighted on page 92, the above increase in the Chief Executives taxable benefits is largely attributable to a rise in the costs of his company car provision for 2015.
2 The standard level of salary increase across the Group in 2015 was 1.5%.
However, a small number of individuals received higher percentage increases which raised the average for all employees to 2.5%.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS BASE SALARIES DURING 2015 Based on a review carried out in December 2014, the following salary increases for executive directors became effective on 1 January 2015: 2015 Annual salary details % increase with effect from Job title Annual salary as at 31 December 2014 Annual salary as at 1 January 2015 1 January 2015 Directors Simon Thomson Chief Executive 538,125 546,197 1.5% James Smith CFO 350,000 355,250 1.5% The increases shown in the above table for both Simon Thomson and James Smith were consistent with the level of standard annual salary increase awarded to other employees on 1 January 2015.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS PENSION PROVISION DURING 2015 AUDITED As highlighted in the Directors Remuneration Policy described on pages 82 to 90, the Company operates a defined contribution, non-contributory group personal pension plan which is open to all UK permanent employees.
The Company contributes 10% of basic annual salary 15% in respect of senior executives on behalf of all qualifying employees.
The Company also has a pension committee which meets on a regular basis to assess the performance and suitability of the Companys pension arrangements.
James Smith is a member of the Company scheme and, during the year, received a Company contribution of 15% of his basic salary.
During the year, Simon Thomson received an amount equal to 15% of his annual basic salary in the form of additional salary as his pension arrangements have reached the applicable statutory limits.
Details of the actual amounts of pension contributions additional salary that were paid to the executive directors during 2015 are set out in the pension column of the single total figure table on page 92.
94 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information ANNUAL BONUS 2015 STRUCTURE AND OUTCOME AUDITED During 2015, Cairn operated annual cash bonus schemes for all employees and executive directors.
The maximum level of bonus award for executive directors and certain PDMRs for 2015 was 100% of annual salary as at date of award.
For all participants, as in prior years, bonus awards were based on individual and or Company performance measures.
Individual performance was measured through the Companys performance management system and Company performance conditions were based on annually defined KPIs.
As highlighted in last years Annual Report on Remuneration, the whole of the executive directors bonus opportunity for 2015 was determined by reference to the extent to which certain Group KPIs were achieved.
Taking into account commercial sensitivities around disclosure, a summary of the relevant targets, ascribed weightings and achievement levels is set out below.
2015 ANNUAL CASH BONUS SCHEME GROUP KPI PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS AND ACHIEVEMENT LEVELS KPI measures and performance achieved in 2015 Weighting Bonus awarded as % of allocated proportion Purpose 2015 KPI Measurement 2015 performance of maximum opportunity Deliver exploration and appraisal success Grow the reserves and Invest in exploration and Evidence of commercial Five exploration and appraisal wells 25% 19.5% resources base to provide appraisal activities which discoveries based on were drilled in 2015. a basis for future growth.
add net 2C resources in 2C resources.
35.9 mmboe net 2C were added to excess of 20 mmboe.
Net volumes discovered the resource base from the SNE-2 or added versus the Senegal appraisal well which was 20 mmboe target.
appraising the P50 330 mmbbls The finding efficiency gross discovery and the West of expressed in US$ boe.
Kraken well, enabling the Company to achieve a reserves resources replacement ratio in excess of 100%.
The Atlas and Crossbill wells in the Norwegian North Sea and Al Khayr well in Western Sahara were unsuccessful at the primary exploration target.
Overall finding efficiency was ranked in the second quartile.
Portfolio management Active portfolio management Mature high impact Mature a minimum of four A Group prospects review 25% 17.5% and acreage protection.
exploration prospects ready new independent drill-ready was held in Q4 2015 and one for drilling in 2016 or 2017. prospects which meet independent and two partially investment criteria and dependent prospects were which could be considered identified in Senegal.
In Norway, the Group participated in the 2015 APA Licensing Round and was successful in all five applications.
The Group also participated in the 23rd Barents Sea Licensing Round where licence awards are expected in Q2 2016.
Prospectivity in Mauritania and the Republic of Ireland continues to be assessed.
Maximise acreage retention for Submission of Following the SNE-1 well discovery the Sangomar, Sangomar Deep evaluation plan.
in 2014, a full field long-term and Rufisque blocks in Senegal.
evaluation programme was submitted to and approved by the Senegalese authorities in 2015.
Subsequently, the authorities granted a three year extension to the PSC for the Sangomar, Sangomar Deep and Rufisque blocks.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 95 Leadership and governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED KPI measures and performance achieved in 2015 Weighting Bonus awarded as % of allocated proportion Purpose 2015 KPI Measurement 2015 performance of maximum opportunity Deliver operational excellence Deliver operational Deliver all operated and Projects delivered within Senegal Rufisque-Sangomar 3D 15% 12.2% excellence in all 2015 non-operated asset projects expected timeframe and seismic acquisition, which was the activities and maintain technical studies, surveys, within budget.
Groups primary operated seismic licence to operate.
seismic and drilling project in 2015, was successfully programmes on schedule and completed in Q4 2015.
The data budget including manpower was acquired safely and without costs, with full data recovery.
major incident on schedule and under budget.
Seismic delivery for non-operated projects, principally in Norway and Morocco, was behind schedule.
Progress North Sea Reference should be made to Catcher and Kraken projects are development projects, the original FID cases reflected progressing well.
The Catcher remaining within 10% of capital in the Investment Proposals project remains within 10% of guidance and first oil dates for Kraken and Catcher capital guidance whilst capex on scheduled within six months versus the YE 2015 status the Kraken project has been of Final Investment Decision of the projects.
Catcher and Kraken remain on schedule to deliver first oil in 2017.
Secure a suitable rig for Contract terms acceptable Following a rig selection process in further exploration and to the Board, with firm Q1 2015, the JV secured the Ocean appraisal in Senegal.
slots allocated to mature Rig Athena for drilling in Q4 2015. opportunities.
The costs for both the rig and associated support services were significantly lower than the previous drilling campaign in 2013 14.
96 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information KPI measures and performance achieved in 2015 Weighting Bonus awarded as % of allocated proportion Purpose 2015 KPI Measurement 2015 performance of maximum opportunity Maintain licence to operate including HSE performance Deliver activities with Minimise injuries and TRIR.
The TRIR for 2015 was zero per 15% 13.3% a focus on the safety of environmental incidents in Number of oil spills million hours.
2015 operated activities: to the environment.
Two minor spills to the environment, Total Recordable Injury each of less than one litre in volume, Rate TRIR target of less occurred during the Senegal than 2.0 TRI million hours.
No oil spills to the environment.
Achieve targets for HSE leading Progress against HSE LPIs.
CRMS was substantially revised in performance indicators LPIs line with latest IOGP guidance.
linked to elements of the HSE Extensive contractor management culture framework.
programme completed including acceptance and readiness audits for Senegal project.
Worked closely with JV partners in Western Sahara to monitor and track human rights issues through to completion of the drilling programme.
Ongoing engagement post-completion of drilling programme.
Stakeholder engagement strategy and investment programme has been developed and is being implemented in Senegal.
Enhanced the risk assessment process for travellers to high risk countries.
Deliver a sustainable business maintain liquid reserves Maintain a self-funding Maintain liquid reserves Development of a funding The Group remains funded to deliver 20% 12.5% business plan.
including undrawn committed strategy to optimise its firm exploration, appraisal and banking facilities to meet deployment of risked capital development programme through planned funding commitments whilst maintaining adequate to free cash flow from 2017. plus a cushion at all times.
Make tangible progress on Release of CIL shares or Proceedings against the Cairn India Limited CIL significant advancement on Government of India under the shares freeze.
process to release CIL shares.
UK-India Investment Treaty seeking resolution of the retroactive tax dispute have now formally commenced following agreement with the Government of India on the appointment of the arbitration panel.
Cairn has a high level of confidence in its case under the UK-India Investment Treaty and, in addition to resolution of the retroactive tax dispute, its statement of claim to the arbitration panel will seek damages equal to the value of Cairns residual shareholding in CIL at the time it was attached approximately US$1 billion.
Totals 100% 75% CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 97 Leadership and governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 2015 ANNUAL CASH BONUS SCHEME ACTUAL PAYMENTS AWARDED The application of the outturn from the above performance condition assessment resulted in annual bonuses of 409,648 and 266,438 becoming payable to Simon Thomson and James Smith respectively.
In both cases these amounts were equal to 75% of their basic annual salary.
The remuneration committee considered that the above award levels were appropriately reflective of overall performance during the year.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVES DURING 2015 INTRODUCTION During the year to 31 December 2015, the executive directors participated in the Companys LTIP, which was originally approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 19 May 2009.
The LTIP enables selected senior individuals to be granted conditional awards or nil-cost options over ordinary shares, the vesting of which is normally dependent on both continued employment with the Group and the extent to which pre-determined performance conditions are met over a specified period of three years.
In the case of all awards under the LTIP including those granted during 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, the performance conditions involve a comparison of the TSR of the Company over a three-year performance period commencing on the date of grant of the relevant award with the TSR of a share in each company in a comparator group.
At the end of this period, each company in the comparator group is listed in order of TSR performance to produce a ranking table.
The vesting of awards then takes place as follows: Ranking of Company against the comparator group Percentage of ordinary shares comprised in award that vest Below median 0% Median 20% Upper decile i. e. top 10% 100% Between median and upper decile 20%100% on a straight line basis A list of the companies comprised in the comparator groups applicable to all LTIP awards that were outstanding during 2015 is set out on page 101.
In order to ensure that the LTIP encourages and rewards exceptional performance in terms of delivering increased growth and shareholder value, the performance conditions attaching to awards also provide that, where the TSR of the Company produces a ranking at or above the upper decile level in the appropriate comparator group, a participant will then be given the opportunity to increase the percentage of his her award that vests through the application of a multiplier that is linked to the TSR actually achieved over the performance period.
The way in which this multiplier operates is as follows: Multiplier applied to determine the number of ordinary shares that actually vest TSR of the Company over the performance period 1 50% or less 1.33 100% or more 11.33 on a straight line basis Between 50% and 100% However, notwithstanding the performance of the Company against the above targets, no part of any award will vest unless the remuneration committee is satisfied that there has been an overall satisfactory and sustained improvement in the performance of the Company as a whole over the performance period.
In addition, and as noted in the Directors Remuneration Policy, LTIP awards are subject to clawback provisions which may be operated by the committee where, in the period of three years from the end of the applicable performance period, it becomes aware of either a material misstatement of the Companys financial results or an error in the calculation of performance metrics.
On any vesting of an award under the LTIP, only 50% of the ordinary shares to which the holder has become entitled are released become exercisable immediately, with the remaining 50% normally being released becoming exercisable after a further period of one year.
98 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information LTIP AWARDS GRANTED DURING 2015 AUDITED On 19 March 2015, the following awards under the LTIP were granted to executive directors: Face value 000 of.
% of shares over which award max.
of shares over originally granted shares over which to vest if all Vesting determined Basis of award Share price at which award that vest at award originally performance by performance 3 4 5 Type of award granted date of grant originally granted threshold granted measures met over Directors Simon Thomson Nil-cost option 3 x salary 1.868 877,190 20% 1,639 2,179 of 546,197 3 years until 18 March 2018 James Smith Nil-cost option 3 x salary 1.868 570,529 20% 1,066 1,417 of 355,250 Notes: 1 Details of the performance conditions applicable to the awards granted in 2015 are provided on page 98.
2 No price is payable by participants for their shares on the exercise of a nil-cost option granted under the LTIP.
3 This figure represents the average of the closing mid-market prices of a share in the Company over the thirty days preceding the date of grant.
The actual closing price on the 19 March 2015 was 1.535.
4 The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the number of shares over which the award was originally granted by the share price at date of grant.
5 The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the number of shares over which the award was originally granted by 133% being the vesting percentage that would apply on full satisfaction of all performance conditions to which the awards are subject see page 98 and multiplying the result by the share price at date of grant.
LTIP AWARDS VESTING DURING THE YEAR AUDITED On 13 June 2015, the three-year performance period applicable to the awards granted under the LTIP on 14 June 2012 to various participants including current and former executive directors came to an end.
Thereafter, the remuneration committee assessed the relevant performance conditions.
The results of this assessment, which was completed on 17 June 2015, can be summarised as follows: Performance measure % of award subject to measure Performance achieved 20122015 % of award vested Relative TSR performance against a 100% Cairns TSR over the period placed 23.43% comparator group of 18 companies it between the 8th and 9th median with the opportunity for additional ranked companies in the comparator multiplier of up to 1.33 to be applied group.
After careful consideration for upper decile absolute TSR of a variety of factors, the committee performance.
also concluded that there had been a sustained improvement in the overall performance of the Company over the three years in question.
Notes: 1 Further details of the performance conditions that applied to the above awards are set out on page 98.
2 At various points in the period 14 June 2012 to 13 June 2015, the committee was required to determine the treatment of those comparator group companies that were the subject of takeover transactions.
No other discretions were exercised by the remuneration committee during or after the relevant performance period.
3 The TSR calculations used to inform the committees determinations in relation to the above awards were independently verified by Ernst & Young LLP.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 99 Leadership and governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The following table shows, for each current and former director, details of the LTIP awards that vested during the year: No.
of shares that % of award to vest vested after taking No.
of shares over as per performance account of any time which award condition pro-rating Value of shares 1 2 Type of award Date of grant originally granted Date of vesting assessment requirements vesting 3 Current director Simon Thomson Nil-cost option 14 June 2012 513,335 17 June 2015 23.43% 120,295 217,975 Former directors 4 Jann Brown Nil-cost option 14 June 2012 432,282 17 June 2015 23.43% 79,190 143,492 4 Dr Mike Watts Nil-cost option 14 June 2012 469,691 17 June 2015 23.43% 86,043 155,910 Notes: 1 On the vesting of an LTIP award held by a current employee or executive director of the Group, only 50% of the shares to which the holder has become entitled are available for immediate exercise, with the remaining 50% normally becoming exercisable after a further period of one year.
2 The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the number of shares that vested by 1.812, being the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day such vesting occurred.
In the case of current directors, this value has been included in the single figure total for 2015.
3 James Smith was not employed by the Group in 2012 and was not, therefore, granted an LTIP award during that period.
4 As explained on page 92, both Jann Brown and Dr Mike Watts were categorised as good leavers for the purposes of the LTIP rules with the result that their 2012 LTIP awards vested at the same time as those held by all other participants.
However, a pro-rata reduction was applied to the number of shares that vested in respect of these individuals awards to reflect the proportion of the performance period that they were employed by the Group.
LTIP AWARDS EXERCISED DURING 2015 AUDITED Details of vested LTIP awards which are in the form of nil-cost options that were exercised by current and former directors during the year to 31 December 2015 are as follows: Number of ordinary Market value of shares acquired ordinary shares at Date of grant Date of vesting Date of exercise on exercise Exercise price date of exercise Gain on exercise Current director Simon Thomson 14 June 2012 17 June 2015 26 June 2015 60,147 Nil 1.724 103,693 Former director Dr Mike Watts 14 June 2012 17 June 2015 27 June 2015 86,043 Nil 1.623 139,648 LTIP OTHER AWARDS HELD BY EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS DURING THE YEAR For the sake of completeness, and in order to allow comparisons to be made with the awards granted under the LTIP during 2015, set out below are details of the other unvested entitlements under the plan that were held by current executive directors during the year: Face value 000 of.
of shares award of shares to Vesting over which originally shares over vest if all determined by award granted that which award performance performance Basis of award Share price at originally vest at originally measures over three 2 3 Date of grant Type of award granted date of grant granted threshold granted met years until Directors Simon Thomson 20 March Nil-cost 3 x salary of 19 March 2013 option 2016 525,000 2.784 565,732 20% 1,575 2,095 19 March Nil-cost 3 x salary of 18 March 2014 option 2017 538,125 1.682 959,794 20% 1,614 2,147 James Smith 19 March Nil-cost 3 x salary of 18 March 2014 option 2017 350,000 1.682 624,256 20% 1,050 1,396 Notes: 1 Further details of the performance conditions that apply to these awards are set out on page 98.
2 The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the relevant number of shares over which the award was originally granted by the appropriate share price at date of grant being, for these purposes, the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day immediately preceding the date of its grant.
3 The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the relevant number of shares over which the award was originally granted by 1.33% being the vesting percentage that would apply on full satisfaction of all performance conditions to which the awards are subject see page 98 and multiplying the result by the appropriate share price at date of grant being, for these purposes, the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day immediately preceding the date of its grant.
100 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information COMPARATOR GROUP COMPANIES APPLICABLE TO LTIP AWARDS The table below provides details of the comparator groups applicable to each tranche of awards granted under the LTIP to executive directors that were outstanding during 2015.
Comparator group applicable to LTIP awards granted on.
PARTICIPATION OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS IN ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES DURING 2015 INTRODUCTION In order to encourage increased levels of long-term share ownership amongst its general employee population, the Company launched an HM Revenue and Customs approved SIP in April 2010.
The SIP provides eligible employees, including the executive directors, with the following benefits: Partnership shares employees can authorise deductions of up to 1,800 per tax year from pre-tax salary, which are then used to acquire ordinary shares on their behalf.
Matching shares the Company can award further free shares to all participants who acquire partnership shares on the basis of up to two matching shares for every one partnership share purchased.
For the tax year 2015 2016, the Company awarded two matching shares for every one partnership share purchased and intends to continue using this award ratio for the tax year 2016 2017.
Free shares employees can be given up to 3,600 worth of ordinary shares free in each tax year.
On 8 April 2015, an award of free shares was made to employees, including to the executive directors.
As the SIP is an all-employee arrangement, no performance conditions are imposed in relation to any matching or free shares awarded pursuant to its terms.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 101 Leadership and governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DETAILS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SIP PARTICIPATION IN 2015 Details of the shares purchased by and awarded to the executive directors under the SIP during the course of the year are as follows: Total SIP Free shares Partnership shares Matching shares Total SIP shares held at awarded on 8 April awarded on 6 May awarded on 6 May shares held at 1 January 2015 at a price of 2015 at a price of 2015 at a price of 31 December 2015 1.70 per share 1.83 per share 1.83 per share 2015 Directors Simon Thomson 10,980 2,117 984 1,968 16,049 James Smith 2,688 2,117 984 1,968 7,757 The total number of shares held by each of the current executive directors under the SIP is included in their beneficial shareholdings disclosed in the directors report on page 64.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES FOR DIRECTORS AUDITED The committee believes that a significant level of shareholding by the executive directors strengthens the alignment of their interests with those of shareholders.
Accordingly, a formal share ownership policy is in place under which the executive directors are required to build up and maintain a target holding equal to 100% of base salary.
The policy also provides that, until such a holding is achieved, an executive director is obliged to retain shares with a value equal to 50% of the net-of-tax gain arising from any vesting or exercise under the Companys share incentive plans.
The following table discloses the beneficial interest of each director in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2015.
It also highlights the fact that, on that date, the above shareholding requirements were satisfied by Simon Thomson, Chief Executive but, in light of his relatively recent appointment as CFO, not by James Smith.
However, James Smith does intend to build-up his holding over time in accordance with the committees policy and it is expected that he will reach the necessary levels within a period of three to five years from joining the Group.
Shares held Awards over shares under the LTIP Ordinary shares Value of holding as a subject to vested Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Total holding of % of salary on but unexercised subject to unvested Total interest in 2 3 4 5 6 Ordinary shares held in the SIP ordinary shares 1 January 2016 awards awards ordinary shares Executive directors Simon Thomson 556,734 16,049 572,783 171% 60,148 2,402,716 3,035,647 James Smith 55,096 7,757 62,853 29% 1,194,785 1,257,638 Non-executive directors Ian Tyler Todd Hunt 72,012 72,012 72,012 Iain McLaren 7,878 7,878 7,878 Alexander Berger 40,008 40,008 40,008 M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC 7,000 7,000 7,000 Keith Lough Peter Kallos 738,728 23,806 762,534 60,148 3,597,501 4,420,183 Notes: 1 Details of the Companys share ownership policy for executive directors are set out above.
2 Includes shares held by connected persons.
3 Under the rules of the SIP, certain shares awarded to participants must be retained in the plan for a specified holding period of up to five years.
The receipt of these shares is not subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
4 Share price used is the average share price over the year to 31 December 2015.
5 This column shows all vested but unexercised awards under the LTIP that were held by the director concerned as at 31 December 2015.
6 This column shows all unvested and outstanding awards under the LTIP that were held by the director concerned as at 31 December 2015 i. e. including those granted during the year.
Details of these entitlements, the vesting of which is subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, are set out on pages 99 and 100.
102 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information DILUTION OF SHARE CAPITAL PURSUANT TO SHARE PLANS DURING 2015 In any ten-year rolling period, the number of ordinary shares which may be issued in connection with the Companys discretionary share plans which includes both the LTIP and the share option schemes used to incentivise less senior employees cannot exceed 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
In addition, in any ten-year rolling period, the number of ordinary shares which may be issued in connection with all of the Companys employee share schemes whether discretionary or otherwise cannot exceed 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
It should also be noted that all shares acquired by or awarded to participants under the SIP are existing ordinary shares purchased in the market.
As a result, the SIP does not involve the issue of new shares or the transfer of treasury shares.
BOARD APPOINTMENTS WITH OTHER COMPANIES DURING 2015 Certain of the Companys current executive directors serve as non-executive directors on the boards of other companies and are permitted to retain any associated fees.
Details of the positions held during 2015 and the fees that were payable are as follows: Fees received for the year Position held to 31 December 2015 Director Simon Thomson Non-executive director, Grahams The Family Dairy Limited 35,000 RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY Set out below are details of the amounts of, and percentage change in, remuneration paid to or receivable by all Group employees and distributions to shareholders in the years ended 31 December 2014 and 2015.
Financial Year Financial Year 2014 2015 % change 1 Employee costs US$m 51.3 32.6 36.4% 2 Distributions US$m 64.3 0 100% Note: 1 This fall in employee costs is largely attributable to the headcount reduction that occurred within the business during 2015.
2 For the purposes of the above table, Distributions include amounts distributed to shareholders by way of dividend and share buyback.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 103 Leadership and governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2016 The following table provides details of how the Company intends to implement the key elements of the Directors Remuneration Policy described in pages 82 to 90 during the year to 31 December 2016.
Remuneration element Implementation during 2016 Base salary Both of the executive directors received a 1.5% increase in base salary on 1 January 2016 this was in line with the standard annual increase awarded to other employees on that date.
After applying this increase, details of the base salaries payable to both the current executive directors for the year to 31 December 2016 are as follows: Simon Thomson, Chief Executive 554,390: and James Smith, CFO 360,579.
Benefits Executive directors will continue to receive the same benefits as in 2015.
Annual bonus In accordance with the requirements of the policy, executive directors will be eligible to receive a bonus of up to 100% of base salary depending on the extent to which specified measures are satisfied over the year.
90% of the Chief Executives and CFOs 2016 bonus opportunity will be based on the demanding Group KPIs described below with details of the weightings specified in brackets : exploration and appraisal success 29% : active portfolio optimisation 16% : manage balance sheet strength 20% : maintain licence to operate 15% : and operational excellence 20%.
The balance 10% of the executive directors bonuses for 2016 will be determined by reference to the achievement of personal objectives that are relevant to each individuals role within the business.
The specific targets to be used for the purposes of the 2016 bonus scheme are commercially sensitive and have not, therefore, been set out in detail above.
However, appropriate disclosures in relation to the 2016 bonus scheme will be included in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
LTIP It is intended that, during 2016, the executive directors will be granted LTIP awards over shares worth 300% of salary being the same level as was awarded in 2015.
The performance conditions that will determine the vesting of these grants will be unchanged from those that applied to last years awards full details of which are set out on page 98 of the Annual Report on Remuneration except that the Total Shareholder Return comparator group will exclude Afren plc, Dragon Oil plc and BG Group plc and include Maurel & Prom, Africa Oil Corp and Cobalt International Energy, Inc. Executive directors will be given the opportunity to participate in the SIP on the same terms as apply to all other SIP eligible employees in the arrangement.
Pension The Company will continue to contribute 15% of basic salary on behalf of executive directors or pay them an equivalent amount of additional salary.
Non-executive directors fees For 2016, both the annual non-executive director fee and the additional annual fee for chairing the audit and or remuneration committees remain unchanged at 74,900 and 10,000 respectively.
Chairmans fees The annual Chairmans fee for 2016 has been retained at 160,000.
The Directors Remuneration Report was approved by the Board on 14 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by: M. JACQUELINE SHEPPARD QC Chair of the remuneration committee 104 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
