Directors remuneration report We have operated pay arrangements fully in line with the policy approved by shareholders, and our remuneration strategy over the medium and long term remains fully aligned with the Companys strategic objectives.
Simon Ball Remuneration Committee Chairman Annual Statement by the Chairman of the On an operational front, we reviewed and approved the remuneration Remuneration Committee package for Perley McBride prior to his appointment as CFO on The Remuneration Committee the Committee has been busy this 26 June 2014, conducted a risk review of our remuneration year on many fronts reflecting the significant level of change in the arrangements and reviewed and approved the pay arrangements organisation.
In the following questions and answers format, we for the wider senior executive team.
highlight some of the topics considered by the Committee during the 2014 15 financial year and the focus of activity for the year How is remuneration aligned with delivering Group strategy?
By way of summary, we confirm that we have operated pay A primary objective of the Committee is to operate a remuneration arrangements for the three executive directors fully in line with the framework which successfully promotes the long-term success of the policy approved by shareholders at the July 2014 AGM.
The Group strategy put in place last year focuses on four strategic objectives of growing top line revenue, maintaining cost What are the key issues that we have dealt with this year?
efficiency, increasing returns on capital and delivering unparalleled 2014 15 has been a year of significant corporate and management customer service.
Our remuneration strategy over the medium and change.
We completed the acquisition of Columbus International Inc. long term remains fully aligned with these strategic objectives.
The in March 2015, in the run up to which we formulated potential acquisition of Columbus has accelerated, but not fundamentally retention arrangements for key Columbus executives joining the changed, our strategy and the initial view of the Committee is that Group post acquisition.
We also considered and reviewed our overall our reward strategy remains appropriate.
We will, of course, keep this reward framework to ensure that it remains fit for purpose for the under review in the coming months.
A series of Corporate acquisitions and disposals, including the disposal of our Monaco operation and the acquisition of What is the remuneration package for our new CFO?
Sonitel in Panama, required the Committee to revisit the validity of the On joining the company Perley McBrides package was set at a base Annual Incentive Plan AIS targets for 2014 15, and a similar process salary of US$600,000 per annum, a pension allowance of 25% of of review and adjustment took place with regard to the EPS targets salary, annual bonus opportunity of 150% of base salary, annual LTIP for the January 2013 LTIPs given the disposal of our operations in award of 200% of salary, an accommodation allowance of US$78,000 Macau and Monaco & Islands during the performance period.
per annum for a maximum of two years and benefits broadly in line with other US based employees.
68 Cable & Wireless Communications What bonus LTIP awards have been earned for financial year What is in the rest of this report?
The report is split into two sections: 2014 15 saw the Group deliver revenue growth of 4% year on year Key parts of our Directors Remuneration Policy, which was 2% on a like-for-like basis.
EBITDA grew more strongly by 7% against approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, and which summarises the prior year.
This has resulted in bonuses accruing below target for the framework for remuneration and each of its elements, have revenue achieved and above target for EBITDA achieved.
When been included again in this report for information only.
As there combined with performance against personal and Net Promoter Score are no changes proposed to the policy, it will continue in force as NPS targets, this has resulted in bonus payments for the Executive previously approved and not be subject to a vote at this years AGM, Directors of between 104.5% and 110% of salary, set against the but will be put to shareholders again for approval no later than the maximum bonus opportunity of 150% of salary.
Full details of AGM to be held in 2017.
2014 15 performance against annual bonus targets are set out on pages 80 to 81.
An annual report on remuneration, which provides details on the following: Having seen zero LTIP vesting in each of the last three years, exceptionally, this year, two LTIP awards granted for financial years Implementation of remuneration policy for financial year 2011 12 and 2012 13 have vested.
The performance condition for the 2015 16 awards made on 2 June 2011 the award for financial year 2011 12 The remuneration earned in respect of performance during the was based on absolute TSR performance to the end of May 2014.
The financial year 2014 15, along with details of any share awards performance conditions for the awards made on 14 January 2013 made during the year were relative TSR and EPS measured to the end of March 2015.
The annual report on remuneration along with the annual statement The LTIP awards granted on 2 June 2011 achieved the maximum will be put to shareholders for an advisory vote at the AGM on performance target of 14% per annum TSR and therefore 100% 21 July 2015. of the shares subject to that award vested.
The LTIP awards granted on 14 January 2013 with performance Simon Ball measured over the three years to 31 March 2015 achieved a TSR Remuneration Committee Chairman performance greater than the highest ranked company in the comparator group and an adjusted EPS CAGR of greater than 10%, and consequently 100% of the shares attributed to the award will vest.
Policy Further details on LTIPs are provided on page 82.
This part of the Directors remuneration report sets out an abridged version of the Remuneration Policy the Policy which was approved What are we changing for the year ahead?
by shareholders at the AGM on 25 July 2014.
The Policy took formal We are making no changes to the salaries, bonus opportunities or level effect from the date of approval and is intended to apply for the three of LTIP award for the Executive Directors.
years beginning on the date of approval.
The Committees Terms of Reference have been reviewed to ensure Where references were made in the Policy last year to specific that they remain appropriate for the new organisation post the levels of pay in 2014 15 e. g. the reward scenarios charts which acquisition of Columbus, and we have incorporated robust withholding incorporated salary levels effective 1 April 2014, these have been and recovery provisions into our LTIP and AIS plans to ensure updated so that the report can be read in the context of the 2015 16 consistency with the best practice expectations of investors.
acquisition of Columbus will necessitate adjustments to some of the A full version of the Policy can be found in the 2013 14 Annual Report existing LTIP targets to ensure that they reflect the enlarged business and so that the same degree of stretch is maintained.
and Accounts pages 58 to 67 on the Companys website www.
How have we engaged with shareholders?
The overall aim is to establish remuneration structures which The Committee actively seeks to engage with shareholders and values encourage, reinforce and reward the delivery of outstanding business highly the contribution their views can make in the process of performance measured against a basket of operational KPIs.
This is formulating remuneration policy decisions.
During the year, the underpinned by the following guiding principles: Committee engaged with the Companys major shareholders on a The risk and reward structure must maintain an overall alignment number of remuneration issues, including the remuneration packages for Phil Bentley and Perley McBride, and the operation of our incentive with the interests of shareholders arrangements in the context of the move to Miami.
The shareholders Executive Directors are encouraged to maintain a very significant who replied were supportive of our approach and we also personal investment in the shares of the Company incorporated some of the suggestions received.
The Directors remuneration report clearly demonstrates that we are committed to There is a strong focus on performance-related pay fostering an environment where remuneration is strongly linked to Targets should be appropriately stretching and adequately reward performance and where our Executive Directors remuneration the Directors if they meet or exceed the targets set under the arrangements are directly aligned with our shareholders.
variable components of their remuneration packages As always, we continue as a Committee to welcome any feedback you may have.
Annual Report 2014 15 69 Directors remuneration report continued Summary Remuneration Policy table for Executive Directors that took effect from the AGM on 25 July 2014 Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Framework used to assess performance Base salary Recruit and retain high-calibre individuals Reviewed annually, effective 1 April Annual increases generally in line in percentage of salary terms The Committee considers but not necessarily alters the salaries of to execute the Groups business strategy with those of the wider workforce Executive Directors each year taking due account of all the factors Set initially at a level required to recruit suitable Executive Directors described in how the salary policy operates Reflect the value of the individual and role reflecting their experience and expertise or to reflect up to, but not Increases beyond those granted to the wider workforce in above, mid-market levels if promoted internally percentage of salary terms may be awarded in certain Reflect experience and expertise circumstances such as where there is a change in responsibility, Any increase determined by: Provide an appropriate level of fixed basic experience or a significant increase in the scale of the role and or income Role, experience and personal performance size, value and or complexity of the Group Average change in total workforce salary Where new joiners or recent promotions have been given a starting salary at a discount to the mid-market level, a series of Total organisational salary budgets increases above those granted to the wider workforce in Company performance percentage of salary terms may be awarded over the proceeding few years, subject to satisfactory individual performance and External economic conditions development in the role Pay of other employees in relevant geographies particularly the Salary levels at 1 April 2015 are set out on page 77 UK and US taken into account periodically Annual bonus To incentivise the annual delivery of All bonus payments are at the discretion of the Committee Up to 150% of salary for all Executive Directors, dependent on Details of the performance targets set for the year under review objectives relating to the business strategy performance and performance against them is provided in the annual report on Not pensionable remuneration along with outline details of the metrics for the next Rewards the achievement of stretching See annual bonus arrangements for Corporate Services Director Targets are reviewed annually financial year annual financial, strategic and personal goals for financial year 2014 15 on page 81 Half of gross bonus paid in shares deferred for 12 months Bonus is based on the achievement of a range of strategic and Compulsory deferral of part of bonus into personal objectives and targets relating to our key performance shares provides further continuing alignment During the deferral period the shares carry dividend rights and any indicators with shareholders dividends awarded are also deferred during the deferral period Financial measures derived from the operating plan will represent Remainder of bonus paid in cash at least 50% of bonus with other measures representing the Claw back provisions apply to the deferred bonus such that it can remainder.
Measures and weightings may change each year to be reduced in the event of restatement of the Companys accounts reflect any year on year changes to business priorities resulting from fraud, error or misrepresentation, or any issues of 25% of each element of the bonus vests for a threshold level of a nature which have a significant effect on the performance of performance rising to 50% vesting for on target performance and the business 100% vesting for maximum performance.
Performance between threshold, on target and maximum will be calculated on a straight line basis Long Term Incentive Intended to align Executive Directors The LTIP was approved by shareholders in 2011 Maximum of 400% of salary per annum Awards will vest based on a range of challenging targets relating Plan LTIP performance closely with shareholders and primarily to financial measures and total shareholder return based Awards of free performance shares are normally granted annually Normal award policy currently set at up to 200% of salary with key strategic objectives over the longer performance measured over a three year period in the form of restricted share awards or nil cost options although higher awards may be made in exceptional circumstances term such as recruitment Targets relating to other key non-financial objectives e. g. net Vesting is dependent on performance targets being met during the promoter score may also be included for a minority of an award performance period and the continued service of the Executive See annual bonus arrangements for Corporate Services Director Directors for financial year 2014 15 on page 81 At least 50% of an award will be based on financial measures, at least 25% based on total shareholder return, and the remaining A dividend equivalent provision exists which allows the Committee 25% based on either financial, total shareholder return or other to pay dividends accrued during performance period on vested non-financial measures shares at the time of vesting in the form of additional shares 25% of each element of the LTIP vests for a threshold level of performance rising to 100% vesting for maximum performance Pension Provide long-term savings through Executive Directors may choose to receive an employers pension Employers defined contribution and or pension cash supplement N A retirement benefits contribution or pension cash allowance up to a total of 25% of salary Contribute to the provision of an appropriate balance in the overall package between fixed and variable income 70 Cable & Wireless Communications Summary Remuneration Policy table for Executive Directors that took effect from the AGM on 25 July 2014 Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Framework used to assess performance Base salary Recruit and retain high-calibre individuals Reviewed annually, effective 1 April Annual increases generally in line in percentage of salary terms The Committee considers but not necessarily alters the salaries of to execute the Groups business strategy with those of the wider workforce Executive Directors each year taking due account of all the factors Set initially at a level required to recruit suitable Executive Directors described in how the salary policy operates Reflect the value of the individual and role reflecting their experience and expertise or to reflect up to, but not Increases beyond those granted to the wider workforce in above, mid-market levels if promoted internally percentage of salary terms may be awarded in certain Reflect experience and expertise circumstances such as where there is a change in responsibility, Any increase determined by: Provide an appropriate level of fixed basic experience or a significant increase in the scale of the role and or income Role, experience and personal performance size, value and or complexity of the Group Average change in total workforce salary Where new joiners or recent promotions have been given a starting salary at a discount to the mid-market level, a series of Total organisational salary budgets increases above those granted to the wider workforce in Company performance percentage of salary terms may be awarded over the proceeding few years, subject to satisfactory individual performance and External economic conditions development in the role Pay of other employees in relevant geographies particularly the Salary levels at 1 April 2015 are set out on page 77 UK and US taken into account periodically Annual bonus To incentivise the annual delivery of All bonus payments are at the discretion of the Committee Up to 150% of salary for all Executive Directors, dependent on Details of the performance targets set for the year under review objectives relating to the business strategy performance and performance against them is provided in the annual report on Not pensionable remuneration along with outline details of the metrics for the next Rewards the achievement of stretching See annual bonus arrangements for Corporate Services Director Targets are reviewed annually financial year annual financial, strategic and personal goals for financial year 2014 15 on page 81 Half of gross bonus paid in shares deferred for 12 months Bonus is based on the achievement of a range of strategic and Compulsory deferral of part of bonus into personal objectives and targets relating to our key performance shares provides further continuing alignment During the deferral period the shares carry dividend rights and any indicators with shareholders dividends awarded are also deferred during the deferral period Financial measures derived from the operating plan will represent Remainder of bonus paid in cash at least 50% of bonus with other measures representing the Claw back provisions apply to the deferred bonus such that it can remainder.
Performance between threshold, on target and maximum will be calculated on a straight line basis Long Term Incentive Intended to align Executive Directors The LTIP was approved by shareholders in 2011 Maximum of 400% of salary per annum Awards will vest based on a range of challenging targets relating Plan LTIP performance closely with shareholders and primarily to financial measures and total shareholder return based Awards of free performance shares are normally granted annually Normal award policy currently set at up to 200% of salary with key strategic objectives over the longer performance measured over a three year period in the form of restricted share awards or nil cost options although higher awards may be made in exceptional circumstances term such as recruitment Targets relating to other key non-financial objectives e. g. net Vesting is dependent on performance targets being met during the promoter score may also be included for a minority of an award performance period and the continued service of the Executive See annual bonus arrangements for Corporate Services Director Directors for financial year 2014 15 on page 81 At least 50% of an award will be based on financial measures, at least 25% based on total shareholder return, and the remaining A dividend equivalent provision exists which allows the Committee 25% based on either financial, total shareholder return or other to pay dividends accrued during performance period on vested non-financial measures shares at the time of vesting in the form of additional shares 25% of each element of the LTIP vests for a threshold level of performance rising to 100% vesting for maximum performance Pension Provide long-term savings through Executive Directors may choose to receive an employers pension Employers defined contribution and or pension cash supplement N A retirement benefits contribution or pension cash allowance up to a total of 25% of salary Contribute to the provision of an appropriate balance in the overall package between fixed and variable income Annual Report 2014 15 71 Directors remuneration report continued Summary Remuneration Policy table for Executive Directors that took effect from the AGM on 25 July 2014 continued Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Framework used to assess performance Other benefits Provide competitive employee benefit Directors are entitled to benefits including health insurance, long-term The value of benefits may vary from year to year depending on the N A programme to help recruit and retain disability insurance, life assurance, personal accident insurance, cost to the Company employees holiday pay and other group-wide benefits offered by the Company In addition, travel related expenses and overseas accommodation will be provided where necessary Car driver provision provided as applicable Other benefits including relocation expense, benefits relating to working in Miami and expenses relating to financial planning may be offered, as appropriate Annual bonus With specific regard to providing executive This arrangement is for financial year 2014 15 only Up to 300% of salary i. e. not in addition to the normal 150% of Details covering metrics for the financial year 2014 15 bonus are arrangements for continuity and retaining incentivising Nick salary bonus for Nick Cooper.
The enhanced bonus is in lieu of him provided in the annual report on remuneration 50% of the annual bonus will be in accordance with the annual Corporate Services Cooper over the financial year 2014 15 receiving an LTIP grant for financial year 2014 15 of 150% of bonus operation detailed above.
The remaining half will be subject Further bonus is based on the achievement of key strategic Director for financial salary, so overall in net terms his pay potential will remain to the key strategic objective of the development of the new objectives year 2014 15 unchanged from the prior year regional Miami hub and the reshaped operating model Explanatory notes to the Remuneration Policy table Executive Director total remuneration at di erent levels of performance m What is our annual bonus plan and LTIP policy?
4.5 The annual bonus plan and LTIP will be operated according to the rules 4,337k of each respective plan and consistent with normal market practice 37% and the Listing Rules.
The quantum and performance targets 4 applicable to awards will be within the parameters described above.
Subject to that, the Committee has certain flexibility and the ability to 3.5 exercise judgement in a number of areas.
3 Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting The performance metrics and targets that are set for the Executive 2,537k Directors via the annual bonus plan and LTIP are carefully selected to 2.5 28% provide a clear link between our incentive arrangements and our 16% strategic objectives of Top Line Growth, Profitability, Customer 2 1,917k 24% Satisfaction and Returns.
The precise metrics chosen, along with the 39% weightings of each, may vary in line with the Companys evolving 1,537k 1.5 strategy.
The Committee will review the performance measures and 100% 61% 35% targets each year and vary them as appropriate to reflect the priorities 1,068k for the business in the year ahead.
1 30% 18% 27% 596k Share ownership requirement 0.5 100% 56% 31% The Committees policy is to have shareholding requirements for the Executive Directors which create greater alignment between their 0 interests and those of shareholders and reduce the potential for Minimum On-targetO MaximumMinimumM n-target aximum behaviours and actions which are not beneficial for the long-term CFO CEO health of the organisation.
Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP The required level is set at up to 400% of salary.
Where the holding is not already attained it is required to be achieved through retention of Fixed pay comprises salary e ective 1 April 2015, benets paid for financial year 2014 15 shares or the vesting of awards on a net of tax basis from share plans.
including cash allowances and expatriate benets relating to living working in Miami and annualised for the CFO and pensions of 25% of base salary.
For the CFO the gures have been translated from $ to using an exchange rate of $1: 0.6293 Reward scenarios Minimum performance below threshold The Companys Policy results in a significant proportion of xed pay only remuneration received by Executive Directors being dependent on the On-target performance in line with expectations Companys performance.
The chart below illustrates how the total pay xed pay opportunities for the Executive Directors vary under three different target bonus 50% of maximum opportunity vesting of 25% of the maximum under the LTIP performance scenarios: minimum, on-target and maximum for Maximum performance meets or exceeds maximum 2015 16.
The chart is indicative only as no assumed share price xed pay movement or dividend accrual has been included.
maximum bonus 100% of maximum opportunity maximum vesting under LTIP 72 Cable & Wireless Communications Summary Remuneration Policy table for Executive Directors that took effect from the AGM on 25 July 2014 continued Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Framework used to assess performance Other benefits Provide competitive employee benefit Directors are entitled to benefits including health insurance, long-term The value of benefits may vary from year to year depending on the N A programme to help recruit and retain disability insurance, life assurance, personal accident insurance, cost to the Company employees holiday pay and other group-wide benefits offered by the Company In addition, travel related expenses and overseas accommodation will be provided where necessary Car driver provision provided as applicable Other benefits including relocation expense, benefits relating to working in Miami and expenses relating to financial planning may be offered, as appropriate Annual bonus With specific regard to providing executive This arrangement is for financial year 2014 15 only Up to 300% of salary i. e. not in addition to the normal 150% of Details covering metrics for the financial year 2014 15 bonus are arrangements for continuity and retaining incentivising Nick salary bonus for Nick Cooper.
The remaining half will be subject Further bonus is based on the achievement of key strategic Director for financial salary, so overall in net terms his pay potential will remain to the key strategic objective of the development of the new objectives year 2014 15 unchanged from the prior year regional Miami hub and the reshaped operating model Approach to recruitment and promotions Service contracts and loss of office payments The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would be Service contracts normally continue until the Executive Directors set in accordance with the terms of the Companys Policy in force at agreed retirement date or such other date as the parties agree.
the time of appointment, as detailed on pages 70 to 73.
This Policy The Companys policy is that Executive Directors will be employed limits LTIP awards to 4 x salary in exceptional circumstances such on a contract that can be terminated by the Company on giving no as recruitment.
The Committee may offer additional cash and or more than 12 months notice, with the Executive Director required share-based elements when it considers these to be in the best to give 12 months notice of termination.
interests of the Company and shareholders.
Any such payments would An Executive Directors service contract may be terminated without be based solely on remuneration relinquished when leaving a former notice and without any further payment or compensation, except for employer and would reflect as far as possible the nature and time sums earned up to the date of termination, on the occurrence of horizons attaching to that remuneration and the impact of any certain events such as gross misconduct.
The circumstances of the performance conditions.
Replacement share awards, if used, will be termination taking into account the individuals performance and granted using the Companys LTIP up to the overall limit of 400% of an individuals duty and opportunity to mitigate losses are taken into salary to the extent possible.
Awards may also be granted outside of account by the Committee when determining amounts payable on the Companys existing LTIP if necessary and as permitted under the or following termination.
The Committees normal policy is to reduce Listing Rules.
Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at compensatory payments to former Executive Directors where the time of appointment.
they receive remuneration from other employment during the The annual bonus would operate in accordance with the terms of the compensation period.
The Committee will consider the particular approved Policy, but with the opportunity for the year of joining circumstances of each leaver on a case by case basis and retain pro-rated for the period of employment.
Depending on the timing and flexibility as to at what point, and to what extent payments would responsibilities of the appointment it may be necessary to set be reduced.
different performance measures and targets in the year of joining.
For an internal Executive Director appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role would be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as appropriate to take into account the appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment would continue.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation and living expenses as appropriate.
For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-executive Director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved policy in force at that time.
Annual Report 2014 15 73 Directors remuneration report continued Any share-based entitlements granted under the Companys share In summary, the contractual provisions are as follows: plans will be determined on the basis of the relevant plan rules.
Provision Detailed terms The default treatment is that any outstanding awards would lapse on cessation of employment.
However, under the rules of the LTIP, Notice period Maximum of 12 months in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, redundancy, Termination payment Payment in lieu of notice of base salary, disability, retirement, the company business unit employing the normally subject to mitigation and paid individual ceasing to be part of the Group or other circumstances at 1,2 monthly the discretion of the Committee taking into account the individuals performance and the reasons for their departure, good leaver status In addition, any statutory entitlements can be applied.
In these circumstances a participants awards vest on would be paid as necessary a time pro-rated basis and further are subject to the satisfaction of Remuneration A pro-rata bonus may also become payable the relevant performance criteria over the original performance entitlements for the period of active service along with period with the balance of the awards lapsing.
vesting for outstanding share awards The Committee retains discretion to decide not to pro-rate, to in certain circumstances see above alter the basis of time pro-rating, and to alter the date on which In all cases performance targets would apply performance is calculated, if it feels such decisions are appropriate in the particular circumstances.
If, however, the termination of Change of control Payments on a change of control, where a employment is not for one of the specified good leaver reasons, and Directors employment is adversely changed, if the Committee does not exercise its discretion to allow an award to will be as on termination.
There will be no vest, a participants awards will lapse in full.
In determining whether an 2 enhanced provisions on a change of control Executive Director should be treated as a good leaver, the Committee will take into account the performance of the individual and the 1 Notwithstanding the Companys normal policy, the Committee retains the flexibility, in exceptional circumstances, to make lump sum termination payments up to a reasons for their departure.
Other than for US participants, shares maximum of 12 months base salary and contractual benefits as part of an Executive deferred through the annual bonus plan will vest immediately on Directors termination arrangements where it considers it appropriate to do so.
cessation of employment other than on cessation of employment 2 The service contracts provide that, in the event of termination without cause and or for cause, in which case they will lapse.
For US tax reasons, shares a change of control of the Company and an Executive Directors employment being adversely changed, then a payment equal to base salary for the notice period and a deferred through the annual bonus plan for US participants will vest time pro-rated annual bonus will be payable.
For Phil Bentley all benefits will cease on the earlier of the date that is six months following the cessation with the exception of life cover and medical insurance which will continue for a period of employment and the date of death of the participant.
of up to six months or earlier if a new job is commenced, and the Company will pay any costs associated with the early termination of housing and car provision in the US.
In the event of a takeover of the Company, a scheme of arrangement or similar other major corporate event, LTIP awards will only vest to the extent that any performance conditions have been met at the date of the event, as determined by the Committee.
In such an event, LTIP awards will only vest pro-rata to the length of time that has elapsed between the date of award and the date of the relevant event, unless, in appropriate circumstances, the Committee determines otherwise.
Other than for US participants, any deferred bonus share awards will vest in full and cease to be capable of forfeiture in the event of any such major corporate event during the 12 month deferral period.
For US tax reasons, notwithstanding a major corporate event occurring during the 12 month deferral period, the deferred bonus share award for US participants will remain outstanding and will only vest on the earlier of the expiry of the 12 month deferral period and the date of death of the participant.
However, the early vesting of awards following a change of control will not apply where a company acquires control of the Company and following that acquisition the shareholders of the Company immediately prior to the acquisition between them hold more than 50% of the issued share capital of the acquiring company, unless the Committee decides that the foregoing vesting rules should apply.
The Company retains the ability to pay what it feels is an Executive Directors reasonable legal fees associated with agreeing his her termination and in relevant circumstances outplacement services and related costs.
74 Cable & Wireless Communications Summary Remuneration Policy table for Non-executive Directors Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Base Fees To provide competitive The Chairmans pay is determined by the Fees for 2015 16 are: fees in order to attract Committee, and the pay of the other NonChairman: 386,000 per annum and retain high-calibre executive Directors is determined by the Board, individuals with the within the limits set out in the Companys Non-executive Director: 65,000 per annum relevant skills and Articles of Association, with the Chairman and experience to enhance Non-executive Directors abstaining from any the Board discussion or decision on their fees The Chairman and Non-executive Directors are paid an annual fee and do not participate in any of the Companys incentive arrangements or receive any pension provision The fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis, with reference to the time commitment of the role and market levels in companies of comparable size and complexity In respect of the Chairman in particular, the Company also considers the individuals profile and experience Additional Fees To reflect the Fees are reviewed annually Additional fees may be payable for additional additional time responsibilities such as chairing committees or for The Chairman is not eligible to receive required when an the Senior Independent Director role.
The fees for additional fees individual chairs a the forthcoming year are set out in the annual committee or is Fees are benchmarked and set in a manner report on remuneration appointed as Senior consistent with the base fees see above Both the base and additional fee levels will be Independent Director eligible for increase during the three year period that the Remuneration Policy operates to ensure they continue to appropriately recognise the time commitment of the role, increases to fee levels for Non-executive Directors in general and fee levels in companies of a similar size and complexity Benefits Contractual Reimbursement of business expenses on The value of benefits expenses may vary from arrangements and production of receipts year to year depending on the cost to the reimbursement of Company Limited benefits relating to travel, reasonable expenses accommodation and meals for Non-executive Directors will also be payable in certain circumstances The Chairman may be provided with car-related benefits Annual Report 2014 15 75 Directors remuneration report continued The Company allows Executive Directors to hold external Annual report on remuneration directorships subject to agreement by the Chairman on a case by case The annual report on remuneration is split into two sections.
The first basis and allows the Executive Directors to retain fees received from section provides details on the implementation of the Remuneration these roles.
Policy for financial year 2015 16 and the second section from page 79 onwards provides details on the remuneration earned in respect Chairmans service contract of performance during the financial year 2014 15, along with details The Chairman has a service contract with 12 months notice of of any share awards made during the year.
There are no other contractual entitlements on early termination or following a change of control.
Implementation of Remuneration Policy for financial year 2015 16 Non-executive Directors letters of appointment Executive Directors service contracts The Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company, but instead have letters of appointment.
Non-executive Effective date of Directors are permitted to have other external appointments, but service contract Notice period these should not adversely affect the ability of the Non-executive Phil Bentley 1 January 2014 Notice can be served Director to perform his her duties.
Non-executive Directors are by either party on not appointed for an initial three year term with the expectation that a less than 12 months further three year term will follow.
After two three year terms, the notice continued appointment of any Non-executive Director may be extended on an annual basis on recommendation of the Nomination Perley McBride 23 June 2014 Notice can be served Committee.
Termination of the appointment may be earlier at the by either party on not discretion of either party on one months written notice.
Nonless than 12 months executive Directors are not entitled to any compensation if their notice appointment is terminated.
Appointments will be subject to annual re-election at the AGM in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Effective date of Last extension of Unexpired term of appointment at initial appointment appointment letter 31 March 2015 Notice period 1 5 5 Sir Richard Lapthorne 25 January 2010 N A N A 12 months 2,3 Simon Ball 25 January 2010 1 May 2014 1 month 1 month Mark Hamlin 1 January 2012 1 January 2015 2 years, 9 months 1 month Brendan Paddick 31 March 2015 3 years 1 month 4 Alison Platt 1 June 2012 2 months 1 month John Risley 31 March 2015 3 years 1 month Barbara Thoralfsson 7 January 2015 2 years, 9 months 1 month Ian Tyler 1 January 2011 1 January 2014 1 year, 9 months 1 month Thad York 31 March 2015 3 years 1 month 1 Appointment date shown from date of demerger in 2010.
Originally appointed as Chairman to the former Cable and Wireless plc on 10 January 2003.
2 Appointment date shown from date of demerger in 2010.
Originally appointed as a Non-executive Director to the former Cable and Wireless plc on 1 May 2006.
3 Appointment has been extended from 1 May 2015 until the 2016 AGM.
4 Appointment will be extended for a further three years from 1 June 2015.
5 The Chairman has a service contract with 12 months notice.
76 Cable & Wireless Communications Salary What are the measures for the annual bonus for financial year No salary increases will be granted to Executive Directors in financial 2015 16?
For the financial year 2015 16, the measures adopted and their respective weighting for the annual bonus are detailed below.
The current salaries as at 1 April 2015 are as follows: Weighting of Salary at measure 1 April 2014 or Measure Rationale out of 100% on appointment Salary at 1 to the Board 1 April 2015 % increase Revenue growth This measure reflects our 25% Phil Bentley 800,000 800,000 No increase ability to deliver sustainable long-term growth and will 1 Perley McBride US$600,000 US$600,000 No increase encourage innovation and investment to gain a greater 1 Perley McBride joined the Company on 23 June 2014 and was appointed to the Board on 26 June 2014. share of customers telecoms wallet Pension and other benefits EBITDA US$m This measure seeks to 25% Executive Directors may choose to receive either a cash allowance of incentivise our business 25% of their base salary, an employers pension contribution at the operating effectiveness, rate of 25% of base salary or a combination of a cash allowance and encouraging cost control and employers pension contribution with a combined value of 25% of base operational gearing salary.
An Executive Director is not required to pay any pension contributions.
Net Promoter Score This measure tracks customer 25% 1 NPS service and advocacy, The Executive Directors participate in employee benefit programmes improvements in which including life cover, income protection and health insurance plans.
For deliver an increase in the Phil Bentley, an annual accommodation car allowance in Miami is lifetime value of our customer provided to recognise the time periods spent between the UK and US.
relationships For Perley McBride an annual accommodation allowance is provided for a period of up to two years or until such time as he relocates to Personal performance Targets specific deliverables 25% Miami on a permanent basis whichever is the earlier, and he is tax and behaviours by each equalised on any of his CWC income which is taxable in the UK.
This will be a basket of measures, encompassing Annual bonus the how as well as the what The operation of the bonus plan for financial year 2015 16 will be consistent with the framework detailed in the Policy.
The measures 1 There will continue to be a minimum EBITDA underpin to the NPS element of the have been selected to support the key strategic objectives of the annual bonus, whereby the NPS element of the annual bonus will only pay out provided that the minimum EBITDA AIS target has been achieved.
Company alongside a number of personal objectives.
The maximum bonus opportunity will continue to be 150% of salary Given the commercial sensitivity of the financial and personal for the Executive Directors.
performance targets we will not at this stage be providing details on the specific targets for the financial year 2015 16.
It is our intention to report the targets and performance achieved in next years annual report on remuneration except to the extent that they remain commercially sensitive.
However we can confirm that the bonus plan will have three data points: minimum, target and maximum.
A range will be set based on the annual operating plan, whereby 25% of each of the financial measures will be paid for threshold performance, 50% for target performance and 100% for stretch performance.
Bonus will accrue on a straight line basis between the threshold, target and stretch levels.
For bonuses awarded from 2015 16 we have introduced recovery provisions for a period of two years on the cash element of the bonus and a further period of one years recovery on the portion of the bonus deferred into shares for a year.
These provisions will take effect in the event of restatement of the Companys accounts resulting from fraud, error or misrepresentation or any issues of a nature which have a significant effect on the performance of the business.
Annual Report 2014 15 77 Directors remuneration report continued LTIP Share ownership requirements The LTIP award levels for Phil Bentley and Perley McBride in the The required share ownership levels to be achieved will continue to be 2015 16 financial year will be 200% of salary.
as follows: What are the measures for the LTIP for the financial year 2015 16?
CEO 400% of salary For the LTIP for financial year 2015 16, the measures to be applied CFO 300% of salary and their respective weightings are as follows: Weighting of Chairmans fee measure The Chairmans annual fee of 386,000, effective from his Measure Rationale out of 100% appointment as Chairman of Cable and Wireless plc in January 2003, CWC Revenue Same as for annual bonus 18.75% was reviewed by the Committee in March 2015 and will remain unchanged for financial year 2015 16.
The Chairman receives a cash CWC EBITDA 18.75% allowance of 5,500 per month in lieu of the provision of a car.
1 Net Promoter Score 18.75% Non-executive Director fees CWC Economic Profit This measure indicates 18.75% The fee levels of the Non-executive Directors were also reviewed in whether we are creating March 2015 and no increases were approved for the coming year.
value in excess of our cost of capital and ensures that our The annual fees which are based in sterling payable to each capital programme is targeted Non-executive Director for financial year 2015 16 are shown in the on delivering sustainable table below.
profitable growth Base fee in sterling Additional fees in sterling Relative TSR This measure recognises 25% 1 Simon Ball 65,000 20,000 that while our operational measures will deliver business 2 Mark Hamlin 65,000 20,000 progress, shareholders are Brendan Paddick 65,000 only remunerated through improvement in share price Alison Platt 65,000 and dividends paid John Risley 65,000 1 There will continue to be a minimum EBITDA underpin to the NPS element of the LTIP, Barbara Thoralfsson 65,000 whereby the NPS element of the LTIP will only pay out provided that the minimum EBITDA LTIP target has been achieved.
3 Ian Tyler 65,000 20,000 Similar to the annual bonus, at threshold, interim and maximum, Thad York 65,000 25%, 50% and 100% of each portion of the LTIP award vests.
The Committee will exercise its discretion on any adjustments which may 1 Additional fee for role of Senior Independent Director, Deputy Chairman, and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
be required as a result of disposals and or acquisitions during the 2 Additional fee for membership of the Integration Committee and acting as Alternative performance period.
For the improvement in NPS measure there will Chairman of the Integration Committee which oversees the integration CWC and be an EBITDA underpin whereby this element of the LTIP will not pay Columbus.
Further information on the Integration Committee is available on page 51.
3 Additional fee for role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
out for the Executive Directors if the minimum three year EBITDA LTIP target is not achieved.
Again due to the commercial sensitivity of the targets we will not be disclosing them at the outset but will do so after they cease to be commercially sensitive.
25% of the LTIP will be based on relative TSR measured against the FTSE 250, with 25% of the award vesting at threshold median ranking rising on a straight line basis to full vesting at upper quartile ranking.
For awards to Executive Directors from 2015 16 we have introduced recovery provisions for a period of two years after vesting such that awards can be clawed back in certain circumstances including the restatement of the Companys accounts including as a result of fraud, error or misrepresentation, or any issues of a nature which have a significant effect on the performance of the business.
78 Cable & Wireless Communications Directors total remuneration table The table below shows the aggregate emoluments earned by the Directors of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc during the period 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2015.
Benefits in kind include car and fuel benefits, chauffeur provision, benefits associated with travel, accommodation and relocation, the cost of medical insurance and income protection insurance, and the tax settled by the Company in relation to those benefits.
2 With the exception of Nick Cooper, half of the bonus is paid in cash and the other half is deferred into shares for one year and subject to claw back at the discretion of the Committee.
These shares will count towards each Executive Directors shareholding requirement.
For Perley McBride, bonus paid is calculated on annual salary and is pro-rated for the period 23 June 2014 to 31 March 2015.
For Nick Cooper his bonus opportunity for financial year 2014 15 was 300% of salary as detailed in the policy report on pages 70 to 73 with half the bonus up to 150% of salary in accordance with the ordinary annual bonus arrangements for 2014 15 and the remaining 50% up to 150% of salary awarded in lieu of an LTIP grant and subject to the key strategic objective of the development of the new regional Miami operational hub and the reshaped operating model.
3 This column represents the cash equivalent value of the LTIP award granted 2 June 2011 for the financial year 2011 12 with performance measured over a period of three years from the date of grant and which vested in full on 2 June 2014 as detailed on page 82.
Based on a closing share price of 0.52125 on 5 June 2014 the date of vesting.
4 This column denotes the cash equivalent value of the LTIP award granted on 14 January 2013 for the financial year 2012 13 with performance measured over the period 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2015.
The performance conditions of relative TSR and EPS have both been achieved at the maximum level as detailed on page 82.
As the shares have not vested at the date of this report, the average share price for the three month period to 31 March 2015 of 0.55104 has been used to calculate the cash equivalent value.
The amount includes reinvested dividends accrued to 31 March 2015.
5 Company pension contributions in financial year 2014 15 and financial year 2013 14 have been paid to the Executive Directors as either an annual cash allowance and or employers pension contributions.
An amount of 21 million 2013 14 20 million is included in the net pensions deficit figure in note 3.10 to cover the cost of former Executive Directors pension entitlements.
6 Phil Bentley was provided with expatriate allowances relating to a car and accommodation 358,188 and the tax liability for expatriate benefits incurred while living working in Miami.
Nick Cooper also received a cash allowance to settle the tax liabilities on benefits relating to living working in Miami.
For Richard Lapthorne, the cash allowance is in part in lieu of a company car 66,000 and the remainder relates to the settlement of the tax liability on benefits.
For Perley McBride the 37,632 relates to an accommodation allowance.
7 Phil Bentley was appointed as Director effective 1 January 2014.
8 Nick Cooper stood down from the Board on 31 March 2015.
9 Perley McBride joined the Company on 23 June 2014 and was appointed to the Board on 26 June 2014.
10 Barbara Thoralfsson was appointed to the Board on 7 January 2015.
11 Brendan Paddick, John Risley and Thad York were appointed to the Board on 31 March 2015.
12 The Directors total remuneration table is presented in sterling and the US amounts paid to Perley McBride have been converted to sterling using the average exchange rate of $1: 0.6293 for the tax year 2014 15.
Annual Report 2014 15 79 Directors remuneration report continued Payments to past directors Loss of office 2015, he received his normal salary, pension cash contribution Tony Rice stood down from the Board on 31 December 2013.
Under allowance, healthcare 547 to his leave date and a cash allowance to the terms of his exit, he remained an employee on garden leave until settle the tax liability in respect of healthcare benefits for the period.
During the period to 31 March 2015 he continued to On 2 June 2014 the financial year 2011 12 LTIP award vested in full receive healthcare 456 and life cover up until 30 June 2014.
On and the cash equivalent value of the LTIP attributable to Tim 2 June 2014 the LTIP award attributable to Tony Rice for the financial Pennington on vesting was 2,200,779. year 2011 12 vested in full and the cash equivalent value of the LTIP on vesting was 3,081,092.
In addition the LTIP award granted on Details of variable pay earned in financial year 2014 15 14 January 2013 for the financial year 2012 13 whose performance is Annual bonus payments measured over the period 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2015 will vest in 2014 15 saw the Company deliver revenue growth of 4% year on full.
As the shares have not vested at the date of this report the year 2% on a like-for-like basis.
EBITDA grew more strongly by 7% average share price for the three month period to 31 March 2015 has against the prior year.
been used to calculate the cash equivalent value of 2,755,977 The tables below detail the bonus composition, bonus target ranges which includes reinvested dividends accrued to 31 March 2015. and how the Executive Directors have performed against each of Tim Pennington stood down from the Board on 11 February 2014 and these targets.
The targets and actual performance are measured at a left the Company on 2 June 2014.
During the period to 31 March fixed exchange rate to avoid currency fluctuations having a bearing on the financial performance.
Bonus composition for financial year 2014 15 Bonus measures Revenue EBITDA Net Promoter Score NPS Personal performance % of bonus opportunity Up to 25% of bonus Up to 25% of bonus Up to 25% of bonus Up to 25% of bonus out of 100% opportunity opportunity opportunity opportunity % of salary Up to 37.5% of salary Up to 37.5% of salary Up to 37.5% of salary Up to 37.5% of salary out of 150% of salary Financial bonus targets and performance for financial year 2014 15 Financial year 2014 15 Bonus targets Threshold Target Stretch performance 1 Revenue Target US$m 1,739.7 1,793.5 1,820.4 1,759.8 % of salary payable 9.38% 18.75% 37.5% 12.9% 1 EBITDA Target US$m 567.5 585.0 593.8 586.6 % of salary payable 9.38% 18.75% 37.5% 22.1% 2 NPS Target 2 NPS points on CWC 4 NPS points on CWC 5 NPS points on CWC NPS score of 22 which is NPS baseline of 16 NPS baseline of 16 NPS baseline of 16 6 NPS points on CWC NPS baseline of 16 % of salary payable 9.38% 18.75% 37.5% 37.5% 1 Financial year 2014 15 performance revenue and EBITDA has been calculated at a fixed exchange rate.
The NPS underpin of EBITDA being higher in 2014 15 than the prior years performance has been achieved with EBITDA at US$581m in 2014 15 versus US$546m in 2013 14 on a like-for-like basis.
80 Cable & Wireless Communications Personal performance targets and performance for financial year 2014 15 Performance against personal targets Personal performance achieved Phil Bentley Phil has completed what has been a transformational year for CWC.
Aside 37.5% out of 37.5% from the acquisition of Columbus International Inc. he has delivered top line growth for the first time in five years and achieved the US$100 million cost reduction plan we committed to achieve by end of 2014 15.
He embedded NPS within the business with visible improvements in customer engagement across all our markets and grew our B2B capabilities through the creation of a new B2B function, the acquisition of Sonitel and secured new business in Peru and El Salvador.
The Executive Team has been strengthened with the appointment of the new CFO and the key hires from the Columbus management team.
Perley McBride Perley was instrumental in obtaining the necessary financing for the 32% out of 37.5% acquisition of Columbus International Inc.
He delivered the US$100 million cost reduction plan and supported Phil in delivering top line growth.
On an operational front, he has identified additional Opex savings from the acquisition, and during the transition activities to Miami ensured that key personnel in London were retained with dual running for defined periods in order to minimise operational risk.
Nick Cooper Nick managed the transfer of operations to the Miami office by establishing 32% out of 37.5% the Miami HR team and ensuring that key personnel were retained in London to support with the transfer of knowledge.
He embedded the Plc governance systems and processes into the Miami office, ensuring the smooth running of the Board in a year where an unprecedented number of issues were dealt with.
He also played a key role in the legal and regulatory negotiations on the acquisition of Columbus.
Bonus payments for financial year 2014 15 % of salary % of salary % of salary % of salary payable for payable for payable for payable for Total bonus Total bonus Revenue EBITDA NPS personal payable as a paid out performance performance performance performance % of salary of 100% Phil Bentley 12.9% 22.1% 37.5% 37.5% 110% 73.3% Nick Cooper 12.9% 22.1% 37.5% 32.0% 104.5% 69.7% 1 Perley McBride 12.9% 22.1% 37.5% 32.0% 104.5% 69.7% 1 Bonus paid is pro-rated for the period 23 June 2014 to 31 March 2015.
For financial year 2014 15, Nick Cooper was eligible for a bonus opportunity of up to 300% of salary as outlined in the Policy table on pages 70 to 73.
50% of the bonus up to 150% of salary was based on the normal bonus performance for financial year 2014 15 as shown above, with the remaining 50% of bonus up to 150% of salary subject to the key strategic objective of the development of the new Miami operational hub and the reshaped operating model and was in lieu of him receiving an LTIP grant for financial year 2014 15.
The Committee considered the role which Nick played in the delivery of this key strategic objective as follows: The building of management capability in the new Miami operational hub including the recruitment of key senior executives including the new CFO, Perley McBride The provision of executive support and continuity for Phil Bentley during Phils first full year in the CEO role Ensuring continuity for the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors during the transition, and acting as a key adviser to the Chairman throughout the process Downsizing the London Head Office from in excess of 120 people to less than 25 people at year end Transferring certain London Head Office activities to Miami whilst ensuring that all corporate and governance routines were maintained throughout The Committee concluded that this portion of the bonus would be paid in full.
Annual Report 2014 15 81 Directors remuneration report continued Long-term incentive awards earned in financial year 2014 15 EPS performance targets On 2 June 2011, performance share awards equal to 1.5 times base Companys CAGR over the salary were granted to Nick Cooper under the previous performance performance period Percentage of the EPS element to vest share plan which were capable of vesting on the third anniversary of grant on 2 June 2014 subject to achievement of the performance 10% or above 100% conditions.
Between 5% and 10% 25%-100% The performance targets and vesting schedule for this award were: on a straight line basis At 5% 25% Total Shareholder Return TSR over performance period % of award vesting Below 5% 0% 14% compound p. a. or higher 100% As a result of the disposal of our Macau, and Monaco & Islands Between 8% compound p. a. and Straight line between businesses and the proceeds received from those businesses not 14% compound p. a.
0% and 100% being reinvested into new businesses during the performance period, 8% compound p. a. or lower 0% the Committee considered how to assess EPS performance given the significant proportion of EPS attributed to the disposed businesses at The Companys TSR over the performance period at 16.7% compound the time the targets were set.
The Committee concluded that per annum exceeded the maximum performance target therefore the adjusting both the EPS performance vesting range and actual EPS shares vested in full during the financial year 2014 15. performance to recognise the divestments during the performance period was the fairest approach to adopt in that we were maintaining On 14 January 2013, a performance share award equal to 1.5 times the principle of applying the 5-10% CAGR per annum to the baseline base salary was granted to Nick Cooper and other Executives at that EPS but only for the period during which we owned the respective time.
This award was based 50% on relative TSR against a comparator businesses.
Similarly, in applying the same adjustment methodology group, comprising companies predominantly from the European to the actual EPS performance, we have ensured that the degree of Telecoms sector and 50% on compound annual growth in EPS.
This challenge is no greater or smaller than was intended in the original award was the LTIP award for 2012 which would ordinarily have been targets.
This was more challenging than simply measuring granted in June 2012 after the announcement of our full year results performance for the continuing business against the 2011 12 starting for 2011 12.
However, because of the disposals of our Monaco & point.
Against the adjusted EPS targets, the adjusted EPS performance Islands operations we were in an extended closed period and the next was in excess of 10% CAGR during the performance period.
The available opportunity to grant this award was in January 2013.
The Companys relative TSR ranking has also exceeded upper quartile performance period for this award was 1 April 2012 to 31 March during the performance period, and therefore 100% of the shares 2015.
The performance targets and vesting schedule for this award will vest.
are detailed below: Details of historic awards granted to Executive Directors under the TSR performance targets LTIP are summarised in the table on page 85, and the cash equivalent value of the LTIPs detailed above are included in Directors total Companys TSR ranking within the remuneration table on page 79.
1 Comparator Company List Percentage of the TSR element to vest Upper quartile or above 100% Between median and upper 25%-100% quartile on a straight line basis Median 25% Below median 0% 1 The comparator group for the award is France Telecom, BT Group, Telecom Italia, KPN Kon, Deutsche Telekom, Telefonica, Belgacom, Swisscom R. Telekom Austria, AT&T, Portugal Telecom.
82 Cable & Wireless Communications Long-term incentive awards granted in the year Details of awards made to Executive Directors under the Performance Share Plan in the year ended 31 March 2015 are as follows: Scheme Award level Award date Face value Vesting period Performance conditions Chief Executive PSP 2011 200% of 29 May 1,600,000 Three year Performance against five measures: Officer salary 2014 performance EBITDA, Revenue, Net Promoter Score Phil Bentley period NPS, Economic profit and relative TSR.
commencing on Chief Financial 200% of 30 June US$1,200,000 Relative TSR will account for 25% of the 1 April 2014 Officer salary 2014 which at the LTIP out of 100% with the remaining Perley McBride time of grant four targets representing 18.75% each of was a sterling the LTIP out of 100%.
equivalent of There will be a minimum EBITDA underpin 707,046 to the NPS element of the LTIP, whereby the NPS element of the LTIP will only pay out provided that the minimum EBITDA LTIP target has been achieved.
Given the commercial sensitivity of the three year financial targets we will not be disclosing the EBITDA, Revenue and Economic profit targets until the end of the performance period.
For NPS the range for vesting between threshold and maximum is an NPS improvement of between 6 to 12 from the baseline.
For TSR below median ranking against the comparator group no shares will vest, with vesting rising from 25% to 100% for a TSR ranking of between median and upper quartile.
The comparator group of companies comprises France Telecom, BT Group, Telecom Italia, KPN Kon, Deutsche Telekom, Telefonica, Belgacom, Swisscom R, Telekom Austria, AT&T and Portugal Telecom.
For the purposes of the awards, TSR will be calculated using a one month average share price at the beginning and end of the performance period in order to moderate the effect of short-term volatility.
The share price for the award to Phil Bentley was 0.5457, being the average closing share price of the Company for the five business days commencing on 21 May 2014.
The share price for the award to Perley McBride was 0.4868, being the average closing share price of the Company for the five business days commencing on 23 June 2014.
Both Performance Share Awards were granted in the form of restricted share awards and a dividend award supplement will apply to awards that vest in accordance with the rules of the plan.
Annual Report 2014 15 83 Directors remuneration report continued Share ownership As at 31 March 2015, the Executive Directors shareholding requirements had been exceeded by Phil Bentley and Nick Cooper but had not yet been met by Perley McBride.
Where the holding is not already attained it is required to be achieved through retention of shares or the vesting of awards on a net of tax basis from share plans.
As a result of the acquisition of Columbus, the Takeover Panel considers that the Directors from time to time and their close relatives will be deemed to be acting in concert with the Principal Vendors and the Ultimate Controllers as defined and further described in the circular to shareholders dated 19 November 2014 together, the Concert Party.
Consequently, there are restrictions on the acquisition of shares in the Company by any Director.
Further information regarding the Concert Party can be found on page 55 of the Corporate Governance Report.
There has not been any change in the Directors interests in shares from 31 March 2015 to 19 May 2015.
Directors interests in shares as at 31 March 2015 Beneficially owned shares as at % shareholding Performance Share 31 March 2015 or Unvested deferred requirement Share Purchase Plan shares Total Interest in 1 2 3 date of resignation bonus plan shares achieved Plan unvested unvested share plans Chairman Sir Richard Lapthorne 9,000,000 3 Executive Directors Phil Bentley 5,265,968 265,968 421% 7,750,176 7,750,176 Nick Cooper 2,558,646 488,061 495% 3,459,515 3,459,515 4 Perley McBride 700,000 105% 1,546,570 1,546,570 Non-executive Directors Simon Ball 504,348 Mark Hamlin 122,222 6 Brendan Paddick 136,077,710 Alison Platt 23,764 6,7 John Risley 846,355,136 5 Barbara Thoralfsson Ian Tyler 4,000 6,8 Thad York 575,096,759 1 Phil Bentley and Nick Cooper received 50% of their total gross bonus payment for the financial year ended 2013 14 in the form of bonus plan shares deferred for one year and subject to claw back at the discretion of the Committee.
These shares count towards each Directors shareholding requirements and are due to vest at the end of May 2015.
A proportion of these deferred shares may be sold at the end of the deferral period to meet tax obligations relating to their acquisition vesting.
2 Shares counting towards achievement of the requirement included beneficially owned shares.
Share price as at the close of business on 31 March 2015 0.6095.
Perley McBrides salary of US$600,000 has been converted into sterling using the closing exchange rate of $1.4816: 1 on 31 March 2015.
3 As potential beneficiaries from outstanding awards which may be satisfied by shares held by the Trust, the Executive Directors are deemed to have an interest in all of the ordinary shares held by the Trust, which at 31 March 2015 amounted to 8,386,941 shares.
4 Perley McBride was appointed to the Board on 26 June 2014.
5 Barbara Thoralfsson was appointed to the Board on 7 January 2015.
6 Brendan Paddick, John Risley and Thad York were appointed to the Board on 31 March 2015.
7 CVBI Holdings Barbados Inc and Clearwater Holdings Barbados Limited are both ultimately controlled by John Risley.
CVBI Holdings Barbados Inc owns 788,549,081 shares 18.2 %.
Clearwater Holdings Barbados Limited owns 57,806,055 shares 1.3%.
Further details in respect of this can be found in the Directors and corporate governance report.
8 Columbus Holding LLC owns the 575,096,759 shares listed above.
Thad York has no direct interest in these shares, but has been nominated to the Board by Columbus Holding LLC and represents the private office of John Malone, who ultimately controls Columbus Holding LLC.
2 Share award of 4,288,011 CWC shares were granted to Phil Bentley on 2 January 2014 in order to secure his appointment as Chief Executive Officer.
The PSP award based on 300% of base salary is subject to performance measured over three years and continued service, and the award of which was contingent on Phil purchasing shares with a value of at least 200% of salary.
This requirement has been met by the acquisition of 4,300,000 shares on 2 January 2014 over 300% of his salary at the date of purchase.
Annual Report 2014 15 85 Directors remuneration report continued Dilution Performance graph and pay table The Committee ensures that at all times the number of new shares The chart below shows the Companys TSR performance against the which may be issued under any share option or share-based plans, performance of the FTSE Europe Telecoms sector from 22 March including all employee plans, does not exceed the dilution limit of 10% 2010 to 31 March 2015.
This index was chosen as it represents a of the Companys issued share capital over any ten year rolling period.
broad equity market index, which includes companies of a comparable As at 31 March 2015, 6% of the issued share capital was available or larger size and complexity operating in the same sector, but not the for issue under our share-based plans.
In calculating this figure, the same geographies.
Committee has taken into account historic awards of the former Cable and Wireless plc shares made to current or former employees Total shareholder return TSR of the CWC business and the adjustments to the awards as a result of Value in from 22 March 2010 to 31 March 2015 Value the demerger.
180 Awards under the various share plans are funded by a mix of 160 purchased and newly-issued shares, as determined by the Committee.
140 Newly issued shares are subject to the dilution limit outlined above.
Purchased shares are held by the Trust, which is subject to a holding 120 limit of no more than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of 100 the Company.
80 Percentage change in remuneration levels 60 The table below shows the movement in the salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Chief Executive Officer between the current and 40 previous financial year compared to that for the average UK US 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 31 Mar 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 employee.
The Committee has chosen this comparator as it feels that it provides a more appropriate reflection of the earnings of the Cable & Wireless Communications average worker than the movement in the Groups total wage bill, FTSE Europe Telecoms Sector which is distorted by movements in the number of employees and This graph shows the total shareholder return by 31 March 2015 for a variations in wage practices in our overseas markets.
For the benefits 100 holding in the Company's shares for the period from 22 March 2010 and bonus per employee, this is based on those employees eligible to the date shares in the Company were admitted to the O cial List, compared participate in such schemes.
with 100 invested in the FTSE Europe Telecoms Sector.
% Chief Executive Officer Average per employee 1 Salary 10% 3% 2 Benefits 141% 26% 3 Annual bonus paid 64% 50% 1 The 2013 14 salary for the Chief Executive Officer has been based on the salary paid to Tony Rice for the period 1 April 2013 to 31 December 2013 plus the salary paid to Phil Bentley from 1 January 2014 to 31 March 2014.
2 Benefits for the Chief Executive Officer include travel benefits, accommodation allowance and reimbursement of other necessary expenses incurred in the financial year 2014 15, whilst living working in Miami.
3 Annual bonus paid relates to bonus paid in financial year 2012 13 and financial year 2013 14 in respect of the prior year performance period to enable comparison.
86 Cable & Wireless Communications The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive Officer for the six financial years to 31 March 2015.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and LTIP awards which vested based on performance in those years.
The annual bonus and LTIP percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
1 Chief Executive Officers five year pay table 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 2 Total remuneration 2,641,465 2,336,597 1,306,651 1,703,341 2,093,065 2,416,600 Annual bonus 0% 77% 76% 56% 89% 73% 3 3 LTIP vesting N A N A 0% 0% 0% 0% 1 The information for financial year 2013 14 relates to the total remuneration, annual bonus and LTIP vesting for Tony Rice from 1 April 2013 to 31 December 2013 and total remuneration, annual bonus and LTIP vesting for Phil Bentley from 1 January 2014 to 31 March 2014.
It also includes travel benefits, accommodation allowance and reimbursement of other necessary expenses incurred for the Chief Executive Officer in the financial year 2013 14, while working in London and Miami.
2 The total remuneration in this table has been adjusted to include half of the bonus which is deferred into shares for one year.
3 For the 2009 10 financial year and 2010 11 financial year, the LTIP payment relates to the cash LTIP plan which had no formal award limit.
It was structured to vest at the end of its five year cycle with staged payments between years four and five.
85% vested at the end of year four 2009 10 financial year of which 50% 1,090,000 was paid immediately and 35% deferred for a further year with the balance vesting and payable at the end of the 2010 11 financial year.
At the end of 2010 11 financial year, the cash LTIP units were revalued and a further payment of 1,660,000 was made which included the 35% deferred from 2009 10.
The total payment from the cash LTIP during the five year period was 2,750,000.
Relative importance of the spend on pay Shareholder engagement The table below shows the movement in spend on staff costs versus During the year, the Committee engaged with the Companys major that in dividends.
shareholders on the packages and incentive arrangements for the Executive Directors.
2013 14 2014 15 % change Most shareholders who engaged were understanding of the 1 Staff costs 266 million 203 million 23.7 % Committees reasoning on these matters and were broadly supportive.
2 Dividends 63 million 64 million 1.6% Committee governance 1 Staff costs include exceptional employee and other staff expenses and deferred bonus The principal duties of the Committee are detailed below: shares issued as disclosed in the prior year single figure amount.
2 Dividends listed above include final dividend in respect of the prior year and interim To recommend to the Board the policy for the remuneration of the dividend in respect of the actual year.
Chairman, Executive Directors and other senior executive management External Non-executive Director positions To review the Remuneration Policy and consider its alignment with Phil Bentley received and retained the following fees for external strategy on an ongoing basis directorships during the year.
To review the design of all new share incentive plans, policy on share Annual fees incentive awards and performance conditions in sterling To determine whether performance measures for incentive plans Phil Bentley have been satisfied 1 Non-executive Director of IMI Plc 56,250 To approve any amendments to the service contracts of the 1 Phil Bentley resigned from the board effective 31 December 2014.
Chairman and Executive Directors In forming its recommendations, the Committee receives input and Statement of shareholder voting advice from the Executive Directors, the HR Director and New Bridge At last years AGM, the Directors remuneration report received the Street who are the Committees independent adviser.
The outcomes following votes from shareholders: of Committee meetings are reported to the Board.
2014 AGM Votes cast in favour 1,678,887,185 89.90% Votes cast against 188,595,985 10.10% Total votes cast 1,867,483,170 Abstentions 22,249,829 Annual Report 2014 15 87 Directors remuneration report continued Terms of reference Remuneration Committee membership The terms of reference set out the authority of the Committee to Membership and attendance at meetings carry out its duties and the full terms of reference can be found on our website at www.
Simon Ball Chairman 5 5 Mark Hamlin 5 5 Advisers to the Committee Alison Platt 5 5 New Bridge Street NBS provide advice on remuneration and share plans both for Executive Directors and the wider senior management Ian Tyler 5 5 1 population, and were appointed by the Committee.
In addition, NBS Barbara Thoralfsson 1 2 provide measurement of the Companys relative and absolute TSR performance and benchmark Non-executive Directors and the 1 Barbara Thoralfsson was appointed as a member of the Committee with effect from Chairmans fee levels.
Barbara was unable to attend the scheduled March 2015 Committee meeting due to a prior engagement which she had before joining the Company.
The Committee regularly reviews the external adviser relationship and is comfortable that NBSs advice remains objective and independent.
The Committee held five scheduled meetings during the year ended The Committee reviewed the performance of the adviser during the 31 March 2015.
Details of Committee membership and individual year.
Based on the quality of the advice received, their objectivity, attendance at the meetings by members are given in the table above.
independence and their familiarity with the Companys existing No person is present during any discussion relating to their own structures and share plans during this period of significant change the remuneration.
Committee reappointed NBS until the time of the next review.
NBS are signatories to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code Audited information of Conduct and any advice provided by them is governed by that The sections of the annual report on remuneration that have been code.
NBSs terms of engagement are available on request from the audited by KPMG LLP are from Directors total remuneration table on Company Secretary.
NBS is a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited page 79 up to and including long-term incentive awards granted in the an Aon plc company which, other than acting as independent year and Directors interests in shares as at 31 March 2015 on pages consultant to the Committee, provided no further services to the 84 to 85.
Company during the year and has no other connection with the This report has been approved by the Board and signed on its Company.
For the year under review NBSs total fees charged behalf by were 116,497 exclusive of VAT and the fees were charged on a timed basis.
Simon Ball Chairman, Remuneration Committee 19 May 2015 88 Cable & Wireless Communications
