Directors Remuneration Report INTRODUCTION This Directors Remuneration Report is divided into three sections: the Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, set out on pages 48 to 49: the Directors Remuneration Policy, and the Annual Report on Remuneration, which follow.
The Directors Remuneration Policy sets out the policy, which will be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting on 27 May 2015.
Subject to shareholder approval, the policy will be effective as of 27 May 2015.
The shareholder vote on the Directors Remuneration Policy will be binding, and, if not passed, the Directors Remuneration Policy must be amended and put to a further vote at a specially convened General Meeting.
Once the Directors Remuneration Policy has been approved, no payment may be paid to a Director or past Director unless it is consistent with the approved policy unless shareholder approval is sought.
The exception to this is if the payment is made pursuant to a contractual obligation that was in force at 27 June 2012 when the new Regulations came into force.
The Annual Report on Remuneration sets out how the policy has been applied during the financial year being reported on and how it will be applied in the coming year.
This report will also be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting on 27 May 2015, although the vote on the Remuneration Report is advisory.
If this vote were not passed, the Company would consult with shareholders and would be obliged to put the Directors Remuneration Policy back to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2016.
This report complies with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, as well as the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules.
50 50 C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A Annu nnua all R Re epo por rt t and and A Ac cc cou oun nt ts s 2 20 01 15 5 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This section provides Card Factorys Directors Remuneration Policy Policy which will apply from the date of the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting, subject to approval at that date.
Card Factorys policy for Executive Directors remuneration is to provide a competitive package of fixed and variable pay.
Fixed pay is set by reference to relevant companies to attract, motivate and retain the senior management team and to ensure a fair reward for each role.
Variable pay is set to provide a competitive level of reward that aligns performance with the Groups long-term goals and shareholder interests.
FUTURE POLICY TABLE FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION The key components of Executive Directors remuneration are as follows: Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Fixed pay Business and individual Base salary Base salaries are reviewed Whilst no maximum level of performance are To attract and retain annually, with reference to salary has been set by the considerations in setting talent by ensuring scope of role, individual Remuneration Committee, base salary base salaries performance, experience, Executive Directors salary are competitive in market competitiveness increases will normally be the relevant talent of total remuneration with in line with those for the market, and to reflect reference to companies wider employee population an executives skills of a similar size and other at Card Factory and experience retail companies, inflation and salary increases across In certain circumstances the Group including, but not limited to, a material increase in job Increases will normally be size or complexity, promotion, effective 1 May recruitment or development of the individual in the role, or a significant misalignment with market the Committee has discretion to make appropriate adjustments to salary levels to ensure they remain fair and competitive Pension Executive Directors are The maximum permitted by None To provide postentitled to receive the same pensions auto enrolment retirement benefits auto enrolment DC pension legislation arrangements as other employees New appointees may be offered pension arrangements based on market competitive contribution rates Benefits Benefits currently include Benefits values vary by role and None To provide Executive private medical insurance, are reviewed periodically relative Directors with a life insurance, income to market reasonable level protection, and the of benefits and provision of a car or It is not practical to provide to ensure overall car allowance a maximum opportunity for remuneration is benefits, as there may be factors market competitive Where appropriate, other outside of the Companys benefits may be offered, control which change the cost for example including, but to the Company eg increases in not limited to, relocation insurance premiums allowances The cost of providing benefits for the year under review are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd Ac d Acc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 51 51 Directors Remuneration Report continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Variable pay Annual Bonus Performance measures and Up to 125% of salary Performance is determined To focus executives targets are set at the start by the Committee on an on delivery of yearof the financial year by the annual basis by reference on-year financial Remuneration Committee to financial measures performance eg EBITDA and personal At the end of the financial performance The ability to deliver year, the Remuneration a portion of bonuses Committee determines the The annual bonus for in shares helps extent to which the targets 2015 16 will be based on towards achieving an have been achieved EBITDA performance with appropriate balance a personal performance between yearAwards are normally underpin, as in 2014 15 on-year financial delivered in cash, but the see further details in performance and Committee can decide the Annual Report on longer-term value that some or all of it will Remuneration creation instead be paid in shares and deferred for up to three For achievement of years.
If participants have threshold performance, up not met the shareholding to 15% of maximum bonus requirement, up to one is earned third of any bonus will be mandatorily deferred in In determining the bonus shares for three years outcome the Committee also takes into account An additional benefit is personal, business unit or provided in cash or shares Company performance and equal to dividends that can reduce bonus awards would have been paid over accordingly the vesting period on awards that vest The Committee retains discretion to introduce The Committee has operational or strategic discretion to reduce the measures at the start amount of any deferred of each year, to ensure bonus entitlement, or defer alignment with the vesting of awards or make business priorities for the them subject to additional year.
The weighting on conditions, in the event financial measures will of, for example, material remain at least 80% misstatement, misconduct or reputational damage.
In extreme cases, the Committee may further determine to claw back previous annual bonus payments for up to two years post-vesting 52 52 C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A Annu nnua all R Re epo por rt t and and A Ac cc cou oun nt ts s 2 20 01 15 5 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics The Committee has the Up to 175% of salary face value Subject to continued Long Term Incentive ability to grant annual at grant employment, awards will Plan LTIP awards of performance vest on achievement of To align the interests shares or nil-cost options financial performance of executives with measures eg EPS shareholders in Performance is measured growth, return measures, growing the value of over a three-year period.
measured over a threethe business over the Shares are then subject to an year performance period long-term additional two-year holding period apart from any sold Up to 25% of awards will to pay tax, before being vest for achievement of released to participants threshold performance, then increase on a straightAn additional benefit is line basis to full vesting provided in cash or shares for achieving stretch equal to dividends that performance would have been paid over the vesting period on awards Measures used for LTIP that vest awards in 2015 16 will be based on three-year EPS The Committee have growth with a returns discretion to reduce unvested underpin, as in 2014 15 long term incentive awards, see further details in defer vesting of awards the Annual Report on or make them subject Remuneration to additional conditions including those awards in a holding period in the event of, for example, material misstatement, misconduct or reputational damage In extreme cases, the Committee may further determine to claw back vested LTIP awards for up to two years post-vesting SAYE A UK tax-qualified scheme Savings are capped at the None To encourage share under which eligible prevailing HMRC limit at the ownership across the employees including time eligible employees are workforce Executive Directors may invited to participate, or such save up to the maximum lower limit as determined by monthly savings limit as the Remuneration Committee determined by prevailing legislation over a period of three or five years.
They are granted an option to acquire shares at up to a 20% discount to the price on grant.
The number of shares under option is that which can be acquired at that price using the proceeds of the savings.
This scheme is subject to approval at the 2015 Annual General Meeting C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd Ac d Acc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 53 53 Directors Remuneration Report continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Shareholding guidelines Details of the current guidelines None To encourage share Requirement to build up and and Executive Director ownership and maintain a beneficial holding shareholdings are included in the ensure alignment of of shares in the Company defined as a % of salary Annual Report on Remuneration executive interests with those of shareholders NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE The remuneration policy above is consistent with that included in the prospectus published by the Company in connection with the IPO.
Equity plans shall be operated in accordance with the relevant rules as amended from time to time in accordance with those rules, and within the limits of the remuneration policy.
Performance measure selection and approach to target setting The measures used in the annual bonus are selected annually to reflect the Companys main strategic objectives for the year.
Performance targets are set to be stretching but achievable, taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and the economic environment in which the Company operates.
Financial targets are set taking into account a range of reference points including the Groups strategic and operating plan.
The Committee considers carefully the appropriate financial conditions to attach to the annual bonus and the financial targets to attach to long term incentive awards to ensure they continue to be: i relevant to our strategic objectives: ii mindful of risk management: and iii fair by being suitably stretching whilst realistic.
The Remuneration Committees rationale for the use of specific performance measures is included in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Discretion The Remuneration Committee reviews formulaic incentive outcomes and may adjust these within the limits of the relevant plan to ensure alignment of pay with the underlying performance of the business.
The Remuneration Committee also has the discretion to make adjustments to the calculation of short and long-term performance measures in specific circumstances and within the limits of applicable plan rules.
Such circumstances include: changes in accounting standards, major corporate events such as rights issues, share buybacks, special dividends, corporate restructurings, mergers, acquisitions and disposals.
Differences in remuneration policy operated for other employees The policy and practice with regard to the remuneration of the senior management team below the Board is consistent with that for the Executive Directors.
The senior management team generally participate in the same long-term incentives as the Executive Directors with similar performance measures applied.
The remuneration policy for our Executive Directors is considered with the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration for the wider Group in mind.
The remuneration arrangements for other employees reflect the seniority of each role.
As a result, the levels and structure of remuneration for different groups of employees will differ from the policy for executives as set out above but with the common intention that remuneration arrangements for all groups might reasonably be considered to be fair.
All employees, including the current Executive Directors, are eligible to participate in the same pension scheme as the relevant legislation provides with the same maximum contribution, and permanent employees will be eligible participate subject to certain eligibility criteria in the UK tax-qualified SAYE scheme to be put to shareholders for approval at the 2015 Annual General Meeting on identical terms.
Other In addition to the above elements of remuneration, any commitment made prior to, but due to be fulfilled after, the approval and implementation of the Policy detailed in this report will be honoured, including arrangements put in place prior to an individual becoming a Director.
The Committee also retains discretion to make non-significant changes to the policy without reverting to Shareholders for example, for regulatory, tax, legislative or administrative purposes.
54 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S PERFORMANCE SCENARIOS The graphs below provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunities for Executive Directors, and the potential split between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, Mid and Maximum.
The projected value of LTIP amounts assumes LTIP grants at the maximum level and excludes the impact of share price movement or dividend accrual.
In illustrating potential reward opportunities the following assumptions are made: Scenario Fixed Pay Annual Bonus LTIP Minimum Salary as at 1 May 2015 No annual bonus payable Threshold not achieved 0% Mid On-target annual bonus Performance warrants Pension contribution is payable 50% of maximum threshold vesting 25% of currently 1% of qualifying maximum band earnings for the CEO Maximum Maximum annual bonus Performance warrants full the CFO has opted out of payable vesting the pension scheme Benefits for the most recent financial year C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd Ac d Acc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 55 55 Directors Remuneration Report continued APPROACH TO REMUNERATION FOR NEW DIRECTOR APPOINTMENTS In determining appropriate remuneration for a new Director, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both Card Factory and its shareholders, and will be mindful not to overpay on recruitment.
In the cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee may make use of all the existing components of remuneration, and remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with those outlined in the future policy table above, as follows: Component Approach Maximum opportunity Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined n a based on the experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities, relevant market data and their current basic salary Pension New appointees may be offered pension arrangements based n a on market competitive contribution rates Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line with n a the policy which may include but are not limited to the provision of a company car or car allowance, relocation allowances Annual bonus The structure described in the policy table will apply to new 125% of salary appointees with the relevant maximum being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of employment over the year LTIP New appointees will be granted awards under the LTIP on 175% of salary similar terms as other executives, as described in the policy table SAYE New appointees will be invited to participate in the proposed Savings are capped at the all-employee SAYE scheme on identical terms as other prevailing HMRC limit at eligible employees the time employees are invited to participate The Committee may make an award in respect of a new appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met and the proportion of the vesting period remaining.
The total fair value of any such buy out incentive arrangements will not exceed that of awards forfeited on leaving the previous employer, and time to vesting will be matched.
In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal promotion, the approach will be consistent with the Policy for external appointees detailed above save for buy outs.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to the Board, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements.
Measures used for below Board employees may be different from those used for Executive Directors to tailor incentives to a particular division, role or individual.
In recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will use the Policy as set out in the table on page 59.
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND EXIT PAYMENT POLICY Executive Directors The Committee sets notice periods for the Executive Directors of no more than 12 months.
The Executive Directors may be put on garden leave during their notice period for up to six months, and the Company can elect to terminate their employment by making a payment in lieu of notice equivalent to basic salary and benefits including pension contributions.
Executive Directors service contracts are available to view at the Companys registered office and at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Executive Director Date of service contract Richard Hayes 30 April 2014 Darren Bryant 30 April 2014 5 56 6 C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A Annu nnua all R Re epo por rt t and and A Ac cc cou oun nt ts s 2 20 01 15 5 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S If employment is terminated by the Company, the departing Executive Director may have a legal entitlement under statute or otherwise to additional amounts, which would need to be met.
In addition, the Committee may: settle any claims by or on behalf of the Executive Director in return for making an appropriate payment: and contribute to the legal fees incurred by the Executive Director in connection with the termination of employment, where the Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement as provided for below and the individual must seek independent legal advice.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may approve new contractual arrangements with departing Executive Directors including but not limited to settlement, confidentiality, outplacement services, restrictive covenants and or consultancy arrangements.
These will be used sparingly and only entered into where the Committee believes that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to do so.
The Companys policy on termination payments is to consider the circumstances on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the executives contractual terms, the circumstances of termination and any duty to mitigate.
The table below summarises how incentives are typically treated in different circumstances: Plan Scenario Timing of vesting Calculation of vesting payment Annual bonus Default treatment No bonus is paid n a Death, injury, ill-health Normal payment date, The Committee will or disability, retirement, although the Committee determine the bonus or any other reason the has discretion to accelerate outcome based on Committee may determine circumstances and the date of leaving.
Performance against targets is typically assessed at the end of the year in the normal way and any resulting bonus will be pro-rated for time served during the year Change of control Ordinarily accrued bonuses Where the Committee will roll over into the determines that a bonus is new entity, however the payable, performance against Committee has discretion targets will be assessed at to allow a bonus to be paid the point of change of immediately on a change of control and any resulting control bonus will be pro-rated for time served up to the point of change of control.
If bonus targets are not met, no bonus will be payable Shares deferred as part Default treatment Awards lapse n a of annual bonus Death, injury, ill-health Normal vesting date, Awards are not pro-rated or disability, retirement, although the Committee has or any other reason the discretion to accelerate Committee may determine Change of control Immediately Awards are not pro-rated LTIP Default treatment Awards lapse n a Death, injury or disability, Normal vesting date, Any outstanding awards redundancy, retirement, although the Committee will normally be pro-rated the sale of the employing has discretion to accelerate for time and performance company or business out conditions will be of the Group or any other measured over the normal reason as the Committee performance period unless may determine awards are accelerated Change of control Immediately Any outstanding awards will be pro-rated for time and performance up to the point of the change of control SAYE Treated in line with HMRC rules C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd Ac d Acc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 57 57 Directors Remuneration Report continued Non-Executive Directors The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors were appointed on the dates set out in the table below.
Their letters of appointment set out the terms of their appointment and are available for inspection at the Groups registered office and at the AGM.
Appointments are initially for three years subject to annual re-election at the AGM and unless agreed by the Board, they may not remain in office for a period longer than six years, or two terms in office, whichever is shorter.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors may resign from their positions but must serve the Board six and one months written notice respectively.
1 Non-Executive Director Letter of appointment date Expiry of current term Geoff Cooper 30 April 2014 30 April 2017 Octavia Morley 30 April 2014 30 April 2017 David Stead 30 April 2014 30 April 2017 Paul McCrudden 1 December 2014 1 December 2017 1.
Graeme Coulthard was a Non-Executive Director of the Card Factory plc during the financial period and up until 3 February 2015.
Other than the one-off option grant awarded to the Chairman pre-IPO in connection with his appointment as detailed on page 63 of the Annual Report on Remuneration, Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the annual bonus or any equity schemes, do not receive any additional pension or benefits on top of the fees disclosed on page 63, and are not entitled to a termination payment.
CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION AND EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS IN GROUP The Committee considers the remuneration and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group when determining remuneration for Executive Directors.
The Committee does not currently consult specifically with employees on the executive remuneration policy, but will keep this policy under review.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS Card Factory listed on the London Stock Exchange on 20 May 2014.
This Directors Remuneration Policy will be the first for which a shareholder vote will be sought.
Although recently listed, the Committee is conscious of the importance of building good relationships with our shareholders.
In determining the remuneration arrangements implemented at the time of the IPO, the Committee reviewed best practice for listed companies, and sought to implement a remuneration framework that supported delivery of the Companys strategy whilst recognising established remuneration practices in the listed company environment in the UK, and to promote alignment between Executive Directors and shareholder interests.
When determining remuneration going forward, the Committee intends to take into account the guidelines of shareholder bodies and shareholders views.
The Committee is open to feedback from shareholders on remuneration policy and arrangements, and commits to undergoing consultation in advance of any significant changes to remuneration policy.
EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS The Committee acknowledges that Executive Directors may be invited to become independent Non-Executive Directors of other quoted companies which have no business relationship with the Company and that these duties can broaden their experience and knowledge to the benefit of the Company.
Executive Directors are permitted to accept such appointments with the prior approval of the Chairman.
Approval will only be given where the appointment does not present a conflict of interest with the Groups activities and the wider exposure gained will be beneficial to the development of the individual.
Where fees are payable in respect of such appointments, these would be retained by the Executive Director.
58 58 C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A Annu nnua all R Re epo por rt t and and A Ac cc cou oun nt ts s 2 20 01 15 5 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S FUTURE POLICY TABLE FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION The key components of Non-Executive Directors remuneration are as follows: Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Non-Executive Directors Annual fee for Chairman Any increases to NED fees Performance of the Board fees and Non-Executive will be considered as a as a whole will be reviewed To attract Directors with Directors result of the outcome of a regularly as part of a Board the appropriate skills and review process and taking evaluation process experience, and to reflect Additional fees paid for into account wider market the time commitment in additional roles or time factors, eg inflation preparing for and attending commitment eg chairing meetings, the duties and Board Committees The maximum aggregate responsibilities of the annual fee for all directors role and the contribution Non-Executive Directors provided in the Companys expected from the Nondo not participate in any Articles of Association is Executive Directors incentive schemes or 1,000,000 pa receive any other benefits other than nominal travel Further details of current expenses fees are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd Ac d Acc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 59 59 Directors Remuneration Report continued ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This is the Annual Report on Remuneration for the financial year ended 31 January 2015.
Notwithstanding that the Directors Remuneration Policy has not yet been formally approved by shareholders, this report sets out how the policy has been applied in the financial year being reported on, and how it will be applied in the coming year.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ADVISERS The Remuneration Committee was established on 30 April 2014 and consists of three independent Non-Executive Directors: Octavia Morley Chairman, David Stead and Paul McCrudden from 1 December 2014, and the Non-Executive Chairman, Geoff Cooper.
A more detailed explanation of the Remuneration Committees role is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 38 and a copy of its terms of reference, which comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code, are available on Card Factorys investor website, www.
The Committee fulfils its duties with a combination of both formal meetings and informal consultation with relevant parties internally.
Its principal external advisers are Kepler Associates, who were appointed by the Committee, and who also provide remuneration advice to the Company.
Kepler Associates do not provide any other services to the Company.
Kepler is a signatory to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants in the UK, details of which can be found on the Remuneration Consultants Groups website at www.
Accordingly, the Committee is satisfied that the advice received from Kepler Associates is objective and independent.
Fees paid to Kepler Associates for the financial year were 44,600 which were charged on the basis of time and materials.
COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES During 2014 15, the Committee met to consider the following remuneration matters: the Directors Remuneration Policy for 2015 16 which is to be put to shareholders for approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: 2014 grants of LTIP awards: to approve the terms of the proposed SAYE Share Scheme to be put to shareholders of the Company for approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: to agree proposed salary reviews and bonuses for the Executive Directors and members of the senior management team for 2014 : and to formally approve the Directors Remuneration Report set out in this Annual Report.
60 60 C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A Annu nnua all R Re epo por rt t and and A Ac cc cou oun nt ts s 2 20 01 15 5 S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S SINGLE FIGURE OF TOTAL REMUNERATION FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director employed by the Company during the period for the year ended 31 January 2015 and the prior year: Richard Hayes Darren Bryant 2014 15 2013 14 2014 15 2013 14 1 Salary 414,000 301,158 323,850 233,493 Pension benefit 360 209 2 Taxable benefits 33,373 32,484 8,000 8,000 3 Non-taxable benefits 3,130 2,383 1,829 1,353 4 Annual bonus 433,510 300,000 411,800 450,000 5 Share Award n a n a 4,200,000 n a 6 LTIP n a n a n a n a Total 884,373 636,234 4,945,479 692,846 1.
The Company was incorporated on 17 April 2014.
In addition to the remuneration received by the Executive Directors from the Company from that date, the table above includes the remuneration the Executive Directors received from CF Topco Limited, the Groups holding company prior to the IPO, in the period from 1 February 2014 to 16 April 2014 and for the financial year ended 31 January 2014.
Taxable benefits include: car or car allowance Richard Hayes 2014 15: 24,498 2013 14: 24,218 Darren Bryant: 8,000 allowance : fuel allowance Richard Hayes 2014 15: 7,558 2013 14: 7,330 : and family private medical insurance.
Both Richard Hayes and Darren Bryant are members of the Group Life Assurance Scheme.
The amounts stated relate to insurance premiums paid by the Group.
Annual bonus paid for performance over the relevant financial year.
Annual bonus was paid in cash only.
Further details on performance criteria, achievement and resulting awards for the financial year ended 31 January 2015 can be found on pages 61 and 62.
In the financial year ended 31 January 2014 a separate performance related bonus scheme was in place.
In the financial year ended 31 January 2015, Darren Bryant received a bonus in connection with the completion of IPO.
As disclosed in the prospectus published by the Company in connection with the IPO, a share based payment arose during the year in favour of Darren Bryant relating to management entitlements under the investment agreement that was in place between the shareholders of the Company prior to the IPO.
Immediately after completion of the IPO, 1,875,000 ordinary shares were issued and allotted to Darren Bryant for the nominal value of 1p per ordinary share.
The IPO offer price was 225p per share.
No LTIP awards vested during the reported periods.
SALARY The Remuneration Committee reviewed salaries as part of the thorough review of remuneration arrangements prior to completing the IPO.
Following this review, the Board determined that Executive Director salaries for 2014 15 would be set at a level that is competitive with UK-listed companies of broadly similar size and complexity: 1 Executive Director 1 May 2015 1 May 2014 Richard Hayes 459,000 450,000 Darren Bryant 346,800 340,000 1.
Before 1 May 2014 Richard Hayes salary was 306,000 and Darren Bryants salary was 275,400.
Increase reflects a resetting of salaries as part of the review of remuneration at the time of the IPO.
Salaries were set for 2014 15 at a level that is competitive with UK-listed companies of broadly similar size and complexity.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS PENSION ARRANGEMENTS Executive Directors participate in the same defined contribution pension scheme as other employees in line with auto-enrolment legislation.
Pension contributions for Richard Hayes in 2014 15 were 1% of qualifying band earnings.
Darren Bryant opted-out of the auto-enrolment pension arrangements and no pension contributions were made for him for the year under review.
For 2015 16, the Executive Directors will continue to receive pension contributions in line with the stated remuneration policy.
ANNUAL BONUS The Group operates an annual performance-related bonus scheme for a number of the senior management team including Executive Directors.
Bonus opportunities for 2014 15 were 125% of salary for Richard Hayes and 100% of salary for Darren Bryant.
Annual bonus awards granted to Executive Directors in respect of 2014 15 were as follows: 1 Executive Director Bonus Richard Hayes 433,510 2 Darren Bryant 261,800 1.
All bonuses will be paid in cash.
In the financial year ended 31 January 2015, Darren Bryant also received a cash bonus in connection with the completion of the IPO.
C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd Ac d Acc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 61 61 Directors Remuneration Report continued The awards in respect of 2014 15 were based on EBITDA and subject to a personal performance underpin.
The EBITDA performance targets for the year were: Percentage of maximum Performance level 2014 15 EBITDA target bonus awarded Threshold 86m 15% Maximum 89m 100% For levels of performance between the points set out in the tables, vesting would be determined on a straight-line, pro-rata basis.
No bonus is awarded for performance below the threshold.
The range between threshold and maximum has been drawn relatively tightly in line with the relative consistency of business performance.
In the financial year ended 31 January 2015, Card Factory achieved EBITDA of 88.2m.
The Committee assessed the personal performance underpin to have been achieved, and as such, annual bonuses were awarded at 77% of maximum.
ANNUAL BONUS FOR 2015 16 For the financial year ending 31 January 2016, the Committee will operate the annual bonus using the same measures as were used in 2014 15.
The EBITDA targets have been set by the Committee and will require Executive Directors to deliver significant stretch performance.
Given the close link between these targets and Card Factorys competitive strategy, EBITDA targets are considered commercially sensitive but will be published in the following years Annual Report on Remuneration, subject to them no longer being considered commercially sensitive.
The use of an EBITDA performance measure, in the opinion of the Committee, focuses management on strong annual financial performance and is heavily dependent on the Companys success in achieving its short and long-term strategic goals.
The overall assessment of personal performance helps ensure that the Executives behaviours support longer-term value creation.
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN LTIP AUDITED Grants of awards under the LTIP in 2014 Awards under the LTIP were first granted to the Executive Directors on 20 May 2014.
Awards were made over shares worth 175% of basic salary for Richard Hayes and 150% of salary for Darren Bryant based on the IPO offer price of 2.25.
Awards that vest after any sales required to pay tax and social security contributions will be subject to a 2-year holding period.
% of Award Vesting Number of LTIP shares Face Maximum Value of at Threshold and 1 Executive awarded Awards at Grant Date Maximum Performance Period Richard Hayes 350,000 787,500 25% 100% 01.02.14 31.1.
Based on IPO offer price of 2.25.
2014 LTIP vesting schedule 100% 25% 9% 15% 3-year EPS growth 62 62 C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A Annu nnua all R Re epo por rt t and and A Ac cc cou oun nt ts s 2 20 01 15 5 % of LTIP awards vesting S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S The primary performance targets attached to those awards, based on EPS growth over three financial years starting with that in which the award is granted, are illustrated in the chart opposite.
In addition, for awards to vest, the Remuneration Committee needs to be satisfied that the Companys return on capital has been broadly consistent with historic levels.
The use of an EPS growth performance measure, in the opinion of the Committee, focuses management on continued strong financial performance and is heavily dependent on the Companys success in achieving its strategic goals.
The Committee believes that a returns underpin appropriately reinforces the need to focus on returns for shareholders and encourages capital discipline.
LTIP awards in 2015 For 2015, the Committee intends to grant LTIP awards to Executive Directors in line with the stated remuneration policy and using the same measures and targets as were used in 2014 see above.
As this Annual Report on Remuneration was approved prior to the 2015 LTIP grant date, details of LTIP awards in 2015 will be set out in next years report.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES The fees payable to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors take into account general economic and market conditions, time commitment and responsibility, and the remuneration of non-executives in similar positions in comparable UK-listed companies.
Changes are generally effective from 1 May.
No increases were made in the year under review and none are proposed for the current year.
2015 16 2014 15 Base fees Chairman 125,000 125,000 Senior Independent Director 49,000 49,000 Non-Executive Director 45,000 45,000 Additional fees Chair of the Remuneration Committee 8,000 8,000 Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee 8,000 8,000 SINGLE FIGURE OF TOTAL REMUNERATION FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director for the year ended 31 January 2015.
Non-Executive Directors were appointed at Card Factory for the first time on 30 April 2014, no remuneration was therefore received by Non-Executive Directors during the year ended 31 January 2014.
In connection with his appointment, Geoff Cooper was given the option to invest 330,000 in the Company by means of an acquisition of ordinary shares as part of, or alongside, the offer of shares conducted in conjunction with the IPO at the offer price of 225p per share.
Geoff took up this offer at the time of the IPO and agreed to acquire 146,666 ordinary shares and this has entitled him, on each of the second and third anniversaries of the date of the completion of the IPO, to make further investments of 330,000 in the Company by purchasing a further 146,666 ordinary shares at the offer price.
Geoffs entitlement to make such purchases is conditional upon and subject to his remaining as Chairman of the Company on the relevant dates.
It is not intended to offer the Chairman or Non-Executive Directors participation in similar arrangements in the future.
These options are valued in the table above based on the embedded value at the year end.
Graeme Coulthards fees were paid directly to Charterhouse and Graeme resigned from his position as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 3 February 2015.
The table above includes fees paid to Graeme Coulthard by CF Topco Limited, the Groups holding company prior to the IPO, in the period from 1 February 2014 to 16 April 2014.
Paul McCrudden was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2014.
Payments made to Geoff Cooper, Octavia Morley and David Stead in 2014 15 include payments made for work undertaken in the period preceding the completion of the IPO.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE No exit payments were made during the year.
PAYMENTS TO PREVIOUS DIRECTORS No payments were made to past Directors in the year.
C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd Ac d Acc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 63 63 Directors Remuneration Report continued HISTORICAL PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND CEO SINGLE FIGURE OF REMUNERATION The graph below illustrates the total shareholder return performance of Card Factory against the FTSE 250 over the period since the Group listed on 20 May 2014.
The FTSE 250 has been chosen as it is a recognised broad equity market index of which the Group is a member.
100 invested TSR 140 130 Card Factory 120 110 FTSE 250 100 90 80 70 60 14 May 2014 31 January 2015 Richard Hayes 2014 15 Single figure of remuneration 000 884 Annual bonus outcome % of max 77% LTIP vesting % of max n a INCREASE IN CEO CASH REMUNERATION, 2013 14 TO 2014 15 Average Increase in increase CEO pay over across all 1 the year employees 2 Salary 37.5% 2.2% Taxable benefits 2.7% 0.0% Annual variable 44.5% 9.0% 1.
Permanent store employees representing c. 90% of all permanent employees.
DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT The charts below illustrate the year-on-year change in total remuneration for all employees and total shareholder distributions.
No distributions were made to shareholders for the financial year ended 31 January 2014.
Total remuneration for all employees Total shareholder distributions m 25% m 95.0 100 30 90 25 23.2 75.8 80 70 20 60 50 15 40 10 30 20 5 10 n a 0 0 2013 14 2014 15 64 64 C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A Annu nnua all R Re epo por rt t and and A Ac cc cou oun nt ts s 2 20 01 15 5 Value of 100 invested at IPO S STR TRA ATE TEG GI IC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OVE VER RNAN NANC CE E F FI INAN NANC CI IAL ALS S STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING Card Factory listed on the London Stock Exchange on 20 May 2014.
The Directors Remuneration Policy and Annual Report on Remuneration herein contained will be the first for which a shareholder vote will be sought.
DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AND INTEREST IN SHARES Card Factory Executive Directors each own significant shareholdings in the Company.
The Committee sets shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors.
The current guideline is to build and maintain, over time, a personal and or spousal holding of shares in the Company equivalent in value to at least 150% of the Executive Directors annual base salary 200% for the CEO.
Both Executive Directors currently significantly exceed this requirement.
The guidelines also state that an Executive Director is expected to i retain at least half of vested LTIP shares, after the sale of sufficient shares to cover tax and national insurance triggered by the exercise and associated dealing costs : and ii defer one third of any earned net bonus into shares for three years, until the guideline level is achieved.
Shares held Options held Unvested Unvested Current Shareholding and not Unvested and and subject shareholding requirement Owned subject to subject to Vested but to continued % of salary % of salary Guideline 1 3 Director outright performance performance not exercised employment fee fee met?
Including shares owned by connected persons.
Graeme Coulthard resigned as a Director on 3 February 2015.
Graeme is a partner at Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP Charterhouse and, at the time of his resignation, the various funds through which Charterhouse held its shares in the Company held, in aggregate, 60,609,953 ordinary shares.
Calculated using the closing share price of the Company on 30 January 2015 of 275p.
There have been no changes in the numbers of shares owned by the Directors and their connected persons between the end of the year and the date of this report.
DETAILS OF DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES IN INCENTIVE PLANS Number Date of Share price Exercise of shares Face value at grant grant at grant price awarded Performance period Exercise period Richard Hayes LTIP 20.05.14 225p n a 350,000 787,500 01.02.14 31.1.
Approved by the Board of Card Factory plc on 24 March 2015 and signed on its behalf by Octavia Morley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 March 2015 C Ca ar rd F d Fa ac ct to or ry p y pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd Ac d Acc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 15 5 65 65
