Directors Report Remuneration Report Report of the Remuneration Committee for the year ended 31 December 2015 Chairmans letter 58 Our remuneration policies have played a significant role Remuneration at a glance 59 in defining the Croda way.
Policy report 60 Steve Williams Annual report on remuneration 65 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee To ensure that no payment or Members and attendance Responsibilities proposedpayment is made that is eligibility at meetings The Committee determines and not consistent with the remuneration heldduringthe year ended agreeswith the Board the Companys policy most recently approved 31December 2015 remuneration policy and framework byshareholders Itdetermines the remuneration Steve Williams packagesforall Executive Directors To select, appoint and set the terms Chairman 4 4 andthe Chairman, and recommends ofreference for any remuneration andmonitors the level and structure consultants who advise Alan Ferguson ofremuneration for senior managers Independent Non-Executive 4 4 theCommittee Key responsibilities 1 To oversee any major changes Martin Flower To determine the Companys Former Board Chairman 2 2 inemployee benefits structures remunerationpolicy and framework, throughout the Group 2 Anita Frew taking into account factors which it Board Chairman 3 3 Detailed responsibilities are set out deems necessary, including legal intheCommittees terms of reference, andregulatory requirements Helena Ganczakowski which can be found at www.
com Independent Non-Executive 4 4 To review the ongoing Nigel Turner appropriatenessand relevance Independent Non-Executive 4 4 oftheremuneration policy To determine the total individual 1 M artin Flower retired from the Board and the Committee on 19 September 2015 remuneration packages for the 2 A nita Frew was appointed as a Non-Executive Chairman, each Executive Director, Directorand became a member of the Committee inMarch 2015 theCompany Secretary and othermembers of the Executive management team as are designated bythe Board from timeto time Croda International Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57 Directors Report | Remuneration Report Italso continues to support our corporate So, as far as the Remuneration Committee Dear fellow shareholder, strategy through using performance isconcerned, 2015 has been a relatively Main activities and priorities in 2015 targets for our variable pay schemes uncontroversial year and one where thattarget improvements in our key preparation for the presentation of our On behalf of both the Remuneration performance indicators ie profit and newpolicy has begun.
This will be the Committee and your Board of Directors, shareholder returns.
As a consequence Committees priority for 2016 and I would itgives me great pleasure to present nochanges are proposed this year and welcome hearing from shareholders with theCompanys Remuneration Report ourpolicy remains unchanged until its their views on remuneration issues.
At that time In my letter to shareholders last year I we will present our revised remuneration saidthat the Committee was alert to the Looking forward to 2016 policy toshareholders for adoption necessity of framing remuneration policies andthis will benefit from all the in-depth In addition to our routine business, that promote the long term success of the thinking we are currently investing inthis theCommittee will: company as provided in the Corporate topic.
In terms of applying policy in 2016, Review our remuneration policy Governance Code and recommended in salaries are to be increased in line with foradoption at the 2017 AGM theguidance ofthe Financial Reporting thetypical increase applied across the Council: guidance which we, as a Board, Consult with shareholders on wider workforce circa1.5% and there wholeheartedly support.
areno changes to theoperation of To this end, in November the whole Board ourvariable pay schemes.
held a blue sky day of conversations on I will be available at the AGM to respond During the year, the Committee analysed the topic of remuneration within Croda.
toany questions shareholders may raise thechanges to section D of the Code Wefocused on the role remuneration on the Committees activities.
concerning remuneration and considered canplay in driving and rewarding that the Company is in full compliance On behalf of the Board, I thank you responsible behaviours.
All those who work for Croda are aware ofand subscribe to the precepts of the Performance and reward for 2015 Croda way: a way of running our business When considering how our business that makes the interests of our customers performance translates into reward, and employees pre-eminent and rewards weshould consider first the annual bonus Steve Williams innovation, application and loyalty.
We do and second, the longer term incentive.
Chairman not claim that these priorities are unique With regard to the annual bonus, you will toCroda, but in my experience they recall that this requires achievement of areuniquely deeply felt and observed anabsolute profit out-performance over throughout the organisation.
theprevious year before any benefit can Our remuneration policies, including accrue.
As a result of the tremendous thoseregarding pensions, have played efforts made in 2015, I am delighted to asignificant role in defining the Croda way.
report that this years outturn has resulted So these blue sky conversations were the ina bonus payment of76.38% of the beginning of a process that will ensure maximum permitted.
ournew policy and the practices With regard to longer term incentives, itpromotes willremain relevant 2015was the year grants made in 2013 andeffective.
under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP There is much public debate around and the Bonus Co. Investment Plan BCIP thetopic of remuneration and your Board matured.
As you can read in the following willensure that our policies serve Crodas pages, these programmes required Earnings interests, whilst taking full account of Per Share EPS and Total Shareholder publicconcerns on topics such as pay Return TSR criteria to be met before relativities, equity of reward and quantum.
Despite EPS growth of 7.8% during 2015 and 11.9% overthe past three years, Our existing policy, adopted at the the target was not achieved and neither AGMin2014, has proved effective in was the target for TSR.
As a consequence, accommodating emerging best practice.
no vesting has occurred for the 2013 grants.
Croda International Plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
