DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT conditions for the business this year, which is reected in our Chairmans statement incentive payouts in relation to 2014 15.
Dear shareholder, The Dairy Crest annual bonus incorporates stretching short term On behalf of the Board, I am financial targets and personal objectives.
This years bonus pleased to present the Directors payments reect a challenging year where bonus targets for profit Remuneration Report for the and net debt were not met, resulting in lower payments of 18.75% of 2014 15 financial year.
salary for Mark Allen, 15.63% for Martyn Wilks and 18.75% for Tom Atherton.
The Dairy Crest remuneration policy continues to be based upon Awards under the Long Term Incentive Share Plan LTISP 2012 a core set of principles which had a three-year performance period to March 2015.
Against the support the strategic and financial TSR performance measure 60% of the award, the Company ambitions of the Company: achieved 34.7% growth, however, the Company did not achieve the t The remuneration package should support a performance minimum Adjusted EPS target threshold 40% of the award.
This based culture, attract and retain talented personnel and align resulted in 20.8% of awards vesting under this award.
Under the Long Term Alignment Plan LTAP, our Executives are t The remuneration structure is both uncomplicated and measured against a set of strategic Key Performance Indicators transparent, and we remain committed to open disclosure.
supported by a 3 year performance measure relating to dividend t The measures used for incentive plans reect the strategic performance.
For the 2014 15 financial year, the LTAP grant will be priorities which the Committee considers critical to the future 69.2% of basic pay for the Executive Directors, which reects a success of the Company.
consistent performance by Dairy Crest against the backdrop of a difficult market.
As the 2014 15 grant level was determined based on At the 2014 AGM, shareholders approved our Directors performance against the scorecard over the previous financial year, Remuneration Policy Policy with 96% support.
A copy of the we have provided full details of the outcomes against these Policy is included after this statement for ease of reference.
The measures in this report.
This is contained towards the end of the full Policy as approved by shareholders is available on our website.
report just before Statement of Implementation of policy in the following financial year.
Grants under the LTAP will vest in two equal The Dairies transaction tranches four years and five years after grant, subject to the dividend 2014 15 has been a notable year for Dairy Crest.
On 6 November we and dividend cover maintenance performance condition being met.
announced that we have agreed to sell the assets and business of our Dairies operations to Mller.
A sale is conditional on approval from the Board changes relevant competition authorities and the process to obtain approval is Martyn Wilks left the Board on the 31 March 2015, and I would like on track.
After completion of a sale, Dairy Crests focus will be on its to take this opportunity to thank Martyn for his contribution profitable, predominantly branded, cheese and spreads operations.
It throughout the seven years he was on the Board.
Further will also grow its revenue and profits by continuing to develop information on the termination pay arrangements in place for Martyn whey-based products, specically demineralised whey powder and can be found on page 53 of this report.
, for the fast growing global infant formula market.
A sale of the Dairies operations will be a transformational and 2015 16 a hugely positive transaction for the Company, our shareholders and 2015 16 is expected to be a challenging year in light of the the sector.
transaction and related significant restructuring activity required.
As the timing of the transaction is unclear and dependent on the In light of the challenges that lay ahead for Dairy Crest over this critical relevant competition approvals, the Committee has reviewed the period for the business, the Committee determined that the retention 2015 16 annual bonus performance measures.
This is to ensure that of Mark Allen, given his unique knowledge of the Groups business for this year, during this critical period of transition, the targets and in-depth knowledge of the sector in which it operates and his appropriately assess performance and recognise the contribution of relationships with the Companys key stakeholders, is paramount over our people.
As a result of this review, the Committee has determined the coming three years.
Mark has been the Companys Chief that the profit before tax measure will be replaced with an adjusted Executive for eight years and with Dairy Crest for 23 years.
operating profit measure, to enable the Committee to assess the Shareholders approved the grant of a one-off Transformational underlying performance of the business over the year, excluding Incentive Award to the Chief Executive outside the approved Directors property disposals and the impact of interest payments over the Remuneration Policy at the extraordinary general meeting held in period which will be abnormally impacted by the anticipated December 2014.
As a result the award was granted following the EGM transaction.
In addition, the net debt measure is to be replaced with and vests three years from grant in December 2017, subject to the a cashow measure to provide a more relevant assessment of achievement of stretching performance conditions.
Further details of performance over the period and the target will be calibrated to this award are given in the report under Scheme interests awarded exclude the anticipated cash receipt as a result of the transaction.
We consulted with a number of our key Finally, part of the 2015 16 annual bonus will be paid depending on shareholders prior to the EGM, and I would like to take this the successful completion of the transaction.
This approach is being opportunity to thank investors for their input and engagement during applied to all bonus scheme participants and the Committee this process, and for their subsequent support at the EGM.
believes that it is important to incentivise and reward employees appropriately for their part in achieving this deal.
However, to ensure 2014 15 that the greater proportion of the Executive Directors bonuses The positive transaction for Dairy Crest highlighted above takes continue to be based on specic financial measures, this element place against a backdrop of challenging trading and economic will comprise a much lower proportion of the bonus for them Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 45 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED compared with other employees.
This change is consistent with the This report approved Policy.
The maximum bonus potential for Executive Following the high level of support received for our 2013 14 Directors will remain at 100% of salary.
remuneration report, the Committee decided to make minimal changes to the layout of the report to provide consistency for our In reviewing our bonus, we have also made a substantive change to readers.
We have included a copy of our full Policy report, which was how we will implement the Policy.
We have introduced clawback and approved at the 2014 AGM, but this is not being put to a shareholder malus clauses to our bonus, applying to awards made relating to vote this year as we have made no changes to the Policy.
Other than 2015 16 and future financial years.
These will allow both cash and the one-off Transformational Incentive Award previously mentioned, share bonus awards to be reduced in the three years after the award we have operated fully within the Policy this year.
This is intended to protect the Company and its stakeholders against the most serious events, which may only come Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by to light after a period of time.
This does not constitute a change to Policy.
Richard Macdonald Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
As referenced in last years remuneration report, Tom Athertons promotion to Group Finance Director was at a salary level signicantly below the market rate, but with a clear plan for enhanced salary adjustments in line with increasing experience and good performance in the role.
I am pleased to confirm that further to an on-going review of Toms performance his salary has been increased by 15.4% to 300,000 p. a.
This reects our ongoing intention to move him to a market median positioning as his experience in role grows.
It is therefore anticipated that subject to his continued strong performance, Tom will receive further appropriate increases such that his salary positioning is in the market median range against FTSE 250 CFOs.
No salary increase will be awarded to Mark Allen in 2015 he last received an increase in his basic salary in 2011.
The Committee intends to conduct a review of Marks salary in January 2016.
Directors remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM Meeting on 15 July 2014 to cover the period from 1 April 2015 to the 2017 AGM.
Directors remuneration Policy We seek to ensure that the remuneration packages contribute to the Future policy table delivery of long term shareholder value.
This is reected in the The remuneration structure for Executive and Non-executive Companys annual bonus scheme and long term alignment plan, Directors who are paid only fees and receive no additional benets which are explained in more details below.
The Committee received at Dairy Crest, and the underlying principles on which each element shareholder approval of the following Policy at the Annual General of the package is based are set out below.
How the element supports our Performance metrics used, and time strategic objectives Operation of the element Maximum opportunity under the element period applicable Base salary Benchmarked against executives with Increases will normally be broadly in line with Not applicable.
Reect assessment similar responsibilities in companies of ination and the wider employee population.
of market practice comparable size and complexity, in based on role and particular the constituent companies of The Committee retains the exibility to award experience.
the FTSE 250 index excluding financial higher base salary increases and to position services.
salaries in such a way that ensures Dairy Crest remains competitive in the market, and to take Paid in 12 equal monthly instalments into account an individuals personal during the year.
performance and experience in the role as such the Committee may apply increases over Reviewed annually and any changes are time as appropriate to achieve alignment with in the ordinary course effective from 1st market levels.
Changes may also be made in the case of a change in role or responsibility.
46 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 How the element supports our Performance metrics used, and time strategic objectives Operation of the element Maximum opportunity under the element period applicable Pension There is a dened contribution scheme Mark Allen and Tom Atherton receive employer Not applicable.
Provide a market and or salary supplement in place.
No contributions up to Annual Allowance plus cash competitive level of further service accrual under final salary supplements.
Total benefit will not exceed 23% provision with pension scheme from 1 April 2010. of salary.
appropriate exibility whilst minimising risk Martyn Wilks receives a cash supplement of to the Group.
Benets Includes company car benefit, life All Executives receive a company car car Not applicable.
Provide marketassurance cover, permanent health allowance and private medical insurance, competitive benets.
Dairy Crest pays the cost of providing the Mark Allen and Tom Atherton receive life benets on a monthly basis, or as insurance cover of 7 x annual salary.
Martyn Wilks receives life insurance cover of 4 x The Remuneration Committee reserves annual salary.
the right to add to or remove these benets as required.
Bonus To deliver an appropriate balance Current maximum award: 100% of salary.
Performance is measured by reference to the Ensure that annual between long term and short term financial year.
reward is consistent reward, any bonus earned over 50% of Target award: 50% of salary.
with successfully annual salary is deferred into shares see Metrics used to determine performance under achieving the short below.
The remainder is paid as cash.
the bonus will be based on a mix of financial, term financial targets operational and personal measures.
and strategic The cash element of the bonus is paid The Remuneration Committee has discretion to objectives of the three months after the end of the financial increase the maximum award to 150% of salary The Committee has the exibility to vary the Group.
The Committee is performance measures and weighting of not aware of any such circumstances and so metrics under this plan.
does not currently expect to make awards above the maximum of 100% of salary.
Deferred bonus Any bonus over 50% of annual salary is Policy maximum award: 50% of salary None.
Value growth is achieved only through Deliver appropriate deferred for three years, conditional on maximum potential deferral.
change in share price, and dividend balance between continued employment until vesting date.
long term and short In the exceptional event the Remuneration term reward and to Delivered in shares.
Participants will Committee exercises discretion to award a build up Directors normally be entitled to an amount, payable bonus above 100% of salary, any bonus earned shareholdings in line in shares, on vesting equal in value to the above 50% of salary would be deferred into with Policy.
dividends payable on deferred bonus shares.
shares over the deferral period.
Long Term Annual grant of share awards.
Achievements over the prior year against a Alignment Plan pre-grant performance scorecard comprising Encourage and Awards will be subject to a phased If performance falls below a minimum level measures aligned to Dairy Crests strategic reward continuing vesting requirement, with 50% of the against the scorecard no award will be made.
improvement in the award vesting in year 4 and 50% in year 5 Groups performance following grant.
The Committee has exibility to amend the over the longer term.
relevant measures, weightings and KPIs which Participants will normally be entitled to an determine the size of the awards granted.
The Alignment of interest amount on vesting, paid in shares, equal weighting of financial KPIs in determining between participants in value to the dividends payable on annual grant levels will be at least 60% of the and shareholders.
Measures identied The Board may at any time up to and on Vesting is subject to continued employment.
are central to Dairy vesting reduce the number of shares that Crests strategy and vest, should material misstatement or The level of vesting may be reduced are considered by misconduct occur.
dependent on a dividend underpin over the Directors in first three years of the vesting period.
overseeing the operation of the An amount of the award proportional to the business.
percentage decrease in dividend may be clawed back in the event of a decline of up to 50%.
If the decline exceeds 50%, the Committee will use its discretion to determine the proportion of the award that shall vest.
In such circumstances not more than 50% of the award will vest.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 47 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED How the element supports our Performance metrics used, and time strategic objectives Operation of the element Maximum opportunity under the element period applicable Long Term Dividend cover must be maintained in a Alignment Plan specic range over the three-year Continued measurement period.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to reduce the vesting of awards as appropriate should dividend cover be outside this range.
The dividend cover range will be determined by the Committee annually, and may be adjusted if the Committee determines this to be appropriate.
Shareholding Directors are encouraged to build a The shareholding requirement for Executive Not applicable.
requirement shareholding in the Company.
Such Directors is 200% of salary.
Alignment of interest shareholdings exclude unvested options between participants under the Long Term Incentive Share Plan and shareholders.
and include unvested deferred shares granted to Executive Directors as part payment of bonuses and unvested LTAP awards.
Directors who have not achieved the minimum shareholding requirement will be encouraged to retain 50% of any shares released under the deferred bonus LTAP until the required level of shareholding is reached.
Non-executive Benchmarked against Non-executive The total fees for Non-executive Directors Not applicable.
Directors fees Directors with similar responsibilities in remain within the limit of 600,000 set out in the Remunerates companies of comparable size and Articles of Association.
Directors and attracts NonThe remuneration of the Non-executive executive Directors of Chairman is determined by the Board suitable calibre.
following recommendations from the Remuneration Committee and Chief Executive.
The remuneration of Non-executive Directors is determined by the Board following recommendations from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee having consulted with an external adviser and the Chief Executive.
Provisions of previous Policy that will continue to apply award made 2012 Long Term Annual grant of share awards.
60% subject to three-year relative TSR Incentive Share performance against a comparator group Plan Three-year vesting period.
comprising FTSE 250 constituents as at the Alignment of interest grant date excluding financial service between participants companies, real estate companies and and shareholders.
40% subject to three-year Adjusted EPS growth targets.
Notes on Policy table and components of remuneration Performance measures and targets Measures for incentive plans reect the strategic priorities which the Committee considers critical to the future success of the Company.
Targets are set by reference to budgeted nancials, wider Group targets, external market consensus and stretching strategic growth outcomes.
Differences in remuneration for all employees The majority of employees participate in a bonus plan.
The size of award and the weighting of performance conditions vary by level, with specic measures incorporated where relevant.
All members of the senior management team have historically participated in the LTISP arrangement.
A smaller group of senior management now participates in the LTAP at a reward level appropriate to their role.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company As the Committee has oversight of remuneration matters for the broader senior management population, it brings the reward of these individuals into consideration when discussing packages for Executive Directors.
The Committee does not specically ask employees to comment on matters related to the remuneration of Executive Directors, but any comments received are taken into account.
48 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 Approach to recruitment remuneration The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay a competitive salary as appropriate to attract and motivate the right talent in the role.
The following table sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the appointment of an Executive Director.
Any new Directors remuneration package would include the same elements and be subject to the same constraints as those of the existing Directors performing similar roles, as shown below: Component Policy and principles Base salary and The salary level will be set taking into account the responsibilities of the individual and the salaries paid for similar roles in comparable companies.
benets Depending on the circumstances of any particular appointment the Committee may choose to set base salary above market median to attract the right talent, or below market median with increases applied over a period of time to achieve alignment with market levels for the role with reference to the experience and performance of the individual, all subject to the Companys ability to pay.
Should relocation of a newly recruited Executive Director be required, reasonable costs associated with this relocation will be met by the Company.
Such relocation support could include but not be limited to payment of legal fees, removal costs, temporary accommodation hotel cost, a contribution to stamp duty, and replacement of non-transferrable household items.
In addition, the Committee may grant additional support as appropriate.
Other benets provided will be aligned to those set out on pages 46 to 48.
Pension The Executive Director will be able to participate in the dened contribution scheme up to the annual allowance and a cash supplement payment above this.
Total benefit will not exceed 23% of Basic Salary.
Annual bonus The Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus scheme as set out in the remuneration Policy table.
The Policy maximum award under the bonus will be 100% of salary.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to increase the maximum award to 150% of salary in exceptional circumstances.
Any bonus over 50% of salary is deferred into shares for three years as set out in the remuneration Policy table.
Long term The Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the Long Term Alignment Plan at the Remuneration Committees discretion.
incentives The maximum potential opportunity under this scheme is 90% of salary.
Associated performance measures would apply as set out in the remuneration Policy table.
Replacement The Committee will seek to structure any replacement awards so that overall they are no more generous in terms of quantum or vesting period awards than the awards forfeited from a new recruits previous employer.
In determining quantum and structure of replacement awards, the Committee will seek to replicate the value taking into account, as far as practicable, the timing, form and performance requirements of remuneration forgone.
The Committee has the exibility to use cash and or shares as the format for delivery of any replacement awards.
Service contracts and Policy on payment for loss of ofce Service contracts and letters of appointment include the following terms.
Executive Director Date of commencement of contract Notice period M Allen 18 July 2002 12 months M Wilks 7 January 2008 12 months T Atherton 23 May 2013 12 months Martyn Wilks left the Board on 31 March 2015.
Executive Directors service agreements are available on the Companys website www.
Non-executive Director Letters of appointment Notice period A Fry 15 July 2009 3 months A Carr-Locke 15 July 2009 3 months R Macdonald 4 October 2010 3 months S Alexander 4 October 2010 3 months S Farr 6 October 2011 3 months Anthony Fry left the Board on 17 September 2014.
It is the Companys Policy that Non-executive Directors should not normally serve for more than nine years.
A template Non-executive Directors letter of appointment is available on the Companys website.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 49 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED External Appointments Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-executive Directors of other companies and it is recognised that exposure to such duties can broaden their experience and skills which will benefit the Company.
External appointments are subject to agreement by the Chairman and reported to the Board.
Any external appointment must not conict with a Directors duties and commitments to Dairy Crest.
Fees may be retained by Directors for such appointments.
Termination Policy The Remuneration Committees approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason for termination, contractual obligations of both parties as well as share plan and pension scheme rules including relevant performance conditions.
The table below summarises the key elements of the Executive Director service contract and Policy on payment for loss of ofce.
Component Policy and principles Notice period 12 months notice from Company.
Compensation for Up to 12 months salary plus an additional 3% to account for presumed salary increases from any salary review that may have taken place in loss of ofce in the notice period.
service contracts Payable monthly and subject to mitigation if Director obtains alternative employment up to 12 months after termination.
Other payments to the Director in question include medical benets, cost of company car and a sum equivalent to 23% of annual salary representing pension contribution for the unexpired part of the contractual notice period.
Under the terms of Mark Allens contract payments on termination are calculated as 90% of the sum of the following items annual salary, benets, pension plus 50% of maximum bonus opportunity for the notice period.
This will not be the Companys Policy going forward for other Executive Directors.
Under the terms of Martyn Wilks contract, payments on termination are calculated as annual base salary, benets and pension contribution, half of which would be paid on termination and the remainder paid in six equal monthly instalments.
Contractual provisions in respect of compensation for loss of ofce for Mark Allen and Martyn Wilks are therefore grandfathered.
In the event of a compromise or settlement agreement, the Remuneration Committee may make payments it considers reasonable in settlement of potential legal claims.
This may include an entitlement to compensation in respect of their statutory rights under employment protection legislation in the UK or in other jurisdictions.
The Remuneration Committee may also include in such payments reasonable reimbursement of professional fees in connection with such agreements.
The reimbursement of repatriation costs or fees for professional or outplacement advice may also be included in the termination package, as deemed reasonable by the Committee, as may the continuation of benets for a limited period.
Treatment of If termination is by way of death, injury, illness, disability, redundancy, retirement, or any other circumstances the Committee determines, unvested deferred deferred shares may be released on termination.
bonus awards under plan rules Otherwise, the proportion of awards released will be determined at the discretion of the Board.
Treatment of Any outstanding award will lapse at cessation of employment with the Company, unless the reason for cessation is by way of injury, ill-health, unvested long term disability, redundancy, retirement, or any other circumstances the Committee determines, when the award will vest at the normal vesting date incentive plan with the underpin and other conditions considered at the time of vesting.
Alternatively, the Committee may determine that a proportion of the awards under plan award will vest immediately, with the proportion determined by the Committee taking into account satisfaction of the underpin and any other rules factors the Committee consider relevant.
A proportion of the LTAP award will vest immediately on death, pro-rated for time Exercise of Any discretion available in determining treatment of incentives on termination of employment is intended only to be relied upon to provide discretion exibility in certain circumstances.
The Remuneration Committees determination will take into account the particular circumstances of the Directors departure and the recent performance of the Company.
Change of control Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control to the extent that any performance condition has been satisfied.
The proportion of awards that vest under the LTAP will be determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Deferred bonus awards would normally be released in full.
The Committee reserves the right to alter the performance period or the performance measures and targets of the annual bonus plan or of any outstanding awards under the annual bonus plan or the LTAP in the event of a change of control, to ensure that the performance conditions remain relevant but challenging.
The Committee has the discretion to test performance at the point of change of control or to allow awards to continue or roll-over in any reasonable manner with agreement of the acquirer, taking into account the circumstances of the change of control.
There are no pre-determined special provisions for Non-executive Directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of ofce.
50 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 Illustration of application of remuneration Policy updated for 2015 A significant proportion of a Directors total remuneration package is variable, being subject to the achievement of specified short term and long term business objectives.
The charts below show the composition of total remuneration at minimum, target and maximum performance scenarios for the Executive Directors.
i Director Value of package 000s 41% 31% 28% 1,649 M Allen Maximum 52% 20% 28% 1,287 Target Minimum Fixed 100% 666 0 250 500 750 1000 1250 1500 1750 41% 31% 28% 964 T Atherton Maximum 52% 20% 28% 754 Target 100% 394 Minimum Fixed 0 125 250 375 500 625 750 875 1000 i Martyn Wilks left the Board on 31 March 2015 Key: Fixed Remuneration Annual Variable Remuneration Long term Variable Remuneration Notes to the scenarios: Fixed: This element comprises salary as of 1 April 2015 1 May 2015 for T Atherton, pension benets including salary supplement and other xed benets company car, etc as per the last known number.
Annual variable Remuneration: This element shows annual bonus including any amount deferred at 100% of salary in the maximum scenario and 50% of salary in the target scenario.
Long term Variable Remuneration: This element shows remuneration in respect of the LTAP, at 90% of salary in the maximum scenario and 70% of salary in the target scenario.
No allowance is made for share price growth, in accordance with the requirements of the disclosure rules.
Statement of consideration of shareholders views The Board consulted with several larger shareholders on the proposal to grant the one-off Transformational Incentive Award TIA to the Chief Executive.
Further details are set out on pages 55 to 56.
The Committee discusses matters relating to Directors remuneration with major investors on an on-going basis and takes into account any comments which are received.
Annual report on remuneration Single total gure of remuneration subject to audit The table below sets out the analysis of total remuneration for each Director.
An explanation of how the gures are calculated follows the table.
The total remuneration for each Director reects the performance of the Company and the contribution each individual has made to the on-going success of the Company.
Taxable benets relate to medical costs supported by Dairy Crest.
The base salary gure includes a 39k payment in lieu of notice.
iii For 2014 15, the values included are for the 2012 LTISP and have been calculated using the average middle market price during the final quarter of 2014 15.
Should an Executive Director leave employment before 1 July 2015, vesting will be dependent upon the individual being considered as a good leaver under the scheme rules.
For 2013 14, the values included are the actual value of the shares which vested under the 2011 LTISP.
iv Pension amounts include employers pension contribution and salary supplement.
Base salary, bonus and LTISP are dened on pages 46 to 48.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 51 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Notes Bonuses detailed above include the full value of bonus entitlement which includes deferred bonus shares for 2013 14.
No deferred bonus shares were awarded in 2014 15.
Taxable benets are valued at the taxable value, and include company car car allowance and private medical insurance.
During the year, Mark Allen held the position of Non-executive Director including Audit Committee member and Remuneration Committee member at Howdens Joinery Group plc, with fees in association with this work totalling 45k 2014: 43k.
Additional requirements in respect of the single total gure table subject to audit Performance against targets for annual bonus Payment of the bonus is subject to the achievement of demanding short term financial targets and personal objectives.
To ensure that an appropriate balance is maintained between long term and short term reward, any bonus earned over 50% of annual salary is paid in the Companys shares and deferred for a three-year period subject to continued employment.
Bonus payouts for the 2014 15 performance year are set out below: Outcome as a % of salary Maximum potential as a Measure Details % of salary M Allen M Wilks T Atherton profit before tax Stretching targets based on budget, with a sliding scale between 60% 0%0%0% threshold and maximum Net debt Stretching targets based on budget, with a sliding scale between 15% 0%0%0% threshold and maximum Personal A range of non-financial operational and strategic objectives will be 25% 18.75% 15.63% 18.75% objectives assessed by the Committee, with an appropriate award level set under this element with reference to the overall performance of the business.
Total 100% of 18.75% of 15.63% of 18.75% of salary salary 97k salary 54k salary 47k Deferred into shares Group adjusted profit before tax decreased by 7.2% in the year resulting in no award.
Net debt increased by 56m in the year resulting in no award.
Targets for 2014 15 have not been disclosed as they are considered commercially sensitive because of the information that they provide to the Companys competitors.
Long Term Incentive Plan 2012 Awards under the LTISP 2012 had a three-year performance period to 31 March 2015.
40% of the total award was based on the Groups Adjusted EPS and 60% was measured against the TSR performance of the FTSE 250 excluding financial services companies, real estate companies and investment trusts.
Vesting Value as shown in as % award Single total gure of Measure Threshold Maximum Outcome granted in 2012 Number of shares remuneration TSR performance Median 30% of TSR Upper quartile or 73 150 34.7% 67,153 321,119 against FTSE 250 award vests above 100% of TSR constituents 60% award vests of total LTISP award EPS target 40% of RPI 1% p. a. over RPI 5% p. a. over Threshold level not 0% 0 0 total LTISP award the three year the three year achieved performance period performance period 30% of EPS award 100% of EPS award vests vests Overall outcome 20.8% 67,153 321,119 52 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 Current position on outstanding LTAP awards not subject to audit The outstanding LTAP awards are subject to a dividend underpin for three years following the award being made.
The award may be reduced by an amount proportional to the percentage decrease in dividend in the event of a decline of up to 50%.
Dividend cover must also be maintained in the range 1.5 2.5 over the three-year measurement period.
Total pension entitlements subject to audit Following the closure of the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund a dened benefit scheme to future accruals, there is no increase in accrued pension during the year other than inationary increases.
The scheme closed to future accrual at 31 March 2010.
Mark Allen decided to draw benets from 31 March 2010 and receives an annual pension.
Mark Allen and Tom Atherton were members of the dened contribution scheme throughout 2014 15.
The Company made contributions up to the 40,000 limit for employee and employer contributions.
Further cash supplements were paid such that the total of cash supplements and employer contributions amounted to 23% of basic salary.
Martyn Wilks was not a member of any Company pension scheme in the year ended 31 March 2015 and received a salary supplement of 23% of basic salary.
Payments for loss of ofce subject to audit Martyn Wilks left the Board on 31 March 2015.
The payments for loss of ofce to be made to Martyn Wilks are as follows: Termination payment The termination payment to Martyn Wilks on leaving employment was calculated in accordance with the provisions of his service contract, which entitled him to an amount based on his salary, non-cash benets and pension benets over one year.
An amount of 218,794 representing half of this termination payment was paid on termination.
An amount of 1,430 was paid for legal fees associated with Martyn Wilkes termination of employment.
Deferred bonus All outstanding deferred bonus shares were released to Martyn Wilks comprising 18,267 shares including on vesting additional shares in respect of dividends paid.
Long term incentives Martyn Wilks has outstanding awards under the LTAP 2013 and LTAP 2014.
These will be pro-rated up to termination and released on the normal vesting dates, subject to achievement against the dividend performance measure over the period.
As he was with the Company for the full performance period of the 2012 LTISP, the estimated value of shares vesting is included in the single total gure above.
He will receive the shares vesting under this award in full with no pro-ration on the normal vesting date.
Payments to past Directors subject to audit In the year, Alastair Murray received 92,860 from the vesting of the 2011 LTISP based on his vested award of 17,794 shares.
92,000 was disclosed in the single gure table in the 2013 14 report representing an estimate of Mr Murrays vested award and based on the average share price for the last quarter of that financial year.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 53 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Scheme interests awarded during the financial year subject to audit LTAP 2014 award The award made under the LTAP in 2014 was made on 16 December 2014.
The award level is determined based on achievements over the prior year against the pre-grant performance scorecard, comprising of measures aligned to Dairy Crests strategic priorities.
Outcomes against the 2014 scorecard are summarised in the second table below, and detail on these outcomes against the targets set and context in which decisions were made is included thereafter.
Note that this award is subject to a dividend underpin for the first three years of the vesting period and will be settled through nil cost share options.
Level of award % of Percentage vesting at Director salary Face value 000s threshold performance Number of shares End of vesting period Mark Allen 80% 414 N A 84,406 50% at December 2018 50% at December 2019 Martyn Wilks 80% 277 N A 56,464 50% at December 2018 50% at December 2019 Tom Atherton 80% 176 N A 42,397 50% at December 2018 50% at December 2019 Determination of 2014 grant and performance assessment: Measure KPI Alignment with strategy Weighting Outcome 1. profit Adjusted EBITDA target each year.
Delivery of profit is core to the business 30% 23% and supports the progressive dividend Policy.
Balance sheet ROCE target each year whilst Ensuring acceptable return on 20% 17% efficiency maintaining net debt EBITDA in the investment within a sustainable level of 1.0-2.0 x range.
Corporate Delivery of annual cost savings targets.
Ensuring cost savings are delivered on 15% 15% Activity & Delivery of synergies and return on an on-going basis.
efficiencies investment following acquisitions or successful divestments when relevant.
Ensuring that major acquisitions divestments deliver against relevant synergy and return targets.
Brand Growth Key brand value growth over one and Brand growth is key to longer term 15% 5% three years versus markets in which they business growth.
Innovation Achieve each year the targeted Innovation is a key driver of productivity 10% 6% proportion of revenue from innovation in and growth.
Corporate A range of metrics including Delivering results in a sustainable way 10% 8% Responsibility improvements in accident incident rates, which enhances reputation and reduced CO emissions & improved stakeholder engagement.
Total 74% For Executive Directors this converts to an award of 80% of salary 1. profit Weighting: 30%.
Outcome: 23% The Remuneration Committee assessed profit performance against an adjusted EBITDA KPI target range set by reference to the budget.
EBITDA performance in 2013 14 showed considerable improvement in what continued to be a challenging market.
Milk prices remained high, resulting in a c45m increase in costs that had to be recovered.
Developments in the retail sector and the increased prominence of discounters led to further pressures being applied to the Dairies business.
The Remuneration Committee considered that against this context, the adjusted EBITDA outcome showed a good performance and awarded 23% on this basis.
Outcome: 17% The Remuneration Committee determined balance sheet efficiency for FY 2012 13 through the assessment of ROCE performance calculated based on average operating assets against an annual target based on budget and the long term objective of 12%.
As last year, the Remuneration Committee felt it important to underpin the assessment with the requirement that gearing being net debt EBITDA remain below 2.0 times.
ROCE for the year of 13.8% was ahead of the long term 12% target.
This result represented a good performance against our balance sheet efficiency objectives and resulted in an award of 17% 3.
Outcome: 15% Given no major M&A activity during the year, the outcome for this measure was based upon cost savings.
Against a target of 20 million the Group made savings of 25 million.
This resulted in a full award being made against this component.
Outcome: 5% The key brand performance was mixed.
Three of our four key brands recorded sales growth below the market albeit both FRijj and Country Life both performed better in the second half of the year.
Cathedral City continues to signicantly outperform the market.
Although longer-term data shows three of our four key brands outperforming the market, we believe an award of 5% is appropriate given the importance of brand growth in the current environment.
Outcome: 6% Under this measure, the Remuneration Committee took into account the Group target that 10% of annual revenue should be generated from product innovation over the previous three years.
In their assessment, the Remuneration Committee noted that this target should be considered for branded sales as well as for overall Group revenue.
Achieving 4% of Group revenue and 7% of branded revenue through innovation was considered by the Remuneration Committee as showing some progress against this component, albeit not in line with the Groups challenging targets.
As a result, an award of 6% was considered appropriate.
Outcome: 8% We have made good progress on health and safety during the year but certain other targets with respect to landll avoidance and employee engagement were not met.
However, we were the highest scoring company in BITCs CR index with 4.5 out of 5.0.
This measures a range of Corporate Responsibility criteria consistent with our LTAP measures and therefore an award of 8% is considered appropriate.
Dividend underpin The level of vesting of this award may be reduced to the extent that a dividend underpin over the period April 2014 March 2017 is not met.
If the decline exceeds 50%, the Remuneration Committee will use its discretion to determine the proportion of the award that shall vest.
Dividend cover must be maintained in a specic range over the three-year measurement period.
The Committee retains discretion to reduce the vesting of awards as appropriate should dividend cover be outside this range.
Chief Executive one-off Transformational Incentive Award At the EGM held in December 2014, shareholders approved the grant of a one-off Transformational Incentive Award TIA to Mark Allen.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the retention of Mark Allen and his leadership are critical to the business now and will remain so over the subsequent transformational years.
The Committee therefore sought the approval of shareholders at the EGM to enable the grant to Mark Allen of a one-off TIA outside the approved Directors Remuneration Policy.
The Committee considers that this additional award will ensure that Mr Allen is appropriately incentivised and rewarded for the achievement of key objectives that are central to Dairy Crests transformation: is aligned with the interests of our Company and shareholders: and that by supporting his retention, it reduces risk during a critical period.
The key terms of the TIA, on which the Committee consulted the Companys largest shareholders, are detailed below: t The grant of a nil cost option to acquire Ordinary Shares was made to Mark Allen following the EGM.
The option is exercisable three years after grant in December 2017 to the extent that the stretching performance conditions set in relation to the award are achieved as described below.
t The grant was made under rules of the LTISP which were approved by shareholders in 2006 this is the long term incentive operated by Dairy Crest prior to the introduction of the LTAP.
No further awards are intended to be made under the LTISP.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 55 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED t The award is structured as a base award over Ordinary Shares having a market value at grant equivalent to 75% of Mark Allens base salary.
A multiplier of between 0 and 3 times the number of Ordinary Shares subject to the base award will be applied to it at the end of the three year vesting period depending on the level of performance achieved.
The face value of the award is therefore 1,165.5k t The Committee will determine the level of vesting of the TIA based on performance objectives which are intended to be demanding.
In measuring performance in this regard, the Committee has identied three categories of objectives on which the assessment of performance will be based.
These relate to the restructuring of the business and its future success, as follows: managing the competition approval process relating to the sale of the Dairies operations, requiring strong leadership and a high level of personal involvement from a chief executive officer as an acknowledged leader in the sector, as well as managing the business as a whole through a period of extended uncertainty: appropriately reshaping the Group, taking account of the outcome of the competition approval process: and establishing a successful future business, by reference to the development of the Group and its principal business streams, including the delivery of value to shareholders.
t The objectives set by the Committee include both financial and non-financial objectives.
Where appropriate, the Committee will set a performance range against which threshold, target and stretch performance will be measured.
t In addition to the objectives themselves, the Committee will assess the quality of execution of the objectives, including, in particular, in relation to risk, sustainability and shareholder value.
t At the end of the three year performance period, the Committee will assess the sum of the evaluations of the individual objectives to determine the total level of vesting of the TIA and may exercise discretion to reduce the level of vesting when reviewing Dairy Crests performance in the round, including the level of value delivered to shareholders over the period.
t The TIA only commenced in December 2014 but in that three month period Mark Allen has made significant progress in: engaging all key stakeholders in the sale of the Dairies business resulting, with respect to competition approval, in a UK Competition and Markets Authority review of the transaction the restructuring of the Dairy Crest business into two separate divisions ensuring appropriate category focus and delivery of performance leading major communication channels with employees, suppliers, customers and other interested parties ensuring clear communication of Dairy Crests strategy during the pre-transformation period leading the new Whey GOS development which is on plan to deliver expected outcomes and enhance shareholder value t Updated objectives and performance against the objectives will be disclosed in each Directors Remuneration Report for each of the three financial years during the performance period and full disclosure of the performance levels achieved including the multiplier applied and vesting level will be set out in the directors remuneration report for the financial year in which the performance period ends.
It is intended that the annual update provided to shareholders on the objectives and performance assessment will become more detailed over the course of the performance period.
The Committee has chosen this approach because the timing of the competition approval process for the sale of the Dairies operations is not within the Companys control and, recognising also the commercial sensitivity in relation to the future development of Dairy Crest, the ability to disclose anything more than summary information in advance is limited.
t In line with best practice requirements under the Corporate Governance Code, the TIA is subject to malus and clawback provisions set by the Committee.
t Leaver and change of control provisions are as prescribed under the LTISP rules.
Shareholder dilution In accordance with the guidelines set by the Investment Association IA, the Remuneration Committee can satisfy awards under all its share plans with new issue shares or shares issued from treasury up to a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling 10-year period to employees under all its share plans.
Within this 10% limit, the Company can only issue as newly issued shares or from treasury 5% of its issued share capital to satisfy awards under discretionary or executive plans.
Currently 7.1% of issued shares have been made under share plans, with 1.7% under discretionary or executive schemes.
Statement of Directors shareholdings and share interests subject to audit Executive Directors are encouraged to build a shareholding in the Company equivalent to 200% of salary and to this end would normally retain 50% of net proceeds from share plans and deferred bonus share awards until that shareholding is achieved.
Shareholdings exclude unvested options under the LTISP and include unvested deferred shares granted to Executive Directors as part payment of bonuses and unvested LTAP awards.
Mark Allen has satisfied the shareholding requirement.
Tom Atherton has not met the requirement and will continue to grow his shareholding.
56 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 The interests of the Directors at the end of the year in the ordinary share capital of the Company were as follows: Number of shares owned outright Deferred including connected Unvested LTAP Unvested LTAP Unvested annual bonus iii iv v vi vii viii Director persons LTISP 2012 2013 shares 2014 shares TIA shares shares SAYE M Allen 167,663 37,220 83,879 85,484 240,623 36,874 5,595 i M Wilks 62,396 24,899 56,112 57,185 18,267 5,595 T Atherton 6,097 5,034 32,410 42,939 13,793 4,787 A Carr-Locke 2,000 R Macdonald 1,000 S Alexander 1,000 S Farr 4,465 ii A Fry 3,000 i Martyn Wilks left the Board on 31 March 2015. ii Anthony Fry left the Board on 17 September 2014 interests in shares as at this date.
iii Long Term Incentive Share Plan 2012 nil cost share options : The performance period ended on 31 March 2015 and awards will vest on 1 July 2015.
Amounts shown are numbers of shares which will vest.
iv Long term Alignment Plan 2013 nil cost share options : The period for the dividend underpin condition will end on 31 March 2016.
50% of awards will vest on 15August 2017 and 50% will vest on 15 August 2018.
Amounts shown include grant and options related to reinvested dividends to the date of this Report.
v Long term Alignment Plan 2014 nil cost share options : The period for the dividend underpin condition will end on 31 March 2017.
50% of awards will vest on 15December 2018 and 50% will vest on 15 December 2019.
Amounts shown include grant and options related to reinvested dividends to the date of this Report vi One-off transformational award to the Chief Executive nil cost share options : The performance period will end on 23 December 2017 and awards will vest shortly after.
vii Deferred bonus scheme nil cost share options.
viii Save As You Earn Scheme 2012 cost options.
The exercise price for these options is 281 pence per share and the exercise period is 3 20169 2016.
Save As You Earn Scheme 2014 cost options.
The exercise price for these options is 376 pence per share and the exercise period is 9 20172 2018.
There are no applicable performance conditions.
There have been no changes in Directors shareholdings between 31 March 2015 and 20 May 2015.
Gain on exercise of share options Director Number of options exercised Market value at exercise date Gain on exercise of share options M Allen 21,180 106,048 106,048 M Wilks 14,191 71,054 71,054 T Atherton 2,451 12,272 12,272 Performance graph and table The graph below sets out for the six years ended 31 March 2015 the total shareholder return of Dairy Crest Group plc and of the FTSE 250 index excluding investment companies of which the Company is a constituent member.
Dairy Crest Total Shareholder Returns for 100 invested 180 FTSE 250 excluding investment companies 160 Dairy Crest Group plc 140 120 100 80 March 10 March 11 March 12 March 13 March 14 March 15 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 57 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Chief Executives pay 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 Total remuneration 1,018 888 904 937 1,247 941 000s Annual bonus % max 94% 54% 50% 52.5% 81.7% 18.8% Long term incentive 0% 0% 0% 0% 23.5% 20.8% vesting % max Percentage change in Chief Executives remuneration The table below sets out the percentage change in the Chief Executives salary, benets and bonus between 2013 14 and 2014 15, compared with the percentage change in the average of each of these components of pay for the relevant members of the salaried clerical, administrative, supervisory and management population allocated to Hay bands, which comprises 24% of the total workforce and has been identied as the most appropriate for this table in view of the comparable nature of employment and incentive arrangements: Salary Taxable benets Bonus 2014 15 2013 14 % change 2014 15 2013 14 % change 2014 15 2013 14 % change Chief Executive 000s 518 518 0% 29 28 3% 97 423 -77% Average pay for wider 41 41 1% 4.9 5.2 -7% 1.1 5.4 -79% employee population 000s Relative importance of spend on pay The table below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay at Dairy Crest, compared with distributions made to shareholders in 2013 14 and 2014 15: m 2014 15 2013 14 % change Employee remuneration 144.0 157.0 -8.3% costs Dividends 29.2 28.5 2.5% LTAP 2015 award The award made under the LTAP 2015 is based on achievements over the prior year against the pre-grant performance scorecard, comprising measures aligned to Dairy Crests strategic priorities.
This award will be granted later in 2015.
Outcomes against the 2015 scorecard are summarised in the second table below and detail on outcomes against the targets set and the context in which decisions were made is included thereafter.
Note that this award is subject to a dividend underpin for the first three years of the vesting period.
Director Level of award % of salary Face value 000s End of vesting period Mark Allen 69.2% 358 50% 4 years after the award date 50% 5 years after the award date Tom Atherton 69.2% 207 50% 4 years after the award date 50% 5 years after the award date The number of shares granted will be calculated in accordance with the rules approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
58 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 Determination of 2015 grant and performance assessment: Measure KPI Alignment with strategy Weighting Outcome 1. profit Adjusted EBITDA target each Delivery of profit is core to the 30% 2.5% year.
business and supports the progressive dividend Policy.
Balance sheet ROCE target each year whilst Ensuring acceptable return on 15% 2.5% efficiency maintaining net debt EBITDA in investment within a sustainable the 1.0-2.0 x range.
Corporate Activity & Delivery of annual cost savings Ensuring cost savings are 15% 15% efficiencies targets.
delivered on an on-going basis.
Delivery of synergies and return Ensuring that major on investment following acquisitions divestments deliver acquisitions or successful against relevant synergy and divestments when relevant.
Brand Growth Key brand value growth over Brand growth is key to longer 20% 12% one and three years versus term business growth.
markets in which they operate.
Innovation Achieve each year the targeted Innovation is a key driver of 10% 8% proportion of revenue from productivity and growth.
innovation in previous three years.
Corporate A range of metrics including Delivering results in a 10% 8% Responsibility improvements in accident sustainable way which incident rates, reduced CO enhances reputation and 2 emissions & improved stakeholder engagement.
Total 48% For Executive Directors this converts to an award of 69.2% of salary 1. profit Weighting: 30%.
Outcome: 2.5% The Remuneration Committee assessed profit performance against an adjusted EBITDA KPI target range set by reference to the budget.
EBITDA in 2014 15 was below prior year in what continued to be a very challenging market.
Our Dairies business has faced very strong competition in liquid milk markets and sharp falls in commodity realisations.
Our branded business performed relatively well in a deationary market, but overall the Group failed to achieve the challenging EBITDA target it set for itself.
This weaker than expected adjusted EBITDA outcome, resulted in an award of 2.5%.
Outcome: 2.5% The Remuneration Committee determined balance sheet efficiency for FY 2013 14 through the assessment of ROCE performance calculated based on average operating assets against an annual target based on budget and the long term objective of 12%.
As in previous years, the Remuneration Committee felt it important to underpin the assessment with the requirement that gearing being net debt EBITDA remain below 2.0 times.
A ROCE for the year of 11.5% was behind of the long term 12% target but above the vesting level for this element.
2014 15 was a year of significant capital expenditure at Davidstow to support future demineralized Whey and  production.
However, returns will not start to be generated until 2015 16 and this reduces ROCE in 2014 15.
The outturn of 11.5% is at the bottom of the vesting range.
With a year-end gearing of 2.0 times, at the top end of the range, the Remuneration Committee awarded only 2.5% for this LTAP element.
Outcome: 15% Given no major completed M&A activity during the year, the outcome for this measure was based upon cost savings.
The Group has, once again, considerably exceeded its 20m cost saving target and the full award of 15% has been made for this measure.
Outcome: 12% The key brand performance was mixed.
Three of our four key brands recorded sales growth ahead of the market in 2014 15 when all sales channels were considered, with Cathedral City continuing to signicantly outperform the market, Clover increasing market share and FRijj sales up 7%.
Longer-term data showed two of our four key brands outperforming the market.
On this basis the Remuneration Committee decided an award of 12% was appropriate.
Outcome: 8% Under this measure, the Remuneration Committee took into account the Group target that 10% of annual revenue should be generated from product innovation over the previous three years.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 59 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Against the challenging targets set, delivering 7% of branded revenue through innovation was considered by the Remuneration Committee as showing both good progress against this component and a competitive positioning to the market.
The Committee also considered the on-going innovation in the non-branded area of the business with increasing use of environmentally friendly light-weighted polybottles.
As a result, an award of 8% was made for this element.
Outcome: 8% We have again made good progress on health and safety with reducing accidents and days lost and showed positive improvement against our environmental targets.
Dairy Crest achieved the maximum 5 star rating in the BITC Corporate Responsibility Index, further improving on an impressive assessment in 2014.
However, an employee survey was not undertaken in the year, and some quality customer complaint targets were not met.
On balance across these various CR measures, the Remuneration Committee considered an award of 8% as appropriate.
Dividend underpin The level of vesting of this award may be reduced to the extent that a dividend underpin over the period April 2015 March 2018 is not met.
Statement of implementation of Policy in the following financial year The Directors remuneration Policy will be implemented for the 2015 16 financial year as follows: Base salary 000s Role 2014 15 Change to base salary as at 1 April 2015: Mark Allen 518 No change Tom Atherton 260 300 effective from 1 May 2015 Tom Atherton was brought onto the Board at a salary level below the market lower quartile for his role.
In line with the Remuneration Committees intent as stated in the 2013 Remuneration Report, he has been awarded an increase for 2015 to bring his salary closer towards a market competitive level.
The 15.4% increase reects our ongoing intention to move Mr Atherton to a market median positioning as his experience in role grows.
It is therefore anticipated that subject to his continued strong performance, Mr Atherton will receive further appropriate increases such that his salary positioning is in the market median range against FTSE 250 CFOs.
Non-executive Directors fees 000s Role 2014 15 Effective 1 April 2015 Non-executive Chairman 155 155 Non-executive Director 38 38 base Audit Committee Chair 5 5 Corporate Responsibility 5 5 Chair Remuneration Committee 5 5 Chair Senior Independent 5 5 Director Fees for Non-executive Directors have remained unchanged since the 2011 12 financial year.
Bonus measures Maximum opportunity for Executive Directors under the 2015 16 bonus remains at 100% of salary.
Performance will be assessed against the following measures: t Operating profit 45% of award t Free cash ow 10% of award t Personal objectives 15% of award t Measure in relation to the success of the sale of the Dairies operations 30% of award Given the signicance of the sale of the Dairies operations, the Remuneration Committee undertook a review of the performance measures of the bonus scheme to ensure appropriate alignment in this year of change.
Accordingly, the profit before tax and net debt targets have been changed to Operating profit excluding Property Sales and Free Cash Flow, respectively.
In addition, a measure relating to the sale of Dairies has been included.
These changes reect the strategic objectives of the Company at this critical phase in its evolution.
60 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 The targets for the 2015 16 annual bonus measures are considered commercially sensitive because of the information that this provides to the Companys competitors.
Malus and clawback provisions will be introduced in respect of the 2015 16 and subsequent bonus awards.
The malus provision will apply to the deferred share awards up to vesting.
The clawback provision will apply to the cash award for three years from the date of payment.
Clawback may be operated in the event of gross misconduct on the part of the employee and or material misstatement in Company or Group financial statements.
LTAP 2016 award A grant will be made in 2016 under the LTAP, in line with the disclosed Policy.
As the grant will be based on a scorecard of metrics assessed over the 2015 16 financial year, below we set out the scorecard which will determine the grants made in 2016.
We have included the 2015 16 KPIs on which performance will be assessed and the associated alignment to strategy.
We have not included specic targets on the KPIs, as the targets are considered commercially sensitive.
The outcomes for this award will be disclosed in the 2015 16 Directors Remuneration Report.
Measure KPI Alignment with strategy Weighting profit Adjusted EBITDA target Delivery of profit is core to the business and 30% supports the progressive dividend policy Balance Sheet efficiency ROCE target whilst maintaining net debt Ensuring acceptable return on investment 20% EBITDA in the 1-2 range within a sustainable level of gearing Corporate Activity and Delivery of annual cost savings targets Ensuring cost savings are delivered on an 15% Efciences on-going basis Delivery of synergies and return on investment following acquisitions or Ensuring that major acquisitions successful divestments when relevant divestments deliver against relevant synergy and return targets Brand Growth Key brand growth over one and three years Brand growth is key to longer term 20% versus the markets in which they operate business growth Revenue Growth through Achieve each year, the targeted proportion Innovation is a key driver of productivity and 10% Innovation of revenue from innovation in previous three growth years Corporate Responsibility Range of metrics aligned to the 40 pledges Delivering results in a sustainable way 5% including improvements in accident which enhances reputation and incident rates, reduced CO emissions and stakeholder engagement 2 improved maintained BITC score Measures and KPIs for 2015 16 are consistent with 2014 15 and support the long term strategy of the Group.
However certain weightings have been adjusted to reect changes in relative priorities over the next 12 months.
The LTAP maintains a minimum 60% weighting of financial KPIs within the 2015 16 scorecard.
Sharesave Scheme The Sharesave Scheme is open to all eligible employees and full time Directors.
Employees enter into an approved savings contract over a three-year term to make monthly contributions up to an overall maximum of 500 per month new maximum level with effect from 1 April 2014.
At the end of the term, members have the right to buy ordinary shares in the Company at a price xed at the time of the option grant.
Options may not be granted at less than 80% of the market price at the time of grant.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to remuneration Members of the Remuneration Committee The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee of Non-executive Directors of the Company.
During the year the Committee consisted of: t Stephen Alexander Chairman until 3 November 2014 : t Richard Macdonald Chairman from 3 November 2014 : t Andrew Carr-Locke: and t Sue Farr.
Anthony Fry, Company Chairman until leaving the Board on 17 September 2014, Stephen Alexander in his capacity as Company Chairman effective from 17 September 2014 and Mark Allen, Chief Executive attended the Remuneration Committee by invitation.
Members of the Remuneration Committee have no potential conicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and they are not involved in the day-to-day running of the Company.
The Committees activities during the financial year The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the broad Policy with respect to senior executives salary and other remuneration.
It specically determines, within remuneration principles agreed with the Board, the total remuneration package of each Executive Director and reviews with the Chief Executive the remuneration packages for other senior executives.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Companys website.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015 61 Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED In 2014 15, the Committee met 9 times.
Details of attendance are shown on page 37 and the Committee discussed, amongst others, the following matters: Meeting Agenda items discussed April 2014 Conrmation of Termination Provision for Executive Service Agreement May 2014 Approval of 2013 14 Bonus, LTAP & LTISP outcomes Approval of 2014 15 Bonus, LTAP Targets Executive Directors Remuneration Approval of Remuneration Report July 2014 Executive Directors Remuneration November 2014 Executive Directors Remuneration 2meetings January 2015 Review of Terms of Reference for Remuneration Committee Changes in Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Updates to Reporting February 2015 Review of Bonus Scheme Rules 2015 16 March 2015 Review of Bonus Scheme Rules 2015 16 Review of Draft Remuneration Report Review of potential bonus and long term Incentive outcomes Advisors to the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee has appointed  LLP PwC to provide advice on executive remuneration.
PwC have provided such advice historically, and were originally appointed through a competitive tendering process.
Work undertaken by PwC for the Committee included updates to the Remuneration Committee on remuneration and governance trends and market practice, and providing remuneration benchmarking information for Executive Directors.
PwC have also supported the Remuneration Committee in the design and operation of the TIA.
In this financial year, they were paid 90,700 based on agreed hourly rates.
During the year, PwC also provided other consultancy services to the Group, including corporate tax advice, share plans support, and programme management support.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the advice it receives from PwC at a private meeting held in May each year.
It is satisfied that PwC is providing objective and robust professional advice.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and has signed up to that groups Code of Conduct.
The Remuneration Committee also received materials, assistance and advice on remuneration Policy from Robert Willock, the Group HR Director of Dairy Crest.
The Chief Executive attends all meetings by invitation, but is not present at any discussions relating specically to his own remuneration.
Statement of voting at General Meeting The table below shows the advisory vote on the 2013 14 remuneration report at the 2014 AGM.
Number of votes cast For Against Withheld 56,146,521 52,490,948 3,655,573 14,384,844 93.49% 6.51% The table below shows the binding vote on the 2013 14 remuneration Policy at the 2014 AGM.
Number of votes cast For Against Withheld 70,936,887 68,099,552 2,837,335 44,478 96.00% 4.00% The Committee believes the votes in favour of the remuneration report and Policy demonstrate the strength of support of shareholders for the executive remuneration arrangements at Dairy Crest.
The Directors remuneration report from pages 45 to 62 has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by Richard Macdonald Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 20 May 2015 62 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2015
