DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT DENNIS MILLARD CHAIRMAN, THE COMMITTEE  CONTINUES TO BELIEVE THAT EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS ARE STRUCTURED TO SUPPORT THE DELIVERY OF OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 56 Governance 40-85 DEAR SHAREHOLDER Renewal of share plans The EPS targets remain at 3% per On behalf of the Remuneration The Companys current share plans annum 25% vesting to 10% per annum Committee the Committee, I am were adopted in FY2006 and are 100% vesting.
pleased to present our remuneration alldue to expire in FY2016.
These report for the 2015 financial year.
includethe PSP, the Deferred Bonus The strategic measures remain as: Matching Plan and the Executive Last year we put our policy report to ShareOption Plan.
Gross margin improvement ashareholder vote for the first time.
Online EBITDA growth Wewere delighted with the level of It is proposed that only the PSP be UK GTV support received, with 99% of votes renewed and shareholders will be asked International EBITDA growth being cast in favour.
We are not to approve the adoption of the new proposing to make any changes to our share plan rules at the Annual General No changes have been made to directors remuneration policy this year Meeting on 14 January 2016.
The key theusual annual bonus opportunity.
and we continue to be bound by the terms of the plan remain unchanged, policy approved at last years Annual subject to some minor amendments to As regards PSP Michael Sharp will be General Meeting.
reflect current best practice drafting, and awarded a PSP award of 50% of base as such our remuneration policy also salary.
Matt Smith and Suzanne Harlow In this remuneration report we have remains unaffected by the renewal of the will each be awarded a PSP award of reproduced the policy report in full for plan.
Asummary of the rules can be 125% of base salary as they are both ease of reference.
The annual report on found inour shareholder circular for the essential to the continued smooth remuneration included in the second forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
operation of the business during the part of this report sets out details of Chief Executive succession process.
how this policy was implemented Reward changes for FY2016 inFY2015 and how it is intended to In line with the revised UK Corporate The Committee continues to believe operate in FY2016.
This report will Governance Code, for 2016 we are that executive remuneration besubject to the usual advisory introducing clawback provisions for arrangements are structured to shareholder vote at the Annual executive directors and the senior support the delivery of our strategic GeneralMeeting on 14 January 2016. leadership team across all our priorities and no further changes are incentives.
In addition, the malus proposed at this time.
We will continue Our performance in FY2015 provisions that already apply to our to keep the structure of remuneration This year we have made further annual bonus and to the PSP have arrangements under review.
progress against our strategic priorities beenextended to allow for malus and have delivered results in line with tobeapplied in a wider range As mentioned within this annual report, market expectations.
having served more than nine years on the board of Debenhams plc I will be The retail marketplace is still highly In last years report we explained that we standing down as chairman of the competitive and the profit before tax had moved the annual salary review date Remuneration Committee effective target set for the annual bonus was for the executive directors forward from from the next Annual General Meeting notachieved.
No bonus was therefore September to April.
With effect from and Id like to take this opportunity to paidto executive directors in respect 1April 2015, they each received a pay welcome Martina King as the new chair ofFY2015.
increase of 1.5% and that increase took of the Remuneration Committee.
no account of the movement of the Martinas appointment as chair will Performance Share Plan PSP awards review date.
This increase was similar besubject to shareholders approving granted in FY2013 were based 75% on toincreases awarded to other her re-election at the Annual EPS growth and 25% on average return employeesin the Group.
on capital employed ROCE relative bonus criterion of underlying PBT to the cost of capital.
The EPS element remains unchanged for FY2016.
DENNIS MILLARD of the award has not triggered vesting.
CHAIRMAN, However, ROCE exceeded the cost of Similarly, the PSP performance  capital by 3.2%.
Therefore, 17% of the measures introduced last year, namely awards will vest in November 2015. underlying EPS growth 70% and strategic measures 30%, remain unchanged with the vesting of the strategic measures subject to meeting a ROCE underpin.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 57 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY This remuneration report for the year ended 29 August 2015 complies with the requirements of the Listing Rules ofthe UK Listing Authority, Schedule 8of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts andReports Regulations 2008 asamended and the provisions of the UKCorporate Governance Code September 2012.
The Company has adopted the provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code regarding malus and clawback.
Further details are provided on page 77.
FY2015 NOTE: This part of the remuneration reportsets out Debenhams directors remuneration policy which was approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
To provide consistency with current arrangements and the remainder of the remuneration report, specific references to 2015 arrangements have been removed, where appropriate.
Where relevant, FY2015 notes have been provided to give additional information to shareholders.
These do not form part of the shareholder approved policy.
REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE FOREXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The table below sets out a summary of our remuneration policy for executive directors.
This policy was approved byshareholders at the AGM on 9 December 2014 and took effect from that date.
Further information regarding the implementation of the policy can be found in the annual report on remuneration commencing on page 71.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Key features operation What is the maximum potential value?
Performance metrics Base salary None Supports the recruitment and Paid in cash Whilst there is no defined maximum salary, any base salary retention of executive directors increases will normally be in line with the increases awarded Normally reviewed annually with effect from 1 April but may be ofthecalibre required to fulfil to other employees of the Group reviewed more or less frequently at the Committees discretion the rolewithout paying more However, increases may be made outside of this policy in than is considered necessary In determining base salaries, the Committee considers: exceptional circumstances, such as: todo so Pay levels at companies of a similar size and complexity Where a director is appointed on a salary that is at the Rewards executives for the andother FTSE 350 retailers lower end of the market practice range, larger increases performance of their role External market conditions may be awarded as the executive gains experience to move the salary closer to a more typical market level Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group Where there has been a change in the responsibility The individuals skills, knowledge and experience andaccountability oftherole Where there has been a significant change in marketpractice Details of current salary levels are set out in the annual reporton remuneration Pension None Provides funds to allow In determining pension arrangements, the Committee takes The Chief Executives annual cash pension allowance is executives tosave for retirement intoaccount relevant market practice and practice throughout 20%of base salary theGroup Provides a market competitive The annual pension contribution for the Chief Financial retirement benefit Executive directors are generally provided a cash allowance in lieu Officer is 15% of basesalary of a pension provision or a contribution to a defined contribution Incentive and retention tool The Group Trading Directors annual pension allowance pension scheme increases based on her pensionable years service and age.
However, the Committee may determine that alternative pension The allowance is currently 17% of base salary increasing to provisions will operate for new appointments to the board if 18% upon 20 years pensionable service and to 23% at age considered appropriate.
If an alternative pension arrangement 50.
The maximum annual allowance of 28% of base salary isprovided, this will generally be of a similar level to current ispayable from age 55 arrangements The Chief Executive ceased to accrue benefits under The Chief Executive is a deferred member of the Debenhams theDebenhams Executive Pension Plan in 2006 Executive Pension Plan and the Group Trading Director continues The Group Trading Director continues to be a deferred to be a deferred member in service of the Debenhams Executive member in service of theDebenhams Executive Pension Pension Plan Plan.
The plan ceased for future service accruals in2006 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 58 Governance 40-85 LINK BETWEEN REMUNERATION ANDSTRATEGY Our executive remuneration policy hasbeen designed to support our Group strategy: Reward philosophy Our reward philosophy is that remuneration arrangements should be set at a level that is considered bythe Remuneration Committee to be sufficient to recruit and retain individuals of the calibre required to run the business without paying more than is necessary to do so.
Alignment with our business strategy Remuneration structures are designed to support the business strategy with the majority of the remuneration package being linked tothe delivery of performance, paid ina combination of cash and shares.
Short-term and long-term performance measures have been selected to be aligned with the delivery of our business strategy.
Market conditions are also taken into consideration when setting pay.
Alignment with shareholders Variable remuneration opportunity is generally delivered through the Companys long-term share incentive plans and the cash annual bonus.
The Committee operates a shareholding guideline policy for executive directors which aligns the interests of executives with our shareholders and demonstrates the executives ongoing commitment to the business.
The plan ceased for future service accruals in2006 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 59 REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Element Purpose and link to strategy Key features operation What is the maximum potential value?
Performance metrics Benefits To provide a market competitive Executive directors have a benefits allowance which can be used The overall value of benefits will depend on the individuals None level of benefits for executive tofund a range of benefits.
The wider management population circumstances and thecost of providing them by the directors also receive a cash benefits allowance Company and therefore there is no maximum.
However, the executive directors participation in any all-employee share Executive directors may participate in any all-employee share plans plans willbe in line with relevant statutory limits which may be operated by the Company on the same terms as other employees It is the Committees policy to provide benefits at a market competitive level takinginto account local market practice Executive directors receive life assurance and an annual health inthe location in which the executive director operates assessment.
The Chief Executive also receives a financial planning allowance, travel allowance and a fuelallowance Executive directors may also buy or sell a weeks holiday withthe approval of the Committee Executive directors are eligible to receive a staff discount inline with other senior executives The Committee may determine that executive directors should receive additional reasonable benefits if appropriate, taking into account typical market practice Executive directors may be reimbursed for all reasonable expenses and the Company may settle the tax incurred in relation to these Where an executive director is required to relocate to perform their role, they may be provided with reasonable benefits as determined by the Committee in connection withthis relocation on either a one-off or ongoing basis, including any expatriate benefits such as housing, travel oreducation allowances Annual Rewards and incentivises Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, bonuses are Maximum opportunity of 100% of base salary The Committee determines appropriate performance bonus theachievement of paidin cash following the year end metrics to support the annual business strategy, external The bonus starts accruing from threshold levels annualobjectives which are expectations and the enhancement of shareholder value Bonuses are not pensionable ofperformance alignedwith key financial and onan annual basis strategicgoals and supports Malus provisions apply see page 64 for further information Typically, 100% of the bonus will be based on financial theenhancement of Bonuses are based on annual performance targets performance targets.
However, the Committee retains the shareholdervalue discretion to alter the performance measures for future The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the bonus award bonuses if deemed appropriate including the introduction ifit does not consider that it reflects underlying Company ofnon-financial measures.
In such cases at least 80% of the performance but may not exceed the maximum policy limit bonus will be based on financial performance targets Further information in relation to the performance measuresis set out in theannual report on remuneration Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 60 Governance 40-85 Element Purpose and link to strategy Key features operation What is the maximum potential value?
In such cases at least 80% of the performance but may not exceed the maximum policy limit bonus will be based on financial performance targets Further information in relation to the performance measuresis set out in theannual report on remuneration Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 61 REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Element Purpose and link to strategy Key features operation What is the maximum potential value?
Performance metrics Performance Incentivises executives to Awards normally vest based on performance assessed The maximum value of shares over which an individual Awards granted in 2015 will vest subject to a combination of Share Plan PSP achieve Debenhams long-term overaperiod not shorter than three years canbe granted an award in any one financial year of the underlying EPS and strategic performance measures all of strategy and create sustainable Company is normally 200% of base salary, although this which are financial in nature.
The vesting of the strategic Awards may only vest to the extent the Committee is satisfied shareholder value limitmay be increased to 250% of base salary in exceptional measures will also be subject to meeting a ROCE underpin thatthe underlying financial performance of the Company over circumstances.
The Committee will, however, take into Aligns with shareholder interests therelevant performance period justifies vesting.
The Committee The Committee retains the discretion toalter the performance consideration awards made under other plans when through the delivery of shares may also decrease the final vesting level if it does not consider that measures for future awards if it deems appropriate.
However, the granting awards under the plan it reflects the underlying performance of the Company Committee will endeavour to consult with the Companys largest Acts as a retention tool Typically 25% of awards vest for threshold levels shareholders prior to doing so, other than for minor changes Awards can be in the form of free shares or 0.01 penceoptions.
ofperformance Where awards are in the form of 0.01 penceoptions, participants Strategic measures will account for nomore than 30% of may have up to six months fromvesting to exercise awards future awards Malus provisions apply see page 64 for further information The Committee sets performance targets each year, taking into account the business plan, external expectations and Awards may incorporate the right to receive in cash or shares the market practice value of the dividends that would have been paidon the shares that vest.
However, it is not the current intention of the Committee For further information in relation tothe performance that dividend equivalents will bepaid on shares that vest measures, weightings and targets for awards see the annual report on remuneration Executive directors also have a shareholding guideline.
Further details are provided on page 73 of the annual report onremuneration.
FY2015 NOTE: The Deferred Bonus Matching Plan and the Executive Share Option Plan both expire during FY2016.
The Company is not seeking shareholder approval to renew these plans.
The PSP will therefore be the only executive plan operated by the Company.
Performance metrics Deferred Bonus Incentivises executives to The Committee can invite participants to invest up to 100% of their Maximum matching awards may be made up to the If this plan were operated, appropriate performance Matching Plan achieve Debenhams long-term net annual bonus.
The net bonus is used to purchase market shares equivalent of 100% of theexecutives net bonus conditions would be determined by the Committee at DBMP strategy and create sustainable which are then designated invested shares the time of award and disclosed in the annual report Typically 25% of the matching award vests for threshold shareholder value onremuneration for that year If the participant remains in employment and retains the invested shares levels of performance Aligns executives interests with for three years, they may receive a matching award of up to the gross shareholders through the amount of the bonus deferred subject to performance conditions being investment of their cash bonus met over a period of no less than three years into shares Matching awards can be in the form of free shares or 0.01 pence options.
Where awards are in the form of 0.01 pence options, participants have up to six months from vesting to exercise awards The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the final vesting level if it does not consider that it reflects the underlying performance of the Company Executive Incentivises executives to Awards would take the form of market value options over ordinary The maximum award that can be made under the plan is If this plan were operated, appropriate performance Share Option achieve Debenhams long-term shares in the Company 100% of base salary facevalue of options based on the share conditions would be determined by the Committee at Plan ESOP strategy and create sustainable price at the date of grant.
The Committee willtake into thetime of award and disclosed in theannual report on Awards would be subject to performance assessed over a period shareholder value consideration awards made under the PSP when remuneration forthat year of no less than three years grantingawards under the plan The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the final vesting level Awards may be made above this level in exceptional ifitdoes not consider that it reflects the underlying performance of circumstances theCompany Typically 25% of award vests for target levels of performance Awards may be exercised once vested for up to ten years following the date of grant Options can be granted in the form of unapproved options or HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved options up to the lower of the limit of this policy or the prescribed HMRC limit at the date of grant Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 62 Governance 40-85 Element Purpose and link to strategy Key features operation What is the maximum potential value?
However, it is not the current intention of the Committee For further information in relation tothe performance that dividend equivalents will bepaid on shares that vest measures, weightings and targets for awards see the annual report on remuneration The table below sets out details of other plans that the Company has in place.
It is not currently intended that these planswill be operated during FY2015.
However, the Committee retains the discretion to operate these plans in exceptional circumstances or in future years if it considers it to be appropriate and in thebest interests of shareholders.
Any use of these plans upon recruitment of an executive would be within the variable pay limit excluding buyout awards referred to in the Recruitment remuneration arrangements section ofthis report.
The Committee willtake into thetime of award and disclosed in theannual report on Awards would be subject to performance assessed over a period shareholder value consideration awards made under the PSP when remuneration forthat year of no less than three years grantingawards under the plan The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the final vesting level Awards may be made above this level in exceptional ifitdoes not consider that it reflects the underlying performance of circumstances theCompany Typically 25% of award vests for target levels of performance Awards may be exercised once vested for up to ten years following the date of grant Options can be granted in the form of unapproved options or HM Revenue & Customs HMRC approved options up to the lower of the limit of this policy or the prescribed HMRC limit at the date of grant Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 63 REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE Malus Bonus The Committee reserves the right to scale back bonuses if there has been a material misstatement of the Groups audited financial results during a prior year.
Performance Share Plan For awards granted in 2014 onwards, the Committee reserves the right to reduce, cancel and or impose further conditions on some or all unvested awards under the PSP in circumstances in which the Committee considers such action is appropriate.
Such circumstances include, but are not limited to, a material misstatement of the Groups audited results.
Malus provisions do not currently apply to awards under the other long-term incentive plans.
However, the Committee retains the discretion to introduce such provisions if it considers it appropriate.
The Companys incentive arrangements do not currently have clawback.
The Committee is aware of the provisions of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code which require clawback provisions to be in place for variable elements of pay with effect from no later than the Companys 2016 financial year.
The Committee will consider introducing clawback provisions when a new PSP is implemented in 2016.
FY2015 NOTE: Following shareholder approval of the remuneration policy in 2014, Debenhams is introducing clawback provisions andis extending the existing malus provisions.
These provisions are detailed on page 77 of the annual remuneration report.
Annual bonus performance measures The Committee sets annual bonus performance targets annually based on the measures that it feels are the most appropriate for the business.
Annual bonus targets are set with reference tointernal forecasts and market consensus.
Information in relation tothe performance measures used hasbeen set out in the annual report on remuneration.
The Committee considers that the annual bonus targets are market sensitive and have therefore not been disclosed in this report.
Details of performance against targets and any resulting annual bonus payout will be included in the subsequent annual report on remuneration.
Performance Share Plan performancemeasures For 2015 awards, the Committee has chosen to use a combination of underlying EPS 70% and strategic measures 30%.
Thevesting of the strategic measures will also be subject to meeting a ROCE underpin.
The Committee may use different measures or a different balance of measures in future years if it considers that it is appropriate to do so.
In light of the ongoing challenges in the UK retail sector and our evolving business strategy, the Committee decided that it was appropriate to amend the performance measures attached to 2015 PSP awards to ensure that they were fully aligned with this strategy and to incentivise management to deliver long-term sustainable value for our shareholders.
At the 2014 interim results, the Chief Executive Michael Sharp set out our strategic priorities in support of the four pillars of our strategy.
The financial strategic objectives for the PSP have been selected to support these priorities directly.
Details of the specific measures, weightings and targets applying to the PSP awards are disclosed in the annual report onremuneration.
Threshold vesting for PSP awards made prior to 2015 is 30%.
Difference from the remuneration policy for all employees Debenhams employs a large number of people in a variety of roles across a range of geographies.
Our reward framework for the business is altered as necessary to suit the needs of the business for different employee groups.
Reward packages therefore differ, taking into account a number of appropriate factors including seniority, impact on the business and local practice, custom and legislation.
Other information supporting thepolicy table The Committee may amend the terms of awards or the rules of share plans within the scope defined in the rules of the plans.
For share awards, in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital or a demerger, delisting, special dividend, rights issue or other event which may, in the Committees opinion, affect the current or future value of awards, the number of awards and the exercise price applicable to those awards may be adjusted.
The Committee may amend the conditions applicable to share awards if it considers that the amended conditions are afairer measure of performance and at least as challenging as the original conditions.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set outin this report where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the policy came into effect or ii at a time whenthe relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in theopinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration forthe individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and an awardover shares is agreed atthetime the award is granted.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 64 Governance 40-85 REMUNERATION OUTCOMES IN DIFFERENT PERFORMANCE SCENARIOS The charts below set out an illustration of the remuneration policy for 2015.
The charts provide an illustration oftheproportion of total remuneration made up of each component of the remuneration policy and the value ofeachcomponent.
Three scenarios have been illustrated for each executive director: Below threshold performance Fixed remuneration No annual bonus payout No vesting under the PSP Mid-range performance Fixed remuneration 50% annual bonus payout 50% vesting under the PSP Maximum performance Fixed remuneration 100% annual bonus payout 100% vesting under the PSP FY2015 NOTE: 1.
T he figures below are those which were included in the 2014 policy and approved by shareholders in December 2014.
Base salaries wereincreased by 1.5% with effect from 1 April 2015.
Matt Smith was appointed to the board on 26 January 2015.
Suzanne Harlows pension increased to 18% of base salary on 1 April 2015 following 20 years pensionable service.
Fixed pay currently comprises the following elements: Current base salary Benefits Pension Total Chief Executive Michael Sharp 615,000 34,999 123,000 772,999 Chief Financial Officer Matt Smith not employed during 2014 400,000 18,375 60,000 478,375 Group Trading Director Suzanne Harlow 400,000 22,195 68,000 490,195 Base salary is the base salary in place at 1September 2014.
Salary levels may besubject to changes following the annualbase salary review in early 2015.
Any changes will be effective from 1 April 2015.
The salary for the Chief Financial Officer will apply from the point he joins the Company.
The benefits figure for the Chief Executive is based on the amount received during 2014 as per the single figure.
This reflects hisannual benefits allowance and the taxable value of other benefits provided during the year.
For the Chief Financial Officer andGroup Trading Director the benefits number is the value of their respective annual benefits allowances.
For 2014, the ChiefFinancial Officer was not a member of the board and so did not receive any benefits.
The Group Trading Director wasonlyamember of the board for part of the year.
Pension is based on the cash contribution of 20% of base salary for the Chief Executive, 15% of base salary for the ChiefFinancial Officer and 17% for the Group Trading Director.
Bonus is based on the ongoing annual policy maximum of 100% of base salary for all executive directors.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 65 REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED FY2015 NOTE: Thecharts below which illustrate remuneration outcomes in different performance scenarios relate to the policy applied for the first year in which the policy applied 2015 and have not been updated.
The scenarios below do not take into account the share price appreciation or dividends.
Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Maximum performance 33% 27% 40% 2.31m Maximum performance 38% 31% 31% 1.28m Mid-range performance 50% 20% 30% 1.54m Mid-range performance 54% 23% 23% 0.88m Below target performance Below target performance 100% 0.77m 100% 0.48m 0 0.5m 1.0m 1.5m 2.0m 2.5m 0 0.5m 1.0m 1.5m Group Trading Director Fixed Short-term incentives annual bonus Long-term incentives PSP 38% 31% 31% 1.29m Maximum performance 55% 22.5% 22.5% 0.89m Mid-range performance 100% 0.49m Below target performance 0 0.5m 1.0m 1.5m PSP is based on the ongoing usual annual policy maximum of 150% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 100% of salary for other executive directors.
During 2015 the Chief Financial Officer and Group Trading Director will receive higher one-off awards.
This is not reflected in the chart.
RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS When determining the remuneration package for a newly appointed executive director, the Committee would seek to applythe following principles: The package should be market competitive to facilitate the recruitment of individuals of sufficient calibre to lead the business.
Atthe same time, the Committee would intend to pay no more than it believes is necessary tosecure the required talent.
The structure of the ongoing remuneration package would normally include some or all of the components set out in the policy table for executive directors.
In addition, the Committee has discretion to include any other remuneration component or award which it feels is appropriate taking into account the specific circumstances of the recruitment, subject to the limit on variable remuneration set out below.
The key terms and rationale for any such component would be disclosed as appropriate in that years annual report onremuneration.
Where an individual forfeits outstanding variable pay opportunities or contractual rights at a previous employer as a result of appointment, the Committee may offer compensatory payments or awards, in such form as the Committee considers appropriate taking into account all relevant factors including theform of awards, expected value andvesting timeframe of forfeited opportunities.
When determining any such buyout, the guiding principle would be that awards would generally be on a like-for-like basis unless this isconsidered by the Committee not tobe practical or appropriate.
The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be awarded excluding any buyout awards referred to above in respect of recruitment is 350% of salary, which is in line with the current maximum limit under the annual bonus and PSP.
Where awards are made under the ESOP, the value of the award that counts towards this maximum will be calculated on an expected value rather than a face value basis.
Where an executive director is required to relocate from their home location to take up their role, the Committee may provide assistance with relocation either via one-off or ongoing payments or benefits.
In the event that an internal candidate is promoted to the board, legacy terms and conditions would normally be honoured, including pension entitlements and any outstanding incentive awards.
To facilitate any buyout awards outlined above, in the event of recruitment the Committee may grant awards to a new executive director relying on the exemption in the Listing Rules which allows for the grant of awards, to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of an executive director, without seeking prior shareholder approval or under any other appropriate Company incentive plan.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 66 Governance 40-85 The remuneration package for a newly appointed non-executive director would normally be in line with the structure setout in the policy table fornon-executive directors.
Executive director service contracts Notice period 12 months notice by the Company or by the executive director Michael Sharp entered into his current service agreement on 3 May 2006 Matt Smith entered into a service agreement on 25 July 2014 Suzanne Harlow entered into her current service agreement on 11 December 2013 All are rolling contracts with no expiry date Expiry date Termination payments Payments in lieu of notice will be based on base salary, contractual benefits and any accrued but untaken holiday Payments in lieu of notice for Michael Sharp and Suzanne Harlow will be paid asalump sum following termination.
However, the Committee would seek to applymitigation inrespect of the period and amount where appropriate Payments in lieu of notice for Matt Smith may, at the Committees discretion, bepaid as a lump sum or in equal monthly instalments which would be subject tomitigation Legal fees and outplacement services may also be providedfor executive directorsleaving the business The service agreements are available to shareholders to view on request from the Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
ARRANGEMENTS FOR DIRECTORS LEAVINGDEBENHAMS Details of the arrangements in relation to fixed remuneration are set out in the section above.
Annual bonus There is no automatic entitlement to an annual bonus in the year in which the executive director leaves the Group.
TheCommittee may determine that an executive director is eligible to receive a bonus in respect of the year of cessation dependent upon the circumstances of the executive directors departure and individual performance.
Any such payment would normally continue to be subject to performance and pro-rated to take account of the time served during the year.
Long-term incentives The treatment of leavers under our long-term incentive plans is determined by the rules of the relevant plans.
2006 Performance Share Plan If an individual ceases to be employed by a member of the Group or gives or is given notice terminating their employment before the end of the performance period, a participants award will usually lapse, unless the Committee determines that it will vest, having regard to the performance of the Company and the length of time which has elapsed since the date of grant.
The Committee may determine that the award will vest at the time of cessation of employment or at the normal vesting date.
The number of shares over which an award may vest will be time pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the vesting period thathas elapsed on cessation of employment.
In the case of nil cost options, the Committee will determine the period during which the participant may exercise his or her options.
2006 Executive Share Option Plan If an individual ceases to be employed by a member of the Group, options will lapse unlessthe option holder leaves in good leaver circumstances, namely in respect of tax approved options: injury or disability, retirement, the sale of their employing entity out of the Group, redundancy or any other reason that the Committee decides and in respect of unapproved options, in such circumstances as the Committee may determine.
If these good leaver circumstances apply, the options will be exercisable for a period of six months from the date of cessation, or such other period as the Committee determines.
Where options become exercisable as a result of the individuals cessation of employment, the extent to which the options will be exercisable will be subject to the performance conditions applicable to the options and will be pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed on cessation of employment.
If a participant dies, their representatives shall have 12 months from death to exercise their options in full.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 67 REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED 2006 Deferred Bonus Matching Plan In the event of cessation of employment with a member of the Group, matching awards willusually lapse.
However, the Committee may determine that a matching award will vest at the normal time, to the extent that the performance conditions have been met and on a time pro-rated basis to reflect the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed at thetime of cessation.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee may determine that matching awards may be released before the end of the original performance period to the extent determined by the Committee, having regard to the time pro-rating formula described above.
In these circumstances, invested shares are released from the plan at the time the related matching award vests.
TAKEOVER OR MERGER OF THE COMPANY 2006 Performance Share Plan In theevent of a takeover or merger of theCompany, outstanding PSP awards will vest tothe extent that performance conditions are satisfied.
Where awards vest in these circumstances, they may be pro-rated on a monthly basis to reflect the proportion of the vesting period thathas elapsed, unless the Committee determines thata different proportion ofthe award should vest, taking into account Company performance and suchother factors asitconsiders relevant.
Upon agreement with the acquiring company, the participant may choose to roll over their awards into awards in the acquiring company.
2006 Executive Share Option Plan In the event of a change of control ofthe Company, outstanding ESOPawards will generally becomeexercisable to the extent thatperformance conditions have beensatisfied and the number of shares subject to the options will be pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed to the nearest whole month unless the Committee determines that a higher proportion of the options should vest.
Upon agreement with the acquiring company, the participant may choose to roll over their options into options inthe acquiring company.
2006 Deferred Bonus Matching Plan In the event of a takeover or voluntary winding up of the Company, matching awards will vest to the extent that the performance conditions have been metor, if the Committee considers itappropriate, to the extent that the performance conditions would have been met at the end of the original performance period, in the Committees opinion.
Invested sharesno longer have to be retained.
OTHER CORPORATE EVENTS 2006 Performance Share Plan If the Company is voluntarily wound up, the Committee may allow awards to vest onthe same basis as set out above for atakeover.
If the Company is, or is expected to be, affected by a demerger, special dividend or other transaction which would materially affect the value of awards, the Committee may allow some or all of the outstanding awards to vest to the extent the performance conditions applicable to these awards have or are likely to have been met, in the Committees opinion.
2006 Executive Share Option Plan If the Company is, or is expected to be, affected by a demerger, special dividend orother transaction which in the Committees opinion is likely to affect the current or future value of any options, the Committee may allow options to be exercised, taking into account the performance conditions, the period that has elapsed since grant and any other factors it considers relevant.
If the Company is voluntarily wound up, options may be exercised tothe extent that the performance conditions have been met.
FY2015 NOTE: The rules of the Deferred Bonus Matching Plan and the Executive Share Option Plan will expire in 2016.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS FOR EXECUTIVEDIRECTORS Executive directors may undertake external directorships with the consent of the board.
Any proposed external directorships are considered by the Nomination Committee to ensure that they do not cause a conflict of interest.
 do not currently hold any such directorships.
FY2015 NOTE: Suzanne Harlow was appointed a director of Ermes Department Stores plc on 15 June 2015.
Fees in respect of this directorship are paid to and retained by Debenhams Retail plc.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 68 Governance 40-85 REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Purpose and link to What is the maximum Element remuneration policy Key features operation potential value?
Fees for non-executive Paid in cash Fees paid to non-executive Fees directors are set at an directors and the nonFees for non-executive directors appropriate level to recruit executive Chairman will not areset taking into account the time andretain directors of a exceed the aggregate limit commitment required to fulfil the sufficient calibre without set out in the Companys roleand typical practice at other payingmore than is articles of association, companies of a similar size and necessaryto do so currently 1 million complexity to Debenhams Fee levels are set out The fees for the Chairmans role intheannual report aresettaking into account the time onremuneration commitment of the role, the skills and experience of the individual and typical market practice for other companies of a similar size and complexity Our non-executive director fees policy is to pay a basic fee for membership of the board and additional fees for the Senior Independent Director, chairmanship of acommittee and membership of a committee to take into account the additional responsibilities and time commitment of these roles Additional fees may be paid to reflect additional board or committee responsibilities as appropriate Fees are reviewed at appropriate intervals by the board To provide suitable Reasonable costs in relation to travel and None Benefits and arrangements to allow accommodation for business purposes expenses non-executive directors are reimbursed to the Chairman and todischarge their non-executive directors.
The Company dutieseffectively may meet any tax liabilities that may arise on such expenses The Chairman and non-executive directors are eligible for a staff discount and an annual health assessment The Chairman and non-executive directors are not entitled to participate in any of the Groups incentive plans or pension plans The Chairman and non-executive directors have the benefit of directors and officers liability insurance and provision of indemnity on the same basis as other directors and officers ofother Group companies The board may introduce additional benefits for the Chairman or nonexecutive directors if it is considered appropriate to do so Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 69 REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED FY2015 NOTE: For board changes since December 2014 please refer to the Chairmans letter on page 3.
TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR THE CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Nigel Northridge was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company on 1 January 2010 and became Chairman on1April 2010.
His appointment as Chairman is subject to the terms of a letter of appointment dated 28 January 2010 and hisinitial appointment was for three years ending on 31 March 2013.
This was extended by mutual agreement for a further three years to 31 March 2016 and may be extended by further terms of three years by mutual agreement.
The Chairmans appointment may be terminated by the Company in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the Companies Act 2006 or upon the Chairmans resignation.
In the event that the Chairmans appointment is terminated early, there will be no payment for loss of office or for the unexpired appointment term.
The Chairman is permitted to hold other directorships provided that any such appointment does not interfere with his position at the Company.
The non-executive directors have letters of appointment from the Company covering matters such as duties, time commitment, fees and other business interests.
The non-executive directors are appointed for an initial three years which may be extended for further terms of three years by mutual agreement.
Both Martina King and Sophie Turner Laing were appointed for a further three years to 31 July 2015 following the end of their initial engagement on 31 July 2012.
Mark Rolfe was appointed for a further three years to 1 October 2016 following the end of his initial engagement on 1 October 2013.
Dennis Millard was appointed on 9 May 2006 and following two three year terms his appointment has been extended on anannual basis.
Non-executive director appointments may be terminated by the Company in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the Companies Act 2006 or upon the directors resignation.
In the event that a non-executive directors appointment is terminated early, there will be no payment for loss of office or for the unexpired appointment term.
Dennis Millards appointment may be terminated by either party giving one months notice.
Dennis Millard is not eligible for any payment in lieu of notice.
All appointments are subject to the Companys Articles of Association and the annual re-election by shareholders.
Theservice agreements for non-executive directors are available to shareholders to view on request from the CompanySecretary at the Companys registered office.
CONSIDERING ALL-EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS When determining remuneration policy and arrangements for the executive directors, the Committee considers pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group to ensure that pay structures throughout the Group are appropriately aligned and that levels of remuneration remain appropriate in this context.
When considering salary increases for the executive directors, the Committee considers the general level of salary increase across the Group.
Whilst the Committee does not consult with employees about executive director pay, the Committee is provided with an annual update of the Debenhams employee survey which includes questions on their own remuneration.
The remuneration arrangements for the members of the Executive Committee who are not executive directors fall within the Committees remit engendering a common approach to the design of reward and determining reward outcomes for themost senior people within the organisation.
CONSIDERING SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Committee is committed to an ongoing dialogue with shareholders and seeks shareholder views when any significant changes are being made to remuneration arrangements.
Over the last few years the Committee has consulted with shareholders regarding the performance measures for the PSP and the use of the DBMP.
The Committee takes intoaccountthe views of shareholders when formulating and implementing the policy as it did in 2014 when it consulted with major shareholders on the changes to the PSP performance measures.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 70 Governance 40-85 THE ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This report sets out details of the implementation of the remuneration policy during the 2015 financial year and provides details as to how the Committee intends to implement the policy during the 2016 financial year.
This part of the report will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the Annual General Meeting in January 2016.
This report contains unaudited information except where stated that it is audited.
WHAT DID EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS EARN IN RESPECT OF FY2015 AND FY2014?
AUDITED The table below sets out a single figure of remuneration for each executive director for FY2015 and FY2014.
2015 2014 Base Retirement PSP Base Retirement PSP Executive director salary Benefits benefits Bonus awards Total salary Benefits benefits Bonus award Total Michael Sharp 1 Chief Executive 618,844 47,268 170,529 Nil 149,226 985,867 615,000 34,999 141,500 Nil 199,460 990,959 Suzanne Harlow Group Trading 2 3 Director 402,492 15,826 80,003 Nil 46,709 545,030 289,743 11,687 54,554 Nil N A 355,984 Matt Smith Chief Financial 4 Officer 243,526 10,916 36,529 Nil Nil 290,971 1 PSP award figure has been updated with the actual share price on the date of vesting the reported figure in FY2014 207,235 was based on an average share price.
The total for 2014 has therefore been adjusted.
2 The value of the 2011 PSP Award held by Suzanne Harlow which vested in November 2014 was not included in the FY2014 single figure calculation as the Award was granted prior to her becoming an executive director.
3 Appointed to the board on 11 December 2013.
4 Appointed to the board on 26 January 2015.
The following provides details of how the single figure for FY2015 has been calculated: Base salary The executive directors received a salary increase of 1.5% on 1 April 2015.
Benefits Executive directors receive a benefits allowance which can be used to purchase benefits under the Group scheme.
In addition, the executive directors receive life assurance.
The Chief Executive also receives a financial planning allowance, a travel allowance and a fuel allowance.
The value of the benefits allowance and the additional benefits is included in the table above.
Michael Sharp sold five days holiday during the year and received 11,827.
This is included in the benefits amount above.
Suzanne Harlow purchased an additional five days holiday during the year 7,808.
This amount has not been reflected in the above figures.
Retirement benefits Michael Sharp is a deferred member of the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan.
The increase in his accrued pension, calculated using the methodology set out in the revised remuneration reporting regulations, was 46,760.
Michael Sharp received a cash contribution in lieu of pension of 20% of base salary 123,769.
Suzanne Harlow is a deferred inservice member of the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan.
The increase in her accrued pension, calculated using the methodology set out in the remuneration reporting regulations, was 9,886.
Suzanne Harlow also received a cash contribution in lieu of pension of 17% of base salary rising to 18% on 1 April 2015 following 20 years pensionable service 70,117.
Matt Smith received a cash contribution in lieu of pension of 15% of base salary 36,529.
PSPs due to vest in FY2015 in respect of the performance period 1 September 2012 to 29 August 2015 The PSP value shown in the single figure is for the award expected to vest in November 2015.
The share price used to calculate the single figure is based on the three month average share price to 29 August 2015 88.28 pence.
Threshold Maximum Vesting Performance target target percentage measure Weighting 30% vests 100% vests Outcome ofmaximum Absolute EPS 75% 6% 12% -8.1% 0% growth per annum 2012 PSP awards Average ROCE 25% Average ROCE Average ROCE Average ROCE 17% vs the cost equal to the cost equal to the exceeded the ofcapital of capital costof capital cost of capital plus 5% by3.2% Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 71 THE ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Annual bonus for FY2015 The maximum bonus for the year was 100% of base salary: the bonus was based 100% on PBT.
Bonuses start accruing for meeting threshold levels of performance with the maximum bonus only being payable for achieving performance significantly in excess of this level.
Actual PBT of 113.5 million was below the threshold level.
Assuch, no bonus will be payable in respect of FY2015.
PENSIONS AUDITED Michael Sharp is a deferred member of the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan.
Suzanne Harlow is a deferred in service member of the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan.
The table below shows the pension accrued at the year end.
Transfer Transfer value as at value as at 29 August 30 August Increase in 2015 of 2014 of accrued Accumulated accrued accrued Increase pension Increase in total accrued pension as pension as at in accrued during the transfer value pension at 29 at 29 August 30 August pension during year net during the August 2015 2015 2014 the year of inflation period Michael Sharp 216,352 8,011,993 6,584,718 4,875 2,338 1,427,275 Suzanne Harlow 39,856 1,147,437 916,800 961 494 230,637 Michael Sharp participated in the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan a defined benefit plan until 2006 when he ceased to participate in the plan and is now a deferred member of this scheme.
His normal retirement date under this plan is 31 March 2017.
He is not entitled to any additional benefits if he retires prior to this date: any benefits drawn early will be actuarially reduced to reflect early retirement.
He also receives a cash allowance in lieu of pension contribution of 20% of base salary.
Suzanne Harlow participated in the Debenhams Executive Pension Plan until 2006 when it was closed to future accruals and is now a deferred in service member of this scheme.
Her normal retirement date under this plan is 31 July 2026.
She is not entitled to any additional benefits if she retires prior to this date: any benefits drawn early will be actuarially reduced to reflect early retirement.
She also receives a cash allowance in lieu of pension contribution of 18% of base salary increased from 17% effective from 1 April 2015 following 20 years pensionable service.
Scheme interests awarded during the financial year audited As disclosed in last years remuneration report, no changes were made to the usual PSP levels in 2015.
However, when Suzanne Harlow was appointed to the board, she was awarded a PSP award of 150% of base salary for 2015 as an incentive to drive performance and to recognise the increased scope of her role on appointment to the board.
In addition, as part ofMatt Smiths recruitment, he was awarded a PSP award of 200% of base salary in 2015.
The Committee determined that this level of award was appropriate to compensate him for awards forfeited on leaving his previous employer no further buyout awards have been made and to provide an additional incentive to drive the performance of the business in theinitial period of his tenure.
Number Face value Percentage Type of Basis on which of shares of shares vesting Performance 1 Individual interest award made awarded at threshold period end 0.01 pence 150% of 2 September Michael Sharp option base salary 1,423,611 922,500 25% 2017 0.01 pence 150% of 2 September 2 Suzanne Harlow option base salary 925,925 599,999 25% 2017 0.01 pence 200% of 2 September 3 Matt Smith option base salary 900,900 799,999 25% 2017 1 The face value of shares awarded was calculated using the closing mid-market share price on the date of award 3 November 2014, which was 64.8 pence for the awards granted to MichaelSharp and Suzanne Harlow and 88.8 pence for the award granted to Matt Smith.
2 For Suzanne Harlow, the award level of 150% of salary for 2015 was in respect of her appointment to the board.
3 For Matt Smith, the award level of 200% of salary was in respect of his recruitment, taking into consideration awards forfeited on leaving his previous employer.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 72 Governance 40-85 DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AND SHARE INTERESTS AUDITED In order to align the interests of executive directors with those of shareholders and to demonstrate the executive directors ongoing personal financial commitment to the business, executive directors are expected to build and maintain a holding of Debenhams shares equal to one times base salary.
Executives are expected to retain 50% of any post-tax shares that vest under any share incentive plans until this shareholding is reached.
The Committee expects executives to have met the shareholding guideline policy by the fifth anniversary of their appointment as an executive director or the introduction of the guidelines, if later.
The value of their current shareholding shown in the table below has been calculated using the three month average closing share price to the end ofAugust 2015 and includes the net value of shares vested but not exercised under the ESOP.
Ordinary Ordinary shares shares Unvested Unvested held at held at awards options Vested Shareholding Current 29 August 30 August subject to subject to options not requirement shareholding Requirement 2015 2014 performance performance exercised met?
Michael Sharp Chief 1 1 Executive 6,622,426 6,460,067 2,417,952 473,961 624,225 6,086,477 Yes Suzanne Harlow Group Trading Director 589,337 545,366 1,237,161 169,689 406,000 615,416 Yes Matt Smith Chief Financial 2 Officer 28,000 900,900 406,000 24,718 No 1 Shareholding includes 374,392 ordinary shares held by the Sharp Discretionary Settlement of which he is a trustee.
2 Ordinary shareholding acquired in July 2015.
SCHEME INTERESTS AUDITED Performance Share Plan Number Number of shares Shares Shares Shares of shares Market Market Expiry held at awarded lapsed exercised held at value on value on Earliest date of Date of 30 August during during during 29 August date of date of date of vesting Director award 2014 the year the year the year 2015 award exercise vesting period 1 November 2011 1,396,973 1,089,639 307,334 64.4p 87.0p 1.11.14 1.5.
18 1.10.18 Update on performance against strategic measures for in-flight PSP awards: For PSP awards granted in FY2015, 30% of the shares vest subject to the satisfaction of the four key strategic measures ofgroup gross margin improvement, online EBITDA growth rate, UK gross transaction value growth and International EBITDA growth rate.
The Committee set stretching targets for these metrics taking into account our long-term strategic plan.
The exact targets were not disclosed in last years report as they were considered to be commercially sensitive.
Notwithstanding that the Group has made further progress against its strategic priorities, due to the very stretching nature of the targets set for the strategic measures, performance is currently behind target.
Vesting will be determined in FY2018 based on performance over the three year performance period.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 73 THE ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Executive Share Option Plan Number Number of shares Shares Shares Shares of shares held at granted lapsed vested held at Earliest Expiry Date of 30 August during during during 29 August Option date of date of Director award 2014 the year the year the year 2015 price exercise options Approved scheme 24 November 2009 35,108 0 0 0 35,108 85.45p 24.11.12 24.11.19 Michael Sharp Unapproved scheme 24 November 2009 438,853 0 0 0 438,853 85.45p 24.11.12 24.11.19 Approved scheme 24 November 2009 35,108 0 0 0 35,108 85.45p 24.11.12 24.11.19 Suzanne Harlow Unapproved scheme 24 November 2009 134,581 0 0 0 134,581 85.45p 24.11.12 24.11.19 PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS AUDITED No payments were made to past directors during the year.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE AUDITED As disclosed in last years report, Simon Herrick continued to receive monthly payments in lieu of notice for the twelvemonth period up to 2 January 2015.
No payments for loss of office were made in respect of the FY2015 year.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN PERFORMANCE GRAPH The performance graph below shows the Companys total shareholder return against the FTSE 350 General Retailers Index over the period from 29 August 2009 to 29 August 2015.
The General Retailers Index has been chosen as Debenhams has been a member throughout the period and it is made up of a broad spectrum of retail competitors including major general retail listed comparators in the principal product areas in which the Company trades.
Please note that there was a printing inaccuracy in last years total shareholder return performance graph, which has been corrected in the below chart.
250 200 150 100 50 0 29 Aug 09 28 Aug 10 3 Sep 11 1 Sep 12 1 Sep 13 30 Aug 14 29 Aug 15 Debenhams FTSE 350 General Retailers Source: DataStream Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 74 Governance 40-85 HISTORICAL CHIEF EXECUTIVE PAY The table below sets out details of the Chief Executives pay for the current year and the previous five years and the payout of incentive awards as a proportion of the maximum opportunity for each period.
The Chief Executives pay is calculated asper the single figure of remuneration shown on page 71.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Single figure of total remuneration 1,477,607 1,044,515 1,288,857 754,396 990,959 985,867 Annual variable element awardrates against maximumopportunity 100% 33.3% 40% 0% 0% 0% Long-term incentive vestingrates PSP: 32% against maximumopportunity N A N A ESOP: 100% N A 22% 17% The Chief Executive for the period 2009-2011 was Rob Templeman.
The Chief Executive since FY2012 is the current incumbent Michael Sharp who previously held the role of Deputy Chief Executive.
Percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive The change in remuneration from FY2014 to FY2015 of the Chief Executive and the Groups UK employee population is shown below.
This group has been chosen as the comparator group as the majority of Debenhams employees are based inthe UK.
UK employees Chief Average full Executive time equivalent Base salary 1.5% 6.2% Benefits 35.0% 17.4% Bonus 0.0% 100.0% No bonus was paid to the Chief Executive in respect of FY2014 and FY2015.
No bonus was paid to staff in respect of FY2014.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 75 THE ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The chart below sets out the amounts paid in FY2014 and FY2015 in respect of the remuneration of all employees and dividends to shareholders.
m Distributions by way of dividends Overall expenditure on profit Before Tax in respect of the year remuneration for all employees 450 400 3.5% 350 300 250 200 150 7.3% 100 50 0% 0 2013 14 2014 15 2013 14 2014 15 2013 14 2014 15 IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS IN FY2016 Components of remuneration The following table provides a summary of the different elements of pay that will be operated for FY2016.
Fixed pay Base salary benefits pension Short-term performance Long-term performance Performance-related pay Cash bonus one year PSP three year 100% financial 70% EPS growth, 30% strategic measures Base salary Executive director salaries with effect from 1 April 2015 are as follows: Chief Executive, Michael Sharp 624,225 Chief Financial Officer, Matt Smith 406,000 Group Trading Director, Suzanne Harlow 406,000 Appointed to the board on 26 January 2015.
The annual salary review date for the executive directors is 1 April, in line with the annual review date of the rest of the management population.
Annual bonus The performance measures for the FY2016 annual bonus will be in line with FY2015, being entirely based on underlying PBT, reflecting the continued focus on increasing profit.
Specific targets are not disclosed because they are considered to be market sensitive by the Committee.
The maximum bonus opportunity will remain at 100% of base salary, payable in cash.
The bonus will begin accruing for delivering threshold levels of performance with the maximum bonus only being payable on the delivery of performance significantly in excess of plan.
Debenhams Performance Share Plan It is intended that a PSP award will be granted to the Chief Executive of 50% of base salary for FY2016.
For the Chief Financial Officer and Group Trading Director, PSP awards will be 125%of base salary as they are both essential to the continued smooth operation of the business during the Chief Executive succession process.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 76 Governance 40-85 In line with FY2015, awards will be based 70% on EPS growth targets and 30% on financial measures that underpin our strategy.
The choice of strategic measures remains unchanged from the prior year, and are as follows: Key strategic pillars Proposed metric 7.5% of award each Delivering a compelling customer proposition Group gross margin improvement Increasing availability and choice through multi-channel Online EBITDA growth rate Focusing on UK retail UK GTV growth Expanding the brand internationally International EBITDA growth rate Each strategic measure will vest independently.
In order for the award to vest, the Committee must be satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the Companyover the performance period is sufficient to justify the vesting of the award and, specifically, vesting of any strategic measure will be subject to a ROCE underpin.
The definition of ROCE was refined in November 2014 and capital employedwill include a capitalised value of future store rental payments and profitability items on a pre-rental basis.
The EPS targets for the PSP remain unchanged at 3% per annum 25% vesting to 10% per annum 100% vesting.
TheCommittee considers that these targets are appropriate in the context of the outlook for the UK retail sector overthenextfew years and believes that the current market consensus is at the lower end of this range.
Each financial strategic measure will be subject to a single performance test ie each measure will either vest at 0% or in full.
Financial strategic targets are specific, measurable and the performance hurdle is set at a level which is considered bythe Committee to be sufficiently stretching.
The financial targets for the strategic measures are considered by the boardtobe market sensitive and therefore we will not disclose these measures at the current time.
However, indications ofperformance against strategic targets will be provided during the vesting period.
We will also disclose the targets in full, along with actual performance against targets, at the time of vesting.
Malus and clawback For incentives in respect of FY2016 new clawback provisions will operate.
Under these provisions theCommittee has the discretion to require clawback in certain circumstances.
Annual bonus payments may be subject to clawback for a period of three years following the payment of the cash bonus and PSP awards may be subject to clawback foraperiod of three years following vesting.
Annual bonus and PSP awards may be subject to clawback in the event of: Material misstatement of financial or other data Gross misconduct includes inappropriate conduct by a participant and behaviour which fails to reflect the Companys governance and business values Fraud effected by or with the knowledge of the participant Malus provisions have applied to the annual bonus and PSP since FY2015.
The circumstances to which malus is to apply have however been expanded for FY2016.
The Committee has the discretion to reduce or withhold an award in circumstances including but not limited to : Material misstatement of financial or other data Gross misconduct includes inappropriate conduct by a participant and behaviour which fails to reflect the Companys governance and business values Fraud effected by or with the knowledge of the participant Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 77 THE ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED THE DEBENHAMS RETAIL EMPLOYEE TRUST 2004 The Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 the Trust currently holds 273,537 shares in the Company.
Any shares allocated under the Debenhams 2008 Share Incentive Plan a plan for employees who are not executive directors are heldby the Trust.
Dividends arising on the shares held in the Trust are waived on the recommendation of the Company.
FUNDING OF SHARE SCHEMES It is the Companys current intention to satisfy any future requirements of its share schemes in a method best suited to the interests of the Company, either by utilising shares held as treasury shares, acquiring shares in the market or issuing new shares.
Where the awards are satisfied by newly issued shares or treasury shares, the Company will comply with Investment Association guidelines on shareholder dilution.
Current levels of shareholder dilution are FY2015: 1.03% FY2014: 0.70% of share capital.
WHAT DID NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS EARN IN RESPECT OF FY2015 AND FY2014?
AUDITED The table below sets out the fees payable to each director not performing an executive function in respect of FY2015 andFY2014.
2015 2014 Fees Benefits Total Fees Benefits Total Nigel Non-executive Chairman, 175,000 175,000 175,000 175,000 Northridge chairman of Nomination Committee, member of Remuneration Committee Dennis Senior Independent Director, 65,000 65,000 65,000 65,000 Millard chairman of Remuneration Committee, member of Audit and Nomination Committees Terry Member of Remuneration, Audit 18,574 18,574 1 Duddy and Nomination Committees Peter Member of Audit Committee 42,500 42,500 42,500 42,500 Fitzgerald Stephen Member of Remuneration 42,500 42,500 42,500 42,500 Ingham Committee Martina King Chairman of sustainability 55,000 55,000 55,000 55,000 committee, member of Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees Mark Rolfe Chairman of Audit Committee, 55,000 55,000 55,000 55,000 member of Remuneration and Nomination Committees Sophie Member of Remuneration, Audit 43,542 43,542 47,500 47,500 2 Turner Laing and Nomination Committees 1 Terry Duddy was appointed to the board on 10 April 2015.
2 Sophie Turner Laing stepped down from the board on 31 July 2015.
Non-executive directors do not participate in the annual bonus plan or any long-term incentive plans.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 78 Governance 40-85 The total interests of the Chairman and non-executive directors in the share capital of the Company as at 29 August 2015 are shown below.
Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary shares shares shares held at held at held at 30 August 29 August 22 October Director 2014 2015 2015 Nigel Northridge 100,000 100,000 100,000 Terry Duddy appointed to the board on 10 April 2015 40,000 40,000 Peter Fitzgerald Stephen Ingham Martina King 10,000 10,000 10,000 Dennis Millard 69,455 69,455 69,455 Mark Rolfe 30,000 30,000 30,000 1 Sophie Turner Laing stepped down from the board on 31 July 2015 20,000 20,000 20,000 The information in the table above is audited.
Note: 1 Shareholding as at 31 July 2015.
Implementation of non-executive director remuneration policy in FY2016 There were no changes to non-executive directors fees with effect from 1 September 2015.
Fees for the year are as follows: Basic fee 40,000 Senior Independent Director 10,000 Committee chairmanship fee Audit and Remuneration 10,000 Committee chairmanship fee sustainability 7,500 Committee membership fee per committee 2,500 CONSIDERATION OF MATTERS IN RELATION TO DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Committee members The Committee chairman, Dennis Millard, is joined by Nigel Northridge, Terry Duddy, Stephen Ingham, Martina King and Mark Rolfe to form the Committee.
Details of the members background and experience is provided within their biography on pages 42 and 43.
Number of meetings held and attended during the year of those eligible Director Position to attend Dennis Millard, Committee chairman Senior Independent Director 2 2 Terry Duddy appointed 10 April 2015 Independent non-executive director 0 0 Stephen Ingham Independent non-executive director 2 2 Martina King Independent non-executive director 2 2 Nigel Northridge Independent non-executive Chairman 2 2 Mark Rolfe Independent non-executive director 2 2 Sophie Turner Laing stepped down asamemberon31 July 2015 Independent non-executive director 2 2 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 79 THE ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Role of the Committee The full terms of reference for the Committee, which are reviewed annually, are available on the Companys website at http: debenhamsplc.
In summary, the Committee has responsibility for determining all elements of the remuneration of the executive directors and the Company Secretary together with the provisions of their service agreements, reviewing the bonus structure for the Executive Committee, reviewing the appropriateness and relevance of the Companys remuneration policy taking into account the remuneration arrangements and levels across the Company and administering all aspects of any share incentives in operation for senior management.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is a matter for the Companys Chairman and the executive members of the board.
The Committees main activities during the year Approved the directors remuneration report for 2014 Reviewed performance against targets for the executive directors 2015 bonuses Approved the executive directors 1.5% pay increase Reviewed performance against targets for the executive directors 2012 PSP awards Reviewed the executive remuneration strategy for 2016 Approved the executive directors bonus plan for 2016 Evaluated the performance of the Committee and that of the remuneration consultants Performance evaluation of the Committee This years evaluation of the Committee was conducted by the Company Chairman and it was concluded that the Committee continues to be effective and has the correct composition.
Advisors to the Committee In performing its duties, the Committee has received advice from Deloitte LLP Deloitte which acted as external advisors to the Committee throughout the financial year, providing independent advice on directors remuneration and share incentives.
The fees for advice provided to the Committee during the financial year were 11,500.
Deloitte is one of the founding members of the Remuneration Consulting Group.
The Committee has been fully briefed on Deloittes compliance with the voluntary code of conduct in respect of the provision of remuneration consulting services.
Deloitte provides industry and comparative employee remuneration data to Debenhams management.
Deloitte also provided unrelated advisory servicesin respect of share schemes, corporate and employment taxes during the year.
Deloitte was appointed by the Committee.
It is the view of the Committee that the Deloitte LLP engagement partner and team that provide remuneration advice to the Committee do not have connections with Debenhams that may impair their independence.
The Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 80 Governance 40-85 During the year, the Committee undertook an evaluation of its advisors and concluded that the advice received from the advisors is independent, straightforward, relevant and appropriate.
The Committee has an appropriate level of access to them and has confidence in their advice.
The Chief Executive and HR Director have attended certain Committee meetings and provided advice to the Committee during the year.
They are not in attendance when matters relating to their own compensation or contracts are discussed.
Summary of shareholder voting Debenhams remains committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
In the event of a substantial vote against a resolution in relation to directors remuneration, Debenhams would seek to understand the reasons for any such vote and would set out in the following annual report and accounts any actions in response to it.
The following table sets out actual voting in respect of our previous report: For Against 2014 directors remuneration policy report 98.65% 1.35% 2014 annual remuneration report 99.79% 0.21% 289,364 and 522,227 votes were withheld in relation to the policy report and annual remuneration report .
On behalf of the board DENNIS MILLARD CHAIRMAN, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 22 OCTOBER 2015 Debenhams plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 81
