Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 63 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 30 June 2015.
This report complies with the UK executive remuneration reporting guidelines and contains: The Directors remuneration policy, as approved by shareholders at the AGM in September 2014: The annual remuneration report, describing how the remuneration policy has been put into practice over the year ended 30 June 2015: There have been no changes to the Directors remuneration policy, as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, and it is reproduced in full for both ease of reference and to provide context to the decisions taken by the Committee during the year.
The annual remuneration report will be put forward for your consideration and approval by advisory vote at the AGM on 23 September 2015.
Diageos remuneration principles The principles underpinning executive remuneration remain fundamentally unchanged, with sustainable performance and long term value creation for shareholders at the heart of our remuneration policies and practices: Delivery of business strategy: Short and long term incentive plans for Executive Directors and senior managers reward the achievement of Diageos business strategy and performance goals.
Consistent performance: The focus is on the delivery of performance in a consistent and responsible way which also creates long term value for our shareholders.
Alignment between the interests of Executive Directors and shareholders remains a key principle, with Executive Directors required to acquire and hold Diageo shares over the long term.
Performance-related compensation: Reward components offer a balanced mix of short and long term incentives conditional upon achieving stretching performance targets.
Performance measures such as organic net sales, organic operating margin, cash efficiency, relative total shareholder return TSR and earnings per share eps growth are key drivers of growth for the business that are aligned with the creation of shareholder value.
Competitive total remuneration: Reward levels are framed in the context of total remuneration packages paid by relevant global comparators.
In competition with similar global companies, the ability to recruit and retain the best talent from all over the world is critical to Diageos continued business success.
Simplicity and transparency: The Committee seeks to embed simplicity and transparency in the design and delivery of executive reward programmes.
Performance targets clearly align with the companys short and long term goals.
Focus and highlights in 2015 The Committee continued its focus on: Understanding and responding to shareholder feedback and fostering continuous open dialogue: Reviewing and assessing the ongoing appropriateness of the current remuneration policy, executive plan design and target stretch: and Ensuring that remuneration arrangements continue to attract and retain the highest quality global talent with a clear link between performance and reward.
The Committee undertook a comprehensive review of total remuneration for Executive Directors and Executive Committee members ahead of the 2015 annual salary review, and, supported by Kepler Associates a brand of Mercer, were satisfied that the shape and levels of our remuneration practice are appropriately positioned against those of comparator companies of similar size and global scope.
During the year, the Committee also reviewed the Chairmans fee and, at the Chairmans request, recommended no increase, as was the case at the last review in December 2013.
As agreed with the Chairman, the next review is scheduled for December 2016, subject to the Chairmans letter of appointment.
The Committee has also approved the extension of the clawback provisions that currently apply to Executive Directors for their annual and long term incentives to the other members of the Executive Committee, in addition to the existing malus provisions that apply to everyone under the Diageo Long Term Incentive Plan.
64 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Reward in 2015 at aglance As a reflection of the companys performance against very stretching performance targets in the context of challenging market conditions see key performance indicators on pages 12-13, total variable pay to the Executive Directors in respect of the year ended 30 June 2015 is lower than in respect of the year ended 30 June 2014.
Base salary No increase for the Chief Executive or the Chief Financial Officer in October 2015 Allowances and benefits Unchanged from last year Retirement benefits Unchanged from last year Annual incentive Pay-out below target, delivering 28% and 29% of maximum opportunity for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer respectively Long term incentives 33% vesting of performance shares and nil vesting of share options Over the period 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2015 the performance period for this years long term incentive plan, Diageos share price grew by 11%, from 1658 pence to 1841 pence, and the company paid a total dividend of 147.5 pence per share.
Dividend distribution to shareholders in the year ended 30 June 2015 was increased by 9% compared to the previous year.
Planned for 2016 Looking ahead to the year ending 30 June 2016, we will continue to operate executive remuneration arrangements in line with the approved remuneration policy and to maintain an active and positive dialogue with shareholders and their advisory bodies.
We anticipate putting the policy to shareholder vote next at the 2017 AGM.
The Committee has refined the design of the Annual Incentive Plan AIP to apply for the year ending 30 June 2016.
To drive a sustained improvement in the efficient conversion of profits into cash, the weighting on operating cash conversion will be increased from 25% to 30% of the maximum opportunity and there will be a subsequent reduction in the weighting on net sales growth and profit growth from 30% and 35% respectively to 25% on each.
These changes create a greater focus on the generation of cash whilst maintaining a significant incentive to increase net sales and profit.
The remaining 20% will be based on individual business objectives IBOs to ensure focus on the delivery of defined quantitative measures relating to the individuals key areas of responsibility.
The Committee has also reviewed the performance measures under the Diageo Long Term Incentive Plan DLTIP with the result that the operating margin measure will be replaced by a measure based on cumulative free cash flow.
The intention is that this will incentivise management to deliver efficiency in capital expenditure and working capital, which will in turn create greater value for shareholders.
This change will take effect for awards made from September 2015 onwards.
The weightings will be retained at one third of the performance share element of the DLTIP based on cumulative free cash flow alongside one third on net sales value NSV growth and one third on TSR.
For share options, the measure that will continue to apply is adjusted eps growth.
As you read our remuneration policy and report on the following pages, I hope it is clear how the Committees decisions support the business strategy and the delivery of Diageos performance ambition.
We were very pleased to receive a very strong vote in favour of both our remuneration policy and report last year.
I highly value the direct engagement and feedback from our shareholders and their representative bodies on Diageos remuneration policy and look forward to welcoming you and receiving your support again at the AGM this year.
Lord Davies of Abersoch Senior independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
