Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 65 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT for shareholders.
Thus, variable elements of remuneration are DIRECTORS dependent upon the achievement of performance measures that are identified as key consistent and responsible growth REMUNERATIONPOLICY drivers for the business and that are aligned with the creation of shareholder value.
This section of the report sets out the policy for Executive Directors Variable with performance: A significant proportion of total remuneration, in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act remuneration for the Executive Directors is linked to business 2006.
The policy was put to shareholders for approval in a binding and individual performance so that remuneration will increase vote at the AGM in 2014, and formally came into effect from or decrease in line with performance.
18 September 2014, the date of the AGM.
The report below is as disclosed in the 2014 Directors remuneration report, with the Share ownership: Full participation in incentives is conditional exception of the reference to the number of employees across upon building up a significant personal shareholding in Diageo Diageo, and a minor addition to the DLTIP section of the policy table to ensure the companys leaders think and act like owners.
to reflect the clarification note released following publication of the Cost effectiveness: Fixed elements of remuneration are determined 2014 Directors remuneration report.
by reference to the median of the market, individual experience and performance, and other relevant factors to ensure efficiency.
Remuneration policy framework The remuneration structures and performance measures used in Future policy table executive incentive plans are designed to support Diageos business Set out below, is the remuneration policy for Executive Directors strategy as follows: which has been applied from the date of shareholder approval at Focused on consistent growth drivers: As a public limited company, the AGM on 18 September 2014.
Diageo has a fiduciary responsibility to maximise long term value BASE SALARY BENEFITS Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy Supports the attraction and retention of the best global talent with Provides market competitive and cost effective benefits.
the capability to deliver Diageos strategy and performance goals.
Operation Operation The provision of benefits depends on the country of residence Normally reviewed annually or following a change in of the Executive Director and may include a company car or car responsibilities with changes usually taking effect from allowance, the provision of a car and contracted car service or 1 October.
equivalent, product allowance, life insurance, accidental death & disability insurance, medical cover for the Executive Director The Remuneration Committee considers the following and family and financial counselling.
parameters when reviewing base salary levels: Pay increases for other employees across the group: The Remuneration Committee has discretion to offer Economic conditions and governance trends: additional allowances, or benefits, to Executive Directors, The individuals performance, skills and responsibilities: and if considered appropriate and reasonable.
These may include Base salaries and total remuneration at companies of similar relocation expenses, housing allowance and school fees size and international scope to Diageo, with roles typically where a Director has to relocate from his her home location benchmarked against the top 30 companies in the FTSE100 by as part of their appointment.
market capitalisation excluding companies in the financial Opportunity services sector, or against similar comparator groups in other The benefits package is set at a level which the Remuneration locations dependent on the Executive Directors home market.
Committee considers: Opportunity Provides an appropriate level of benefits depending on the Salary increases will normally be in line with increases awarded to role and individual circumstances: and other employees in relevant markets in which Diageo operates, Is in line with comparable roles in companies of a similar size typically the United Kingdom and the United States, unless there is and complexity in the relevant market.
a change in role or responsibility, or the need to align an Executive Directors salary to market level over time provided the increase is merited by the individuals contribution and performance.
66 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT POST-RETIREMENT PROVISIONS DIAGEO LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN DLTIP Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy Provides cost-effective, competitive post-retirement benefits.
Provides focus on delivering superior long term returns to shareholders.
Operation Provision of market competitive pension arrangements or Operation a cash alternative based on a percentage of base salary.
An annual grant of performance shares and or market price share options which vest subject to a performance test and Further detail on current pension provisions for Executive continued employment normally over a period of three years.
Directors is disclosed in the annual report on remuneration.
Measures and stretching targets are reviewed annually by Opportunity the Remuneration Committee for each new award.
Details The maximum company pension contribution is 30% of base of the measures, weightings and targets applicable for salary for any new external appointments to an Executive the financial year under review are provided in the annual Director position.
Current legacy company contributions for Ivan Menezes and Following vesting there is a further retention period of two Deirdre Mahlan remain 40% and 35% of base salary, respectively.
Executive Directors are able to exercise an option or sell sufficient shares to cover any tax liability when an award vests, provided they retain the net shares arising for the two-year ANNUAL INCENTIVE PLAN AIP retention period.
Purpose and link to strategy Notional dividends accrue on performance share awards to Incentivises year on year delivery of Diageos annual financial and the extent that the performance conditions have been met, strategic targets.
Provides focus on key financial metrics and the delivered as shares or cash at the discretion of the individuals contribution to the companys performance.
Remuneration Committee at the end of the vesting period.
Operation The Committee has discretion to reduce the number of shares Performance measures and stretching targets are set annually which vest subject to HMRC rules regarding approved share by the Remuneration Committee by reference to the annual options, for example in the event of a material performance operating plan.
failure, or a material restatement of the accounts.
There is an The level of award is determined with reference to Diageos extensive malus clause for awards made from September 2014.
The Committee has discretion to decide that: overall financial and strategic performance and individual the number of shares subject to the award will be reduced: performance and is paid out in cash after the end of the the award will lapse: financial year.
retention shares i. e. vested shares subject to the additional The Committee has discretion to amend the level of payment two-year retention period will be forfeited: if it is not deemed to reflect appropriately the individuals vesting of the award or the end of any retention period will contribution or the overall business performance.
Any be delayed e. g. until an investigation is completed : discretionary adjustments will be detailed in the following additional conditions will be imposed on the vesting of the years annual report on remuneration.
award or the end of the retention period: and or The Committee has discretion to apply clawback to bonus, i. e. any award, bonus or other benefit which might have been the company may seek to recover bonus paid, in exceptional granted or paid to the participant in any later year will be circumstances such as gross misconduct or gross negligence reduced or not awarded.
Malus provisions will apply up to delivery of shares at the end Details of the AIP are set out in the annual report on of the retention period as opposed to the vesting date.
Further details of the DLTIP are set out in the annual report on remuneration on pages 73-75.
Opportunity For threshold performance, up to 50% of salary may be earned, Opportunity with up to 100% of salary earned for on target performance and The maximum annual grant is 500% of salary in performance a maximum of 200% of salary payable for outstanding performance.
share equivalents where a market price option is valued at one-third of a performance share.
As clarified in the statement Performance conditions of further information on 15 August 2014, under the DLTIP no Annual incentive plan awards are based 70%-90% on financial more than 375% of salary will be awarded in face value terms measures which may include, but are not limited to, measures in options to any Executive Director in any year.
of revenue, profit and cash and 10%-30% on broader objectives based on individual contribution and medium term strategic Threshold vesting level of 20% of maximum with straight line goals.
Details of the measures and weightings applicable for the vesting up to 100% at maximum for financial metrics and year ending 30 June 2016 are set out on page 72.
Details of the a ranking profile for relative total shareholder return.
targets will be disclosed retrospectively in next years annual report on remuneration, when they are no longer deemed commercially sensitive by the Board.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 67 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE DIAGEO LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN DLTIP Performance conditions Performance measures and targets The vesting of awards is linked to a range of measures which Further details of AIP performance measures and DLTIP performance may include, but are not limited to: measures and targets that will apply for awards made in September a growth measure e. g. net sales, eps : 2015, and how they are aligned with company strategy and the a measure of efficiency e. g. operating margin, operating creation of shareholder value, are set out in the annual report on cash conversion, return on invested capital ROIC : and remuneration, on pages 72 and 75. a measure of Diageos relative performance in relation Performance targets are set to be stretching yet achievable, and to its peers e. g. relative total shareholder return.
take into account the companys strategic priorities and business Measures that apply to performance shares and market price environment.
The Committee sets targets based on a range of options may differ, as is the case for current awards.
Weightings reference points including the corporate strategy and broker may vary year-on-year, subject to a minimum weighting of 25% forecasts for both Diageo and its peers.
Details of the measures, including targets for the awards to be made in September 2015 are set out on page 75.
Differences in remuneration policy for other employees The remuneration approach for Executive Directors is consistent The Remuneration Committee has discretion to amend the with the reward package for members of the Executive Committee performance conditions in exceptional circumstances if it and the senior management population.
considers it appropriate to do so, e. g. in cases of accounting changes, M&A activities and disposals.
Any such amendments Generally speaking, a much higher proportion of total remuneration for the Executive Directors is linked to business would be fully disclosed and explained in the following years performance, compared to the rest of the employee population, annual report on remuneration.
so that remuneration will increase or decrease in line with business performance and to align the interests of Executive Directors and ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS shareholders.
The structure of the reward package for the wider employee population is based on the principle that it should be Purpose and link to strategy sufficient to attract and retain the best talent and be competitive To encourage broader employee share ownership through within our broader industry, remunerating employees for their locally approved plans.
contribution linked to our holistic performance whilst mindful not to Operation over-pay.
It is driven by local market practice as well as level of seniority The company operates tax-efficient all-employee share savings and accountability, reflecting the global nature of Diageos business.
Executive Directors eligibility may depend on their country of residence, tax status and employment company.
Opportunity Limits for all-employee share plans are set by the tax authorities.
The company may choose to set its own lower limits.
Performance conditions UK Freeshares: based on Diageo plc financial measures which may include, but are not limited to, measures of revenue, profit and cash.
SHAREHOLDING REQUIREMENT Purpose and link to strategy Ensures alignment between the interests of Executive Directors and shareholders.
Operation The minimum shareholding requirement is 300% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 250% of base salary for any other Executive Directors.
Executive Directors have five years from their appointment to the Board in which to build up their shareholding.
Full participation in the DLTIP is conditional upon meeting this requirement beyond the five-year timeframe.
68 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Illustrations of application of the remuneration policy Approach to recruitment remuneration The graphs below illustrate scenarios for the projected total The Remuneration Committees overarching principle for recruitment remuneration of Executive Directors at three different levels of remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract an performance: minimum, on-target and maximum.
Note that the Executive Director of the calibre required to shape and deliver projected values exclude the impact of any share price movements.
Diageos business strategy in recognition that Diageo competes for These charts are unchanged from the 2014 Directors remuneration talent in a global marketplace.
The Committee will seek to align the report and reflect projected remuneration for the year ended remuneration package with Diageos remuneration policy as laid out 30 June 2015 as at the date when the policy was first presented.
above, but retains the discretion to offer a remuneration package which is necessary to meet the individual circumstances of the recruited Executive Director and to enable the hiring of an individual Ivan Menezes with the necessary skills and expertise.
However, except as described below, variable pay will follow the policy.
Minimum 100% Total $2,233 1,370 Diageo is a global organisation operating in more than 180 countries around the world.
The ability, therefore, to recruit and On Target 42% 29% 29% Total $5,273 3,235 retain the best talent from all over the world is critical to the future success of the business.
People diversity in all its forms is a core Maximum 17% 24% 59% Total $12,873 7,897 element of Diageos global talent strategy and, managed effectively, is a key driver that will deliver Diageos performance ambition.
Thousands 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 12,000 14,000 On appointment of an external Executive Director, the Committee may decide to compensate for variable remuneration elements the Deirdre Mahlan Director forfeits when leaving their current employer.
In doing so, the Committee will ensure that any such compensation would have Minimum 100% Total 1,029 a fair value no higher than that of the awards forfeited, and would generally be determined on a comparable basis taking into account On Target 42% 30% 28% Total 2,464 factors including the form in which the awards were granted, performance conditions attached, the probability of the awards Maximum 17% 24% 59% Total 6,005 vesting e. g. past, current and likely future performance as well as the vesting schedules.
Depending on individual circumstances at the Thousands 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 time, the Committee has the discretion to determine the type of award i. e. cash, shares or options, holding period and whether or not Salary, bene ts and pension Annual incentive performance conditions would apply.
Long term incentives Any such award would be fully disclosed and explained in the Basis of calculation and assumptions: following years annual report on remuneration.
When exercising its The Minimum scenario shows fixed remuneration only, i. e. base salary for the year discretion in establishing the reward package for a new Executive ended 30 June 2015, total value of contractually agreed benefits for 2015, and pension.
Director, the Committee will very carefully consider the balance The pension value is based on company contributions applied to 2015 base salary.
These are the only elements of the Executive Directors remuneration packages which between the need to secure an individual in the best interests of the are not at risk.
company against the concerns of investors about the quantum in the The On-target scenario shows fixed remuneration as above, plus a target pay-out of 50% remuneration and, if considered appropriate at the time, will consult of the maximum annual bonus and threshold performance vesting for DLTIP awards.
with the companys biggest shareholders.
The Remuneration The Maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus full pay-out of all incentives.
Committee will provide timely disclosure of the reward package of any new Executive Director.
In the event that an internal candidate was promoted to the Board, legacy terms and conditions would normally be honoured, including pension entitlements and any outstanding incentive awards.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information for shareholders DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 69 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office including takeover provisions Executive Directors have rolling service contracts, details of which are set out below.
These are available for inspection at the companys registered office.
Executive Director Date of service contract Ivan Menezes 7 May 2013 Deirdre Mahlan 1 July 2010 Notice period The contracts provide for a period of six months notice by the Executive Director or 12 months notice by the company.
A payment may be made in lieu of notice equivalent to 12 months base salary and the cost to the company of providing contractual benefits excluding incentive plans.
The service contracts also provide for the payment of outstanding pay and bonus, if Executive Directors are terminated following a takeover, or other change of control of Diageo plc.
If, on the termination date, the Executive Director has exceeded his her accrued holiday entitlement, the value of such excess may be deducted by the company from any sums due to him her, except to the extent that such deduction would subject the Executive Director to additional tax under Section 409A of the Code in the case of Ivan Menezes.
If the Executive Director on the termination date has accrued but untaken holiday entitlement, the company will, at its discretion, either require the Executive Director to take such unused holiday during any notice period or make a payment to him her in lieu of it, provided always that if the employment is terminated for cause then the Executive Director will not be entitled to any such payment.
For these purposes, salary in respect of one day of holiday entitlement will be calculated as 1 261 of salary.
Mitigation The Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion to require a proportion of the termination payment to be paid in instalments and, upon the Executive Director commencing new employment, to be subject to mitigation except where termination is within 12 months of a takeover, or within such 12 months the Executive Director leaves due to a material diminution in status, or in the case of Deirdre Mahlan is located permanently outside the United Kingdom and Ireland.
Annual incentive plan Where the Executive Director leaves for reasons including retirement, death in service, disability, ill-health, injury, AIP redundancy, transfer out of the group and other circumstances at the Remuneration Committees discretion Good Leaver Reasons during the financial year, they are usually entitled to an incentive payment pro-rated for the period of service during the performance period, which is typically payable at the usual payment date.
Where the Executive Director leaves for any other reason, no payment will be made.
The amount is subject to performance conditions being met and at the discretion of the Committee.
The Committee has discretion to determine an earlier payment date, for example on death in service.
Diageo 2014 long term When an Executive Director leaves for any reason other than Good Leaver Reasons, all unvested awards generally incentive plan DLTIP lapse immediately.
In cases where Good Leaver Reasons apply, awards vest on the original vesting date unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise for example in the case of death in service.
The retention period for vested awards continues for all leavers other than in cases of disability, ill health or death in service, unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise.
The proportion of the award released depends on the extent to which the performance condition is met.
The number of shares is reduced on a pro-rata basis reflecting the length of time the Executive Director was employed by the company during the performance period, unless the Committee decides otherwise for example in the case of death in service.
On a takeover or other corporate event, awards vest subject to the extent to which the performance conditions are met and, unless the Committee decides otherwise, the awards are time pro-rated.
Otherwise the Committee, in agreement with the new company, may decide that awards should be swapped for awards over shares in the new company: where awards are granted in the form of options then on vesting they are generally exercisable for 12 months or six months for approved options.
Awards may be adjusted on a variation of share capital, demerger or other similar event.
The Remuneration Committee may amend the plans, except that any changes to the advantage of participants require shareholder approval, unless the change relates to the administration, or taxation of the plan or participants, or is needed to ensure that the plans operate effectively in another jurisdiction.
Details of existing awards are set out in the annual report on remuneration.
Repatriation In cases where an Executive Director was recruited from outside the United Kingdom and has been relocated to the United Kingdom as part of their appointment, the company will pay reasonable costs for the repatriation of Good Leavers.
70 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere Existing arrangements The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make inthecompany any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office When reviewing and determining pay for Executive Directors, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out the Committee takes into account the level and structure of remuneration as well as salary budgets for other employees in the above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the policy or the relevant legislation came into effect or ii at a time when group.
More specifically, the Committee reviews annual salary the relevant individual was not a Director of the company and, in the increase budgets for the general employee population in the United opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for Kingdom and North America as well as the remuneration structure and policy for the global Senior Management population.
the individual becoming a Director of the company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of Diageo employs 33,000 employees and operates in more than variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the 180 countries around the world.
Given its global scale and terms of the payment which are agreed at the time the award is complexity, the Committee has not consulted directly with employees when designing the remuneration policy for its Executive granted including awards under the PSP and SESOP.
Details of outstanding share awards are set out in the annual report on Directors.
Diageo runs annual employee surveys which give remuneration.
For the purposes of section 226D 6 of the Companies employees the opportunity to give feedback and express their views Act, the effective date is the end of the financial year starting in 2014. on a variety of topics, including remuneration.
Any comments relating to Executive Directors remuneration are fed back to the External appointments Remuneration Committee.
Executive Directors may accept external appointments as Non-Executive Directors of other companies and retain any related fees Consideration of shareholder views paid to them, subject to the specific approval of the Board in each case.
The Committee values the continued dialogue with Diageos shareholders and engages directly with them and their CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND NON-EXECUTIVE representative bodies at the earliest opportunity when setting out DIRECTORS Diageos remuneration policy and approach, proposed base salary increases for the Executive Directors and targets for the long term Purpose and link to strategy incentive plan award.
Last year, feedback from shareholders resulted Supports the attraction, motivation and retention of world-class in the simplification of the companys long term incentive vehicles talent and reflects the value of the individual, their skills and with an enhanced malus provision and an additional retention experience, and performance.
More recently, the company has engaged with shareholders Operation about the base salary proposals for 2015, the change in weightings Fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are under the annual incentive plan for the year ending 30 June 2016, normally reviewed annually.
long term incentive plan targets for awards to be made in 2015 and the introduction of free cash flow in replacement of the operating A proportion of the Chairmans annual fee is used for the margin improvement measure, as well as the vesting of legacy long monthly purchase of Diageo ordinary shares, which have to be term incentive awards to the Chief Executive Officer.
retained until the Chairman retires from the company or ceases to be a Director.
Fees are reviewed in the light of market practice in the top 30 companies in the FTSE100 by market capitalisation excluding companies in the financial services sector and anticipated workload, tasks and potential liabilities.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the companys incentive plans or receive pension contributions or benefits.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are eligible to receive a product allowance or cash equivalent at the same level as the Executive Directors.
All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
A summary of their terms and conditions of appointment is available at www.
The Chairman of the Board, Dr Franz B Humer, commenced his appointment on 1 July 2008.
Dr Humer had a letter of appointment for an initial five year term from 1 July 2008 which has been extended to 30 June 2016.
It is terminable on six months notice by either party or, if terminated by the company, by payment of six months fees in lieu of notice.
Opportunity Fees for Non-Executive Directors are within the limits set by the shareholders from time to time, currently an aggregate of 1,000,000, as approved by shareholders at the October 2005 AGM.
This limit excludes the Chairmans fees.
Current fee levels are disclosed in the annual report on remuneration.
