64 Governance Remuneration Committee DEAR SHAREHOLDERS I am pleased to be able to write to you this year, to demonstrate the continued alignment of the interests of the Executive Directors with shareholders through the implementation of our remuneration policy, approved by shareholders at the AGM last year, and to show how this is closely linked to the Group's performance.
Linking remuneration with strategy DS Smith has continued to deliver sustainable returns and growth for its shareholders.
We have achieved this by focusing on delivering our key strategic goals, incentivised by our remuneration policy, as this is key to maximising longterm returns to shareholders.
Strategic priorities To delight our To realise the To double the size To lead the way customers potential of and profitability in recycling our people of our business Key responsibilities Ensuring the Groups remuneration arrangements support its strategy, align with its values and drive Alignment with our strategy Alignment with our shareholders performance.
This is supported by the inclusion of Employees at all levels are encouraged to the drivers of return on average capital have an interest in the Companys shares Maintaining a competitive employed ROACE and earnings per through both direct shareholdings and remuneration policy appropriate share EPS growth within our variable through our award-winning Sharesave to the business environment of remuneration.
Stretching performance Plan, which had a take-up rate in the UK the countries in which we operate, targets incentivise the delivery of our goals of 53%.
For our more senior employees, thereby ensuring we can attract and the creation of shareholder value.
their interests are aligned to shareholders and retain talented individuals.
through their shareholding requirements Managing our costs, cash flows and Aligning senior executives and through our sharebased incentive capital are the other elements of our remuneration with the interests plans.
Employees at all levels have an interest strategic focus.
Profitability forms a of longterm shareholders while in the performance of the share price.
major part of the measurement in both ensuring that remuneration is fair the annual bonus and the sharebased The market assessment of our share but not excessive.
performance is reflected in total Making recommendations to shareholder return TSR.
the Board in respect of the Chairmans fees.
Setting targets for the 335m 24.5p 343% 160 performancerelated elements adjusted adjusted EPS TSR over last basis point of remuneration packages.
up from 5 years operating profit growth in up by 17% 21.4p ROACE Oversight of our overall policy for senior management remuneration and of our employee share plans.
Ensuring appropriate independent These results demonstrate that once again our experienced management team has advisors are appointed to provide driven significant performance improvements during the year.
relevant advice and guidance to DS Smith's strategy to deliver long-term sustainable and profitable growth remains paramount the Remuneration Committee.
and our remuneration policy is designed to support this strategy.
The Companys continued The Remuneration Committees Terms strong financial performance and consistent year-on-year incremental improvement in of Reference can be found key financial measures demonstrate the importance of managements continuing focus at www.
com investors on delivering against a clear strategy supported by a remuneration policy which provides corporategovernance committees an appropriate balance between fixed and variable pay.
Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance 65 The Committee has reviewed the operation of our remuneration Aligning remuneration policy with Group values policy for 2015 16 and has concluded that the policy should be DS Smith is founded on the following values: implemented on an unchanged basis.
The following key decisions were taken during the year: Be challenging Be trusted Be caring The Group Chief Executive's salary will be increased by 2.5%, in line with the average increase for the workforce generally.
Be responsive Be tenacious In line with our stated policy to move the Group Finance The Remuneration Committee believes that these values underpin Director's salary to a mid-market level over time and subject to our approach to remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee cares satisfactory performance, his salary will be increased by 5%.
about aligning performance with reward.
These increases will take effect from 1 August 2015.
The Committee understands the trust placed in it by shareholders not The fee payable to the non-Executive Chairman will be increased to reward failure.
Challenging performance conditions, which are aligned by 2.5% and the non-Executive Directors' base fees by 2.5%.
with the strategic objectives of the Group, have to be met before our share-based incentive plans can vest.
This ensures that when the Targets for the 2015 16 annual bonus plan have been set in strategic objectives are met, an appropriate level of remuneration line with the financial plan.
Due to their commercial sensitivity, follows.
Our incentive plans have recovery and withholding provisions.
they are not disclosed within this report, but will be disclosed Last year, the Committee was responsive, engaging extensively retrospectively in next year's report to the extent that they with our major shareholders and their representative bodies do not remain commercially sensitive.
We also received feedback Under the Performance Share Plan PSP, the Committee has and views from shareholders on matters related to remuneration considered the performance conditions and has determined that during the year.
Shareholders do not speak with a single voice an equal mix of EPS, TSR and ROACE remains appropriate and and, as a Committee, we have to be challenging and balance these are fully disclosed in the annual report on remuneration.
individual perspectives with our overall responsibility to ensure that remuneration arrangements enable us to attract and retain Shares that vest under the PSP awarded this year to Executive talented employees to deliver sustainable shareholder returns.
Directors must be retained for a further two years before they can be sold.
In the interests of the Group, we have reviewed the effectiveness of the application of our remuneration policy to date and continue The annual report on remuneration explains how our policy has to be satisfied that the overall approach provides good alignment been implemented during the year under review and, alongside this of executive behaviour with shareholder interests and does not letter, will be subject to an advisory vote at our AGM resolution 3. encourage excessive risk taking.
The executives have been tenacious We hope that you will support it.
in achieving sustainable returns and growth for shareholders.
Approach for 2015 16 We have set out in this report the key elements of the implementation in 2014 15 of the shareholder-approved remuneration policy.
Having Kathleen ODonovan simplified our remuneration policy last year, the Share Matching Plan Chairman of the Remuneration Committee SMP has been discontinued and no further awards will be made under 24 June 2015 th SMP.
Full details of the policy can be found in our 2013 14 Annual Report available on our website.
Key activities in 2014 15 Key priorities in 2015 16 Reviewed the design of long-term incentives As the Groups business, its markets and the executive remuneration landscape continue with the main objectives being simplification to evolve, the Committee will continue to review the approach to remuneration to ensure and responding to concerns previously raised that it remains appropriate and highly relevant.
We recognise the need to continue to attract by some investors.
management with skills and experience which reflect current and future developments in the markets in which the Group's businesses operate.
Drafted the remuneration policy for up to the next three years.
The Committee will continue its regular dialogue with shareholders and will hold meetings with the largest investors to listen to their views and feedback.
Consulted with shareholders and other key stakeholders on the draft remuneration policy.
Implemented the policy, approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, during the year under review.
