"Remuneration Report 08 063 10- $: 4 -, &% 50 063 453""5& : The principles behind, and the reasons for, the overall remuneration structure that we have adopted for our Executive Directors are directly related to our long term strategic goal of delivering shareholder value through the profitable growth of a quality business."
Since the otation of the Company our Executive remuneration has been structured specically: X To pay fairly and appropriately for an individuals role and responsibilities: X To reward strong performance: X To be focused on long term value creation: X To align Executives strongly with shareholders through share ownership.
A substantial proportion of the Executive Directors potential remuneration is variable and performance-related in order to encourage and reward superior business performance and shareholder return.
Discretion is allowed in certain circumstances to ensure rewards are appropriate and overall levels of pay are analysed carefully each year.
This is consistent with delivery of the objectives set out in our corporate strategy which was rened in 2015, which are all long term in nature: namely the growth of like-for-like sales in store: obtaining national coverage from rolling out new stores: and growing sales and profit in the home delivery channel.
Our approach is also in keeping with the family origin of the business, and is important to the Adderley family who remain our majority shareholders.
It is our intention to maintain a simple and transparent remuneration structure for the benefit of all parties.
Introduction This Directors Remuneration Report is divided into three The Annual Report on Implementation sets out how the sections: the Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration policy approved in November 2014 has been applied during Committee, set out on page 47: the Policy Report: and the the financial year being reported on and how policy will be Annual Report on Implementation.
applied in the coming year.
This report will also be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting in The Policy Report sets out the Directors remuneration November 2015, although the vote on the implementation policy, which will be put to shareholders for approval at report is advisory.
the Annual General Meeting in November 2015, as we are proposing some changes to the policy which was approved This report complies with the provisions of the Companies by shareholders on 11 November 2014.
This is because of Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized executive recruitment during the year and these changes are Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment set out in the box headed policy changes on page 49.
Regulations 2013, as well as the UK Corporate Governance Code and the UKLA Listing Rules.
Subject to shareholder approval, the updated policy will be effective as of 24 November 2015.
Once the Policy Report has been approved, no payment may be paid to a Director or past Director unless it is consistent with the approved policy unless shareholder approval is sought.
The exception to this is if the payment is made pursuant to a contractual obligation that was in force at 27 June 2012 when the new Regulations came into force.
com Stock code: DNLM 48 GOVERNANCE Proposed changes to our Remuneration Policy Our first Remuneration Policy the 2014 Policy was approved at the Annual General Meeting on 11 November 2014, although the principles were applied throughout the financial year to June 2015.
In July 2015 we recruited John Browett to our Board as Chief Executive Designate, with the intention that he will succeed Will Adderley as Chief Executive on 1 January 2016.
We also announced that Keith Down will become Chief Financial officer in December 2015, on the retirement of David Stead.
We wanted to offer our new Executives a remuneration package which recognises their talent and experience, and also incentivises them to deliver long term, profitable growth for the Group.
In order to provide the desired structure, the following policy changes to our 2014 Policy are being proposed for approval: Policy change Rationale Annual bonus Annual bonus maximum to be increased from 100% to 125% To align the maximum opportunity which will only be earned 1 of base salary for the achievement of stretching performance conditions to the opportunity available to executives of companies of a similar size and complexity.
In accordance with the 2014 policy, performance targets are Performance criteria no longer subject to the same measure set annually based on financial and strategic objectives.
date the financial target has been based 100% on EPS growth.
However for 2015-16 it is intended that performance criteria will be based on PBT 80% and non-financial KPIs 20% Long Term Incentive Plan Award over xed number of shares each year for the next Executives benefit more if share price rises and less if it does three years rather than percentage of salary not A reduced amount pays out at threshold performance 10% Encourages long term stewardship 1.2 at RPI 3%, previously 25% Two year post performance period retention disapplied in the In most circumstances Lifetime Lock-in see below results in 1 event that Lifetime Lock-in is used.
stronger alignment through personal shareholding.
Personal shareholding targets also retained.
Lifetime Lock-in Executive Directors are required to make a personal Promotes strong alignment with shareholders and long term investment in Dunelm shares on appointment subject to stewardship close periods Two-thirds of all performance pay bonus and LTIP Promotes strong alignment with shareholders and long term entitlement earned must be invested in Dunelm shares after stewardship payment of tax and national insurance : 50% of these must be retained for at least two years after leaving the Group Personal shareholding requirement of 1 salary after three Promotes strong alignment with shareholders and long term years and 2 salary after five years stewardship.
Shares must be acquired to meet this if bonus and LTIP do not deliver required shareholding.
In addition to the policy changes set out above, we are proposing to compensate Keith Down for deferred shares earned with his previous employer which have been forfeited when he resigned.
This compensation, which only represents a small proportion of his benets left behind, will be taken in the form of an award of Dunelm restricted stock vesting in 2016 and 2017 in line with the original vesting dates of the deferred shares.
Although the award is in line with our 2014 Policy, shareholder approval will be sought at the AGM to make the restricted stock award, which is referred to in the policy table on pages 50 to 55, using new issue or treasury shares.
From 1 July 2015, Will Adderley requested that his basic salary be reduced to 1 per annum.
We consulted our major institutional shareholders about the above changes and feedback was unanimously supportive.
As disclosed in the Annual Report on Implementation, David Stead will continue to be remunerated under the 2014 Policy as approved by shareholders at the last AGM.
Accordingly his maximum bonus opportunity for 2015-16 will be 100% of salary and will be prorated for service if he retires as planned in 2016.
The Lifetime Lockin does not apply to any bonus earned by David Stead for 2015-16.
As disclosed in the Annual Report on Implementation, an award is expected to be made to David Stead under the LTIP in accordance with the 2014 Approved Policy in October 2015 at the level of 150% of base salary.
This will vest subject to performance over a three year period, and then be subject to a two year holding period.
The Lifetime Lock-in does not apply to any award granted to David Stead in respect of 2015-16.
Following Davids planned retirement in 2015-16, the Committee may allow him to exercise a pro rata amount of this award following the end of the holding period.
This award will vest as to 25% for threshold performance.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 49 Remuneration Report CONTINUED THE POLICY REPORT Directors Remuneration Policy 2015 The policy set out below will take binding effect from the date of its approval by shareholders at the 2015 Annual General Meeting, to replace the policy that was approved in 2014.
It will remain in force for three years, with approval being sought for renewal of the policy at the latest at the 2018 AGM.
The information contained in this report is unaudited unless specically stated as being audited.
Future policy table The following table sets out the structure of remuneration for Directors of the Company.
Executive Directors Base salary Purpose and link to Fixed remuneration for the role.
strategic objectives To attract and retain the high-calibre talent necessary to develop and deliver the business strategy.
Reects the size and scope of the Executive Directors responsibilities.
Base level set in the context of: X Pay for similar roles in companies of similar size and complexity in the relevant market.
X Size, scale and complexity of the role Should comprise a minority of potential remuneration Maximum Opportunity Reviewed annually, with percentage increases in line with the Company-wide review unless other circumstances apply, such as: X A significant change in the size, scale or complexity of the role or of the Companys business X Development and performance in role for example on a new appointment base salary might be initially set at a lower level with the intention of increasing over time.
The Committee does not consider it to be appropriate to set a maximum base salary that may be paid to an Executive Director within the terms of this policy.
Performance metrics None, although performance of the individual is considered at the annual salary review.
No recovery provisions apply to base salary.
Retirement benefits Purpose and link to To provide a competitive post-retirement benefit.
Operation Contribution equivalent to a percentage of base salary made to a dened contribution plan or paid as a cash allowance.
Maximum Opportunity Up to 20% of base salary.
No element other than base salary is pensionable.
No recovery provisions apply to retirement benets.
com Stock code: DNLM 50 GOVERNANCE Benefits Purpose and link to To provide a competitive benets package.
Operation A range of benets are provided, which may include car or car allowance: private health insurance for the individual and their family: permanent health cover: life assurance: mobile phone: use of a car and driver in connection with the role: colleague discount.
Additional benets, such as relocation expenses, housing allowance and school fees may also be provided in certain circumstances if considered reasonable and appropriate by the Committee.
For non-UK Executives none at present the Committee may consider additional allowances in accordance with standard practice.
Maximum Opportunity Current benets provided are described in the Annual Report on Implementation on page 62.
The Committee reserves the right to provide such benets as it considers necessary to support the strategy of the Company.
The Committee does not consider it to be appropriate to set a maximum cost to the Company of benets to be paid.
No recovery provisions apply to benets.
Annual bonus awards to be made to Executive Directors other than David Stead, who is retiring during the financial year.
Purpose and link to Rewards and incentivises delivery of annual financial, strategic and personal targets.
strategic objectives Operation Paid in cash, after the results for the financial year have been audited, subject to performance targets having been met.
Two-thirds of bonus earned must be invested in Dunelm shares after tax and national insurance obligations have been met.
Maximum Opportunity Maximum opportunity 125% of base salary per annum.
For on target performance 40 % of maximum opportunity.
For threshold performance 5 % of maximum opportunity.
Performance metrics Stretching performance targets are set each year.
Performance targets for the Executive Directors are typically based on financial and strategic objectives set by the Remuneration Committee annually.
Financial objectives include, but are not limited to, budgeted PBT for the financial year taking into account market consensus and individual broker expectations.
The strategic objectives will vary depending on the specic business priorities in a particular year.
Typically, the majority of the annual bonus for Executives is subject to financial objectives.
Subject to recovery provisions malus at the discretion of the Committee if there has been a misstatement of results for the year in respect of which the bonus is paid, or if there has been an error in calculating performance, or in the case of gross misconduct.
The Remuneration Committee also has the discretion to clawback the bonus up to three years after payment in the above circumstances: and in cases of fraud the Committee can apply malus and clawback for an unlimited period of time.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 51 Remuneration Report CONTINUED Annual Bonus award to be made to David Stead in 2015 only.
Please note this bonus award is in line with the approved 2014 Policy.
Maximum Opportunity Maximum opportunity 100% of base salary per annum.
Performance metrics As for John Browett and Keith Down above Long Term Incentive Plan awards to be made to Executive Directors other than Will Adderley who has waived his entitlement, and David Stead who is retiring during the financial year.
Purpose and link to Supports delivery of strategy by targeting EPS growth, which the Committee believes to be strategic objectives closely aligned to the drivers of growth In the business over the long term.
Rewards strong financial performance and sustained increase in shareholder value over the long term.
Aligns with shareholder interests through the delivery of shares.
Operation Conditional awards are made annually which can take the form of a conditional award, nil-cost option or nominal value option, with vesting subject to performance over three financial years.
Maximum Opportunity Maximum annual award is 110,000 shares for the Chief Executive officer and 60,000 shares for the Chief Financial officer.
subject in either case to such adjustment as the Committee determines to take account of any variation in the Companys share capital.
The Committee will review the xed number of shares set out above every three years.
For threshold performance: 10% of the award will vest.
For maximum performance: 100% of the award will vest.
Straight-line vesting between the threshold and maximum levels will apply for performance between threshold and maximum points.
Two-thirds of all shares vesting must be retained by the executive after sale of shares to meet tax and national insurance obligations.
Performance metrics Growth in fully diluted EPS over the three year performance period compared with growth in the index of retail prices RPI over the same period.
The Remuneration Committee considers the target annually taking into account market consensus and individual broker expectations.
For information, the target applicable to awards to be made after the policy is adopted are: X No part of the award will vest until EPS growth exceeds RPI growth by 3%.
X 10% of the award vests at RPI growth plus 3%.
100% of the award vests at RPI plus 15%.
X Between those gures the award will vest on a straight-line basis.
Awards are subject to recovery provisions malus at the discretion of the Committee if there has been a misstatement of results for the performance period to which the award relates, if there has been an error in calculating performance or in the case of gross misconduct.
The Remuneration Committee also has the discretion to clawback vested awards for up to three years from vesting in these circumstances and in cases of fraud the Committee can apply malus and clawback for an unlimited period of time.
com Stock code: DNLM 52 GOVERNANCE Long Term Incentive Plan award to be made to David Stead in 2015 only.
Please note this award is in line with the approved 2014 Policy, Purpose and link to Supports delivery of strategy by targeting EPS growth, which the Committee believes to be strategic objectives closely aligned to the drivers of growth In the business over the long term.
Operation Conditional awards which can take the form of a conditional award, nil-cost option or nominal value option, with vesting subject to performance over three financial years.
Shares earned after applying the performance criteria are subject to an additional two year holding period.
During this two year period dividend entitlement including, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, any special dividend will also accrue and be paid at the end of that period.
Maximum Opportunity Maximum face value of shares at award date: 150% of base salary.
For threshold performance: 25% of the award will vest For maximum performance: 100% of the award will vest.
Straight-line vesting between the threshold performance and maximum levels will apply for performance between threshold and maximum points.
For information, the target applicable to awards to be made to David Stead after the policy is adopted are: X No part of the award will vest until EPS growth exceeds RPI growth by 3%.
X 25% of the award vests at RPI growth plus 3%.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 53 Remuneration Report CONTINUED Lifetime Lock-in and personal shareholding targets Purpose and link to Aligns with shareholder interests through shareholding and promotes long term thinking.
strategic objectives Operation Executive Directors are required to build a beneficial holding of shares equal to 100% of salary after three years and 200% of salary after five years from appointment.
From the date of approval of this Policy the following additional requirements apply: A personal investment in Dunelm shares should be made on appointment as an Executive Director subject to close periods.
Other than for the award to be made to David Stead referred to on page 53, two-thirds of amounts earned under the annual bonus and the LTIP after approval of this Policy after payment of tax and national insurance must be retained in Dunelm shares.
These shares must be held during employment and at least 50% of them retained for at least two years after employment ends.
The Remuneration Committee retains the right to waive this requirement in exceptional circumstances, such as death, divorce, ill health or severe financial hardship.
Maximum Opportunity Not applicable Performance metrics Not applicable All employee share plan Sharesave Purpose and link to Promotes share ownership by all eligible colleagues including Executive Directors.
strategic objectives Operation All UK employees with a minimum service requirement are eligible to join the UK tax approved Dunelm Group Savings Related Share Option Plan the Sharesave.
Monthly savings are made over a period of three years linked to the grant of an option over Dunelm shares at a discount of up to 20% of the market price or such other amount as permitted by law at date of invitation to join the scheme.
Invitations are normally issued annually at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, which also has discretion to set the minimum service requirement, maximum discount, maximum monthly savings and any other limits such as scaling back within the terms of the scheme rules.
Maximum Opportunity Maximum participation limits are set by the UK tax authorities.
Currently the maximum limit is savings of 500 per month.
Performance metrics None, FJUI %PXO KPJOJOH BXBSE Purpose and link to Keith Down will be granted an award of restricted stock to compensate him for deferred shares strategic objectives earned with his previous employer which have been forfeited when he resigned.
This represents a small proportion of his benets left behind.
Operation Nil cost option vesting as to 22% in 2016 and 78% in 2017 reecting the proportion and vesting dates of the deferred shares that have been forfeited.
Maximum Opportunity Award over shares with a face value at grant of 335,000 based on the market value of Dunelm shares at the date of grant.
Performance metrics No performance conditions apply in relation to this award as the deferred shares in respect of which he is being compensated are not subject to a performance condition.
Awards are subject to recovery provisions malus at the discretion of the Committee if there has been a misstatement of results for a financial period from 2015-16 onwards or in the case of gross misconduct.
com Stock code: DNLM 54 GOVERNANCE Non-Executive Directors Fees Purpose and link to To attract and retain a high calibre Chairman and Non-Executive Directors by offering competitive strategic objectives fee levels.
Operation Fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are set by the Board.
No Director participates in any decision relating to his or her own remuneration.
The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities.
The Non-Executive Directors receive a basic fee, with supplemental fees for additional Board responsibilities.
The level of fee reects the size and complexity of the role and the time commitment.
Fees are reviewed annually and increased in line with the Company-wide increase.
In addition there will be a periodic review against market rates and taking into account time commitment and any change in size, scale or complexity of the business.
Flexibility is retained to increase fee levels in certain circumstances, for example, if required to recruit a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director of the appropriate calibre.
With the exception of colleague discount, no benets are paid to the Chairman or the NonExecutive Directors, and they do not participate in any incentive scheme.
Maximum Opportunity Maximum fees to be paid by way of fees to the Non-Executive Directors are set in the Companys Articles of Association Fees paid to each Director are disclosed in the Annual Report on Implementation Performance metrics None The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of ofce notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy, where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration, and in relation to an award over shares, the terms of payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
The Committee may also make minor changes to this policy, which do not have a material advantage to Directors, to aid its operation or implementation without seeking shareholder approval but taking into account the interests of shareholders.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 55 Remuneration Report CONTINUED LTIP Performance measures and how targets The Remuneration Committee considered the use of EPS as a are set performance measure carefully when the Company was oated The Remuneration Committee selects performance measures in 2006, and has discussed it with shareholders regularly.
that it believes are: EPS is believed to be closely aligned to the drivers of growth X Aligned with the Groups strategic goals.
for the business and in the long term, EPS performance is X Unambiguous and easy to calculate.
expected to be reected in shareholder value.
EPS is a more suitable performance measure for Dunelm than for many other X Transparent to Directors and shareholders.
companies and it is therefore considered appropriate to use it Annual bonus as a single measure for the LTIP.
The use of EPS as a primary measure for Dunelms LTIP is considered appropriate because For previous years, annual bonus was linked to growth in of the low level of leverage in the business and because earnings per share EPS, which is the same as under the LTIP.
the capital expenditure controls exercised by the Board While the Remuneration Committee considers EPS to be a key are sufciently rigorous to avoid EPS accretion by means of performance measure for the Company as discussed below in ineffective investment of capital.
relation to the LTIP, in response to concerns raised by some institutional shareholders about using the same target we have The EPS target for the LTIP is based on growth in EPS decided to adopt a different measure to the LTIP, and also compared to the increase in the Index of Retail Prices RPI formally to adopt a non-financial element.
The targets that apply to awards that are outstanding are set out in the Policy table on pages For 2015-16, 80% of the annual bonus is linked to PBT and 50 to 55.
20% to personal and strategic objectives.
Each Directors annual bonus is therefore linked primarily to delivery of Group The number of shares comprised in an award or the financial performance, but also to personal performance and performance target which applies may be adjusted by the contribution to the strategic progress of the Group.
The PBT Remuneration Committee in accordance with the plan rules target is set by the Remuneration Committee each year, taking if justied by the circumstances, for example if there were a into account market consensus and broker expectations.
Any amendment and the reason for Personal and strategic objectives are set at the commencement it would be fully disclosed.
A copy of the plan rules is available of the year and assessed by the Remuneration Committee.
from the Company Secretary on request.
The Committee reserves the right to adjust the financial LTIP awards made to Executive Directors prior to approval of performance target or change the performance condition if this policy may vest on their original terms.
justied by the circumstances, for example if there was a major capital transaction.
Illustrative performance scenarios The following graphs set out what each of the Executive For future years, the Committee will determine the financial Directors could earn in the financial year 2015-16 under the measures and the weighting of financial and non-financial following scenarios: measures based on specic business priorities in a particular year.
com Stock code: DNLM 56 Total remuneration 000 GOVERNANCE Please note that the scenarios shown opposite for David Stead and Keith Down show prorated remuneration over the 201516 financial year, based on Keith Downs expected start date of 7 December 2015, and David Steads expected retirement date of 31 December 2015.
Full disclosure of the actual amount earned by each of them during the financial year will be made in the single gure table in next years annual report and financial statements.
The following assumptions have been made in respect of the scenarios opposite: X Minimum performance below threshold Fixed pay comprising base salary, benets and pension only with no vesting under the cash bonus or LTIP see table below Base Pension salary Benefits 10-20% of salary Total fixed 000 000 000 000 Will Adderley - 21 - 21 1 David Stead 280 20 42 342 2 John Browett 500 21 100 621 1 Keith Down 350 21 53 424 1.
15% of salary reecting pension provision for 201516.
20% of salary reecting pension provision for 201516.
X In line with expectations Fixed pay plus annual cash Recovery bonus at on target performance of 40% of maximum There is provision for recovery of variable pay, as highlighted in opportunity i. e. 50% of salary for John Browett and Keith the policy table.
Down and 40% of salary for David Stead and vesting of At the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, recovery 10% of the award of shares under the LTIP for John Browett malus may be made against any unpaid cash bonus or and Keith Down, and 25% of the award for David Stead.
unvested LTIP options in the following circumstances: X Maximum performance Fixed pay plus 100% of maximum annual bonus opportunity i. e. 125% of salary for X performance to which a bonus or LTIP award relates proves John Browett and Keith Down and 100% of salary for David to have been misstated: or Stead and 100% of share award vesting under the LTIP.
X there has been a miscalculation in the extent to which X Keiths joining award has been shown in full.
performance conditions have been met in respect of previous awards made to the individual that have vested X Please note that two-thirds of performance pay earned by and been exercised: or John Browett and Keith Down after payment of their tax and national insurance liability must be invested in Dunelm X there has been gross misconduct on the part of the shares pursuant to the Lifetime Lock-in.
Will Adderley has requested that his annual salary be reduced Clawback may be operated at the discretion of the to 1 per annum, and he has waived his entitlement to receive Remuneration Committee against all variable awards made an LTIP award.
after 1 July 2014 in the above circumstances, for up to three years from payment or vesting as appropriate: and in cases It should be noted that the numbers above are likely to be of fraud the Committee can apply malus and clawback for an different to the actual pay that is earned by the Executive unlimited period of time.
Directors during the year: In addition, Keith Downs restricted share award is subject to X Actual pay will reect company and personal performance malus and clawback if there has been a misstatement of results over the relevant performance period.
for a financial period from 2015-16 onwards or in the case of X The value of the LTIP awards to be made is based on the gross misconduct or fraud.
average price of a Dunelm share over the three months to 4 July 2015, which is 915.7p the actual share price at date Salary, pension and benets and Sharesave options are not subject to recovery.
of award is likely to differ.
X Keith Downs joining award has been shown in full as this is conditional only on his being employed at the vesting dates, although none of it is due to vest in the financial year.
X We are required to show the value of the LTIP awards that are expected to be made in the year based on face value of the date of grant without making any assumptions for share price growth: we are required also to show the potential LTIP values over the full three year performance period.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 57 Remuneration Report CONTINUED X If the participant leaves the Group before an option has Service contracts and loss of office vested and before the performance period has elapsed, payments the option will usually lapse.
Except in the case of dismissal All of the Executive Directors have service contracts.
The for gross misconduct, the Remuneration Committee has notice period for termination for Will Adderley and David a discretion to allow the exercise of options for which Stead is 12 months from either party, and for John Browett and the performance period has not elapsed at the date of Keith Down is six months from either party.
If the Company cessation of employment, within six months of the relevant terminates the employment of the Executive Director it would vesting date or 12 months in the case of death.
The honour its contractual commitment.
Any payment of salary Remuneration Committee also has discretion to allow earlier on termination is contractually restricted to a maximum of the exercise.
The Remuneration Committee would only use this value of salary plus benets for the notice period.
If termination discretion in exceptional circumstances such as death or ill was with immediate effect, a payment in lieu of notice may be health retirement, or at its discretion for a good leaver.
The Remuneration Committee may apply mitigation in X If early exercise is permitted, the Remuneration Committee respect of any termination payment.
may apply an adjustment to take into account the amount The Remuneration Committee has discretion to make a of time that has elapsed through the performance period payment in respect of annual bonus, provided that it is and the extent to which any performance criteria have been prorated to service.
The limited circumstances in which unexercised LTIP In all cases, unexercised LTIP awards would be subject to awards might be exercised following termination of an recovery malus in the relevant circumstances.
In respect of Executive Directors service contract are set out below.
If LTIP awards made after 1 July 2014, clawback may also apply the Remuneration Committee exercises its discretion to to vested awards.
allow exercise of an unvested LTIP award, it may make a Sharesave cash payment in lieu of the anticipated value of the award, calculated at the date of the payment taking into account If a participant leaves the Group, options granted under the prorating of the award and the extent to which performance Sharesave will normally lapse, but may be exercised within six criteria may apply, as appropriate.
months or 12 months in the case of death from the cessation of employment due to death, injury, disability, retirement, or Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
The redundancy, or the employing company leaving the Group or, term is for an initial period of three years with a provision for provided that the option has been held for at least three years, termination of one months notice from either party, or three cessation for any other reason apart from dismissal by the months notice from either party in the case of Andy Harrison, Company.
Letters are renewed for up to two additional three year terms, and then renewed annually.
The letter of Joining award appointment will terminate without compensation if the If Keith Down leaves the employment of the Group prior to Director is not reappointed at the AGM.
vesting of the joining award it will lapse if he leaves due to resignation, or he is dismissed for misconduct.
If he leaves for The Directors service contracts and letters of appointment any other reason it will vest on the normal vesting date and are available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys be exercisable for six months if it has not already vested, registered ofce.
although the Committee retains discretion to permit the award Exercise of LTIP and Sharesave options to vest earlier.
If Keith leaves other than due to resignation following termination of employment or dismissal for misconduct after the award vested, it will be exercisable for six months after cessation.
LTIP If a participant leaves the employment of the Group, the Change of control and other following provisions apply to options granted under the LTIP: corporate events X Options that have vested but have not yet been exercised LTIP may be exercised within six months of cessation of The following provisions apply to awards made under the Long employment 12 months in the case of death.
Term Incentive Plan in accordance with the Plan rules if there is X Except in the case of dismissal for gross misconduct, options a change of control or winding up of the Company: which have not yet vested, but where the performance X Any vested but unexercised options may be exercised.
period has elapsed for example if cessation of employment X Any options in respect of which the performance period has occurs during the deferral period applicable to LTIP options elapsed and to which the performance condition has been granted to David Stead from 2013 onwards, may be applied will vest and may be exercised.
exercised within six months of the relevant vesting date or 12 months in the case of death, to the extent that the X Any options in respect of which the performance period performance condition has been met.
The Remuneration has not elapsed may be exercised at the discretion of the Committee has discretion to allow earlier exercise but would Remuneration Committee, subject to any adjustment to only use this in exceptional circumstances such as death or take into account the amount of time that has elapsed ill health retirement, or at its discretion for a good leaver.
through the performance period and the extent to which any performance criteria have been met.
The Executive Director may agree that his awards are rolled over into shares of the acquiring company as an alternative.
com Stock code: DNLM 58 GOVERNANCE If the Company has been or will be affected by any demerger, All eligible colleagues are encouraged to participate in dividend in specie, special dividend or other transaction the Sharesave scheme, which enables them to become which will adversely affect the current or future value of any shareholders at a discounted rate.
Participation is usually awards under the LTIP, the Plan rules allow the Remuneration offered annually at the maximum price discount permitted Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, to determine the currently 20%, at the discretion of the Remuneration extent to which any awards should vest and the period within Committee.
which Options may be exercised.
In setting the policy for the Executive Directors remuneration, A copy of the Plan rules is available from the Company the Committee takes note of the overall approach to Secretary on request.
The base salary of Executive Directors may be increased Sharesave annually in line with the Company-wide award unless other Sharesave options may be exercised within six months circumstances apply, as set out in the policy table.
following a change of control or winding up of the Company, using savings in the participants account at the date of The Committee does not formally consult with colleagues exercise.
The participant may agree that his or her awards in relation to executive pay.
However colleagues have the are rolled over into shares of the acquiring company as an opportunity to raise any concerns via the People Director, alternative or anonymously through engagement surveys.
Recent engagement surveys have not identied executive pay to be a If the Company has been or will be affected by a capitalisation, concern to colleagues.
rights issue, subdivision, reduction, consolidation, special dividend or other variation in respect of which HMRC will allow Shareholder views the variation of options, the Plan rules allow the Remuneration The Board is committed to ongoing engagement with Committee, with the consent of HMRC, to vary the number and shareholders in respect of all governance matters, including or nominal value of shares covered by an option or the option executive remuneration.
A formal consultation took place with price to be varied proportionately.
our major shareholders in July 2015 in relation to the revised Remuneration Policy set out on page 49.
A copy of the Plan rules is available from the Company Secretary on request.
In addition to this, the Company holds a Corporate Governance Day, usually annually, hosted by the Chairman Joining award and the other Non-Executive Directors, to which all major If there is a change of control or winding up of the Company, shareholders are invited.
This enables both parties to discuss shares subject of the award will vest and may be exercised in governance topics, including remuneration, informally.
addition, the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors usually The Executive may agree that his awards are rolled over into attend results presentations and a selection of shareholder shares of the acquiring company as an alternative.
Formal feedback on shareholder views is given to the Board Executive pay and the pay of twice per annum by the Companys brokers and financial public other colleagues relations advisers.
The AGM reports issued by the Investment Pay for all colleagues throughout the Group is set at a level that Association IA, the National Insurance of Pension Funds is fair for the role and responsibilities of the individual, and is NAPF, ISS and Pensions Investment Research Council PIRC designed to attract and retain high calibre talent that is needed are also considered by the Board.
to deliver the Groups strategy, without paying too much.
All Directors usually attend the Annual General Meeting, and The remuneration of Executive Directors is more heavily the Chairman and the Chair of the Remuneration Committee weighted towards variable pay than other colleagues, so that may be contacted via the Company Secretary during the year.
a greater part of their pay is linked to successful delivery of strategy and aligned with shareholders.
They are also required If any significant change to policy were proposed, the to retain two-thirds of post tax performance pay in Dunelm Committee would consult with major shareholders in advance.
shares to be held for the duration of employment and beyond, and are subject to higher personal shareholding targets.
The remuneration of colleagues below the Board reects the seniority of the role, market practice and the ability of the individual to inuence Company performance.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 59 Remuneration Report CONTINUED Appropriate costs and support will be provided if the Approach to recruitment remuneration recruitment requires the relocation of the individual.
The Companys remuneration policy was set at the time of its otation in 2006, and has changed very little since then.
The maximum level of variable pay that could be awarded Prior to 2015 only one new Executive Director appointment to a new Executive Director in the first year of employment, had been made: in July 2015 we have appointed two new excluding any buyout arrangements and awards in the first Executive Directors.
Although we are proposing some changes year of employment, would normally be in line with the policy to our 2014 Remuneration Policy as set out above, the table set out on pages 50 to 55.
The Committee would explain provisions of this part of the 2014 Policy are unchanged, and the rationale for the remuneration package in the next annual were applied in the recruitment of our new Directors.
The Remuneration Committee will apply the following In addition, on hiring an external candidate the Committee principles when agreeing a remuneration package for a may make arrangements to buy out remuneration that the new Director whether an external candidate or an internal individual has forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
The promotion : Committee will generally seek to structure buyout awards and payments on a comparable basis to remuneration X The package must be sufficient to attract and retain the arrangements forfeited.
These awards or payments are high calibre talent necessary to develop and deliver the excluded from the maximum level of variable pay referred Companys strategy.
to in the policy tables: however, the Committees intention is X No more should be paid than is necessary.
that the value awarded or paid would be no higher than the X Remuneration should be in line with the policy approved expected value of the forfeited arrangements.
The Committee by shareholders set out above: however, the Committee does not intend to use any discretion in this section to make reserves the discretion to make appropriate remuneration a non-performance related incentive payment for example a decisions outside the standard policy to meet the individual golden hello.
needs of the recruitment provided the Committee believes In order to implement the arrangements described, the the relevant decisions are in the best interests of the Committee may rely on the exemption in Listing Rule 9.4.
which allows for the grant of share or share option awards X These circumstances might include: to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of a Where an interim appointment is made on a short term Director.
basis, including where the Chairman or another NonOn the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Executive Director has to assume an executive position.
Director, the fees will be set taking into account the experience Employment commences at a time in the year when it and calibre of the individual and pay for similar roles in is inappropriate to provide a bonus or share incentive companies of similar size and complexity in the market.
No award as there is insufficient time to assess performance: share incentives or performance related incentives would be the quantum for the subsequent year might be increased offered.
An executive is recruited from a business or location that offered benets that the Committee considers it appropriate to buy out but cannot do so under the specic terms of the Regulations, or which the Committee considers it appropriate to offer.
Examples of remuneration decisions that the Committee may decide are set out below: X It may be appropriate to offer a lower salary initially, with a series of increases to reach the desired salary over a period of time, subject to performance.
X A longer notice period of up to a maximum of 24 months might be offered, reducing by one month for every month served until the policy position is reached.
X The Committee may also alter the performance criteria applicable to the initial annual bonus or LTIP award so that they are more applicable to the circumstances of the recruitment.
X An internal candidate would be able to retain any outstanding variable pay awarded in respect of their previous role that pays out in accordance with its terms of grant.
com Stock code: DNLM 60 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION Directors Remuneration Report on Implementation 2015 This section of the report sets out how the Directors Remuneration Policy which was approved by shareholders on 11 November 2014 has been applied in the financial year being reported on.
Although the 2014 Policy was not in effect for the entire financial year 2014-15, the remuneration described below is consistent with it.
We are putting forward an amended policy for approval at the AGM in November 2015.
The information below which relates to how our policy is to be applied during 2015-16 assumes that the amended policy will be approved.
Committee membership and meetings The following Directors served on the Remuneration committee during the year: Table 1 Committee membership Member Period from: To: 3 Marion Sears Chair 18 January 2005 To date 1 Geoff Cooper 18 January 2005 7 July 2015 Simon Emeny 25 June 2007 To date Liz Doherty 1 May 2013 To date Andy Harrison 1 September 2014 To date 2 William Reeve 1 July 2015 To date 3 Matt Davies 8 February 2012 8 January 2015 1.
Geoff Cooper resigned from the Committee on 7 July 2015, upon his retirement from the Board.
William Reeve was appointed to the Board and the Committee on 1 July 2015.
Matt Davies chaired the Committee between 12 September 2014 and 8 January 2015, when he resigned from the Board and the Committee in order to take up an executive role at Tesco plc.
Marion Sears acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Seven meetings were held in the year and members attendance was as shown in the table below.
Table 2 Attendance at Committee meetings Member Meetings attended: Marion Sears Chair 7 1 Geoff Cooper 6 Simon Emeny 7 Liz Doherty 7 1 Andy Harrison 6 2 William Reeve 0 3 Matt Davies 4 1.
Neither Andy Harrison nor Geoff Cooper attended the meeting held to discuss the fee to be offered to Andy Harrison on his appointment as Chairman.
There were no committee meetings between that date and the year end.
Matt Davies attended all meetings during his tenure.
No Director is ever present when his or her own remuneration is discussed.
Advisers The Committee uses Deloitte for general advice in relation to executive remuneration on an ad hoc basis.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such voluntarily operates under a code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Deloitte does not have any other ongoing business relationship with the Group although they were engaged to provide advice on banking arrangements during the financial year.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice that they have received from Deloitte in the year has been objective and independent.
Total fees paid to Deloitte for remuneration related work in the year were 7,389.
Fees of 150,205 were also paid to Deloitte for advice in relation to banking arrangements.
Andy Harrison was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 September 2014, and the gures above reect his fee from that date.
His fee was increased to 200,000 per annum with effect from 8 July 2015 after the period end when he assumed his position as Chairman.
Nick Wharton resigned from the Board on 10 September 2014 and the gures for 2015 pay, benets and pension above reect remuneration to that date, plus contractual pay and benets of 512,010 paid in respect of the 12 month notice period under his service contract.
Base salaries for Executive Directors and fees for Non-Executive Directors were increased by 2% on 1 July 2014, in line with the Company-wide award.
From 1 July 2015 the following changes to base salary fee were implemented: Will Adderleys salary was reduced to 1 per annum: David Steads salary increased by 2% in line with the Company-wide award: the base fee for Non-Executive Directors was increased to 48,000 and the Committee Chair and SID fee increased to 6,000 per annum.
Benets include the cost to the Company of a car allowance and private health insurance for the individual and their family health insurance waived by David Stead.
The 2014-15 value also includes the taxable benefit in respect of the car and chauffeur provided to Nick Wharton and Will Adderley in connection with their roles prior to 10 September 2015.
On 1 July 2015, Will Adderley and David Steads car allowance was increased to 20,000 per annum in line with the allowance to be paid to other Executive Directors from 1 July 2015.
Annual bonus is the amount earned in respect of the financial year 2014-15.
Details of how this was calculated are set out below.
LTIP award number for 2015 is the value of the LTIP award vesting whose three year performance period ends on the last day of the financial period being reported 2014-15.
Details of how this value was calculated are set out in the note to table 5 opposite.
The comparable gure for 2013-14 is the actual value of the 2011 LTIP awards which vested in favour of Nick Wharton, Will Adderley and David Stead on 28 November 2014 based on the mid-market price on 28 November 2014, of 845.5p.
The comparable gure in the 2013-14 annual report was based on the number of shares in the 2011 LTIP awards due to vest in favour of Nick Wharton, Will Adderley and David Stead on 28 November 2014 calculated using the average share price over the three months preceding the end of the performance period on 28 June 2014, which was 924.13p.
Pension in 2014-15 is a xed sum 10% of base salary contributed to a personal pension on behalf of the individual, or a salary supplement of the same amount.
From 1 July 2015 this will be 20% of base salary for John Browett and 15% of base salary for David Stead and his successor Keith Down when he commences employment.
Will Adderley has waived his entitlement to pension from 1 July 2015.
Annual bonus Executive Directors were awarded an annual performance-related cash bonus for 2014-15 with a maximum potential payment of 100% of salary.
For both Will Adderley and David Stead, the performance criterion was earnings per share against budget: the Committee may then apply judgement to increase or decrease the amount payable taking into account performance against personal non-financial objectives relevant to each Director, linked to delivery of strategy.
For the period ended 4 July 2015, budget EPS was 49.3p for 52 weeks and 50.1p for 53 weeks.
The financial target set was that on a 52 week basis no bonus would be paid until EPS reaches 46.8p and maximum bonus will be paid at 51.8p.
Between those numbers, bonus would be payable calculated on a straight-line basis.
Market consensus for 2014-15 EPS at the date the target was set was 49.0p.
Reported EPS of 46.8p for 2014-15 on a 52 week basis has therefore given rise to a bonus payable of 5% of base salary.
After due consideration of performance against personal job objectives and strategic KPIs the Committee resolved not to adjust the bonus as calculated by the EPS bonus formula.
The Committee has not disclosed the personal job objectives and strategic KPIs referred to above, as they are condential, and also they are used to inform the Committees judgement as to whether the bonus payable is fair, with no formulaic link.
com Stock code: DNLM 62 GOVERNANCE Table 4 Annual bonus in respect of 2014-15 performance Bonus Percentage awarded of maximum award Will Adderley 25,095 5% David Stead 13,750 5% John Browett, who commenced employment on 1 July 2015, had no bonus entitlement in 2014-15.
LTIP awards vesting in respect of performance in 2014-15 Awards are made under the LTIP annually to Executive Directors of up to 150% of basic salary, with a three year performance period, although as a major shareholder Will Adderley has waived his entitlement since 2012.
The performance target is based on growth in fully diluted EPS over the performance period.
For further information please see the policy report on pages 50 to 55.
Over the three-year performance period which ended on 4 July 2015, reported fully diluted EPS grew at a compound annual rate of 10.1%.
This is 8 % above the compound annual growth in RPI over the same period.
Accordingly, 56% of the November 2012 LTIP award will vest in November 2015 as follows: Table 5 LTIP awards vesting in respect of performance in 2012-15 Percentage Shares of maximum vesting award David Stead 36,915 56 Please note that the original award was in respect of 61,730 shares, this was increased by 6.79% to 65,920 following the return of capital to shareholders in March 2015.
Please see the note to table 8.
Will Adderley waived his entitlement to receive an LTIP award.
The 2012 LTIP award which vests in favour of David Stead as described above is included in the single number for total remuneration for 2014 15 set out in table 3.
The value has been calculated using the average share price over the three months preceding the end of the performance period on 4 July 2015, which was 915.7p.
LTIP awards made to Directors during 2014-15 LTIP awards were made to Executive Directors on 9 October 2014 as set out below: Table 6 LTIP awards made to Directors during 2014-15 Vesting date vesting deferred Face value at for 2 years date of award following end % vesting Number of percentage Performance of performance at threshold Name Award shares of salary Performance condition period period performance David Stead Nil cost 53,922 412,035 Growth in fully diluted July 2014 to 9 October 25% option under 150% EPS over the three year June 2017 2019 LTIP performance period compared with growth in the index of retail prices RPI over the same period.
No part of the award will vest until EPS growth exceeds RPI growth by 3%.
25% of the award vests at RPI growth plus 3%.
Between those figures the award will vest on a straight-line basis.
Subject to a two year deferral period following the end of the performance period.
Please note that the original award was in respect of 50,494 shares, this has been increased by 6.97% following the return of capital to shareholders in March 2015.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 63 Remuneration Report CONTINUED Payments to past Directors and for loss of Statement of Directors share interests office audited audited Nick Wharton resigned from the Board on 10 September 2014, Executive Directors are subject to a shareholding target and ceased to be an employee from that date.
He received which requires them to build a beneficial holding of Dunelm his basic salary, pension allowance and contractual benets to shares with a value of 1 salary after three years and 2 salary date of departure, together with bonus earned for the 2013-14 after five years measured by reference to share price at the financial year, following application of performance criteria, financial year end.
Will Adderley and David Stead comply with of 93,600.
These sums are included in Table 3 single gure this requirement at the financial year end.
appointed three days prior to the year end and during a close period: he has committed to purchase additional shares after In line with his contractual arrangements, Nick Wharton also the end of the close period in October 2015. received the following: The following tables show the interests of the Directors in X 512,010 in respect of salary, pension and benets for the shares of the Company at 4 July 2015 as follows: 12 month notice period under his service contract.
X In accordance with the rules of the Long Term Incentive Plan, following its vesting on 28 November 2014, Mr X Interests in nil cost options under the LTIP table 8.
Wharton was also permitted to exercise the options granted Table 7 Directors beneficial shareholdings to him under the Plan on 28 November 2011 over 107,888 Ordinary Shares 77.5% vesting following application of audited performance criteria for the performance period of 1 July At 4 July At 28 June 2011 to 30 June 2014.
The options were exercised and 2015 2014 the shares sold on 2 December 2014 at a price of 865p per 1p Ordinary 1p Ordinary Shares Shares share, raising a total amount of 933,221 prior to payment of commission, income tax and national insurance.
Will Adderley 61,961,779 61,890,303 Mr Wharton also received as compensation for loss of ofce a David Stead 734,628 695,135 payment of 787,990.
This represented: Geoff Cooper 181,611 181,611 X An allowance for cash bonus earned in respect of the Marion Sears 101,313 101,313 financial year 2014-15.
Simon Emeny 26,400 26,400 X An amount accrued in respect of unvested awards made Liz Doherty 2,500 2,500 under the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan on 20 November 2012 and 7 October 2013.
The Remuneration John Browett 1,645 n a Committee took into account the time that had elapsed Andy Harrison - n a through the performance period and the extent to which the performance targets were expected to be met.
A William Reeve - n a reduction was also made for accelerated payment of the There were no changes in Directors beneficial holdings award.
between the financial year end and the date of this report.
X No compensation was paid in respect of the joining award made under the Long Term Incentive Plan on 1 December 2010 over 198,807 shares, which was conditional only on Mr Wharton remaining in employment at the vesting date of 1 December 2015.
The arrangements set out above were considered carefully by the Remuneration Committee in consultation with Deloitte.
They are in accordance with the Remuneration Policy subsequently approved by shareholders on 11 November 2014.
Geoff Cooper retired from the Board after the period end, on 7 July 2015.
He was paid his fee to date of departure, and did not receive any payment for loss of ofce.
There were no other payments to past Directors or other payments for loss of ofce during the financial period.
com Stock code: DNLM 64 GOVERNANCE Table 8 Directors interests in options under the LTIP at the period end audited Share End of Market price of options at performance shares at date Director Date of award Nature of award 4 July 2015 period of award -- -- Will Adderley Nil Nov 2012 2012 15 LTIP June 2015 641.5p David Stead 65,920 Oct 2013 2013 16 LTIP June 2016 876.5p 49,216 Oct 2014 2014 17 LTIP June 2017 816.0p 53,922 -- -- John Browett Nil As announced on 1 July 2015, the number of shares covered by each of the awards to David Stead was increased by 6.79%, reecting the difference between the price of an Ordinary Share in the Company before and after the record date for participation in the Return of Capital implemented by the Company in March 2015.
None of the Non-Executive Directors have options under the LTIP.
All of the above are nil cost options, and are subject to the performance condition noted in the policy table.
Vesting of the awards made to David Stead from October 2013 onwards is subject to a two year deferral.
At the end of the three year performance period, shares earned after applying the performance criteria are subject to an additional two year holding period.
During this two year period dividend entitlement including any special dividends will accrue and be paid at the end of that period.
Table 9 Directors options under Sharesave at the period end Market price Shares under Shares under Granted Exercised Lapsed Exercise of shares option at option at during during during price at date of 4 July 2015 28 June 2014 period period period per share exercise David Stead Nil 2,493 - 2,493 - 361p 924p None of the other Directors have options under the Sharesave.
Share options and dilution The Remuneration Committee considers the provisions of the Investment Associations Guidelines on Executive Remuneration when determining the number of shares over which share scheme incentive awards may be made.
At the date of this report, since otation of the Group in 2006 options have been granted over 2.7% of the Companys issued share capital.
The Group does not hold any shares in an employee benefit trust.
Service contracts In accordance with the Groups policy, the service contracts of the Executive Directors have no xed term, the notice period for termination is 12 months from either party for contracts entered into before 1 July 2015 six months for contracts entered into on or after that date, and payments on termination are restricted to a maximum of the value of base salary and benets for the notice period.
The Remuneration Committee may apply mitigation in respect of any termination payment.
The Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment for an initial period of three years with a provision for termination of one months notice from either party, or three months notice from either party in the case of Andy Harrison, the Chairman.
Table 10 Directors service contracts Date of contract Unexpired term Notice period Will Adderley 28 September 2006 n a 12 months David Stead 15 September 2003 n a 12 months John Browett 1 July 2015 n a 6 months Marion Sears 22 July 2004 10 months 1 month Simon Emeny 25 June 2007 9 months 1 month Liz Doherty 1 May 2013 7 months 1 month Andy Harrison 17 July 2014 23 months 3 months William Reeve 1 July 2015 33 months 1 month Peter Ruis 10 September 2015 36 months 1 month Since Marion Sears has now served 11 years on the Board nine of which are post otation of the Company in 2006 her contract is renewed for one year terms rather than three, with the notice period referred to above.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 65 Remuneration Report CONTINUED Relative TSR performance The graph below shows the Groups performance over six years, measured by total shareholder return, compared with the FTSE General Retail Index and the FTSE 250.
The Remuneration Committee has chosen these indices for comparison because they provide a range of comparator companies which have similar market capitalisation, which are in the same sector and which face similar market and economic challenges in the long term.
Table 11 Total shareholder return performance graph rebased to 3 July 2009 100 The shares traded in the range 763.5p to 965.5p during the year and stood at 911p at 4 July 2015.
700 650 Dunelm 600 FTSE 250 550 FTSE 350 490.8% General 500 Retailers 450 400 350 300 181.1% 250 200 150 57.2% 100 Jul 09 Jan 10 Jul 10 Jan 11 Jul 11 Jan 12 Jul 12 Jan 13 Jul 13 Jan 14 Jul 14 Jan 15 Jul 15 Table 12 Historic Chief Executive pay The table below sets out the prescribed remuneration data for each of the individuals undertaking the role of Chief Executive during each of the last six financial years: Annual bonus Long-term incentive CEO Single payment against vesting rates against figure of total maximum maximum remuneration opportunity opportunity 000 % % 1 FY14 15 Will Adderley 507 5% n a FY14 15 Nick Wharton 110 n a n a 2 FY13 14 Nick Wharton 1,509 22.5% 77.5% FY12 13 Nick Wharton 1,292 97.0% 86.7% FY11 12 Nick Wharton 853 100.0% n a 3 FY10 11 Nick Wharton 429 6.0% n a 3 FY10 11 Will Adderley 1,413 4.0% 100.0% FY09 10 Will Adderley 1,366 100.0% 100.0% 1.
Will Adderley was reappointed Chief Executive on 11 September 2014, following the resignation of Nick Wharton on 10 September 2014.
The data for each Director for 2014 15 is prorated by time of service as Chief Executive.
Nick Whartons first LTIP award vested and was exercised in December 2013.
Will Adderley was Chief Executive until he was succeeded by Nick Wharton on 1 February 2011.
The data for each Director for 2010 11 is prorated by time of service as Chief Executive.
com Stock code: DNLM 66 Share price rebased to Dunelm GOVERNANCE Change in remuneration of Chief Executive compared to Group employees The table below sets out the increase in total remuneration of the Chief Executive and that of our other colleagues Table 13 Relative change in Chief Executive pay Change in base Change in Bonus earned Bonus earned % change in % change in salary 2013 14 benefits 2013 14 as % of salary as % of salary bonus earned bonus earned 2 to 2014 15 to 2014 15 2014 15 2013 14 2014 15 2013 14 1 Chief Executive 24.8% 29.0% 5% 22.5% 73.0% 76.0% All colleagues per capita 7.5% 12.7% 8% 24.9% 2.0% 57.0% 1.
Will Adderley was appointed Chief Executive on 11 September 2014, with a base salary of 560,000 per annum.
Nick Wharton, his predecessor, had a base salary of 424,485 in 2014-15 and 416,000 in 2013-14.
A prorated base salary of each has been used in the table above for 2014 15.
The full year base salary for Nick Wharton has been used for 2013-14.
The higher base salary was awarded to Will Adderley as the median for FTSE250 companies recognising that Will receives no award under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
The 2013-14 value includes the additional taxable benefit in respect of the car and chauffeur provided to Nick Wharton in connection with his role.
Will Adderley has waived this entitlement.
Table 14 Relative spend on pay The chart below shows the all employee pay cost and returns to shareholders by way of dividends including special dividend and share buyback for 2012-13 and 2013-14.
2014 15 2013 14 000 000 % increase Total spend on pay 107,307 93,027 15.4% Ordinary dividend to shareholders 41,458 33,411 24.1% Distributions to shareholders via share buyback - 6,852 n a Special distributions to shareholders 141,727 50,708 179.5% Total distributions to shareholders 183,185 90,971 101.4% This information is based on the following: X Total spend on pay total employee costs from note 4 on page 94, including salaries and wages, social security costs, pension and share based payments.
X Dividends taken from note 7 on page 96.
X Share buyback taken from consolidated statement of changes in equity on page 87.
Executive Director external Board appointments Executive Directors are permitted to hold one external appointment as a Non-Executive Director or similar advisory or consultative role, subject to the Board being satisfied that there is no conict of interest and that the position will not impact negatively on the Executives commitment to their Dunelm role.
The Board may allow the Executive to retain any remuneration received in respect of the appointment.
Will Adderley does not hold any external PLC Board appointments.
David Stead was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Card Factory plc on 12 May 2014, prior to its admission to the London Stock Exchange on 20 May 2014.
He retains his Director fee 53,000 in 2014 15.
On joining the Company on 1 July 2015, John Browett was a Non-Executive Director of easyJet plc, and will retain this position until January 2016.
Subsequent to his appointment and the period end on 20 July 2015 he was appointed a Director of Octopus Capital Limited and Octopus Investments Limited.
He retains his Director fees 567 in 201415.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 67 Remuneration Report CONTINUED Senior executive remuneration The Remuneration Committee provides oversight and guidance on the remuneration structure for Executive Board members.
The package for new appointments is formally presented to the committee for approval.
In conducting its assessment of Executive Board remuneration the committee pays particular regard to whether any individual is incentivised to take risks inappropriate to their role and responsibilities.
Members of the senior management team are eligible for awards under either the LTIP or the Company Share Option scheme market priced options.
All members of senior management who receive share awards are also subject to shareholding targets as follows: Executive Board and certain other senior executives 1 base salary to be acquired over five years Other Executives 0.5 base salary to be acquired over time Statement of implementation of policy in the 2015 16 financial year We are putting forward a revised Remuneration Policy for approval at the AGM in November.
Elements of performance pay in 2015-16 are subject to shareholder approval of our new Policy being obtained.
These have been identied below.
Base salary, benefits and pension Base salary and benets for each of the Executive Directors for 2015 16 are set out in the table below: Table 15 Base salary, benefits and pension for 2015 16 Increase to Increase to Increase to Base base salary benefits pension salary year on year Benefits year on year Pension year on year Will Adderley 1 -99.9% Car allowance: private health 67% reflecting Nil n a insurance for the individual increase to car and their family: permanent allowance in line health cover: life assurance: with the incoming mobile phone.
CEO John Browett 500,000 Nil As for Will Adderley above.
Nil 100,000 Nil David Stead 280,185 2% As for Will Adderley above.
As for Will Adderley 42,028 56% above Keith Down 350,000 n a As for Will Adderley above.
n a 52,500 n a employment will be paid In addition Keith Down will will be paid commences pro rata receive a one-off payment pro rata 7 December towards the costs of his 2015 acquiring a home close to our Store Support Centre in Leicester as referred to on page 69.
Basic salary increase for David Stead is in line with the Company-wide award of 2%.
His car allowance increased to 20,000 2014- 15: 12,000 and his pension entitlement to 15% of base salary 2014-15: 10% in line with the remuneration of Keith Down, the incoming Chief Financial officer.
com Stock code: DNLM 68 GOVERNANCE Annual bonus John Browett and David Stead have been awarded a bonus opportunity of 125% and 100% of base salary respectively.
The award to John Browett is subject to shareholder approval at the AGM to increase the maximum bonus quantum permitted by our 2014 Remuneration policy from 100% of base salary to 125%.
The performance conditions attached to the bonus are: X 80% linked to achievement of target PBT: X 20% linked to achievement of strategic and personal targets.
The target PBT is set taking into account market consensus and broker expectations.
The actual target has not been disclosed at this time as it is commercially sensitive.
The target and an assessment of the extent to which it has been achieved will be disclosed in next years remuneration report.
Subject to shareholder approval of our revised Remuneration Policy, Keith Down will be awarded a bonus opportunity of 125% of base salary on joining the Company, with the same targets set out above.
Bonus earned will be applied pro rata to service over the financial year.
John Browett and Keith Down have each committed that two-thirds of the bonus earned after payment of income tax and national insurance will be invested in Dunelm shares, to be held for the duration of employment, with 50% of these shares to be retained for two years following cessation of employment.
Following David Steads planned retirement from the Company in 2015-16, the Remuneration Committee may award him a part of his annual bonus, subject to performance conditions and prorated for service, in accordance with the Remuneration Policy.
LTIP An award is expected to be made to John Browett and Keith Down after the AGM in November 2015.
Subject to shareholder approval of the new Remuneration Policy, the award to John Browett will be over 110,000 shares: to Keith Down over 60,000 shares.
The awards to John Browett and Keith Down will vest, subject to continued employment, on the third anniversary of the grant date, to the extent that performance conditions have been met.
Two-thirds of vested shares after sale to cover tax and national insurance liability on exercise must be retained for the duration of employment, and 50% of these must be retained for two years following cessation of employment.
An award is expected to be made to David Stead in October 2015 over shares equivalent to 150% of basic salary, based on the closing share price on the dealing day preceding the grant.
The terms of the award and the performance condition will be as set out in the policy report, the performance period being July 2015 to June 2018 inclusive.
The award to David Stead will ordinarily vest in November 2020, following a two year deferral at the end of the three year performance period.
Following Davids planned retirement from the Company in 2015-16 the Remuneration Committee may allow him to exercise a pro rata number of these options at the end of the holding period in accordance with the rules of the Plan and the Remuneration Policy.
As in the past three years, Will Adderley has waived his entitlement to receive an LTIP award.
Joining award In order to compensate Keith Down for some of the value of already-earned deferred shares in his previous employer which he will forfeit on resignation, subject to shareholder approval, we have agreed to award him Dunelm restricted stock to the value of 335,000.
These shares will vest in 2016 22% and 2017 78% according to the original proportions and vesting dates of the deferred shares that have been forgone.
We are advised that this is in line with best practice and it represents a significant compromise on Keiths part which we would hope shareholders will acknowledge.
Although this is in line with our 2014 Remuneration Policy, the mechanism to implement the award requires shareholder approval at the AGM.
We are also requiring Keith to purchase a home close to our Store Support Centre in Leicester.
A contribution of up to 35,000 will be made towards the cost of stamp duty and furnishings to be purchased from Dunelm where possible.
Sharesave An invitation will be issued in October 2015 to all eligible employees, to receive sharesave options at a 20% discount to the closing market price of Dunelm Group shares on the dealing day preceding the issue of the invitation.
The maximum monthly savings will be 500 per month.
Executive Directors employed at that date are eligible to apply for Sharesave options.
Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 4 July 2015 69 Remuneration Report CONTINUED Non-Executive Director fees for 2015 16 Fees to be paid to Non-Executive Directors are as set out in the table below: Table 16 Non-Executive Director Fees Increase in Increase in Committee base fee year committee fee Position Base Fee SID Fee on year year on year Comment Andy Harrison Chairman 200,000 Nil 488% n a Fee increased from base NED fee on becoming Chairman Marion Sears Nominations 48,000 7,000 17.6% 15% Will receive Remuneration Committee Committee Chair fee until chair 10 September 2015 Simon Emeny Senior 48,000 11,000 17.6% 168% Will receive Remuneration Independent Committee Chair fee from Director and 11 September 2015 Remuneration Committee Chair Liz Doherty Audit and Risk 48,000 6,000 17.6% 46% Audit and Risk Committee chair Committee since 12 September 2014 chair William Reeve Non-Executive 48,000 Nil n a n a Director Peter Ruis Non-Executive 39,000 Nil n a n a Prorated from 10 September 2015 Director Fee increases with effect from 1 July 2015 resulted from a review against the market prompted by our recruitment of Non-Executive Directors during the year, and is in accordance with our Remuneration Policy.
The new base fee of 48,000 and committee fee of 6,000 are still at lower quartile for a FTSE250 company.
In addition we only pay committee fees to the chair of a committee and not to all members.
Statement of shareholder voting At the Annual General Meeting on 11 November 2014, the total number of shares in issue with voting rights excluding treasury shares was 201,975,254.
The resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy, the Annual Report on Implementation of the Remuneration Policy, and to approve the new Long Term Incentive Plan and Sharesave Plan received the following votes from shareholders: Table 17 Voting on remuneration related resolutions at the 2014 AGM % of Votes % of Votes Resolution Votes for votes cast against votes cast withheld % withheld Approve Remuneration Policy 183,420,359 98.7 2,463,626 1.3 19,758 0.0 Approve Annual Remuneration Report 178,587,993 96.0 1,417,179 0.8 5,898,571 3.2 Approve Long Term Incentive Plan 183,338,514 98.6 2,557,628 1.4 6,666 0.0 Approve Sharesave Plan 185,690,202 99.9 260,189 0.1 5,325 0.0 Approved by the Board of Dunelm Group plc on 10 September 2015 and signed on its behalf by Marion Sears Chair of the Remuneration Committee 10 September 2015 dunelm.
