Directors remuneration report Annual statement by the chair of the remuneration committee companies for the three financial years ended 30 September 2015.
The Group achieved average ROCE performance including lease adjustments of 20.0%, and the Company was ranked in the top decile in terms of TSR relative to FTSE 51-150 companies, reflecting exceptional performance over the period.
This level of performance, reflecting a return of 236% for investment in easyJet shares, resulted in 100% of the awards vesting successfully, subject to continued employment to the vesting date.
Remuneration policy for the 2016 financial year The Companys remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at last years AGM in February 2015 and the current intention is that it will apply until the 2018 AGM.
As such, we will CHARLES GURASSA, not be asking shareholders to vote on the policy at the 2016 CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE AGM.
In reviewing the policy last year, one key conclusion of the Committee was that the Companys remuneration policy should continue to be aligned with easyJets principles and the Performance of the Group in the 2015 financial year Committee is of the view that this remains the case.
In line easyJet has continued to deliver sustainable returns and growth with our principles, and taking full account of the best practice for its shareholders.
The key highlights are as follows: expectations of investors, we took the opportunity of simplifying profit before tax up by 18% to 686 million: our arrangements and 2015 was therefore the last time that we made Matching Share Awards under the LTIP.
From 2016, awards 1.7 percentage point growth in return on capital employed will be made as Performance Shares only.
The Committee ROCE including lease adjustments from 20.5% in 2014 to remains confident that the policy is appropriate and that it 22.2% in 2015: satisfies our objective to operate a remuneration structure which increased ordinary dividend with a proposed ordinary dividend successfully promotes the long-term success of the Company.
of 55.2 pence per share: The Committee has further reviewed the LTIP and has recalibrated on-time performance was 80%, marginally above the threshold the targets in line with the current key strategic focus and for the year: and projected additional capital expenditure within the business.
This total cost per seat excluding fuel at constant currency and has led to a rebalancing of the current performance metric from customer satisfaction outcomes for the year were below an equal split of ROCE and relative TSR to a condition based 70% bonus thresholds for the year.
The target range continues to be set taking into account internal projections and external views.
The Aligning remuneration policy with Company principles range is the same as last year with a small enhancement to pay Simple and cost-effective approach In line with our low-cost out on achieving target expectations.
This has been the subject and efficient business model, the Committee has chosen to of consultation with the Companys major shareholders and the set a simple pay package against the market.
For example, our leading shareholder advisory bodies.
The Committee believe Executive Directors do not receive the Executive benefits that these to be appropriate and demanding targets.
can be found in most organisations see page 66.
In summary, our relatively straightforward remuneration consists Support the stated business strategy of growth and returns of a base salary, pension contribution of 7%, benefit provision Performance is assessed against a range of financial, operational and, subject to stretching performance conditions, an annual and longer-term targets ensuring value is delivered to shareholders, bonus plan, part paid in cash and part deferred into shares, and Directors are rewarded for the successful delivery of the key and shares awarded under an LTIP.
Incentive pay is subject to strategic objectives of the Company.
clawback provisions, a post-vesting holding period operates for Pay for performance Remuneration is heavily weighted towards LTIP awards and significant share ownership guidelines apply.
variable pay, dependent on performance.
This ensures that there The basic salary of the Chief Executive increased by 1%, in line is a clear link between the value created for shareholders and the with the typical rate of increase being awarded across the amount paid to our Executive Directors.
The increase will be effective from 1 January 2016.
Key pay outcomes in respect of the 2015 financial year Annual Changes to the Board bonuses are based on profit before tax and key operational and We announced in January 2015 that our CFO, Chris Kennedy, financial targets.
A bonus of 66% of the maximum was awarded would be leaving to take up another role.
Chris subsequently to the Chief Executive in respect of the 2015 financial year.
This stepped down from the Board and left the Company on 1 reflects the strong results the Group has achieved.
We are delighted that Andrew Findlay has the bonus earned is subject to compulsory deferral for three joined us as CFO from 2 October 2015. years.
In light of the resignation during the year of Chris Kennedy, the Chief Financial Officer, he is not eligible to receive a bonus Chris Kennedy worked the majority of his notice period and will award in respect of the 2015 financial year.
not receive any payment in lieu of the balance of his notice period after leaving the Company.
In line with the Companys Under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, Performance Share remuneration policy, following his resignation, Chris was not Awards made in December 2012 are due to vest in December eligible to receive a bonus for the 2015 financial year.
These awards are based on a combination of average the rules of the LTIP, any unvested LTIP awards after the date ROCE performance including lease adjustments and relative of departure lapsed, and all benefits also ceased.
total shareholder return TSR compared to FTSE 51-150 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 64 Strategic report Governance Accounts On joining the Board on 2 October 2015, Andrew Findlays base OUR REMUNERATION POLICY salary was set at 425,000.
The intention on joining was to set What is the role of our Remuneration Committee?
the salary at a discount to the market level but with a view that The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for determining it would be brought up to the mid-market level as he gained remuneration for the Executive Directors and the Chairman of experience in the role.
The Committee therefore intends to the Board.
The Committee also reviews the remuneration of the increase his salary to 500,000 in equal increments over the Groups most senior executives in consultation with the Chief next two to three years subject to individual and Company Executive.
The Committee takes into account the need to performance.
The Committee has taken account of easyJets recruit and retain executives and ensure that they are properly policy of providing benefits and pension at modest levels and motivated to perform in the interests of the Company and the weighting on variable pay in the overall package in its shareholders, while paying no more than is necessary.
Andrew will also receive a cash What does the Committee consider when setting alternative to pension of 7% of salary, annual bonus opportunity remuneration?
of 175% of salary, annual LTIP award of 200% of salary, and When setting the policy for Executive Directors remuneration, some modest benefits.
This package is consistent with our the Committee takes into account total remuneration levels remuneration policy.
In addition, in order to secure the operating in companies of a similar size and complexity, the appointment, certain buy-out arrangements have been agreed, responsibilities of each individual role, individual performance to compensate Andrew for incentive awards forfeited from his and an individuals experience.
Our overall policy, having had due previous employer.
The Committee has taken particular care in regard to the factors noted, is to weight remuneration towards ensuring that these arrangements are appropriate in light of our variable pay.
This is typically achieved through setting base pay policy, the expectations of institutional investors, where a at up to market median levels, offering very modest pension and buy-out takes place, and replicate, as closely as possible, the benefits, and above-market variable pay opportunities linked to expected value, form and time horizons of the forfeited awards.
the achievement of demanding performance targets.
Shareholder feedback In setting remuneration for the Executive Directors, the easyJet is committed to maintaining an open and transparent Committee takes note of the overall approach to reward for dialogue with shareholders.
The objective of this report is to employees in the Group.
Salary increases will ordinarily be in communicate clearly how much the Executive Directors are percentage of salary terms in line with those of the wider earning and how this is linked to performance.
The Committee does not formally consult directly welcome any comments you may have.
with employees on executive pay but does receive periodic updates from the Group People Director.
The Committee also considers developments in institutional investors best practice expectations and the views expressed CHARLES GURASSA by shareholders during any dialogue.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 16 November 2015 How do we take into account the views of shareholders when we determine the remuneration policy?
easyJet remains committed to shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
We consult extensively with our major shareholders when setting our remuneration WHAT IS IN THIS REPORT?
If any of these shareholders were to be opposed to our This report sets out easyJets remuneration policy for policy, we would endeavour to meet with them, as appropriate, Executive and Non-Executive Directors, describes the to understand and respond to any issues they may have.
implementation of that policy and discloses the amounts The policy set out below applies to awards granted from the earned relating to the year ended 30 September 2015.
Awards granted under the previous The report complies with the provisions of the Companies policy are subject to different performance measures typically Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of The Large and Medium-sized Return on Equity ROE or ROCE as the sole performance Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports measure, have different award levels and may be earned in Amendment Regulations 2013.
The report has been line with the terms of their grant in due course.
Details of all prepared in line with the recommendations of the UK the outstanding share awards granted to existing Executive Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the Directors are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Directors remuneration policy was approved by shareholders in a binding vote at the 2015 AGM on 12 February 2015.
The policy took formal effect from the date of approval and the intention is that it will apply until the 2018 AGM.
A summary of the policy has again been included in this report set out on pages 61 to 67 for the purposes of clarity and transparency.
The Annual Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee set out on pages 64 to 65 and the Annual Report on Remuneration set out on pages 71 to 80 will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM.
com 65 Directors remuneration report continued Framework used to assess Element, purpose performance and provisions and link to strategy Operation including maximum levels where applicable for the recovery of sums paid Salary Base salaries are normally reviewed annually, with changes effective The Committee considers To provide the core from 1 January.
individual salaries at the reward for the role.
appropriate Committee Salaries are typically set after considering salary levels in companies meeting each year after having of a similar size and complexity, the responsibilities of each individual Sufficient level to recruit due regard to the factors noted and retain individuals of role, progression within the role, individual performance and an in operating the salary policy.
Our overall policy, having had due regard the necessary calibre to execute the Companys to the factors noted, is normally to target salaries at the market No recovery provisions apply median level.
business strategy Salaries may be adjusted and any increase will ordinarily be in percentage of salary terms in line with those of the wider workforce.
Increases beyond those granted to the wider workforce in percentage of salary terms may be awarded in certain circumstances such as where there is a change in responsibility, progression in the role, experience or a significant increase in the scale of the role and or size, value and or complexity of the Group.
Salary levels for current incumbents, effective from 1 January 2016, are as follows: Chief Executive: 705,600.
Chief Financial Officer: 425,000 Benefits Executive Directors receive modest personal accident and life Not applicable.
assurance cover 0.5 x salary, at similar levels as the wider UK In line with the No recovery provisions apply Companys policy to workforce.
The cost to the Company of providing these benefits to benefits.
may vary from year to year depending on the level of the keep remuneration simple and consistent.
Executive Directors receive no other conventional executive company benefits.
Executive Directors can pay for voluntary benefits, where Company purchasing power may provide an advantage to employees.
Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in any all-employee share plans operated by the Company, in line with HMRC guidelines currently prevailing where relevant, on the same basis as for other eligible employees.
Should it be appropriate to recruit a Director from overseas, flexibility is retained to provide benefits that take account of those typically provided in their country of residence e. g. it may be appropriate to provide benefits that are tailored to the unique circumstances of such an appointment as opposed to providing the benefits detailed above.
Necessary expenses incurred undertaking Company business are reimbursed so that Executive Directors are not worse off on a net of tax basis for fulfilling Company duties.
Pension Defined contribution plan with the same monthly employer Not applicable.
To provide employees contributions as those offered to eligible employees in the No recovery provisions apply to with long-term savings wider UK workforce, of 7% of base salary.
A cash alternative employer pension contributions.
via pension provisions in may be considered.
line with the Companys While individuals are not obliged to make contributions, easyJet strategy to keep operates a pension salary sacrifice arrangement whereby individuals remuneration simple can exchange part of their salary for Company paid pension and consistent.
Where individuals exchange salary this reduces employer National Insurance contributions.
easyJet credits half of this reduction currently 6.9% of the salary exchanged to the individuals pension plan.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 66 Strategic report Governance Accounts Element, purpose Framework used to assess performance and provisions and link to strategy Operation including maximum levels where applicable for the recovery of sums paid Annual bonus Maximum opportunity of 200% of salary for Bonuses are based on stretching financial, To incentivise and Chief Executive and 175% of salary for other operational and, in some cases, personal recognise execution of Executive Directors.
departmental performance measures, as set and the business strategy assessed by the Committee in its discretion.
Financial One-third of the bonus earned is subject to on an annual basis.
measures e. g. profit before tax will represent the compulsory deferral into shares or equivalent majority of bonus, with other measures representing in a Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP, Rewards the achievement the balance.
A graduated scale of targets is set for of annual financial and typically for a period of three years, and is each measure, with 10% of each element being normally subject to continued employment.
payable for achieving the relevant threshold hurdle.
The remainder of the bonus is paid in cash.
Compulsory deferral Safety underpins all of the operational activities provides alignment of the Group and the bonus plan includes provision Dividend equivalent payments may be made with shareholders.
that enables the Remuneration Committee to scale in cash or shares under the DABP, at the time back the bonus earned in the event that there is a of vesting and may assume the reinvestment safety event which it considers warrants the use of dividends.
All bonus payments are at the discretion of The cash and deferred elements of bonuses are the Committee, as shown following this table.
subject to provisions which enable the Committee to recover the cash paid clawback or to lapse the associated deferred shares malus in the event of a misstatement of results for the financial year to which the bonus relates, or an error in determining the cash bonus or the number of shares comprising a deferred share award, within three years of the payment of the cash bonus.
Each year LTIP awards may be granted subject LTIP awards vest based on three-year performance LTIP Performance Share Award to the achievement of performance targets.
against a stretching range of financial targets and Awards normally vest over a three-year period.
relative TSR performance set and assessed by the To incentivise and recognise execution of Committee in its discretion.
Financial targets will The maximum opportunity contained within determine vesting in relation to at least 50% the business strategy the plan rules for Performance Share Awards over the longer term.
is 250% of salary with awards up to 300% Rewards strong financial of salary eligible to be made in exceptional In order for the TSR portion of the award to be circumstances, such as recruitment.
earned, the Companys absolute TSR performance performance and sustained increase in must also be positive over the performance period.
The normal maximum face value of annual shareholder value.
awards will be 250% of salary for the Chief 25% of each element vests for achieving the Executive and 200% of salary for other threshold performance target with 100% of the Executive Directors.
awards being earned for maximum performance.
There is straight-line vesting between these points.
A dividend equivalent provision exists which allows the Committee to pay dividends on The LTIP includes provisions which enable the vested shares in cash or shares at the time of Committee to recover value in the event of a vesting and may assume the reinvestment of misstatement of results for the financial year to dividends.
A holding period applies to share which the vesting of awards related, or an error in awards granted in the financial year ended calculation when determining the vesting result 30 September 2015 and beyond.
The holding within three years of the vesting i. e. clawback period will require the Executive Directors provisions apply.
The mechanism through which to retain the after-tax value of shares for the clawback can be implemented enables the 24 months from the vesting date.
Committee to: i reduce the outstanding LTIP share awards i. e. malus provisions may be used to effect a clawback, or ii for the Committee to require that a net of tax balancing cash payment be made.
Share ownership 200% of salary holding required for the Chief Not applicable.
To ensure alignment Executive and 175% of salary for the Chief between the interests of Financial Officer which is expected to be Executive Directors and reached within five years of appointment.
Executive Directors are required to retain half of the post-tax shares vesting under the LTIP until the guideline is met.
com 67 Directors remuneration report continued What discretion is retained by the Committee in operating How were the performance metrics chosen and how were its incentive plans?
The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan, LTIP and The performance metrics used for the annual bonus plan Deferred Annual Bonus Plan according to their respective rules and LTIP have been selected to reflect the Groups key or relevant documents and in accordance with the Listing Rules performance indicators.
The Committee retains discretion, consistent Profit before tax is used to assess annual performance as this with market practice, in a number of regards to the operation reflects how successful the Company has been in managing and administration of these plans.
These include, but are not operations effectively e. g. in maximising profit per seat whilst limited to, the following in relation to the LTIP and Deferred maintaining a high load factor.
The balance is determined based Annual Bonus Plan: on how well the Company performs against other specific key the participants: performance indicators set annually e. g. on-time performance and customer satisfaction to ensure that Executive Directors the timing of grant of an award: are motivated to deliver across a scorecard of objectives.
the size of an award: Since safety is of central importance to the business, the the determination of vesting: award of any bonus is subject to an underpin that enables the discretion required when dealing with a change of control Remuneration Committee to reduce the bonus earned in the event that there is a safety event that it considers warrants or restructuring of the Group: the use of such discretion.
determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: LTIP awards are earned for delivering performance against ROCE and relative TSR targets.
These seek to assess the underlying adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights financial performance of the business while maintaining clear issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : alignment between shareholders and Executive Directors.
Targets and are set based on a sliding scale that takes account of relevant the annual review of performance measures and weighting, commercial factors.
and targets for the LTIP from year to year.
Only modest awards are available for delivering threshold In relation to the annual bonus plan, the Committee retains performance levels with maximum awards requiring substantial discretion over: outperformance of challenging plans.
the participants: No performance targets are set for Save As You Earn and Share Incentive Plan awards since these form part of all-employee the timing of grant of a payment: arrangements that are purposefully designed to encourage the determination of the bonus payment: employees across the Group to purchase shares in the Company.
dealing with a change of control: Have LTIP Awards always been granted subject to the same determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules performance targets?
of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: and The LTIP, under which the Performance and Matching Share Awards are granted, was approved by shareholders in 2008. the annual review of performance measures and weighting, Further details on how the awards are structured and operated and targets for the annual bonus plan from year to year.
are set out in the plan rules which are available, on request, from the Company.
In relation to both the Companys LTIP and annual bonus plan, the Committee retains the ability to adjust the targets and or set How does the executive pay policy differ from that for other different measures if events occur which cause it to determine easyJet employees?
that the conditions are no longer appropriate e. g. material The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is more acquisition and or divestment of a Group business, and the heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other employees, amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their to make a greater part of their pay conditional on the successful original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
This aims to create a clear link between the value created for shareholders and the Any use of the above discretions would be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may be the subject of remuneration received by the Executive Directors.
However, in line with the Companys policy to keep remuneration simple and consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
consistent, the benefit and pension arrangements for the current The use of discretion in relation to the Companys Save As You Executive Directors are on the same terms as those offered to Earn and Share Incentive Plans will be as permitted under HMRC eligible employees in the wider workforce.
rules and the Listing Rules.
Details of share awards granted to existing Executive Directors are set out on page 75 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
These remain eligible to vest based on their original award terms.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 68 Strategic report Governance Accounts How much could the Executive Directors earn under the What are the Executive Directors terms of employment?
Under the Executive Directors service contracts both parties are A significant proportion of remuneration is linked to performance, required to give 12 months notice of termination of employment.
particularly at maximum performance levels.
The charts below show For Executive Directors, if notice is served by either party, the how much the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer could earn Executive Director can continue to receive basic salary, benefits under easyJets remuneration policy as detailed above under and pension for the duration of their notice period during which different performance scenarios based on their salaries as at 2 time the Company may require the individual to continue to fulfil October 2015 Chief Financial Officers date of joining.
The following their current duties or may assign a period of garden leave.
assumptions have been made: The policy for a new hire would be based on similar terms and Minimum performance below threshold Fixed pay only with will also include the ability for easyJet to make a payment in lieu no vesting under any of easyJets incentive plans.
of notice of up to 12 monthly instalments which would be In line with expectations Fixed pay plus a bonus at the mid-point reduced if alternative employment was taken up.
of the range giving 50% of the maximum opportunity and vesting Under the current Chief Executives contract, the Company, by of 37.5% of the maximum under the LTIP.
mutual consent, may elect to make a payment in lieu of notice Maximum performance meets or exceeds maximum Fixed pay equivalent in value to 12 months basic salary, payable in monthly plus maximum bonus and maximum vesting under the LTIP.
instalments which would be subject to mitigation if alternative employment is taken up during this time.
Alternatively, this Fixed pay comprises: payment may be paid as a lump sum.
Bonus payments may be made, payable in cash, on a pro-rata basis, but only for the salaries salary effective as at 2 October 2015: period of time served from the start of the financial year to the benefits amount received by each Executive Director in date of termination and not for any period in lieu of notice.
Any the 2015 financial year: bonus paid would be subject to the normal bonus targets, tested pension employer contributions or cash-equivalent payments at the end of the financial year.
The current Chief Executive has received by each Executive Director in the 2015 financial year: a contractual entitlement to such a pro-rated payment under and her service contract, other than in the cases of resignation or termination resulting from gross misconduct.
These provisions Free and Matching Shares under the all-employee share do not apply to the Chief Financial Officer.
In relation to a termination of employment, the Committee The scenarios do not include any share price growth or may make any statutory entitlements or payments to settle dividend assumptions.
or compromise claims in connection with a termination of any existing or future Executive Director as necessary.
The CHIEF EXECUTIVE Committee also retains the discretion to reimburse reasonable Below 100% 752,000 legal expenses incurred in relation to a termination of employment threshold and to meet any outplacement costs if deemed necessary.
In line with 36% 33% 31% 2,106,000 expectations The Executive Directors service contracts and the NonExceeds 19% 36% 45% 3,896,000 Executive Directors letters of appointment are available for target inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER What is the policy when an Executive Director leaves or there Below is a takeover?
100% 460,000 threshold The rules of both schemes LTIP and Deferred Annual Bonus In line with 40% 32% 28%1,150,000 Plan set out what happens to awards if a participant ceases expectations to be an employee or Director of easyJet before the end of the Exceeds 22% 36% 42% 2,053,000 vesting period.
Generally, any outstanding share awards will lapse target on such cessation, except in certain circumstances.
Fixed pay If an Executive Director ceases to be an employee or Director Annual Bonus of easyJet as a result of death, injury, retirement, the sale of the LTIP Performance business or company that employs the individual, or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee, then they will be It should be noted that since the analysis above shows what treated as a good leaver under the relevant plans rules.
Under could be earned by the Executive Directors based on the the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan, the shares for a good leaver will remuneration policy described above ignoring the potential normally vest in full on the normal vesting date or on cessation impact of share price growth, the numbers will be different of employment in the case of death and if the award is in the to the values included in the table on page 73 detailing what form of an option, there is a 12-month window in which the was actually earned by the Executive Directors in relation to award can be exercised.
Awards structured as options which the financial year ended 30 September 2015, since these values have vested prior to cessation can be exercised within 12 months are based on the actual levels of performance achieved to of cessation of office or employment.
30 September 2015 and include the impact of share price growth in relation to share awards.
com 69 Directors remuneration report continued Under the LTIP, a good leavers unvested awards will vest either The maximum level of variable pay that may be offered on on the normal vesting date or the relevant date of cessation, an ongoing basis and the structure of remuneration will be in as determined by the Committee subject to achievement of accordance with the approved policy detailed above, i. e. at an any relevant performance conditions, with a pro-rata reduction aggregate maximum of up to 450% of salary 200% annual to reflect the proportion of the vesting period served.
The bonus and 250% Performance Shares under the LTIP, taking Committee has the discretion to disapply time pro-rating if it into account annual and long-term variable pay.
This limit considers it appropriate to do so.
A good leaver may exercise does not include the value of any buy-out arrangements.
their vested awards structured as options for a period of Different performance measures may be set initially for the 12 months following the individuals cessation of office or annual bonus, taking into account the responsibilities of the employment, whereas unvested awards may be exercised individual, and the point in the financial year that they joined.
Any incentive offered above this limit would be contingent on In determining whether an Executive Director should be treated the Company receiving shareholder approval for an amendment as a good leaver, and the extent to which their award may vest, to its approved policy at its next General Meeting.
the Committee will take into account the circumstances of an The above policy applies to both an internal promotion to the individuals departure.
Board or an external hire.
In the event of a takeover or winding-up of easyJet plc which In the case of an external hire, if it is necessary to buy out is not part of an internal reorganisation of the easyJet Group, incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would be forfeited in circumstances where equivalent replacement awards are on leaving the previous employer, this would be provided not granted all awards will vest subject to, in the case of LTIP for taking into account the form cash or shares, timing awards, the achievement of any relevant performance conditions and expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting any existing with a pro-rata reduction to reflect the proportion of the vesting performance criteria of the remuneration being forfeited.
The Committee has discretion to disapply time Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted using pro-rating if it considers it appropriate to do so.
In the event of easyJets share plans to the extent possible, although awards a takeover, the Committee may determine, with the agreement may also be granted outside these schemes if necessary and of the acquiring company, that awards will be exchanged for as permitted under the Listing Rules.
equivalent awards in another company.
In the case of an internal promotion, any outstanding variable What is the policy on Executive Directors holding pay awarded in relation to the previous role will be paid external appointments?
according to its terms of grant adjusted as relevant to take Executive Directors are permitted to accept one appointment on into account the Board appointment.
a board or committee of a listed company so long as this is not thought to interfere with the business of the Group.
Any fees On the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive received in respect of these appointments are retained directly Director, fees will be set taking into account the experience by the relevant Executive Director.
and calibre of the individual.
Where specific cash or share arrangements are delivered to Non-Executive Directors, these will What would the remuneration policy be if a new Director not include share options or other performance-related elements.
Base salary levels will be set in accordance with easyJets How are the Non-Executive Directors paid?
remuneration policy, taking into account the experience and The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Directors calibre of the individual e. g. typically up to market median levels receive an annual fee paid in monthly instalments.
The fee for but salaries above or below this level may be set dependent the Chairman is set by the Remuneration Committee and the upon the level of the individual.
Where it is appropriate to offer fees for the Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are a lower salary initially, a series of increases to achieve the desired approved by the Board, on the recommendation of the salary positioning may be given over the following few years Chairman and Chief Executive.
Benefits will be provided in line What are the terms of appointment of the Non-Executive with those offered to other employees, with relocation expenses Directors?
easyJet may offer a cash The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Directors amount on recruitment, payment of which may be staggered, terms of appointment are recorded in letters of appointment, to reflect the value of benefits a new recruit may have received which are usually renewed every three years.
The required notice from a former employer.
from the Company is three months in all cases.
The NonShould it be appropriate to recruit a Director from overseas, Executive Directors are not entitled to any compensation on loss flexibility is retained to provide benefits that take account of of office.
those typically provided in their country of residence e. g. it may be appropriate to provide benefits that are tailored to the unique circumstances of such an appointment.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 70 Strategic report Governance Accounts Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation including maximum levels where applicable To attract and retain a highThe Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities.
Fees calibre Chairman, Deputy The other Non-Executive Directors receive a basic Board fee, with Chairman and Non-Executive supplementary fees payable for additional Board Committee responsibilities.
Directors by offering marketcompetitive fee levels.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys incentive arrangements.
Fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis, and may be increased, taking into account factors such as the time commitment of the role and market levels in companies of comparable size and complexity.
Flexibility is retained to exceed current fee levels if it is necessary to do so in order to appoint a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director of an appropriate calibre.
Necessary expenses incurred undertaking Company business will be reimbursed so that the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are not worse off, on a net of tax basis, for fulfilling Company duties.
No other benefits or remuneration are provided to the Chairman or Non-Executive Directors.
Fee levels for current incumbents for the 2016 financial year are as follows: Non-Executive Chairman: 300,000: Non-Executive Director base fee: 60,000: supplementary fee for Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director SID role: 25,000: and supplementary fee for Chair of the Audit, Remuneration and Safety Committees: 15,000, and Finance Committee Chair: 10,000.
How has the new CFOs package been set?
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Andrew Findlays package is in line with that applicable to the Who is on the Companys Remuneration Committee?
previous CFO, and is in line with our policy, other than salary on As at 30 September 2015, the members of the Committee were: appointment which has been set at 425,000 with the previous Charles Gurassa Chair, Franois Rubichon and John Browett.
CFOs salary set at 430,800 at the time of his departure.
David Bennett stepped down from the Committee on 1 October In addition, certain performance related buy-out arrangements 2014 and Professor Rigas Doganis stepped down from the have been agreed to compensate Andrew Findlay for bonus and Committee on 1 December 2014 following their retirement from long-term incentive awards forfeited from his previous employer.
The responsibilities of the Committee are set out in The approach to the buy-out is in line with the Companys policy the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report on on buy-out arrangements and the expectations of institutional page 53. investors where a buy-out takes place.
The payment was The Chief Executive attends meetings by invitation and assists performance related in that it has been calculated so as to the Committee in its deliberations as appropriate.
The replicate the likely value and time horizons associated with Committee also receives assistance from the Group People the awards at the previous employer.
Director and the Group Head of Reward.
The Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
No Directors are The buy-out comprised: 1.
A cash payment of equivalent value to the bonus he would involved in deciding their own remuneration.
have been eligible to receive from his previous employer in The Remuneration Committee is advised by Hewitt New relation to the year of his departure.
The payment was Bridge Street HNBS, an AON company.
A sister company performance related in that the amount of the bonus was in the AON Group also provides pension and flexible benefits determined based on his former companys reported administration services to the company.
HNBS was appointed disclosures of how the company performed against its bonus by the Committee in 2004.
HNBS advises the Committee on targets.
The cash payment, amounting to 311,837, was paid in developments in executive pay and on the operation of easyJets October 2015.
The Committee was comfortable with providing incentive plans.
Total fees paid to HNBS in respect of services to this form and level of compensation since it replicated the the Committee during the 2015 financial year were 133,000. amount of value forfeit in connection with joining easyJet.
HNBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct.
The Committee has reviewed the operating processes in place at HNBS and is satisfied that the advice it receives is independent and objective.
com 71 Directors remuneration report continued 2.
A performance adjusted award of 22,762 easyJet shares will What bonus will be awarded in respect of performance in the be made to compensate for the forfeiture of the long-term 2016 financial year?
incentive award he received in August 2013 from his previous The maximum bonus opportunity remains at 200% of salary for employer.
Since around two-thirds of the vesting period for the Chief Executive and at 175% for the Chief Financial Officer.
this award had already run its course, the Committee assessed The measures have been selected to reflect a range of financial the extent to which the performance targets were likely to and operational goals that support the key strategic objectives be met based on current market forecasts in respect of the of the Company.
shares comprising two-thirds of the award and converted this number of shares into an equivalent value of easyJet shares The performance measures and weightings will be as follows: on joining.
These will vest, subject to continued employment As a percentage of maximum with easyJet, on 7 August 2016, so as to mirror the original bonus opportunity time horizon of the award.
A further award of 14,625 easyJet Measure CEO CFO shares relating to the forfeiture of the August 2013 award was Profit before tax 70% 60% also granted.
This award was calculated based on the value of On-time performance 10% 10% one-third of the award at the time of joining easyJet, but these Customer satisfaction 10% 10% shares will only vest to the extent that the performance Operating costs excluding fuel targets set for the 2013 easyJet LTIP award are met and per seat at constant currency 10% 10% continued employment to 17 December 2016.
The Committee was comfortable with providing this form and level of Departmental objectives 10% compensation since it replicated its assessment of the value The proposed target levels for the 2016 financial year have been forfeit and also, in part, switched into easyJet performance set to be challenging relative to the business plan.
on a pro-rata basis for part of the award.
The Committee is comfortable that the bonus targets for both 3.
An awar d of 39,923 easyJet shares will be made to Executive Directors are appropriately demanding in light of their compensate for the forfeiture of the award granted to the respective bonus opportunities.
This award comprised an exchange of the maximum number of shares that could vest under his The targets themselves, as they relate to the 2016 financial year, previous employers award which were then converted to are commercially sensitive.
However, retrospective disclosure of easyJet shares on joining.
These shares will only vest based on the targets and performance against them will be provided in the extent to which the performance targets applying to the next years remuneration report unless they remain commercially 2014 easyJet LTIP award are met and the individual remaining sensitive.
The safety of our customers and people underpins in employment until 19 December 2017, being the ordinary all of the operational activities of the Group and the bonus plan vesting date for the easyJet award and later than the vesting includes a provision that enables the Remuneration Committee date of the original award at his former employer.
The to scale back the bonus earned in the event that there is a Committee was comfortable with providing this form of safety event that occurs that it considers warrants the use of compensation given the performance period at the individuals such discretion.
previous employer for this award had only recently How will the LTIP be operated in relation to the 2016 financial year commenced and so switching to an equivalent value in awards?
performance related easyJet shares resulted in alignment being achieved with the wider executive team at easyJet.
The 2015 financial year was the last time that LTIP awards were made via a combination of Performance and Matching Share Each of the replacement share awards detailed above will be Awards.
Matching Share Awards will no longer operate from subject to easyJets shareholding guidelines whereby Andrew the 2016 financial year onwards and LTIP awards will be made Findlay will be required to retain at least half of the after tax as Performance Shares only.
number of shares exercised from the awards until he has built a shareholding that, when aggregated with his other easyJet The award levels for the Executive Directors in the 2016 financial shareholdings, is of equivalent value to 175% of salary.
year will be 250% of salary for the Chief Executive and 200% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer.
How will the remuneration policy be applied for the 2016 financial year?
The 2016 financial year LTIP awards will be subject to the What are the Executive Directors current salaries?
following performance conditions: The current and proposed salaries of the Executive Directors are: Below On-target Maximum 1 January 2015 threshold Threshold 50% 100% or on 0% vesting 25% vesting vesting vesting appointment 1 January 2016 to the Board ROCE 70% salary salary Change of total award 15% 15% 18% 20% CEO 705,600 698,600 1% 1 CFO 425,000 425,000 0% Below Maximum threshold Threshold 100% 1 The current CFO, Andrew Findlay, was appointed to the Board on 0% vesting 25% vesting vesting 2 October 2015.
His base salary on appointment was set at 425,000 Upper and no increase will be awarded in the 2016 financial year.
The salary of former CFO, Chris Kennedy, was 430,800.
TSR 30% of total award Median Median quartile The increase to be awarded to the Chief Executive is consistent with the typical rate of increase being awarded across the Group.
easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 72 Strategic report Governance Accounts Awards vest on a straight-line basis from threshold to on-target be created for vesting to take place will be calculated from and from on-target to maximum.
As with the awards granted a significantly higher capital base reflecting the growth and in the 2015 financial year, ROCE targets are based on average replacement of in the Companys fleet during the period ROCE over a three-year performance period, commencing on through to 30 September 2018.
TSR targets are based on relative TSR compared How will the Non-Executive Directors be paid in the 2016 to companies ranked FTSE 31-130 at the start of the financial year?
performance period, where the average share price is calculated over three months at the start and end of the period.
In addition, The fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will in order for the TSR-based awards to vest, easyJet must have be as follows: achieved positive absolute TSR over the performance period.
Chairman 300,000 The weighting on ROCE and TSR has been rebalanced for the Basic fee for other Non-Executive Directors 60,000 2016 financial year from an equal split to a 70 30 split in 1 Fees for Deputy Chairman and SID role 25,000 favour of ROCE.
Chair of the Audit, Safety and Remuneration Targets are set taking account of managements strategic plan, 1 Committees 15,000 market consensus and the Boards strong focus on driving value 1 Chair of the Finance Committee 10,000 from its increasing capital base.
The ROCE target range is the same as last year but with a small enhancement for achieving 1 Supplementary fees.
target expectations within the range.
The Committee considers There are no changes to basic fees, which were last reviewed the range of ROCE targets set to be at least as demanding as and increased on 1 October 2013. those set in prior years, given that the level of return required to What did the Directors earn in relation to the 2015 financial year?
2 Left the Board on 1 October 2014.
3 Appointed to the Board on 22 July 2014.
4 Left the Board on 1 December 2014.
5 Benefits relate to the cost to the Company of personal accident and life assurance cover and the value of shares during the year under the Companys Share Incentive Plan.
6 One-third of the bonus will be compulsorily deferred in shares for three years and subject to forfeiture.
7 This relates to the LTIP awards granted in December 2012 which vest in December 2015 based on performance measured to 30 September 2015.
For the purposes of this table, the award has been valued using the average share price over the three months to 30 September 2015 of 16.988.
This compares to 7.37 at grant.
8 Carolyn McCall has reached her lifetime pension limit and received a cash alternative of 48,605 in lieu of pension contributions.
9 This relates to the January 2012 awards which vested in January 2015 based on performance measured to 30 September 2014.
For the purposes of the table in last years report, the award was valued using the average share price over the three months to 30 September 2014 of 13.275.
The value has been updated in this table using the share price at the date of vesting of 16.71.
This compares to 3.928 at grant.
10 Entitlement to a 2015 annual bonus and vesting under the December 2012 LTIP awards lapsed for Chris Kennedy following his resignation during the year and cessation of employment.
com 73 Directors remuneration report continued How was pay linked to performance in the 2015 financial year?
Measure CEO CFO Threshold On-Target Maximum Actual Payout Profit before tax m 70% 60% 550 610 700 686 92% On-time performance 10% 10% 80% 84% 88% 80% 15% 1 Customer satisfaction targets 10% 10% 76% 81% 84% 75% 0% 2 Cost per seat ex.
fuel 10% 10% 39.01 38.74 38.21 39.38 0% 3 Departmental objectives 10% Successful Achieved Exceeding N A N A 1 Customer satisfaction this measures the percentage of our passengers that are Quite satisfied, Very satisfied or Completely satisfied at last contact.
2 Cost per seat excluding fuel targets are at constant plan currency.
3 There was no CFO bonus paid this year.
Annual bonus 66% of the maximum bonus was awarded to the Chief Executive in respect of performance for the year ended 30 September The following chart shows the performance against bonus targets for 2015: 2015.
This resulted in a bonus payment of 917,098 to the Chief Executive.
One-third of the bonus is compulsorily deferred into ANNUAL BONUS shares for three years and subject to continued employment.
% No bonus was payable to the Chief Financial Officer in light of profit before tax 92 his resignation and cessation of employment during the year.
The Committee is satisfied with the overall payments in light 15 On-time performance of the level of performance achieved.
LTIP 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 The awards made to Executive Directors in December 2012 were subject to a combination of average ROCE including Bonus payments were not triggered for customer satisfaction and lease adjustments and relative TSR compared to FTSE 51-150 cost per seat ex fuel.
companies performance conditions measured over the three A sliding scale of targets for each objective was set at the financial years ended 30 September 2015.
The percentage start of the financial year.
10% of each element is payable for which could be earned was determined using the following achieving the threshold target, increasing to 50% for on-target vesting schedule: performance and 100% for achieving maximum performance.
Threshold Maximum Achievements between these points are calculated on a 25% vesting 100% vesting straight-line basis.
ROCE awards Performance highlights during the year were: 50% of total awards 12% 16% TSR awards profit before tax increased by 18% to 686 million and pre-tax 50% of total awards Median Upper quartile profit margins grew by 1.8 percentage points to 14.6%: on-time performance was 80%, marginally above the threshold Three-year average ROCE including lease adjustments to for the year: and 30 September 2015 was 20.0% and the Company was ranked at top decile in terms of TSR relative to FTSE 51-150 companies: total cost per seat excluding fuel at constant plan currency correspondingly 100% of awards of Performance Shares and and customer satisfaction target threshold levels were not met.
Matching Shares are due to vest in December 2015, subject to continued service.
Chris Kennedys awards lapsed following his cessation of employment on 1 September 2015. easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 74 Strategic report Governance Accounts What LTIP awards were granted to Directors in the financial year?
Performance and Matching Share Awards were made in combination, for the final time, in the financial year under the LTIP.
Details of the awards made to the Executive Directors are summarised below, with further details given in the table on outstanding share interests on page 77.
% vesting at Number Performance threshold 1 2 Award Type of shares Face value % of salary Performance condition period performance CEO Performance 84,987 1,397,186 200% Nil cost 50% based on average 3 financial 3 4 option Matching 31,441 516,890 75% ROCE and 50% years ending 25% 5 Based on relative TSR 30 September CFO Performance 39,306 646,190 150% Nil cost 3 versus FTSE 31-130 2017 option Matching 6,402 105,249 24% 1 Face value calculated based on the closing share price of 16.44 on 18 December 2014.
2 Performance conditions are set out on page 67.
3 Matching awards are granted over an equal number of shares as the Executive Directors voluntarily defer bonus pre-tax.
4 ROCE including lease adjustments 15% threshold to 20% maximum.
5 Relative TSR against companies ranked FTSE 31-130 median threshold to upper quartile maximum.
In addition, the TSR awards will not vest unless there has been positive TSR over the performance period.
Have there been any payments to past Directors?
Audited A payment of 20,833 was paid to Professor Rigas Doganis since he retired from the Board on 1 December 2014, for continuing to chair the Safety Committee.
There have been no other payments made to past Directors during the year.
Have there been any payments for loss of office?
Audited No payments for loss of office have been made to Directors during the year.
Chris Kennedy announced his decision on 8 January 2015 to leave easyJet in order to become Chief Financial Officer of ARM Holdings plc.
Following his resignation, no payments were made in connection with his notice period following the agreement of a mutually convenient leaving date.
In line with the Companys remuneration policy, this was not as a good leaver for incentive plan purposes, he was not eligible to receive an annual bonus award in connection with the 2015 financial year and all outstanding share awards lapsed on his cessation of employment.
What share awards do the Executive Directors have outstanding at the financial year end?
Audited Details of share options and share awards outstanding at the financial year end are shown in the following tables: Carolyn McCall OBE No.
of shares Shares Shares Shares No.
com 75 Directors remuneration report continued Chris Kennedy No.
Key: A Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Shares B Long Term Incentive Plan Matching Shares C Share Incentive Plan Performance Free Shares D Share Incentive Plan Matching Shares E Save As You Earn Awards SAYE Notes: Note 1: The number of shares is calculated according to the scheme rules of individual plans based on the middle-market closing share price of the day prior to grant.
As is usual market practice, the option price for SAYE awards is determined by the Committee in advance of the award by reference to the share price following announcement of half year results.
Note 2: For LTIP awards made in March 2011, vesting was based on ROCE excluding operating leases adjustment performance for the year to 30 September 2013.
Actual ROCE for the year was 23% and therefore 100% of the awards vested in March 2014.
Threshold Target 50% Maximum 25% vesting vesting 100% vesting Award 1 up to 100% of salary 7.0% 8.5% 12.0% Award 2 over 100% of salary 10.0% 12.0% 13.0% Note 3: For LTIP awards made in January 2012, vesting was based on three-year average ROCE performance excluding operating leases adjustment for the three financial years ended 30 September 2014, which averaged 22.0%.
Correspondingly 100% of these awards vested in January 2015.
The following targets applied for these awards: Threshold Target 50% Maximum 25% vesting vesting 100% vesting Award 1 up to 100% of salary 8.0% 10.0% 12.0% Award 2 over 100% of salary 11.5% 12.5% 13.0% Note 4: For LTIP awards made in December 2012, 50% of vesting is based on three-year average ROCE including lease adjustment performance for the three financial years ending 30 September 2015.
This was the first award where ROCE calculations included operating leases and this is the basis for all subsequent rewards.
50% of vesting is based on relative TSR performance compared to companies ranked FTSE 51-150.
Three year average ROCE including lease adjustments was 20.0% and the Company was ranked at the 94th percentile versus FTSE 51-150 companies in terms of TSR: correspondingly 100% of these awards will vest in December 2015.
The following targets applied for these awards: Below threshold Threshold Maximum 0% vesting 25% vesting 100% vesting ROCE awards 50% of total award 12.0% 12.0% 16.0% TSR awards 50% of total award Median Median Upper quartile easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 76 Strategic report Governance Accounts Note 5: For LTIP awards made in December 2013, 50% of vesting is based on three-year average ROCE including lease adjustment performance for the three financial years ending 30 September 2016 and 50% of vesting is based on relative total shareholder return performance compared to companies in the top decile versus ranked FTSE 51-150.
The following targets apply for these awards: Below threshold Threshold Target Maximum 0% vesting 25% vesting 40% vesting 100% vesting ROCE awards 50% of total award 15.0% 15.0% 18.5% 20.0% TSR awards 50% of total award Median Median n a Upper quartile In addition, the TSR awards will not vest unless there has been positive TSR over the performance period.
Note 6: For LTIP awards made in December 2014, 50% of vesting is based on three-year average ROCE including lease adjustment performance for the three financial years ending 30 September 2017 and 50% of vesting is based on relative total shareholder return performance compared to companies ranked FTSE 31-130.
The following targets apply for these awards: Below threshold Threshold Target Maximum 0% vesting 25% vesting 40% vesting 100% vesting ROCE awards 50% of total award 15.0% 15.0% 18.2% 20.0% TSR awards 50% of total award Median Median n a Upper quartile In addition, the TSR awards will not vest unless there has been positive TSR over the performance period.
Note 7: Participants buy Partnership Shares monthly under the Share Incentive Plan.
The Company provides one Matching Share for each Partnership Share purchased, up to the first 1,500 per year.
These Matching Shares are first available for vesting three years after purchase.
Note 8: These shares options lapsed in the year due to Chris Kennedy resigning as Director before the maturity date.
What are the shareholding guidelines for Directors?
The Chief Executive is required to build up a shareholding of 200% of salary and the Chief Financial Officer is required to build a shareholding of 175% of salary, to be built up over five years from the adoption of the policy 27 September 2012 or their appointment, if later.
Until the guideline is met, they are required to retain 50% of net vested shares from the LTIP.
The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman of the Board, are required to build up a shareholding of 100% of annual fees over a period of three years from the adoption of the policy or date of appointment, if later.
What are the Directors current shareholdings and interests in shares?
The following table provides details on the Directors shareholdings and interests in shares as at 30 September 2015 Audited : Unconditionally Shareholding Interests in shares owned guidelines 3 4 5 6 7 shares achieved DABP SAYE LTIP SIP Total John Barton 24,000 100% Charles Gurassa 18,198 100% Carolyn McCall OBE 327,895 100% 46,482 1,355 512,127 912 560,876 9 10 Chris Kennedy Adle Anderson 5,114 100% 1 10 David Bennett Dr. Andreas Bierwirth 3,771 100% John Browett 5,412 100% 2 10 Professor Rigas Doganis Keith Hamill OBE 4,560 100% Andy Martin 7,000 100% Franois Rubichon 3,465 100% 1 Left the Board on 1 October 2014.
2 Left the Board on 1 December 2014.
3 Includes SIP Partnership Shares, vested SIP Performance Free Shares, vested SIP Matching Shares, LTIP Investment Shares, and any shares owned by connected persons.
4 Unconditionally owned shares and share interests under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan count towards achievement of the shareholding guidelines.
5 The principal terms of the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan are described on page 67.
6 LTIP shares are granted in the form of nil cost options subject to performance.
7 Consists of unvested SIP Performance Free Shares and unvested SIP Matching Shares.
8 Andrew Findley was not employed by easyJet as at 30 September 2015.
9 Left the Board on 1 September 2015.
10 In respect of these Directors, 100% of the shareholding guideline had been achieved on the dates they left the Board.
com 77 Directors remuneration report continued Note: The unconditionally owned shares of Carolyn McCall have increased by 56 shares since 30 September 2015 to 327,951 shares due to: the purchase in October and November 2015 of 17 SIP Partnership Shares: and the vesting of 39 SIP Matching Shares awarded in October and November 2012.
The interests in SIP shares of Carolyn McCall have decreased by 22 shares since 30 September 2015 to 890 shares due to: the vesting of 39 SIP Matching Shares awarded in October and November 2012: and the award of 17 SIP Matching Shares in October and November 2015.
Any changes subsequent to the date of this report may be found on our corporate website, http: corporate.
com Executive Directors are deemed to be interested in the unvested shares held by the easyJet Share Incentive Plan and the easyJet plc Employee Benefit Trust.
At 30 September 2015, ordinary shares held in the Trusts were as follows: Number easyJet Share Incentive Plan Trust 1,552,512 easyJet plc Employee Benefit Trust 115,488 Total 1,668,000 Position against dilution limits easyJet complies with the Principles of Remuneration with regard to dilution limits.
These principles require that commitments under all of the Companys share ownership schemes must not exceed 10% of the issued share capital in any rolling 10 year period.
The requirement for shares under all current share incentive schemes LTIP, Save As you Earn and Share Incentive Plan will be satisfied with share purchases on the market.
The Companys current position against its dilution limit is therefore under the maximum 10% limit.
The Company regularly reviews its position against the dilution guidelines and, should there be insufficient headroom within which to grant new awards which could be satisfied by issuing new shares, it is the intention of the Company to continue its current practice of satisfying such awards with shares purchased on the market.
This would include, in relation to the guidance, the 5% in 10 year dilution limit which relates to discretionary share plans.
Employee share plan participation easyJet encourages share ownership throughout the Group by the use of Performance Free Shares and Matching Shares within a Share Incentive Plan and a Save As You Earn scheme.
All staff subject to minimum service were granted shares during the year.
Executive Directors may also participate in these plans on the same terms as other eligible staff.
They are summarised in the Corporate Responsibility report on page 34.
Details of Directors service contracts and letters of appointment Details of the service contracts and letters of appointment in place as at 30 September 2015 for Directors are as follows: Date of current service contract Unexpired term at or letter of appointment 30 September 2015 John Barton 3 October 2013 7 months Charles Gurassa 27 June 2014 1 year 9 months Carolyn McCall OBE 1 July 2010 Andrew Findlay 10 April 2015 Adle Anderson 1 September 2014 1 year 11 months Dr. Andreas Bierwirth 19 June 2014 1 year 9 months John Browett 26 September 2013 1 year Keith Hamill OBE 3 March 2015 2 years 4 months Andy Martin 1 September 2014 1 year 11 months Franois Rubichon 19 June 2014 1 year 9 months easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 78 Strategic report Governance Accounts Review of past performance The chart below sets out the total shareholder return performance of the Company relative to the FTSE 250, FTSE 100 and a group 1 of European airlines.
The FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 were chosen as easyJet has been a member of both indices during the period.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN VALUE LOCAL CURRENCY 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 30 Sep 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 1 easyjet FTSE 250 Index FTSE 100 Index Comparator Airlines This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2015 of 100 invested in easyJet on 30 September 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index, FTSE 250 Index or a comparator group of airlines.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends overseas companies have been tracked in their local currency, i. e. ignoring exchange rate movements since 30 September 2008.
1 British Airways, Lufthansa, Ryanair, Air France-KLM and Iberia have all been included in the comparative European Airlines group.
British Airways and Iberia have been tracked forward for 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015 as IAG.
The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive over the same seven year period.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and LTIP awards which vested based on performance in those years.
The annual bonus and LTIP vesting percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
2 Includes 445,575 LTIP shares vesting for the period, share price was 16.71 the actual share price at vesting an increase of 325% on the share price at grant of 3.928.
3 Includes remuneration for the current Chief Executive, Carolyn McCall, of 178,000 and for the former Chief Executive of 2,563,000. www.
com 79 Directors remuneration report continued How does the change in Chief Executive pay for the year What have Executive Directors earned for holding compare to that for easyJet employees?
The table below shows the percentage year-on-year change Carolyn McCall joined the board of Burberry Group plc as a in salary, benefits and annual bonus earned between the year non-executive director on 1 September 2014 and received ended 30 September 2015 and the year ended 30 September fees of 80,000 in the period to 30 September 2015.
No other 2014 for the Chief Executive, compared to the average earnings Executive Directors held external appointments in the year of all other easyJet UK employees.
% Salary Benefits Annual bonus How did shareholders vote on remuneration at the last AGM?
CEO 1% 0% 11% Votes cast at the AGM in February 2015 in respect of the Companys remuneration policy and the Annual report on Average pay based remuneration are given in the Shareholders vote on remuneration on all easyJets UK 1 table below.
In line with the Companys commitment to ongoing employees 2% 0% 2% dialogue with its shareholders, meetings are offered, where 1 Reflects the change in average pay for UK employees employed in appropriate, to understand the reasons for any potential or actual both the year ended 30 September 2015 and the year ended opposition to the Companys remuneration policy.
Changes are 30 September 2014. made to our policy where it is considered appropriate to do so.
How much does easyJet spend on employee pay each year?
The table below shows the total pay for all of easyJets employees compared to other key financial indicators.
Year ended Year ended 30 September 30 September Change 2014 2015 % Employee costs m 566 582 2.8% Ordinary dividend m 180 219 21.7% Average number of employees 8,987 9,811 9.2% Revenue m 4,527 4,686 3.5% Profit before tax m 581 686 18.1% Additional information on the number of employees, total revenue and profit has been provided for context.
The majority of easyJets employees around 93% perform flight and ground operations, with the rest performing administrative and managerial roles.
Shareholders vote on remuneration Policy Annual Report on Remuneration Votes cast in favour 169,949,424 97.59% 172,811,079 99.26% Votes cast against 4,205,137 2.41% 1,281,804 0.74% Total votes cast in favour or against 174,154,561 100.00% 174,092,883 100.00% Votes withheld 354,559 384,461 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2015 80
