DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Chairmans annual statement on remuneration 2016 policy implementation I am pleased to introduce the Directors remuneration report for 2015 The following summarises the application of our remuneration policy which has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee the inthecurrent year.
Committee and approved by the Board.
The Committee awarded Brian Taylorson a salary increase of 2.87 per Having introduced a number of changes to our remuneration policy and cent with effect from 1 January 2016, which is in line with the average practices over the previous two years, 2015 should have been a relatively increase in 2015 for the UK salaried workforce.
quiet year, but this was not the case.
The latest changes, which were described in my statement a year ago, received strong support from The changes to remuneration policy approved at the 2015 AGM included shareholders at last years AGM and were implemented during 2015, giving the Committee greater flexibility in setting bonus plan targets.
asexplained later in this report.
I would like to express my thanks to shareholders for your continuing support.
In respect of the 2016 bonus plan, in line with market practice, the Committee has introduced a non-financial component, with a weighting The Company announced on 19 May 2015 the intended retirement of of30 per cent of the bonus opportunity.
In terms of the financial metrics David Dutro which triggered our CEO succession plans to find a 70 per cent of bonus opportunity, these will continue to be based on replacement.
The Committee was responsible, working with the Chairman PBT and average working capital AWC split 80:20 as before.
For the of the Board and its remuneration advisers, forstructuring a remuneration PBT condition, threshold, plan and stretch targets are set at levels the package and agreeing terms of employment that secured the services of Committee considers to be appropriately challenging, after taking into Paul Waterman as our next CEO.
Related to these developments the account both the 2016 operating plan and consensus estimates.
Bonus Committee also reviewed remuneration arrangements following David targets will be disclosed on a retrospective basis.
Dutros retirement, as well astarget setting in the light of the Groups trading performance and in the context of the 2016 operating plan.
The Committee decided to introduce non-financial objectives and or performance metrics to ensure that the bonus plan provides a tighter link One of the Committees objectives continues to be to rebalance the to performance and strategy.
Such non-financial criteria will be specific, proportion of fixed to variable remuneration in favour of the latter.
We have measurable and objective and relate to Company specific business goals, made progress in this respect in the year.
Looking forward, the although the Committee reserves discretion to modify the overall amount Committee is focused on the need in 2016 to incentivise our management of bonus payable in exceptional circumstances and acting in the best team at a time of transition to a new CEO and with some very challenging interests of the Company.
The actual criteria and weighting will be external market conditions.
We consider 2016 a year in which it is correct reviewed annually to ensure they remain appropriate and the details to modify the bonus metrics to reward actions that need to be taken to set ofthetargets for 2016 will be disclosed in next years report.
Elementis up for a return to growth as well as financial achievements in excess of expectation.
All such changes will be within the policy that was Turning to the long term incentive plan, the Committee reviewed the approved at the last AGM.
choice of broad equity index to use for setting TSR targets and concluded that there were no compelling reasons to change from the FTSE All Share The process undertaken and outcome in these matters are summarised index excluding investment trusts that is currently used.
also reviewed the appropriateness of retaining reference to UK RPI when setting EPS growth targets for a highly international business which Variable remuneration outcome for 2015 reports in US dollars and decided that, for 2016, a range of EPS growth As reported elsewhere in this Annual Report, the Group experienced targets would be set which the Committee is satisfied are no less difficult trading conditions, as a result of changes to our external markets.
challenging in the current environment.
The Committee agreed it would Consequently, as the Company is reporting performance that is below keep its target setting under review, particularly as the inflationary theminimum target thresholds, no bonus is payable in respect of 2015 environment changes over time.
The fee levels for all non-executive directors Chairmans fee, basic fee Under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, the performance period for and additional role fee were reviewed in December and the outcome, the 2013 awards ended in 2015.
Neither of the threshold targets under the which received the full support of the Board, was to retain fees at their EPS and TSR conditions was met and, accordingly, none of the 2013 existing levels.
awards will vest in April 2016.
Elementis delivered shareholder return over the three year period of 16 per cent, compared to 24 per cent from the FTSE All Share Index excluding investment trusts.
EPS for 2015 was 20.8 cents compared to 21.8 cents in 2012.
It is disappointing when incentive remuneration does not pay out because it means growth targets have not been achieved in increasingly difficult market conditions, despite the hard work and commitment of our employees.
diluted, before non-recurring items Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 35 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Chairmans annual statement on remuneration continued David Dutro CEO transition David Dutro has not and will not receive any payment for loss of office as Paul Waterman adirector of the Company or any other payments in relation to the Paul Watermans starting remuneration package is as follows: cessation of his employment.
Since the 2013 LTIP awards will lapse in April 2016, the only unvested Benefits: as per policy.
awards are those made in 2014 and 2015.
The outstanding awards will Bonus opportunity: 150 per cent of basic salary with 50 per cent remain subject to performance conditions and will ordinarily vest on the share based deferral.
third anniversary of the award date.
Recognising the circumstances of the LTIP award: 200 per cent of basic salary.
departure, his flexibility in respect of his leaving date and in particular that Pension: salary supplement of 20 per cent of basic salary plus there will be no payment in lieu of the remainder of the notice period, the employer matching contributions under the US pension plans Committee determined that the 2014 award should be able to vest in full, maximum limit of match: 8 per cent.
noting that there would need to be a very significant improvement in performance from present levels in order for this award to be capable of As previously stated, one of the Committees objectives has been to generating any value.
The award granted in 2015 will be scaled back pro rebalance the proportion of fixed to variable remuneration by increasing rata for the proportion of the time in office.
the latter, to provide a greater incentive to the executive directors to deliver strong, sustainable financial performance and enhanced returns to Under the rules of the US Sharesave plan, David Dutro is entitled to shareholders.
This is reflected in Paul Watermans salary level, taking exercise a number of savings based options granted to him in 2014 other factors into consideration, and the higher LTIP award level.
withina 60 day period following his cessation of employment on 29February 2016.
Separately, buy out awards under the LTIP will be made to Paul Waterman to cover remuneration forfeited by him for leaving his previous employer to Summary join Elementis, the value of which is approximately $1.5 million.
The LTIP Global macroeconomic conditions in 2016 continue to be volatile which awards will be made in two equal tranches with vesting periods of one presents a challenge to the Committee to ensure appropriate incentives and two years.
Within each tranche there will be a portion that will be are set to balance risk taking and reward.
This is on top of a CEO subject only to a service condition of one and two year s reflecting a transition.
The changes that the Committee are making in 2016 have been minimum vesting value of forfeited awards and a portion that will be considered at length and the performance targets set are considered to subject to performance metrics over a one or two year period, based on a be appropriately challenging for both short and long term incentives.
combination of cash flow, safety and operational targets that are in nature similar and equivalently challenging to those awards being forfeited and a On behalf of the directors, I ask our shareholders to support the actions similar vesting profile.
The buy out awards will be made on or around the Committee has taken.
Signed on behalf of the Board by: Details of these awards will be disclosed in next years Annual Report.
Andrew Christie Chairman, Remuneration Committee 1 March 2016 36 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Remuneration policy report Effective date and duration of remuneration policy Where the text in this Remuneration policy report is in bold and This part of the Directors remuneration report the Remuneration policy underlined, this shows a change in implementation different from last report, which is mostly restated for reference purposes only and year but within the approved policy, or an update or re-wording of the updated where appropriate, sets out the remuneration policy for the text from last year.
directors of the Company that was approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
The remuneration policy is effective for three years from Policy table 22April 2015.
The information in the table below sets out the remuneration policy for the different elements that make up total remuneration applying to directors.
Basic salary Purpose and link to Targeted at a level to attract and retain the world class executives who are essential to drive the business Companys strategy forward and deliver the Companys strategic goals.
How it operates Formal salary review normally every three years, with benchmarking analysis utilised for reference purposes in practice against relevant market comparators, as appropriate, taking into account the size of the Company revenue andmarket capitalisation, complexity of the roles including changes to both size and roles and individual performance.
Annual salary increases that are broadly in line with the local workforce in percentage of salary terms, subject to Committee approval.
Increases beyond the average of those granted to the local workforce in percentage of salary terms may beawarded in certain circumstances, such as where there is a material change in responsibility or experience of the individual, to recognise exceptional performance over a sustained period or a significant increase in the complexity, size or value of the Company.
Where new joiners or recent promotions have been placed on a below market rate of pay initially, a series ofincreases above those granted to the local workforce in percentage of salary terms may be given over thefollowing few years subject to individual performance and development in the role.
Salaries are normally reviewed in December and any changes are effective from 1 January in the following year.
Maximum potential There is no prescribed maximum for salary increases.
The Committee will be guided by the general increase for value the local workforce and or broader workforce as a whole, as well as the circumstances listed above.
Salaries for 2016: Chief Executive $875,500 David Dutro $825,000 Paul Waterman, from 8 February 2016 Finance Director 347,921 Benefits Purpose and link to To aid retention and to remain competitive in the marketplace.
Companys strategy Healthcare benefits in order to minimise business disruption.
Executive directors may also participate along with other employees in the Groups HMRC approved SAYE, or other equivalent savings based, share schemes to share in the success of the Group.
How it operates in practice Life assurance and private medical health insurance are provided.
Provision of either a company car for business and personal purposes or a car allowance, in both cases having a value that is consistent and commensurate with the executives status and seniority.
Participation in all employee savings based share option schemes as above.
In addition, benefits in the US, where it is standard, include cover for dental costs, accidental death and disablement, long term disability and club membership.
Maximum potential SAYE savings based schemes are subject to individual limits.
These are $2,000 per month in the US and in the value UK up to the HMRC prescribed limit 500 per month.
Other benefits: the Committee will determine the level of benefit as it considers appropriate, taking into consideration local market practice.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 37 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration policy report continued Annual bonus scheme Purpose and link to To incentivise the senior management team to exceed the annual operating plans approved by the Board at the Companys strategy start of each financial year.
To ensure that a significant proportion of an executives total remuneration is based on corporate business financial performance that is linked to the Companys annual operating plan.
To enable incentive pay to help build and maintain meaningful executive shareholdings thereby providing greater long term focus.
How it operates in An annual bonus is earned based on over performance against selected performance measures which are practice linked to the Companys key performance indicators, or the achievement of strategic and or operational objectives.
Bonus payments are paid following the approval of full year results.
Payments are based on salaries at the time of payment.
Bonus deferral element: 50 per cent of any cash bonus payable must be awarded in shares and deferred for two years.
Dividends to accrue to deferred share award holders or holders of conditional share awards.
Deferred shares or conditional awards are forfeitable for gross misconduct dismissal for cause.
The Committee may seek recovery and or withholding of bonuses paid that are later found to have been based on performance that was mis-stated or incorrectly calculated, or where the amount of any bonus may have been reduced or withheld due to reasons of gross misconduct.
Recovery and withholding provisions will apply from awards made in 2015 and apply for a period of three years following payment of any bonus.
Detailed provisions are incorporated into the rules of the various schemes which govern the terms of a bonus payment and or the making of any deferred share or conditional award.
Maximum potential Chief Executive: 150 per cent of basic salary.
value Finance Director: 125 per cent of basic salary.
A higher annual bonus limit of 200 per cent of basic salary may apply for new recruits.
Framework used to The performance measure s will be based mainly on financial performance although the Committee reserves assess performance the right to select other qualitative or non-financial targets including the basis of their measurement as it considers to be appropriate and which are aligned to the Companys strategic objectives for the year ahead.
The financial elements of the bonus may include but are not limited to the Companys key performance indicators which include: Profit before tax or other measures of profitability.
Group average trade working capital to sales ratio expressed as a percentage AWC or other cash flow indicators.
Targets for financial metrics are set relative to the annual operating plan, taking into account general GDP factors, external market data, current and past performance of the business, together with any organic or acquisitive growth plans.
For any profit related metric, targets will be set at threshold, plan and stretch levels and the amount payable for threshold performance shall be determined by the Committee each year when reviewing annual bonus plans and approving bonus scheme targets.
The Committee keeps performance metrics under review on an annual basis to ensure they continue to remain appropriate and has the discretion to introduce new metrics or remove existing ones and amend their relative weightings.
As a result, the performance metrics and weightings may vary in line with the Companys evolving strategy during the life of the policy.
The profit related element of annual bonus shall not be less than 50 per cent of the overall bonus opportunity.
38 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Long term incentives Purpose and link to The LTIP is the sole long term incentive mechanism and is intended to align the interests of the executives with Companys strategy the Groups long term performance, business strategy and broader interests of shareholders.
When granting awards under the LTIP the Committee generally takes into consideration the need to motivate and retain the executive directors and other participants.
The number of options conditional shares awarded, up to the maximum limit, is based on the average mid-market closing price of a share on the date preceding the date of award.
How it operates in Nil cost options or conditional shares are awarded annually.
Options are exercisable three years from, and practice within ten years of, the date of award.
Share awards vest on the third anniversary of the date of award.
A post vesting holding period of two years will apply to annual awards granted from 2015.
For US participants e. g. the CEO the award of conditional shares may be structured in the form of restricted stock units in order to comply with US tax rules on deferred compensation particularly in view of the holding period being introduced.
Recovery and withholding provisions similar to those described in respect of annual bonus payments but relating to the vesting of LTIP awards will apply from 2015 onwards.
Dividend rights: dividends will accrue during the three year performance period in respect of LTIP awards to the extent that they vest.
In the case of awards structured as nil cost options, dividends payable would only be paid when the options are exercised and when the employee becomes the beneficial owner of the shares.
Tax rules mean US participants will generally exercise and sell at least part of any options shares that vest on the date of vesting, in order to meet tax liabilities.
This will continue to be our practice for options shares not subject to the holding period.
Awards are subject to the achievement of challenging performance conditions and normally subject to continued service over the vesting period.
Maximum potential Chief Executive: 200 per cent of basic salary at the time of the award.
value Finance Director: 175 per cent of basic salary at the time of the award.
A higher limit of 250 per cent of basic salary may apply to annual awards made to new recruits.
Framework used to Awards are subject to achievement of financial EPS, ROCE or any other relevant company financial KPI and or assess performance relative TSR performance conditions measured over three financial years beginning with the financial year in which the award is made.
TSR will be measured against the constituents of a broad equity index, or a bespoke group of appropriate comparator companies.
In determining the target range for any financial measures that may apply, the Committee ensures they are challenging by taking into account current and anticipated trading conditions, the long term business plan and external market data.
For any financial performance condition, threshold vesting will start from 0 per cent and for any relative TSR performance condition, threshold vesting will start at 3.85 per cent.
In both cases this will increase on a straight line basis with 100 per cent vesting for achieving the stretch targets, which for the TSR performance condition will require at least upper quartile performance.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 39 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration policy report continued Pension Purpose and link to To aid retention and remain competitive in the marketplace.
Companys strategy To provide appropriate retirement benefits commensurate with local market practice, seniority of the role and tenure with the Company.
How it operates in Policy for new recruits is a contribution to a non-company pension scheme and or cash in lieu.
practice The policy for the Chief Executive and Finance Director is set out below.
Chief Executive An annual salary supplement of 20 per cent of basic salary and, for US employees, participation in two defined contribution schemes being: i a US 401 k Plan, which is similar to a money purchase scheme, and ii a Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan the Defined Contribution plans.
The latter plan mirrors the 401 k Plan except it allows for contributions in respect of pensionable remuneration over an annual compensation limit set by the US Internal Revenue Service 2015: $265,000.
The employer match under these two plans includes a regular match of up to four per cent of total pensionable remuneration and a supplemental match of up to four per cent, based on age and length of service.
Finance Director Since 30 November 2015, Brian Taylorson receives an annual salary supplement in lieu of any other pension provision other than pension previously accrued.
Maximum potential The policy for new executives is for a company contribution of up to 30 per cent of salary.
value Under the policy the maximum for the CEO is 20 per cent of his salary and up to 8 per cent of pensionable remuneration depending on the amount of personal contributions made into the Defined Contribution plans.
The maximum for the Finance Director since 30 November 2015 is an annual salary supplement of 30 per cent of his basic salary.
Legacy arrangements exist for existing employees.
Share ownership guidelines Purpose and link to To align an executives interests with those of shareholders and to encourage executives to participate and Companys strategy share in the long term success of the Group.
How it operates in Executive directors are expected to build up a shareholding in the Company that is equal in value to practice 200 per cent of their basic annual salaries.
Shares vesting from share awards, or transferred pursuant to an exercise of any option, granted under any share incentive or employee share saving scheme may not be sold other than to meet a tax liability until the above shareholding level has been met.
The Committee monitors compliance with these guidelines and can make changes to them from time to time.
Non-executive Chairman and directors fees Purpose and link to To attract individuals with the relevant skills, knowledge and experience that the Board considers necessary Companys strategy inorder to maintain an optimal mix that ensures the effectiveness of the Board as a whole in carrying out its duties and responsibilities.
How it operates in Non-executive directors fees are determined by the Chairman and the executive directors, having regard practice tofees paid to non-executive directors in other UK quoted companies and the time commitment and responsibilities of the role.
In the case of the Chairman, the fee level is determined by the Committee.
As well as taking into consideration the above factors, the Committee sets the fee at an appropriate level necessary to attract a role holder qualified to effectively lead the board of a company of a similar size and prestige as Elementis.
Fees will be reviewed annually with changes taking effect from 1 January in the following year.
Fees are payable in cash and non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in any pension, bonus orshare incentive schemes.
No individual is allowed to vote on his her own remuneration.
40 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Link between policy, strategy and structure Differences in executive remuneration policy compared to The remuneration policy is principally designed with the long other employees term success of the Company in mind and to incentivise the The Committee is made aware of pay structures across the wider Group executive directors and other members of the management team to when setting the remuneration policy for executive directors.
The execute effectively our corporate and business strategies, in order to Committee considers the general basic salary increase for the broader deliver our annual operating plans and sustainable year on year profitable Group and, in particular the employees based in the US, the UK and growth, as well as to generate and preserve value for our shareholders Europe, when determining salary increases for the executive directors.
over the longer term, without encouraging excessive levels of risk taking.
The principles and values that underpin our remuneration strategy are The same principles and values behind the design of remuneration for applied on a consistent basis for all our Group employees.
theexecutive directors and business presidents apply to other senior managers and employees throughout the rest of the Group, with It is our policy to reward all employees fairly, responsibly and by reference modifications to reflect local market practice and the level of seniority and to local market practices, by providing an appropriate balance between ability to influence Group performance.
Overall, the remuneration policy fixed and variable remuneration.
for executive directors is more heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other employees.
This ensures that there is a clear link between the The Committees policy is to adequately reward the directors if they meet value created for shareholders and the remuneration received by the or exceed the targets set under the variable components of their executive directors given it is the executive directors who are considered remuneration packages.
to have the greatest potential to influence shareholder value creation.
The remuneration structure for executive directors is made up of two The level of variable pay varies by level of employee within the Group and elements: fixed remuneration consisting of basic salary, benefits is informed by the specific responsibilities of each role and local market including for example non-contributory health insurance and life practice as appropriate.
assurance and pension provision, and variable remuneration annual bonus scheme and long term share incentives.
How the views of employees are taken into account The Group does not actively consult with employees on executive Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting remuneration.
The Group has a diverse workforce operating in nine The performance metrics that are used for annual bonus and long term different countries, with various local pay practices, which would make incentive plans are drawn from a suite of Company KPIs monitored by the any cost effective consultation impractical.
However, as noted above, Board that are closely linked to the financial KPIs on page 14. when setting the remuneration policy for executive directors, the Committee takes into account the pay and employment conditions for In the annual bonus scheme, PBT defined as reported Group profit other employees in the Group.
This process ensures that any annual before tax, before any non-recurring items is a clear measure of the increase to the basic pay of executive directors is not out of proportion Companys trading performance and AWC encourages the most efficient with that proposed for other employees.
use of working capital and ensures earnings are converted into cash.
These metrics are aligned with the Companys objectives and strategy.
Non-financial objectives and or performance metrics will form acomponent from 2016, based on Company specific business objectives, such as the achievement of specific strategic or operational goals.
With regards to long term performance targets, EPS growth or ROCE targets may be used and these are aligned with the long term levels of shareholder value creation and growth of the Company.
A relative TSR condition ensures that there is clear alignment between shareholders andexecutives.
Where appropriate, targets are set based on sliding scales that take account of internal planning and external data.
Only modest rewards are available for delivering performance at threshold levels or above with maximum rewards requiring out performance of our challenging plans approved at the start of each year.
The Committee keeps the EPS target range under annual review, for each new award, to ensure it continues to remain appropriate.
The Committee has not previously incorporated corporate or business performance in environmental, social and governance matters when setting targets in the variable parts of remuneration.
This will change this year with the introduction ofanon-financial component to the bonus plan that may include HSE or related operational objectives.
Fixed Fixed Annual Bonus Annual Bonus LTIP LTIP The table above illustrates the potential pay opportunities for executive directors under three different scenarios for 2016.
The CEOs remuneration has been converted into pounds sterling using the average exchange rate for 2015 $1.5326:1.00.
Fixed: Comprises fixed pay being the value of salary, benefits and pension benefits are included at the 2015 level and for the CEO, the employers matching contributions to Defined Contribution plans are included at the maximum level of eight per cent of salary.
On target: The amount receivable assumes performance in which 50 per cent of annual bonus is payable and 50 per cent of long term incentive awards vest.
Maximum: the maximum amount receivable should all stretch targets be met and vesting under both the annual bonus scheme and LTIP is 100percent.
When valuing the LTIP awards under the On target and Maximum scenarios, these are based on face value as a percentage of salary.
The LTIPs also relate to awards to be made in 2016 rather than any awards vesting in 2016.
For example, if the level of award forthe CEO is 200 per cent of basic salary, then the On-target scenario assumes that 50 per cent will vest and that value is included in the chart illustration.
LTIPs exclude any dividend rights and for the CEO excludes buy out awards.
Recruitment policy For executive director recruitment and or promotion situations, the Committee will follow the policy outlined below: Policy Element Basic salary Basic salary levels will be set in accordance with the Companys remuneration policy, taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual e. g. typically around market rates prevalent in companies of comparable size and complexity or salary levels may be set below this level e. g. if the individual was promoted to the Board.
Where it is appropriate to offer a below market rate of pay initially, a series of increases to the desired salary positioning may be given over the following few years subject to individual performance and development in the role.
New directors may be entitled to benefits such as life assurance, private medical health insurance, cover for dental costs, Benefits accidental death and disablement, long term disability and provision of either a company car for business and personal purposes or a car allowance, or any other appropriate benefit.
Where necessary the Committee may approve the payment of reasonable relocation expenses to facilitate recruitment for a maximum period of 12 months.
Pension A company contribution into a pension plan and or cash supplement of up to 30 per cent of salary.
Legacy pension arrangements for promotees which may include defined benefit or US style arrangements may continue to operate on their existing terms.
Annual bonus The annual bonus would operate as outlined for current executive directors but to aid recruitment where necessary the maximum bonus opportunity is 200 per cent of basic salary.
Bonus will be pro rated for the proportion of the year served.
Depending on the timing and responsibilities of the appointment it may be necessary to set different performance measures and targets initially.
42 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Policy Element Long term Awards under the LTIP will be granted in line with the policy outlined for the current executive directors on an annual incentives basis but to aid recruitment where necessary the maximum award is 250 per cent of basic salary.
An award may be made shortly after an appointment subject to the Company not being in a prohibited period.
For an internal hire, existing awards would continue over their original vesting period and remain subject to their terms as at the date of grant.
In addition, if the grant of awards for that individual precedes his or her appointment as a Board director forthat financial year, the Committees policy would include flexibility to top up awards for that year subject to the overall individual salary limit based on the executives new salary.
Buy out awards In the case of an external hire, if it is necessary to buy out incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would be forfeited on leaving the previous employer, this would be provided for taking into account the form cash or shares andtiming and expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria of the remuneration beingforfeited.
Replacement share awards may be granted using the Companys LTIP up to the individual limit or outside of the LTIP ifnecessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
Outside board appointments The Company may pay compensation in lieu of the notice period The Companys policy is to support an executive should he she wish to of his basic salary only, to be paid in monthly instalments take on an external board appointment, provided that there is no conflict pro rated for the actual notice period.
This would apply if the of interest and the role does not interfere with the executives commitment Company terminates his contract for any reason other than for orduties.
If an executive does take on an external appointment he she cause, or if he serves notice to terminate his contract in 12 may retain any fees paid and will be restricted generally to only one such months time.
Any entitlement to a bonus for any part of a financial year worked Service contracts including any period of notice worked prior to cessation of Executive directors service contracts contain a termination notice period employment is subject to the rules of the scheme and subject not exceeding 12 months.
Nobonus is payable for any period of notice notworked.
Name Date of contract Notice period Finance Director Paul Waterman, CEO 6 November 2015 12 months The maximum amount that would be payable to Brian Taylorson for Brian Taylorson, 5 June 2005 12 months payment in lieu of notice by the Company for any reason other than for Finance Director cause is an initial lump sum of 50 per cent of his basic salary and other benefits described below and up to a further 50 per cent payable in a The date of the service contract is not the same as the date of appointmentwhich for Paul Waterman was 8 February 2016 and lump sum after six months, subject to the Committee being satisfied that Brian Taylorson 2 April 2002. reasonable efforts to secure a new position have been made during the six months following termination.
Other benefits comprise: i the sums Policy on payment for loss of office that would normally be payable to him in respect of his pension benefits For the executive directors, the terms covering termination were pro rated according to notice period being given served, ii the cost agreed at the date their contracts were made and both are ofproviding private medical insurance for him, his spouse and any required to mitigate their loss in the event of loss of office by children under 21 for the 12 months following termination and iii his making efforts to secure a new position.
Payments in lieu of notice monthly car allowance for a 12 month period.
toboth the Chief Executive and Finance Director may be reduced or ceased if either secures a new position.
In the case of the Chief Executive, No bonus is payable for any period of notice not worked.
the payments will only be ceased if his salary in his new position is equal to ormore than his salary on termination: if not his monthly payments will The above summary only addresses contractual rights to payments in be reduced by the gross salary earned by the Chief Executive in his new lieuof notice, or during the relevant directors notice period, and may not position each month.
reflect any settlement or compromise sums which are separately agreed at the point of termination.
It is the Companys policy to follow current market practice and preclude the inclusion of any payment benefits, bonus or pension other than basic Committee discretion with regard to incentive plans salary in the calculation of termination payments and a notice period of For any outstanding LTIP awards these are governed by rules of the 12months.
Payments will be phased on a monthly basis over the planand only in limited circumstances is discretion permitted.
In such remaining notice period and the Committees position is to ensure circumstances, the Committee retains the use of discretion in its adirector mitigates the loss to the Company.
administration of the LTIP as contained in the plan rules.
Termination payments Chief Executive The maximum amount payable under Paul Watermans contract isbasic salary, benefits and pension for 12 months while he serves his notice period.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 43 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration policy report continued Committee discretion with regard to incentive plans continued Legacy matters In the specific event of loss of office any discretion exercised would Legacy awards or other commitments prior to the approval by depend on the circumstances at that time and the performance achieved shareholders of this policy report on 22 April 2015, including those during the performance period.
In the event of the death of an executive made prior to 27 June 2012 but not modified or renewed after that date, director and an award has not yet vested the Committee, acting in its to current or former directors may still be paid notwithstanding that they absolute discretion, may determine vesting from maturity rather than date have only been incorporated by reference and not been fully described in of death.
If an executive director ceases employment due to injury, ill this Remuneration policy report.
These legacy awards and commitments health, disability, redundancy within the meaning of UK legislation or its comprise the LTIP awards made in 2013 and 2014, as more fully overseas equivalent, transfer out of the Group sale of business or described in the Annual report on remuneration.
retirement with employers consent a Good Leaver event and an award has not yet vested the Committee acting in its absolute discretion may Non-executive directors terms of appointment allow early vesting at the date of cessation rather than at date of vesting.
Non-executive directors are appointed for a three year term, subject to All such awards would still be subject to performance conditions, which annual re-election by shareholders.
For non-executive directors who have the Committee may not waive, as well as pro rating for time which the served for nine years or more, they may be appointed for a further year at Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, may waive in part or in full if a time.
Each letter of appointment provides that the directors itconsiders acting fairly and reasonably it is appropriate to do so.
appointment can be terminated by the Company on six months notice onany grounds without claim for compensation.
Similar provisions apply in the event of a change of control, with performance measured up to the date of the relevant event and normally Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in any pension, scaling back pro rated for time.
bonus or share incentive schemes.
It is the Committees policy to exercise these discretions in a way that would be in the best interests of the Company and depending on the The table below provides further details of the letters of appointment that individual circumstances of each case.
the non-executive directors held with the Company during 2015.
The Company operates an annual cash bonus scheme in which Date of Date of last Name appointment re-appointment Date of expiry participation and payments are made subject to the discretion of the Committee.
It is the Committees policy is to exercise any discretion Non-executive directors intheCompanys best interests and depending on the individual A Duff 01 04 14 N A 19 04 17 circumstances of each case.
A Christie 11 08 08 11 08 14 10 08 17 S Good 20 10 14 N A 19 10 17 Following the introduction of bonus deferral requirements, the rules of A Hyland 01 06 13 N A 31 05 16 theannual bonus scheme have been amended to incorporate the deferral requirement as well as recovery and withholding provisions as N Salmon 20 10 14 N A 19 10 17 summarised in the remuneration policy table.
The rules will include discretion for the Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, to waive Copies of the executive directors service contracts and all letters of deferral on the occurrence of a Good Leaver event.
appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection at theCompanys registered office during normal business hours and will Under the amended rules of the LTIP, the holding period will apply to beavailable for inspection at the AGM.
allparticipants who receive awards unless the Committee determines otherwise in its discretion, for example for awards made to below Board Shareholder engagement level participants.
The holding period will expire on the earlier of two years The Committee encourages dialogue with the Companys shareholders and the date of specific events, such as a Good Leaver event or a change and would consult with major shareholders and shareholder of control, although the Committee does have discretion to end the representative bodies ahead of any significant future changes to holding period for any other reason.
This discretion will not be applied remuneration policy.
inaway that creates adverse tax consequences for US participants.
For US participants, grants under the LTIP and Deferred Share Bonus Plan will be treated as restricted stock units so as to result in deferral ofUS income tax until the shares are delivered to the participants.
However, US social security tax will apply to the value of the grants at vesting but not again on delivery of the shares.
In order to avoid adverse US tax consequences, certain of the LTIP and Deferred Share Bonus Plan rules otherwise applicable to the holding deferral period have been modified for US participants e. g. delivery of shares will result from any separation from service of the Company and its affiliates regardless of Good Leaver status.
44 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Annual report on remuneration This Annual report on remuneration shows how the Companys policies Annual bonus and practices on directors remuneration will be applied in 2016 and how The maximum bonus opportunity will be 150 per cent of basic salary they were applied in relation to payments in respect of the financial year forPaul Waterman and 125 per cent of basic salary for Brian Taylorson.
This report and the Chairmans annual statement on remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM.
Any bonus will be payable dependent on the achievement of financial and non-financial performance targets split 70:30.
The financial performance Implementation of remuneration policy for 2016 targets will be further split between a PBT and AWC condition weighted This first section of the Annual report on remuneration describes how the 80:20.
PBT is defined as reported Group profit before tax, before Committee intends to implement the remuneration policy for the financial non-recurring items, and AWC is the 12 month average working capital year ending 31 December 2016. tosales ratio expressed as a percentage.
For the PBT condition, the threshold, plan and stretch targets are set at levels considered to be Basic salaries sufficiently challenging and bonus accrual at these levels are 0 per cent, The Committee considered carefully salary increases for 2016 and 50 per cent and 100 per cent, respectively, and linear in between.
For decided to award Brian Taylorson a salary increase of 2.87% which is theAWC condition, a single operating plan target must be met for the inline with the levels of increases for the UK salaried workforce in 2015. bonus to vest.
Salary as at Salary as at For Paul Waterman and Brian Taylorson, the non-financial performance 1 January 2016 1 January 2015 Increase measures, which will be specific, measurable and objective, are linked Paul Waterman $825,000 n a tothe achievement of Company specific objectives.
Brian Taylorson 347,921 338,215 2.87% The Committee has discretion to modify the overall amount of bonus payable in exceptional circumstances and acting in the best interests Past directors ofthe Company.
David Dutro $875,500 $875,500 The Committee considers that the bonus targets are commercially or date of appointment if later sensitive and therefore plans to disclose them only on a retrospective basis in next years Directors remuneration report.
Pension and benefits For the year to 31 December 2016, Paul Waterman and Brian Taylorson Bonus payments are based on salaries at the time of payment.
will receive the benefits set out in the Remuneration policy report.
All employee share plans David Dutros remuneration in 2016 Executive directors will be entitled to participate in any all employee share David Dutro received his basic salary, benefits and pension pro rated plans on the same terms as any other eligible employee.
both up until his retirement as CEO at the end of 7 February 2016 and during the period when he was appointed Special Advisor to the Board from 8 February to 29 February 2016 inclusive, to ensure a smooth handover to Paul Waterman.
As explained elsewhere, he did not receive and will not be receiving any other payment, except for minor contractual payments, such as the reimbursement of expenses or accrued but unused holiday entitlements, or any payment made in accordance with the rules of any welfare or pension plan of which he may be a member asa former employee.
The treatment of his share based awards are explained in the Annual statement on remuneration on page 36.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 45 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual report on remuneration continued Implementation of remuneration policy for 2016 continued Buy out awards in respect of Paul Watermans recruitment LTIP As the LTIP awards will not be made until after the approval of this For the year to 31 December 2016, the CEOs and the Finance Directors Directors remuneration report, details will be disclosed in next years awards will be 200 per cent and 175 per cent, respectively, of their Annual Report.
A summary of the approach is given in the Annual basicsalaries.
statement on remuneration on page 36.
The performance targets that are intended to apply to the awards to be Non-executive directors remuneration granted in the current year are the same as for 2015 in respect of the For the year to 31 December 2016, the fees payable to the Chairman and TSRcondition and broadly similar in respect of the EPS condition.
non-executive directors will be the same as for 2015, as shown below: For the EPS condition, the chart shows that awards will vest on a linear 2016 2015 scale from 0 per cent to 100 per cent for average annual EPS growth of 3per cent to 10 per cent, respectively 2015: RPI 4 per cent to RPI Chairman 175,000 175,000 10per cent.
The removal of the UK RPI benchmark is considered Non-executive director 46,000 46,000 appropriate by the Committee in light of the global environment in which Additional fees: the Company operates and the population for LTIP awards.
The EPS Senior Independent Director 8,000 8,000 growth range has taken into account an assumption of the global Chairman of Audit or Remuneration inflationary environment and the range selected provides a strong link to Committee 8,000 8,000 the business strategy and is set at a level which the Committee is satisfied is no less challenging in the current environment than the target range set in previous years.
Vesting schedule: EPS performance condition Percentage of award subject to EPS performance vesting 100% vesting above 10% p. a.
100 80 60 Vesting schedule: EPS performance condition 40 Percentage of award subject to EPS performance vesting No vesting 20 100% vesting above 10% p. a. below 3% p. a.
40 No vesting 20 Vesting schedule: TSR performance condition For the T belS ow R c 3% o p. nd a. ition, the chart shows that awards will vest on a linear 0 P sc era clee f nta rg oe o m 3 f a. w 8a5 p rd se ub r c jec et t no T t to 1 SR p 0e 0 p rfore mr c anc ee v nt f es o tir m ng edian to upper quartile performance, respectively.
The TSR cond1 it 0io 0% v n w eisll b ting a e m t Ue pa ps er q uru ea d a rtile o ga r b in es ttte r 2% 3% 4% 5% 6% 7% 8% 9% 10% 11% 12% 100 the companies comprising the FTSE All Share Index excluding Average EPS growth % p. a.
60 Vesting schedule: TSR performance condition 40 Percentage of award subject to TSR performance vesting 20 100% vesting at Upper quartile or better 100 No vesting below Median 3.85% vesting at Median 0 80 Median Upper quartile 60 Elementiss position relative to the FTSE All Share index excluding investment trusts 40 20 No vesting below Median 3.85% vesting at Median 0 Median Upper quartile Elementiss position relative to the FTSE All Share index excluding investment trusts 46 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Remuneration payable to directors for 2015 Although the Company reports its results in US dollars the remainder of this report on remuneration is presented in pounds sterling because the majority of the directors are UK based and paid in pounds sterling.
His pension comprises 20 per cent of his salary and employer contributions to defined contribution pension schemes.
2 B rian Taylorsons pension in 2015 and 2014 comprises a salary supplement of 74 per cent of his salary, equivalent to the value of his previous pension arrangements, which decreased to 30 per cent from 30 November 2015.
3 Andrew Duff received pro rated fees in 2014, reflecting when he joined the Board and was appointed Chairman.
4 Steve Good received a pro rated fee in 2014, reflecting when he joined the Board.
5 Nick Salmon received pro rated fees in 2014, reflecting when he joined the Board and was appointed Senior Independent Director.
6 I ncluding former directors who also served during 2014, this amount becomes 1,220k, as disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report.
In addition, thestronger US dollar to pounds sterling exchange rate in 2015 compared to 2014 has impacted the salary comparison for David Dutro in the above table.
7 A s required by remuneration reporting regulations, the valuation of the executive directors LTIP awards for 2014 has been restated using the actual share price on the dateofvesting.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 47 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual report on remuneration continued Determination of annual bonus outcome for performance in 2015 This section shows the performance targets set in respect of the 2015 annual bonus scheme, the level of performance achieved and the amount of bonus payable to directors.
The maximum full year bonus opportunity was 150 per cent and 125 per cent of basic salary, respectively, for the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
Bonus received as % Relative FY 2015 bonus plan targets of basic salary weighting of performance Actual Chief Finance Full year bonus conditions Threshold Plan Stretch result Executive Director PBT $ million 80% 141.9 149.3 154.2 116.2 nil % nil % AWC % 20% 20.6 24.7 nil % nil % Total full year payment 100% nil % nil % Directors share based awards Determination of 2013 LTIP awards The awards made in 2013, shown in the table on page 49 headed Directors scheme interests, have a vesting date of 2 April 2016.
The performance conditions EPS and TSR, split 50:50 relate to performance over the three financial years ended 31 December 2015.
Under the EPS condition, all of the awards subject to that condition would have vested in full if EPS grew during the three financial years ended 2015 by an average of RPI 10 per cent p. a. or more.
Under the TSR condition, all of the awards subject to that condition would have vested in full if the Companys TSR performance against the FTSE All Share index excluding investment trusts in the three financial years ended 31 December 2015 was at or above upper quartile.
Over the performance period, the Companys EPS growth did not achieve the minimum growth threshold and its TSR performance was 16 per cent which placed it at the 27th percentile of companies in the FTSE All Share index.
Accordingly, none of the 2013 awards will vest on 2 April 2016 and the LTIP component of the total remuneration figure in the table on page 47 are valued at nil.
LTIP awards granted in the year LTIP awards made in 2015 are set out in the table below and are subject to EPS and TSR performance conditions split 50:50 over the three years to 31 December 2017.
For the EPS condition, the awards will vest on a linear scale from 0 per cent to 100 per cent for average annual EPS growth of RPI 4 per cent to 10 per cent, respectively.
For the TSR condition, the awards will vest on a linear scale from 3.85 per cent to 100 per cent for median to upper quartile performance, respectively.
The TSR condition will be measured against the companies comprising the FTSE All Share Index excluding investment trusts.
Type Face value of Percentage that would The end date of of share Number award at grant vest at threshold the performance 1 award Grant date of awards 000 performance period Nil cost option 27.04.15 324,230 1,010 David Dutro 0 per cent of the award subject to the restricted EPS condition and 3.85 per cent of the 31.12.17 stock unit award subject to the TSR condition Brian Taylorson Nil cost option 27.04.15 189,947 592 1 F or both David Dutro and Brian Taylorson this equates to 175 per cent of their basic salary.
The share price used to determine the number of awards granted was 311.60 pence being the average mid-market closing share price on the dealing day preceding the date of grant.
Details of awards in savings based share schemes are shown in the table right.
Sourcing shares for our share plans Employee share plans comply with Investment Association guidelines on dilution which provide that overall issuance of shares under all plans should not exceed an amount equivalent to 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital over any ten year period, with a further limitation of 5 per cent inany ten year period on discretionary plans.
Based on the number of awards that remain outstanding as at the year end, the Companys headroom forall plans is 4.5 per cent and for discretionary plans 3.8 per cent of issued share capital.
S avings based share options schemes are not subject to performance conditions.
David Dutros options are held under the US sharesave scheme and would ordinarily vest onthe second anniversary of the grant date and expire three months thereafter.
However, following his retirement, good leaver rules apply and he may exercise these options upuntil the end of April 2016 after which they will lapse.
B. L TIP awards are subject to performance conditions.
The same EPS growth and relative TSR performance conditions apply in respect of the awards made in 2013, 2014 and2015, as described in the Remuneration policy report.
These options ordinarily vest on the third anniversary of the grant date and would expire on the tenth anniversary.
Inrespect of David Dutros unvested LTIP awards, pro rating for time will only be applied to the 2015 awards shown above before scaling back.
Further details are explained inthe Annual statement on remuneration on page 36.
Directors share interests The interests of the directors including any connected persons during the year and from the year end to 1 March 2016 in the issued shares of the Company were: Share interests Shareholding requirement Acquired Disposed met as at 01.01.15 during 2015 during 2015 31.12.15 31.12.15 Executive directors 1 David Dutro retired as a director on 07.02.16 312,343 208,475 520,818 Yes Paul Waterman appointed a director on 08.02.16 N A 2 Brian Taylorson 443,778 3,000 440,778 Yes Non-executive directors Andrew Duff 50,000 50,000 N A Andrew Christie 10,000 10,000 N A Steve Good 10,000 10,000 N A Anne Hyland 10,000 10,000 N A Nick Salmon 10,000 10,000 N A Notes Or from date of appointment if later.
1 T he shares acquired by David Dutro comprise: i 2,722 shares retained following the exercise of savings based share options granted in 2013, which, valued at the share price on date of exercise of 233.10 pence, resulted in a notional gain of c. 150: ii 131,338 shares retained following the exercise and sale of 233,396 shares granted under the LTIP in2012 which partially vested at a price of 241.73 pence, giving a pre-tax gain of c. 564k: and iii 74,415 shares allocated to him following further investments made by the Elementis Unitised Stock Fund in connection with the US 401k pension plan, as announced on 19 June 2015.
2 B rian Taylorsons daughter who was a connected person when she first acquired the shares sold 3,000 shares which was held beneficially on 14 May 2015, as announced onthat date, at a price of 312.25 pence per share.
She was no longer a connected person when she sold the shares.
The market price of ordinary shares at 31 December 2015 was 229.10 pence 2014: 261.80 pence and the range during 2015 was 208.20 pence to320.50 pence 2014: 227.60 pence to 297.80 pence.
As at 1 March 2016, the Trustee of the Companys ESOT held 160,000 shares 2014: nil.
As executive directors, Paul Waterman and Brian Taylorson, aspotential beneficiaries under the ESOT, are deemed to have an interest in any shares that become held in the ESOT.
As at 1 March 2016, no person who was then a director had any interest in any derivative or other financial instrument relating to the Companys shares and, so far as the Company is aware, none of their connected persons had such an interest.
Between 31 December 2015 and 1 March 2016 there was no change in the relevant interests of any such directors nor, so far as the Company is aware, in the relevant interests of any of their connected persons.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 49 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual report on remuneration continued Directors share interests continued Other than their service contracts, letters of appointment and letters of indemnity with the Company, none of the directors had an interest in any contract of significance in relation to the business of the Company or its subsidiaries at any time during the financial year.
Retirement benefits The table below shows the breakdown of the retirement benefits of the executive directors, comprising employer contributions to defined contribution plans, accrued benefits under defined benefit schemes and salary supplements paid in cash.
The amount shown for David Dutro under defined contribution plans reflects total employer contributions in 2015.
The amounts paid under these plans were 53,032 2014: 52,206 equivalent to 9.3 per cent 2014: 6.0 per cent of his total pensionable remuneration in 2015.
The payment of a salary supplement is explained in the Remuneration policy report on page 40.
In addition, as a US salaried executive director, David Dutro participated in the Elementis Career Reward Retirement Plan ECRRP for US employees.
On 1 May 2006, the plan was frozen closed to future accruals.
The ECRRP isa cash balance retirement plan which falls under the category of defined benefit pension plans in the US.
As the plan is closed to future accruals, participants account balances are no longer credited with contributions, however, interest is credited each year at the US Treasury 30 year bond rate.
David Dutros accrued benefits under this plan are also shown in the table.
David Dutros normal retirement date under all his pension arrangements is 65.
The normal pensionable retirement age under the DB scheme for Brian Taylorson is 60.
Directors retirement benefits Defined contribution plans Salary supplement Defined benefit schemes Accrued Accrued benefits benefits 2015 2014 2015 2014 31.12.15 31.12.14 000 000 000 000 000 000 David Dutro 53 52 114 103 9 9 1 Brian Taylorson 238 243 57 56 1.
B rian Taylorson started drawing down his benefits from the UK defined benefit scheme with effect from his normal retirement date on 15 November 2015: the amount of 57k shown is therefore his accrued pension at his normal retirement date.
The change in accrued benefit is due to statutory revaluation rather than any accrual of benefits over the year.
Total shareholder return performance and change in CEOs pay The graph below illustrates the Companys total shareholder return for theseven years ended 31 December 2015, relative to the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts, along with a table illustrating the change in CEO pay over the same period.
The table also details the varying award vesting rates year on year for the annual bonus scheme and LTIP.
As the Companys shares are denominated and listed in pence, the graph below looks at the total return to 31 December 2015 of 100 invested in Elementis on 31 December 2008 compared with that of the total return of100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index.
This index was selected for the purpose of providing a relative comparison of performance because theCompany is a member of it.
TSR performance rebased to 100 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 CEO pay total remuneration 1,000 000s 576 1,031 2,964 3,560 2,252 1,573 763 800 600 Annual bonus award against maximum 400 opportunity 0% 100% 100% 81% 56% 50% 0% 200 0 LTIP vesting against maximum 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 opportunity 88% 0% 100% 100% 100% 65% 0% Key Elementis plc FTSE 250 Index 50 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Relative importance of spend on pay Other information about the Committees membership The table below shows the total remuneration paid across the Group and operation together with the total dividends paid in respect of 2015 and the Committee composition preceding financial year.
The Chairman and members of the Committee are shown on page 26, together with their biographical information.
Seven meetings were held Remuneration against distributions during 2015 and the attendance records of Committee members are shown on page 29.
All meetings were also attended by the Chairman m 2015 2014 change ofthe Board and the Senior Independent Director, to ensure that all non-executive Board members were kept fully informed on the operation Remuneration paid to all and work of the Committee.
The executive directors also attend meetings employees see Note 8 to the Consolidated financial by invitation, as appropriate, although they are not present when their 1 statements 67.4 66.8 1% ownremuneration arrangements are discussed or, if they are, they do notparticipate in the decision making process.
Total dividends paid in 2 theyear 46.0 38.0 21% The Committee receives information and advice from management from 1 T he amounts for 2015 and 2014 have been converted from dollars into pounds time to time when considering the implementation of remuneration policy, sterling using the average USD:GBP exchange rates for those years.
and so recognises the risk of potential conflicts of interest which it 2 2 015 and 2014 include a special dividend payment of $32.1 million 20.8 million manages byensuring that it meets without management present, when and $27.1 million 16.2 million respectively.
appropriate, and retains the services of external advisers see right.
Percentage change in CEOs pay Terms of reference The following table shows the change from 2014 to 2015 of the CEOs pay A full description of the Committees terms of reference is available on the with regard to the three elements set out below and the corresponding Companys website and the following is a summary of its responsibilities: change of these elements across all employees within the Group.
Determining the levels of remuneration for the Chairman and executive % Change from 2014 to 2015 directors and keeping these under review.
Salaries Benefits Bonus Making awards under the annual bonus scheme and LTIP, including CEO pay total remuneration 10.9% 13.6% 100% setting performance targets.
All employees 2.0% 5.0% 100% Monitoring and making recommendations on the design, structure andlevel of remuneration for all senior executives, ensuring that these A ll percentages are based on converting relevant local currencies into pounds are appropriately linked to the Groups strategy and aligned with the sterling using the average rates for the respective year.
C hange in bonus relates to payments in respect of the relevant financial years.
Evaluation, training and development Statement of shareholder voting On an annual basis the Committees effectiveness is reviewed as part The resolutions to approve the 2014 Directors remuneration policy and ofthe evaluation of the Board.
Following the evaluation last year, there Directors remuneration report excluding the remuneration policy were were no major issues to report.
passed on a poll at the Companys last AGM held on 22 April 2015.
Setout in the table below are the votes cast by proxy in respect of During 2015 Committee members attended various external seminars on thoseresolutions.
the latest developments on executive remuneration and all Board members received briefings from the Company Secretary and the Committees Approval of 2014 Directors remuneration resolutions remuneration advisers throughout the year, to keep them updated on topical matters and developments relating to executive remuneration.
% Votes % Votes Votes for for against against withheld Remuneration advisers Policy 322,589,945 98.93 3,497,051 1.07 24,478,522 The Committees external advisers are New Bridge Street NBS who Report 343,998,197 99.01 3,429,828 0.99 3,134,493 were appointed after a tender in 2008.
This was reviewed again in 2013 and as a result they were retained as advisers.
The Committee is satisfied Votes withheld are not included in the final figures as they are not that there is no over reliance on NBS, who have no connection with the recognised as a vote in law.
Company other than as remuneration advisers.
Total fees paid or payable to NBS in respect of 2015 amount to c. 15,000 for advisory services mainly in connection with assisting in the implementation of the changes made to incentive plans last year, structuring a remuneration package forthe new CEO and reviewing the Directors remuneration report for compliance with regulations.
Auditable sections of the Directors remuneration report The sections of the Annual report on remuneration that are required to be audited by law are as follows: Remuneration payable to directors for 2015: and tables headed LTIP awards granted in the year, Directors scheme interests, Directors share interests and Directors retirement benefits.
Andrew Christie Chairman, Remuneration Committee 1 March 2016 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 51 DIRECTORS REPORT Report and financial statements Employee communications and involvement The directors submit their report and the audited financial statements The Group has processes in place for communicating with all its forthe year ended 31 December 2015. employees.
Employee communications include information about the performance of the Group, on major matters affecting their work, This Directors report includes the Corporate governance reports from employment or workplace and to encourage them to get involved in pages 28 to 51. socialor community events.
Strategic report, future development, GHG emissions and R&D As is common practice, the Company operates savings based share The Strategic report, which the Company is required under law to option schemes in the US and UK to encourage employees to become prepare, can be found on pages 2 to 25.
That report, which forms shareholders and share in the success of the Group.
partofthis Directors report, also includes information about: a futuredevelopments in the business of the Group and Going concern b greenhouse gasemissions.
The directors have assessed the Group as a going concern, having given consideration to the factors likely to affect its future performance and The Group undertakes, on a continuing basis, R&D activities for new development, the Groups financial position and the principal risks and products and to improve existing products.
uncertainties facing the Group, including the Groups exposure to credit, liquidity and market risk and the mechanisms for dealing with these risks.
Takeover directive disclosures The management report, for the purposes of the UK Listing Authoritys The Groups net cash position at the year end of 2015 was $74 million and Disclosure and Transparency Rules, comprises the following sections: it has access to a syndicated revolving credit facility of $100 million, which theStrategic report, this Directors report, the Directors responsibility expires in October 2018.
There is a mechanism in the agreement for the statement and the biographical information on the directors on pages facility to be increased by a further $100 million subject to other terms.
Under this principal borrowing facility, the Group performs covenant tests Dividend for net debt:EBITDA ratio, interest cover and net worth.
No breaches in Details about the final dividend for the year, as well as a special dividend, the required covenant tests were reported during the year.
The Group also are disclosed in the Chairmans statement on page 2. uses various short and medium term forecasts to monitor anticipated future compliance and these include stress testing assumptions to identify Directors and their share interests the headroom on these covenant tests.
The directors of the Company who served during the whole of 2015 were Andrew Duff, Andrew Christie, David Dutro, Steve Good, Anne Hyland, The directors are satisfied that, after considering all of the above, it is Nick Salmon and Brian Taylorson.
appropriate for the Group and the Company to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing these Group and the parent company The interests of directors in the share capital of the Company are set out financial statements, and that there are no material uncertainties to the in the Directors remuneration report.
ability of the Group and Company to continue to do so over a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
Employment policies and equal opportunities The Group is an inclusive and equal opportunity employer that relies on Business viability statement HR specialists throughout its worldwide locations to ensure compliance In accordance with Corporate Governance Code provision C. 2.2, the with all applicable laws governing employment practices and to advise directors have reviewed the Groups current position and carried out onall HR policies and practices, including for example recruitment and arobust assessment of the principal risks and uncertainties that might selection, training and development, promotion and retirement.
threaten the business model, future performance, solvency and liquidity ofthe Group, including our resilience to such threats, and consider that Elementis policies seek to create a workplace that has an open they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to atmosphere of trust, honesty and respect.
Harassment or discrimination continuein operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over a period of any kind based on race, colour, religion, gender, age, national origin, of at least three years.
citizenship, mental or physical disabilities, sexual orientation, veteran status, or any other similarly protected status is not tolerated.
This A period of three years was chosen as being consistent with the Groups principle applies to all aspects of employment from recruitment and business and financial planning models, R&D plans, a number of key promotion, through to termination and all other terms and conditions supply contracts and external borrowing facilities, and three years is the ofemployment.
period used for mid-term business planning purposes.
Whilst the directors have no reason to believe that the Group will not be viable over a longer It is Group policy not to discriminate on the basis of any unlawful criteria period, a three year period allows the directors to make the viability and its practices include the prohibition on the use of child or forced statement with a reasonable degree of confidence whilst providing labour.
Employment policies are fair and equitable and consistent with shareholders with an appropriate longer term outlook.
The directors theskills and abilities of the employee and the needs of the business.
viability assessment of the Groups prospects is based on reviews of Employees are free to join a trade union or participate in collective annual operating and three year business plans, the Groups strategy, bargaining arrangements.
principal risks and how these are managed and mitigated.
How these reviews were carried out, the principal risks and how they are being It is also Group policy, for employees who have a disability, to provide managed are more fully described and explained in the risk management reasonable accommodation under normal terms and conditions, where section of the Strategic report on pages 15 to 19, together with relevant practicable, and to provide training, career development and promotion, assumptions and qualifications.
Elementis supports the wider fundamental human rights of its employees worldwide, as well as those of our customers and suppliers, and further details are set out in the Corporate responsibility report.
52 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Share capital Auditors The Companys share capital consists of ordinary shares, as set out in As explained in the Audit Committee report, the Board initiated an audit Note 10 to the Parent company financial statements on page 95.
All of the tender process during 2015.
Consequently, KPMG LLP, which has acted Companys issued ordinary shares are fully paid up and rank equally in all as the Companys auditors since June 2014, will be retiring at the AGM respects.
The rights attached to them, in addition to those conferred on once the report and accounts for 2015 have been received.
The their holders by law, are set out in the Companys articles of association statement of circumstances from KPMG on ceasing to hold office the Articles.
Other than those specific provisions set out in the Articles, required by the Companies Act 2006 will be attached to the Notice there are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on the ofMeeting.
exercise of voting rights attached to them.
From time to time the ESOT holds shares in the Company for the purposes of various share incentive Following an audit tender process, the Board is recommending that plans and the rights attaching to them are exercised by independent Deloitte LLP be appointed the Companys auditors and a resolution to trustees, who may take into account any recommendation by the appoint Deloitte as the auditors of the Company will be proposed at the Company.
As at 31 December 2015 the ESOT held 160,000 shares in forthcoming AGM to be held on 27 April 2016.
Details about this proposal theCompany 2014: nil.
A dividend waiver is in place in respect of all are set out in the Notice of Meeting accompanying this Annual Report.
shares that may become held by the Trust.
Each director in office at the date of this Directors report confirms that: Directors, Articles and purchase of shares a so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which The directors powers are conferred on them by UK legislation and by the the Companys auditors are unaware: and b he she has taken all the Companys Articles.
Rules about the appointment and replacement of steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself directors are also set out in the Articles.
herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Board has the power conferred on it by shareholders to purchase its own shares and is seeking renewal of that power at the forthcoming AGM Political donations within the limits set out in the Notice of Meeting.
The Group made no political donations during the year 2014: nil.
A resolution is being proposed at the 2016 AGM to renew the authorisation Significant agreements change of control from shareholders for the Company and its subsidiaries to make political There are few significant agreements which the Company is party to donations or incur political expenditure up to a maximum annual limit of thattake effect, alter or terminate in the event of change of control of the 50,000.
Information about this proposal is explained in the Notice of Company.
The Company is a guarantor under the Groups $100 million Meeting accompanying this Annual Report.
revolving credit facility and, in the event of a change of control, any lender among the facility syndicate, of which there are four with commitments Directors conflicts of interest ranging from $20 million to $30 million, may withdraw from the facility Since 2008 Brian Taylorson, who is Finance Director and a trustee of the andthat lenders participation in any loans drawn down are required Elementis Group Pension Scheme, has been the only director who is in toberepaid.
receipt of a conflict authorisation from the Company.
The conflict authorisation enables him to continue to act as a trustee notwithstanding The rules of the Companys various share incentive schemes set out that this role could give rise to a situation in which there is a conflict of theconsequences of a change of control of the Company on the rights interest.
The conflict authorisation is subject to annual review by the Board ofthe participants under those schemes.
Under the rules of the respective and was renewed during 2015 for another year.
The terms of the conflict schemes, participants would generally be able to exercise their options authorisation have remained unchanged since 2008. ona change of control, provided that the relevant performance conditions have been satisfied and, where relevant, options are not exchanged for Other information new options granted by an acquiring company.
Information about financial risk management and exposure to financial market risks are set out in Note 21 to the financial statements on page 77.
Substantial shareholders As at 1 March 2016 the Company had been notified, in accordance with Annual General Meeting Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests The nineteenth AGM of the Company will be held on Wednesday 27 April in its issued ordinary capital: 2016.
The Notice of Meeting is included in a separate document sent to shareholders.
Percentage of Ordinary issued ordinary By order of the Board shares share capital AXA Investment Managers S. A.
47,357,924 10.23 Standard Life Investments Limited 29,345,109 6.34 Wai Wong Company Secretary APG Asset Management N. V. 23,136,223 5.01 1 March 2016 Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 23,089,702 5.00 Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group 22,776,706 4.92 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2015 53
