Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 59 for the year ended 30 September 2015 Directors Remuneration Report Overall performance has generated annual bonus pay-outs Information not subject to audit: for the executive directors in respect of the 2015 financial ANNUAL STATEMENT year in the range of 61% to 63% of weighted average base salary, compared with for the current executives Dear Shareholders, between 71% to 73% in the prior year.
Further details I am pleased to introduce our Remuneration Report for the are provided on page 74 on how performance under the 2015 financial year.
annual bonus targets translated into bonus payments.
The performance and matching awards granted under the Business performance and Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP in respect of plan year incentive impact 2011 met the threshold total shareholder return TSR In the year under review the business completed the target and vested in full in January 2015.
In accordance stabilisation of the leased and tenanted estate via with the applicable regulations, we are required to show operational improvements demonstrated by positive the full award in the single figure of remuneration table in like-for-like income growth delivered for the second the Annual Report on Remuneration, although only oneconsecutive year.
In February 2015 shareholders approved third of the awards became exercisable in January 2015: the structure of new share plans relating to executive the remaining two-thirds will become exercisable in equal directors annual bonus and Long-Term Incentive tranches in January 2016 and January 2017, subject to the arrangements together with a new policy on Directors continued employment of the executives.
In May 2015 we announced the outcome granted in respect of plan year 2012, which are based on of a strategic review which aims to unlock the embedded TSR performance to December 2015, will be measured at value in every asset within our property portfolio, using the the end of the performance period.
most appropriate operating model to secure the optimum level of income.
Every asset within the portfolio will either Incentive review be operated within the tied tenancy model, diverted to The Remuneration Committees the Committee key our new managed business, let as commercial premises focus is to reward management appropriately but not or, where the route to optimal value is disposal, will be excessively and to incentivise them to deliver the primary earmarked for future sale.
This represents a complete target for our shareholders that of improved shareholder overhaul of our business model.
Our 2020 strategy represents the most significant Officer and his management team have worked closely change in the history of our business and the core with the Board to launch the new strategy and with it focus for management over the next five years.
As a the clearly stated goal to deliver a new business with consequence, the Committee has taken a fresh look at significantly improved earnings potential and growth in the remuneration policy in light of the new strategy and shareholder value.
has reviewed the incentive arrangements to ensure that they are aligned with the new strategy.
If the strategy is The Company is making good progress implementing delivered effectively, the outcome will be a smaller estate, the strategic plan.
Work has continued to reinvigorate our comprising higher quality assets, generating a greater core tied leased and tenanted business, introducing more level of average EBITDA and resulting returns per asset.
flexibility and continuing to attract ambitious publicans to The overall objective is to progressively reduce the gap run their own businesses in our estate.
The operational between our share price and net asset value to deliver focus has continued to be on improving publican increased shareholder value.
We have been through a profitability which has helped deliver an 18% reduction in rigorous process, supported by our advisers, to arrive at business failures in the year under review.
The expansion what we consider to be a robust and commercial approach of the managed business progresses well with 35 trading to take us to 2020. pubs at 30 September 2015 and a pipeline in place going forward which should accelerate the growth.
The growth Given the changes proposed to the incentive in the commercial property portfolio has continued where arrangements the Company will be seeking a binding vote we incur minimal overhead and require lower capital at its forthcoming AGM on a new policy to implement the expenditure.
2020 reward structure, which is to take effect from the date of the AGM.
Shareholder approval will also be sought The Group is committed to working in partnership with its for an amendment to the rules of the 2015 LTIP, necessary publicans to unlock the potential of every one of its pubs, to reflect that reward structure and policy.
The changes are which will be achieved by ensuring each pub is at the heart described in this report and have been developed following of the community it serves, and providing the right retail consultation with our major shareholders.
offer for its customers and under the optimal operating model for the location.
com Stock code: ETI Enterprise Inns AR2015 Back.
indd 59 07 12 2015 17:24:42 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 60 Directors Remuneration Report In summary, these changes to the Directors Remuneration Policy are as follows Policy change Rationale Incentive opportunity: quantum and time horizon Annual bonus and LTIP Annual bonus potential to be increased to 150% The increased incentive opportunity is positioned between upper of salary for each of the Companys 2016, 2017 and quartile and median for the LTIP and around upper quartile as 2018 financial years compared to a current policy regards the annual bonus opportunity compared to the FTSE 250. limit of 125% and a maximum bonus opportunity for 2015 of The Committee strongly believes this to be appropriate given: 100%.
the significant ambition in the 2020 strategy as outlined above: 50% of any bonus earned above target will continue to be the fact that the increase in quantum is also being combined deferred into shares for three years.
with additional stretch in performance required to deliver this LTIP opportunity for the Companys 2016 financial year to be quantum, as discussed below : and increased to 175% of salary compared with a current policy this also recognises that we are recruiting at our Executive limit of 150% of salary and 2015 grants of 125% of salary Management Group level to ensure that we have the skill set based on up to a three month average share price up to the we need internally to deliver on our strategy and we need date of grant.
to be confident that we can continue to attract high calibre That number of shares will then be fixed for the grants in management and, importantly, to retain the existing strong respect of the Companys 2017 and 2018 financial years.
management team to deliver the 2020 strategy.
Awards will continue to vest after a three year performance The fixed number of LTIP shares for the 2017 and 2018 awards period and be released in three tranches on the third, fourth aligns the executives with shareholders by reference to movement and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.
For the avoidance of doubt, the number of shares will not be increased if the share price falls.
The Company intends to seek shareholder approval for a new Directors Remuneration Policy no later than its 2019 AGM, and anticipates that policy would revert to market median levels of incentive opportunity.
Incentive opportunity: metrics Annual bonus and LTIP In accordance with the 2015 bonus opportunity, a bonus of The strategic goals aligned to the 2020 strategy on which the up to 80% of salary may be earned based on EPS targets additional annual bonus opportunity are based will be key lead and up to 20% of salary subject to individual personal and indicators and the Committee firmly believes these will have a good strategic targets.
Up to an additional 50% of salary may be line of sight for the management team.
earned based on strategic goals aligned to the achievement of the 2020 strategy.
LTIP awards will vest based on stretching targets relating to TSR and ROCE remain relevant performance metrics for the relative TSR, Return on Capital Employed ROCE and Free Company.
FCF is added as a performance metric to provide a Cash Flow FCF.
key measurement of the output of the 2020 strategy as well as providing a link to debt reduction and opportunity to deliver value to shareholders.
indd 60 07 12 2015 17:24:42 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 61 for the year ended 30 September 2015 Policy change Rationale Incentive opportunity: targets LTIP targets have been calibrated so that management will Reducing the threshold level of vesting maintains broadly the same not receive substantially more for delivering the same level of vesting percentage of salary at threshold as under the 2015 LTIP performance as under the current policy.
The threshold level of vesting for LTIP awards has been Participants will not receive substantially more for delivering the reduced from 25% of maximum opportunity to 20% of same level of performance.
The additional stretch targets for the increased LTIP opportunity Delivering stretch TSR performance upper quartile and to vest reflect the ambitious strategy and are considered a real stretch ROCE performance budget 1% in line with the challenge to deliver.
2015 LTIP, and achieving stretch FCF targets delivers the same value as under the maximum 2015 LTIP award 125% of salary.
Additional stretch for the maximum enhanced LTIP opportunity will be based on delivering upper quintile TSR performance and additional stretch FCF performance.
Base salary It is intended that any increases in executive directors base This commitment was made to shareholders as part of our dialogue salaries would not exceed increases awarded to the wider with them in formulating the new policy.
workforce, and any increase awarded would be based on merit.
Shareholding guidelines Increase the required shareholding policy to 200% of salary Further aligns the interests of executive directors with those of for the CEO and 150% of salary for the CFO.
shareholders and promotes long-term stewardship.
The Committee believes these changes are in the The Committee recognises the expectations of our best interests of the Company and fully support the shareholders on executive pay and we were pleased that execution of our new strategy.
the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report received a 99.96% vote in favour at the last AGM and the policy report a We remain firmly committed to a responsible 97.82% vote in favour, along with good support for the new approach in respect of executive pay.
Salary reviews share plans at the 2015 AGM.
At the AGM to be held on for the executive directors have not yet been 11 February 2016, shareholders are invited to approve the conducted for the financial year ending 30 September Directors Remuneration Policy, Directors Remuneration 2016.
Any reviews will be effective on 1 January 2016 Report and the amendment to the rules of the 2015 LTIP and I anticipate increases, if any, would be modest, as necessary to reflect the new Directors Remuneration Policy.
they were last year, and as referred to above they will be in line with the Groups average pay increase and Peter Baguley prevailing market conditions.
Other benefits, including Chairman, Remuneration Committee pension provision, will be maintained at existing levels or by reference to existing percentages of base salary as applicable.
indd 61 07 12 2015 17:24:42 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 62 Directors Remuneration Report Role of the Committee The Committee is responsible for considering and making recommendations to the Board on the: general policy on executive and senior management remuneration: overall remuneration packages for executive directors including base salary, pensions, benefits and performancerelated short-term and long-term incentives: Chairmans remuneration: and design and operation of the Companys share incentive plans.
The Committee reports to the Board on how it has discharged its responsibilities and operates within agreed terms of reference, a copy of which is available on the Companys website or on request from the Company Secretary.
Details of the members of the Committee and of the advisers to the Committee are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 72.
POLICY ON EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION The Committee regularly reviews the executive directors individual performance and aligns the rewards of executive remuneration packages to ensure that they take account directors with the long-term interests of the shareholders of the Companys specific circumstances and are aligned and the Companys strategic goals.
to the Companys key strategic objectives as set out in Directors remuneration policy the Strategic Report on pages 02 to 38.
In formulating the This report has been prepared in accordance with the remuneration policy, the Committee: provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 considers market practice both in terms of the size and of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups structure of executive remuneration : Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
takes into consideration pay practices elsewhere within This report sets out the Companys remuneration policy the Group: for 2016 and beyond.
A binding resolution to approve this policy will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
encourages open dialogue and consults with major shareholders when looking to make material changes to How the views of shareholders are taken the remuneration policy: into account ensures that incentive structures for executive directors The Committee takes into account the views of do not raise any environmental, social or governance shareholders.
This year the Committee Chairman has risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible discussed the proposed changes to the policy, relevant behaviour: and metrics and proposed uplift in the level of awards with ensures with regard to the overall remuneration major shareholders and governance bodies.
The response structure, there is no restriction on the Committee and feedback has helped to formulate the design, level which prevents it from taking into account and metrics of the new proposed policy.
Details of votes environmental, social or governance matters or indeed cast for and against the resolutions to approve last years any other operational financial risks that relate to the Remuneration Report and Directors Remuneration Policy Companys business.
and the new share plans approved at the 2015 AGM are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages The Committee continues to believe that the policy and 80 and 81. approach described more fully in the policy table allows the Company to operate the remuneration arrangements How employees pay is taken into in a way which promotes the long-term success of the account Company and remains both relevant and appropriate in The Committee liaises with senior managers in the terms of the balance between: Group, in particular the HR Director, to ensure pay and fixed and variable pay, ensuring a significant proportion employment conditions e. g. base salary levels and of the overall remuneration package is performancereviews, pension provision, the structure of annual related: bonuses and long-term incentive provision and other short-term and long-term incentive pay: and benefits of the wider Group as a whole are taken into account when framing the executive remuneration policy.
However, the Committee has not specifically consulted The Committee also believes that the performance-related with employees when drawing up the policy or used any elements provide rewards which reflect an appropriate remuneration comparison measures between directors balance between the performance of the Group and and employees.
indd 62 07 12 2015 17:24:42 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 63 for the year ended 30 September 2015 Remuneration policy at a glance The charts below illustrate the remuneration of the CEO and CFO.
They show that the performancerelated elements of the package comprise a very significant portion of the executive directors total remuneration.
Simon Townsend Neil Smith 2,200,000 2,120,000 2,200,000 2,000,000 2,000,000 1,800,000 1,800,000 1,734,000 38% 1,600,000 1,600,000 38% 1,400,000 1,400,000 1,121,000 1,200,000 1,200,000 15% 1,000,000 1,000,000 919,000 33% 15% 800,000 31% 800,000 33% 609,000 31% 600,000 600,000 502,000 400,000 400,000 100% 54% 29% 100% 54% 29% 200,000 200,000 0 0 Minimum Performance Maximum Minimum Performance Maximum performance in line with performance performance in line with performance expectations expectations Base salary, benets and pension Annual bonus LTIP Base salary, benets and pension Annual bonus LTIP Reward scenarios Performance in line Minimum performance with expectations Maximum performance Fixed pay Salary benefits 25% of salary pension contribution Annual bonus including No bonus pay-out 75% of salary awarded 150% of salary awarded amount deferred into 50% of maximum opportunity 100% of maximum opportunity shares LTIP No LTIP vesting Award over 35% of salary Award over 175% of salary vesting 20% of maximum vesting 100% of maximum The charts illustrate the potential rewards available under the remuneration policy for the 2016 financial year as summarised in the table above.
The values assume a constant share price and do not take into account share price fluctuation or dividends dividend equivalents that may be received on the share awards.
Therefore the amounts that ultimately vest to directors under the deferred shares and LTIP arrangement may be higher or lower than set out above.
The potential monetary rewards available for performance in line with expectations under the annual bonus and LTIP are provided for illustration only and do not reflect formal policy decisions that these amounts are received.
Although the percentage of salary delivered for performance in line with expectations is greater under the policy for 2016 than under the policy for 2015, the Committee has calibrated the performance targets such that management will not receive substantially more under the 2016 policy for delivering the same level of performance.
Salary levels on which other elements of the package are calculated are based on those applying from 1 January 2015 onwards 464,600 for Simon Townsend and 378,750 for Neil Smith.
The value of taxable benefits is based on the cost of supplying those benefits as disclosed in the table on page 73 for the year ended 30 September 2015.
The executive directors can also participate in all-employee share schemes on the same basis as other employees.
The value that may be received under these schemes is subject to limits specified in the relevant tax legislation.
For simplicity, the value that may be received from participating in these schemes has been excluded from the above charts.
indd 63 07 12 2015 17:24:43 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Total remuneration Total remuneration Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 64 Directors Remuneration Report Policy table Remuneration element Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Base salary Core element of fixed Salaries are ordinarily reviewed annually, with any changes normally taking effect from There is no maximum salary level set.
For directors in office Not applicable.
remuneration reflecting 1 January each year.
as at the date of approval of this policy, it is intended that any the individuals role and increases in base salary would not exceed increases awarded experience.
to the wider workforce, and any increase awarded would be based on merit.
When considering salary levels and whether any increase should be offered, the Committee takes into account a variety of factors including: Company performance, individual performance, experience and responsibilities, promotion, relevant market information and the % level of increase being offered to the wider workforce.
Benefits To provide a market Benefits normally comprise a car allowance or use of a motor car, fuel, private medical, No maximum value is set but the Committee periodically Not applicable.
competitive reward travel, accident and legal expenses insurance, directors and officers insurance and monitors the overall value of the benefits package and package and promote the life assurance.
The benefit provision is reviewed periodically.
Other benefits may be provides benefits at a level which the Committee considers well-being of employees.
provided based on individual circumstances, which may include relocation costs.
to be appropriately positioned taking into account relevant market levels based on the nature and location of the role and individual circumstances.
SIP and All-employee offers to The SIP and SAYE schemes are reviewed annually and if offered are offered to all An executive director can participate by paying up to 500 Matching shares granted under the SIP are subject to a holding SAYE motivate and to facilitate eligible employees.
per month or such other limit as may be permitted under the period prescribed under relevant legislation and continued share ownership.
relevant legislation SAYE and 1,800 per annum or such employment, but no other performance conditions.
other limit as may be permitted under the relevant legislation SIP into these tax advantaged all-employee schemes.
Under the SIP the Company may match the shares up to a 2 for 1 basis or such other basis as may be permitted under the relevant legislation.
Pension To aid retention and to Contribution to a personal pension arrangement or cash in lieu of pension by way of a 25% of salary.
remain competitive in the salary supplement or a combination thereof.
Annual To motivate executives Performance targets are reviewed annually and any pay-out is determined by the The maximum bonus potential is 150% of salary for the CEO The bonus is normally based on a mix of financial targets and bonus plan and incentivise the Committee after the year end based on targets set for the year.
and the CFO in respect of each of the Companys 2016, 2017 individual strategic and or personal objectives, with financial achievement of key and 2018 financial years.
performance normally accounting for a majority of the overall bonus The Committee has discretion to amend the pay-out should any formulaic output not financial and strategic opportunity.
No bonuses will be payable unless a minimum level of reflect the Committees assessment of overall business performance.
Dividend equivalents in cash or shares may be paid on goals and targets over the financial performance has been achieved.
vested shares under Deferred Share Awards in respect of 50% of any bonus earned above the bonus earned for target performance will be financial year.
dividends that would have been paid on vested shares in Notwithstanding the achievement of the performance targets, any deferred into shares for three years Deferred Share Award, although the Committee Deferral of part of the respect of dividend record dates occurring between the grant bonus payable will be determined by the Committee in accordance may determine not to defer any amount of a bonus earned where the amount to be bonus into shares date and the date of vesting.
The dividend equivalents may with the plan rules, including the Committees right to exercise its deferred is so small as to make, in the opinion of the Committee, the application of provides alignment with assume the reinvestment of dividends.
discretion fairly and reasonably in any circumstances which the deferral unduly administratively burdensome.
Directors may be permitted to defer a shareholders.
Committee considers it appropriate to do so.
greater proportion of any bonus into a Deferred Share Award.
Dividend equivalents may be paid on vested shares under Deferred Share Awards as described in the The element of the bonus subject to financial measures will Opportunity column.
be earned between 0% and 100% for performance between a threshold level of performance the minimum level of performance Deferred Share Awards may vest early in the event of a change of control or other that results in any pay-out and maximum performance, with 50% of relevant corporate event or on cessation of employment, as described on pages 68 the maximum opportunity for target performance.
Vesting of the bonus in respect of strategic and individual objectives Clawback may be applied, at the discretion of the Committee, in the event of will be between 0% and 100% of the maximum opportunity for material misconduct, material misstatement of results, a calculation error and or poor those elements based on the Committees assessment of the extent information used when calculating the reward outcome.
to which the relevant objective has been met.
In addition, in the case of Deferred Share Awards granted in respect of bonuses Details of the performance targets set for the year under review and from 2015 onwards, at any time prior to the third anniversary of the award date, the performance against them are provided on page 74 of the Annual Committee may reduce or cancel a Deferred Share Award or impose further conditions Report on Remuneration, together with details of the bonus metrics on such an award in the event of material misstatement of results, a material failure of to be used for the forthcoming financial year.
risk management or serious reputational damage.
indd 64 07 12 2015 17:24:43 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 65 for the year ended 30 September 2015 Policy table Remuneration element Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Base salary Core element of fixed Salaries are ordinarily reviewed annually, with any changes normally taking effect from There is no maximum salary level set.
indd 65 07 12 2015 17:24:43 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 66 Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration element Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance metrics LTIP To motivate executives Annual awards of performance shares are made which are based on performance over An LTIP award may be granted to an executive director Performance measures for LTIP awards granted in respect of the and incentivise delivery three years and vest after three, four and five years in equal tranches.
in respect of each of the Companys 2016, 2017 and 2018 Companys 2016, 2017 and 2018 financial years will be based on of performance over the financial years over a fixed number of shares.
The number ROCE, TSR and FCF.
The performance awards will be granted in accordance with the rules of the LTIP, as long-term and to facilitate will be such number of shares as have a market value at the approved by shareholders, and the discretions contained therein.
Awards will vest at 20% of maximum for threshold performance, share ownership.
date of the awards in respect of the 2016 financial year equal increasing to 100% of maximum for maximum performance.
Dividend equivalents may be paid on vested shares under LTIP awards as described in to 175% of the executive directors base salary.
For these the Opportunity column.
No vesting will occur in respect of the relative TSR measure where purposes, the market value of a share will be determined by performance is below median.
Clawback may be applied, at the discretion of the Committee, in the event of the Committee which may calculate the number of shares material misconduct, material misstatement of results, a calculation error and or poor The performance measures for awards to be granted under the 2015 by reference to an average share price over a period of up to information used when calculating the reward outcome.
LTIP in respect of the Companys 2016 financial year are set out on three months.
The number of shares over which an award pages 81 and 82. may be granted in respect of any financial year may be varied In addition, at any time prior to the third anniversary of the end of the period over by the Committee to take account of any variation in the which the applicable performance condition is measured, the Committee may reduce Ordinarily, LTIPs are subject to continued employment and vest in Companys share capital, demerger or other similar event or cancel an award or impose further conditions on an award in the event of material equal tranches after three, four and five years.
which in the opinion of the Committee may affect the market misstatement of results, a material failure of risk management or serious reputational value of the shares.
Dividend equivalents in cash or shares may be paid on vested shares under LTIP awards in respect of dividends that would have been paid on vested shares in respect of dividend record dates occurring between the grant date and the date of vesting.
The dividend equivalents may assume the reinvestment of dividends.
Chairman To attract and retain nonOrdinarily, the Chairman and non-executive directors remuneration takes the form Details of the current fee levels are set out in the Annual Not applicable.
and nonexecutive directors of the solely of fees.
The Chairmans fee is approved by the Board on the recommendation Report on Remuneration on page 72. executive right calibre.
Fees for the non-executive directors are approved by the Board, The fee levels are reviewed periodically taking into account directors on the recommendation of the Chairman and the executive directors.
The Chairman the time commitment and responsibilities of the role fees and non-executive directors may be eligible to be reimbursed for any reasonable hotel and fees paid in other companies of comparable size and and travel expenses and other reasonable expenses incurred in performance of their complexity.
The non-executive directors are not involved in any discussion or decisions about their own remuneration.
Additional fees, over and above the base fee for the non-executive directors, are payable to the Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and to the Senior Independent Director.
indd 66 07 12 2015 17:24:43 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 67 for the year ended 30 September 2015 Remuneration element Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance metrics LTIP To motivate executives Annual awards of performance shares are made which are based on performance over An LTIP award may be granted to an executive director Performance measures for LTIP awards granted in respect of the and incentivise delivery three years and vest after three, four and five years in equal tranches.
indd 67 07 12 2015 17:24:43 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 68 Directors Remuneration Report Notes to the policy table: The application of the policy for 2016 is set out on pages 81 to 82.
Legacy share plans Executive directors hold awards under the 2005 and 2015 LTIP, the 2005 and 2015 Annual Bonus Plan, the 2005 SAYE and the 2005 SIP.
Share plan Operation Opportunity Performance measures Used for long-term incentive No further awards are granted The performance measures 2005 LTIP awards up to 2014. under the 2005 LTIP.
applying to outstanding performance share awards and Awards of performance shares Performance share awards and matching share awards held by the which are based on performance matching share awards held by executive directors under the 2005 over three years and vest after executive directors are set out in LTIP are summarised on page 76. three, four and five years in equal the table on page 76. tranches.
In addition, investment shares worth up to 25% of salary received by the executive directors through the annual bonus plan or acquired through other funds are eligible for a matching share award.
All-employee share plans used for Since the end of 2014 no further Not applicable.
2005 SAYE awards up to 2014. awards are granted under the 2005 and 2005 SIP SAYE and 2005 SIP.
Outstanding awards or options held by the executive directors are set out on page 77.
Operation of share plans The Committee will operate its current and legacy share plans in accordance with their rules.
Share awards under the 2015 LTIP and Deferred Share Awards may be made in the form of conditional share awards, options including nil cost options or forfeitable share awards.
Awards granted over shares may be settled in cash.
In the event of a variation of the Companys share capital or a demerger, special dividend or other event which, in the Committees opinion may affect the price of shares, the Committee may alter the terms of awards under its share plans and the number of shares subject to those awards in accordance with the terms of the relevant plan.
Subject to approval at the 2016 AGM the remuneration policy will be amended, as referred to below, when compared with the policy approved by shareholders at last years AGM.
the maximum annual bonus opportunity will be increased to 150% of salary: and the maximum award under the LTIP will be increased to 175% of salary and grant of awards over a fixed number of shares, as described in the policy table above.
The rationale for the changes is set out in the letter from the Committee Chairman on pages 59 to 62.
Change of control In the event of a change of control of the Company or other relevant corporate event, unvested share awards will usually vest.
In the case of any LTIP award for which the performance period has not ended, the number of shares in respect of which the award vests shall be determined by applying the performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, time prorating by reference to the period from grant to early vesting as a proportion of 36 months.
Any LTIP award for which the performance period has ended will vest in respect of all the shares subject to it, subject to satisfaction of the performance condition.
Deferred Share Awards shall vest in respect of all of the shares subject to them.
indd 68 07 12 2015 17:24:43 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 69 for the year ended 30 September 2015 Awards under the Companys all-employee share plans will vest early in the event of a change of control of the Company, in accordance with the rules of those plans.
If a demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event is proposed which, in the opinion of the Committee would affect the price of shares in the Company, the Committee may permit awards under the LTIP and Deferred Share Awards to vest early in whole or in part.
Choice of performance measures The annual bonus is based on a mix of financial and individual strategic targets as regards a bonus of up to 100% of salary, with measures based on the financial, operational and strategic priorities of the business which may vary from year to year as appropriate to reflect the changing needs of the business.
A sliding scale of targets is set for the financial measures so as to drive significant improvements in business performance.
A bonus of up to a further 50% of salary may be earned based on strategic goals aligned to the achievement of the 2020 strategy.
Following the determination of the bonus by reference to the targets for the relevant financial year, the proportion deferred into a Deferred Share Award is not subject to any further performance condition.
Subject to shareholder support the performance measures for awards to be granted under the 2015 LTIP in respect of 2016, 2017 and 2018 will be based on: Relative TSR this is well understood by all stakeholders and clearly aligns managements objectives with those of shareholders.
Relative TSR is a broad measure of the extent to which our strategy is considered appropriate by the market as well as the extent to which it is being well-implemented.
Targets will be set based on a point to point measurement, by comparing the three month average TSR ending on the first last day of the performance period.
ROCE a key driver of shareholder value and which reflects the Groups planned further enhancement of a quality estate.
The introduction of ROCE alongside relative TSR therefore fully supports strategy.
In our view, this is a critical and challenging objective in the context of declining returns over many years in the pub sector as a whole.
FCF this provides a key measurement of the output of the 2020 strategy as well as providing a link to debt reduction.
The weightings and targets for the awards to be granted in respect of 2016 are set out on pages 81 and 82.
The Committee may vary any performance measure if an event occurs which causes it to determine that it would be appropriate to do so, provided that any such variation is fair and reasonable and in the opinion of the Committee the change would not make the measure less demanding.
If the Committee were to make such a variation, an explanation would be given in the next Remuneration Report.
SAYE options and awards under the SIP are not subject to performance conditions in line with the treatment of such awards for all employees and in accordance with the applicable tax legislation.
Interaction with the policy for employee pay There are some differences in the structure of the remuneration policy for the executive directors as set out above compared with that for other employees within the organisation.
This reflects differing levels of seniority and responsibility.
For example, there is an increased emphasis on performance related pay for executive directors through a higher annual bonus opportunity and participation in the LTIP.
This aligns the interests of directors with the long-term performance of the Company and the interests of shareholders.
In 2015 for the first time the LTIP was extended to the next tier of management and it is intended to continue to include that tier in LTIP awards going forward.
Service contracts It is the Companys policy that, ordinarily, the period of notice for executive directors will not exceed 12 months and accordingly, the employment contracts of the executive directors are terminable on 12 months notice by either party.
The Company may terminate a directors employment without notice or compensation in the event of gross misconduct.
indd 69 07 12 2015 17:24:43 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 70 Directors Remuneration Report Payments for loss of office In the event of a directors departure, the Companys policy on termination payments is as follows: the Company will pay any amounts it is required to in accordance with or in settlement of a directors statutory employment rights: the Company may pay salary, benefits and pension in lieu of notice and observe the other contractual entitlements of a director: the Company will seek to ensure that no more is paid than is warranted in each individual case and where appropriate, the Company will seek to apply the principles of mitigation to any proposed payment: there is no entitlement to bonus following notice of termination or cessation of employment and bad leavers will not receive any bonus in such circumstances.
However, the Committees normal policy is that where the individual is considered a good leaver, a performance-related bonus may be paid which would typically be prorated for time.
The performance measures used to determine the bonus payment may be on a different basis to that applying to the other executive directors depending on the timing and circumstances of the directors departure.
Time prorating will usually be based on the proportion of the bonus year for which the individual is employed and the bonus if any will usually be paid at the normal time, although the Committee retains discretion to pay it earlier in appropriate circumstances.
If at the time the bonus is paid, the individual is under notice or has left employment, all of the bonus may be payable in cash: and in the event of a directors departure, any outstanding share awards will be treated in accordance with the relevant plan rules, as follows: Plan Treatment on cessation 2005 LTIP and Awards will ordinarily lapse on cessation of employment.
2015 LTIP However, in some circumstances such as death, injury, retirement at the discretion of the Committee in the case of the 2015 LTIP, sale of the employer out of the Group and any other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee taking into account the individuals performance and reasons for their departure, good leaver status may be applied.
In the case of a good leaver: i unvested LTIP awards where the performance period has already ended will fully vest on leaving unless, in the case of an award granted under the 2015 LTIP the Committee determines it should vest on the originally anticipated vesting date: and ii unvested LTIP awards where the performance period has not already ended will vest either at the end of the performance period or on the date of cessation as determined by the Committee or, if the Committee so determines in the case of an award granted under the 2015 LTIP, on the originally anticipated vesting date.
A good leaver will normally receive a prorated proportion of any outstanding LTIP awards prorated from the date of grant to the date of cessation of employment, normally subject to performance over the usual three year period.
The Committee may decide to measure performance over a shorter period to the end of employment and may waive in whole, or in part, prorating, but this would only be in exceptional circumstances.
Deferred Awards will ordinarily lapse on cessation of employment if cessation is before the third anniversary of the date Share of grant.
Awards However, in some circumstances such as death, injury, retirement at the discretion of the Committee in the case of the 2015 annual bonus plan, sale of the employer out of the Group and any other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee taking into account the individuals performance and reasons for their departure, good leaver status may be applied.
In the case of a good leaver unvested Deferred Share Awards will vest in full on cessation or, if the Committee so determines in the case of an award granted under the 2015 Annual Bonus Plan, on the originally anticipated vesting date.
All-employee Awards will vest in accordance with the rules of the relevant plan, which do not permit the exercise of any share plans discretion by the Committee.
SAYE and SIP Where appropriate the Company may enable the provision of outplacement services to a departing director and make payments in respect of accrued holiday and legal fees.
indd 70 07 12 2015 17:24:44 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 71 for the year ended 30 September 2015 The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a directors office or employment.
Where a buyout or other award is made outside the Companys existing share plans as referred to below, the leaver provisions would be determined at the time of the award.
The contracts of the executive directors do not provide for any enhanced payments in the event of a change of control of the Company or for liquidated damages.
Approach to recruitment and promotions The remuneration package for a new executive director will typically be set in accordance with the Companys approved remuneration policy as set out on pages 64 to 67, subject to the discretions below.
The salary level for a new appointment will be set taking into account the individuals experience, the nature of the role being offered and their existing remuneration package.
The maximum level of variable remuneration that may be granted in connection with recruitment excluding any buyout award as referred to below will be in line with the Companys approved directors remuneration policy i. e. an LTIP award over a number of shares determined in accordance with that policy and an annual bonus of up to 150% of salary.
If an executive director is appointed at a time in the year when it would be inappropriate to provide a bonus or long-term incentive award for that year as there would not be sufficient time to assess performance, subject to the limit on variable remuneration, the quantum in respect of months employed during the year may be transferred to a subsequent year so that reward is provided on a fair and reasonable basis.
In relation to long-term incentive and bonus awards, different performance targets, performance periods and vesting periods may be set to those applying to the other executive directors in the first year of appointment, if the Committee determines that the circumstances of the appointment merit such alteration.
In addition, the Committee may offer further cash, benefits and or sharebased elements including awards under 9.4.
2 R of the Listing Rules as necessary to secure an appointment and buyout remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer any such payments would take account of the remuneration relinquished when leaving the former employer, for example, reflecting the nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to that remuneration.
Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at the time of appointment.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay or benefit element granted in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out or be provided according to its terms.
Relocation expenses or allowances may be paid as appropriate.
Chairman and non-executive directors All non-executive directors have letters of appointment, the terms of which take into account best practice.
Their respective appointments continue on an annual basis from AGM to AGM, subject to re-election.
There are no special provisions in the non-executive directors letters of appointment for compensation in the event of loss of office.
A summary of the letters of appointment for non-executive directors is set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 80.
Legacy arrangements For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Policy Report, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous Remuneration Reports.
Details of any payments to former directors will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise as required under the regulations.
indd 71 07 12 2015 17:24:44 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 72 Directors Remuneration Report ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This Annual Report on Remuneration sets out how the Companys remuneration policy for directors was implemented during the year under review.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended and 9.8.
An advisory resolution to approve this report will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
The information on pages 73 to 78 as indicated has been audited.
Composition of the Committee The Committee has been constituted and operated throughout the year in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee comprised the following non-executive directors: Peter Baguley, Chairman David Maloney Adam Fowle Robert Walker Marisa Cassoni, appointed on 1 April 2015 No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest in the matters being decided.
The Companys CEO attends meetings by invitation of the Committee except where his own remuneration is being discussed.
The Committee receives assistance from the Company Secretary as appropriate and the Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Advisers During part of the year under review, the Committee received external advice on directors remuneration matters from Deloitte LLP, appointed by the Committee in 2014, as its independent adviser.
Deloitte also provided services in relation to estate segmentation modelling.
Deloitte is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such voluntarily operates under its Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration in the UK.
During the year the Chairman of the Committee reviewed the performance of Deloitte, in terms of the quality and independence of advice, the potential for conflicts of interest which are actively managed within Deloitte and its knowledge and understanding of market practice.
Having reviewed these factors, the Committee chose to continue to retain Deloitte as its adviser in 2016.
The total fees paid to Deloitte were 38,000.
The fees charged for major projects are normally negotiated in advance of the work being undertaken.
However, an element of the fees relates to sundry on-going advice, in line with Deloittes role to provide on-going support to the Committee over the entire remuneration year and are predominantly charged on a time spent basis.
Fees for the Chairman and non-executive directors The fee policy for the Chairman and non-executive directors for the year under review from 1 January 2015 was as follows: Chairman 204,000 Base Board fee 56,610 Additional fees for chairing the Audit or Remuneration Committee 6,120 Additional fees for the Senior Independent Directorship 2,040 Enterprise Inns AR2015 Back.
indd 72 07 12 2015 17:24:44 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 73 for the year ended 30 September 2015 The following information has been subject to audit: Remuneration outcomes during 2015 The table below sets out the remuneration received receivable in relation to the year ended 30 September 2015.
ii This comprises either direct contributions to personal pension arrangements or cash in lieu of directors pension contributions these sums are not included in any bonus or share incentive award calculations.
Of the amounts shown, the element for 2015 relating to salary supplements in lieu of contributions are 115,000 2014: 83,000 for Simon Townsend, 94,000 2014: 70,000 for Neil Smith.
iii The 2015 bonuses were payable based on EPS performance and individual personal and strategic targets.
Bonus pay-outs ranged from 61% to 63% of salary 2014: 71% to 83% including former directors.
Half of any award over target performance 50% of salary is deferred into shares.
Simon Townsend deferred a sum equivalent to 9% of his bonus 5.5% of salary into deferred shares 2014: 40% of bonus and Neil Smith deferred a sum equivalent to 10% of his bonus 6.5% of salary into deferred shares 2014: 40% of bonus.
Deferred shares ordinarily vest after 3 years and are not subject to any further performance conditions.
Details of the bonuses earned are set out on page 74. iv The performance period for the 2011 performance and matching awards ended on 3 January 2015.
The award was subject to a TSR performance condition and the Companys TSR performance was in the upper quintile of the comparator group of the FTSE 250 at the date of grant.
The awards were achieved in full, and vest in 3 equal tranches in 2015, 2016 and 2017.
Simon Townsend and Neil Smith have both exercised the first tranche.
The second and third tranches are not subject to any further performance condition.
Accordingly, in the LTIP figure in the above table, the value of the full award has been included, calculated using the share price on the date of vesting of 110.2 pence.
v The SIP is an all-employee share plan under which in December 2014 the Company matched on a 1:1 basis shares purchased up to a value of 1,500.
The 1:1 basis used values the matching shares at the date of grant at 1,500.
Continued employment and a three year holding period apply to the matching element.
In accordance with HMRC requirements no performance conditions are set.
vi Adam Fowle was appointed to the Board on the 6 February 2014. vii Marisa Cassoni was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2015. viii Ted Tuppen retired from the board on 6 February 2014 and remained an employee until 19 May 2014.
From May 2014 until November 2014 12 months after his notice of intention to retire he was paid in lieu of notice on a monthly basis.
In the Companys 2015 financial year Mr Tuppen was paid 87,000 in lieu of notice 2014: 416,000 of salary or salary in lieu of notice, together with taxable benefits of 6,000 2014: 30,000 and salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions of 22,000 2014: 104,000 no bonus was payable 2014: 150,000. www.
indd 73 07 12 2015 17:24:44 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 74 Directors Remuneration Report Annual bonus 2015 Awards under the plan are subject to demanding performance targets.
For the year under review, 80% of Simon Townsend and Neil Smiths bonus was subject to a sliding scale of challenging adjusted basic EPS targets, with 20% subject to challenging individual personal and strategic targets, although no bonus is payable under this element of the bonus plan unless a threshold level of adjusted EPS performance is delivered.
Executive directors defer 50% of any bonus earned over target into shares with the remainder paid in cash executive directors can choose voluntarily to defer more of the award into shares if they so wish.
A clawback provision exists under which the Committee can seek appropriate means of redress in the event of material misconduct, material misstatement of results, an error in the calculation or due to poor information used when calculating the reward outcome.
Redress can be sought through: i the lapsing of unvested Deferred Share Awards, which may result in a corresponding lapse of matching share awards under the 2005 LTIP: ii a reduction in future bonus pay-outs: and iii the reclaim of previously paid bonuses net of tax.
EPS targets The adjusted EPS targets for the bonus plan were set at the beginning of the year and reflected the outlook at that time taking into account the Companys plans to generate cash and pay down debt.
The targets for the proportion of the bonus based on EPS are set out in the table below.
For performance between the EPS targets specified, a straightline sliding scale applies.
Award level % weighted annual salary EPS Below threshold 0% Less than 18.3p Target 40% 19.3p Maximum 80% 20.3p Actual performance 44% 19.4p Personal and strategic targets Each executive director was given a number of different personal and strategic objectives individually tailored to their role and the needs of the business in the year now under review.
Different weightings were applied to each objective.
The precise objectives and weightings are considered by the Company to be commercially sensitive.
In summary the objectives included conclusion and delivery of the strategic review of the five year strategy to 2020, managing transitional and preparatory arrangements in readiness for the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act, leading improvements in employment and customer engagement, driving reductions in business failures, routing capital expenditure towards growth projects, road mapping IT development and delivery of a consumer based segmentation model.
The weightings applied were broadly distributed over the objectives.
The objectives and achievements were carefully considered by the Committee and weightings given to each individual component.
Achievement was above target and in total payments of between 17% and 19% of salary were generated out of a maximum of 20% of weighted average base salary.
Overall bonuses earned The total bonuses earned for the year out of a maximum bonus potential of 100% of average weighted salary were as follows: Simon Townsend 61% of salary 2014: 71% Neil Smith 63% of salary 2014: 73% 50% of any bonus earned above 50% of salary the bonus earned for target performance is deferred into shares.
Simon Townsend has deferred an amount equivalent to 5.5% of his salary and Neil Smith has deferred an amount equivalent to 6.5% of his salary.
indd 74 07 12 2015 17:24:44 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 75 for the year ended 30 September 2015 Deferred Share Awards Details of the shares awarded under the bonus plan to executive directors in respect of the year under review and previous years are set out in the table below.
ii This reflects the actual number of shares granted on 12 December 2014.
As explained in the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report, this figure was previously based on an estimated market value of shares.
iii The share price at which the number of deferred shares granted under the bonus plan is calculated will not be confirmed until after the date of approval of the accounts.
The number of deferred shares awarded for the 2015 financial year is therefore estimated by using the closing mid-market price of the shares on 30 September 2015, being 108.20 pence.
The number of shares granted along with the actual grant and exercise dates will therefore be revised to reflect the result on the actual date of grant, when an announcement will be made to shareholders.
1 in aggregate is payable on the exercise of each years award under the bonus plan.
Long-Term Incentive Plan The LTIP has been operated from 2005 to 2014 under the 2005 LTIP and since 2015 under the 2015 LTIP.
Under the 2005 LTIP two types of award could be made: an award of performance shares, worth up to 150% of salary each year: and an award of matching shares linked to the coinvestment of up to 25% of salary in investment shares, which were then matched on a 2:1 basis.
Shares that counted as investment shares were: shares subject to a Deferred Share Award under the bonus plan: and shares acquired by participants using their cash bonus or other funds, up to a maximum of 25% of salary.
Under the 2015 LTIP there is no matching share element.
indd 75 07 12 2015 17:24:44 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 76 Directors Remuneration Report Details of conditional awards of shares made under the LTIP during the year under review and prior years are set out in the table below.
One-third of the award became exercisable in January 2015 and the remaining two-thirds will become exercisable in equal tranches in January 2016 and January 2017, subject to continued employment.
ii The 2012, 2013 and 2014 LTIP awards are based on a policy of using a five day average share price following the date of the announcement of the results for that year to determine the number of shares comprising the LTIP award.
This was 76.3 pence for those granted in December 2012, 148.1 pence for those granted in December 2013 and 108.4 pence for those granted in February 2015 in respect of 2014.
The 2011 LTIP award is based on a notional share price of 86.1 pence.
iii Plan Years 2011-2013, the performance conditions applying to these awards are solely based on relative TSR performance, which compares the Companys TSR performance over the three year performance period with the TSR of the FTSE 250 as follows: Companys TSR ranking v the FTSE 250 Percentage of performance share Level of matching share award over the three year performance period award that vests matching award shares: investment shares Below median 0% 0:1 Median 0% 0:1 Upper quintile 100% 2:1 iv Plan Year 2014 The performance conditions applying to these awards are based on relative TSR as regards 70% of the award and ROCE performance as regards 30% of the award as set out in the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report.
Straight-line vesting will occur if the Companys TSR ranking is between the median and upper quintile quartile as appropriate and for ROCE performance between threshold and maximum.
As with previous LTIP awards, vesting occurs in three equal tranches on the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the grant.
In addition, irrespective of the Companys TSR or ROCE performance, awards will only vest if the Committee is satisfied that the TSR or ROCE result is reflective of the Companys underlying financial performance over the relevant period.
1 in aggregate is payable on the exercise of each years LTIP award.
indd 76 07 12 2015 17:24:45 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 77 for the year ended 30 September 2015 Directors share options No executive share options have been granted to any of the executive directors in the current or prior year.
Options granted under the Companys SAYE scheme are shown in the table below.
There are no performance conditions restricting the exercise of options held under this scheme reflecting the relevant legislation.
At 1 Oct At 30 Sept Name Exercise price 2014 Exercised Lapsed Granted iii 2015 Simon Townsend 24.2p 61,983 61,983 i 86.88p 17,437 17,437 ii Neil Smith 24.2p 61,983 61,983 i i Exercise period from 1 February 2017 to 1 August 2017 ii Exercise period from 1 February 2020 to 1 August 2020 iii The market value on the grant date was 19,721 which comprised 17,437 shares at 113.1p The highest and lowest closing mid-market prices of the Companys shares during the year under review were 136.0 pence and 98.0 pence respectively.
The closing mid-market price of the Companys shares at 30 September 2015 was 108.2 pence.
Share Incentive Plan SIP During the year under review, Simon Townsend purchased 1,405 shares under the SIP at 106.8 pence per share 2014: 1,094 at a price of 137.0 pence per share.
These shares were matched by the Company on a 1:1 basis 2014: 2:1 conditional upon continued employment.
The face value of the shares awarded under the matching arrangement was 1,500 2014: 3,000.
Details of the total partnership and matching shares held under the SIP are included in the table of directors interests below.
Dilution limits Whilst the Company has authority and retains discretion to issue new shares and or treasury shares under its employees share plans, since 1 October 2004 the Companys policy has been to satisfy all awards and options granted under the Companys executive share schemes and all-employee share incentive plans using existing shares purchased in the market by the Trustees of the Companys Employee Benefit Trust the Trust.
At 30 September 2015 no new shares or treasury shares have been issued to satisfy awards or options granted in the previous ten years under any of the Companys employee share incentive plans and, as at 30 September 2015, the total number of shares held in the Trust was 6,568,286 equivalent to 1.3% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, excluding treasury shares.
Directors share interests Since 2011 share ownership guidelines have existed for the executive directors which require them to build up and retain a holding of shares equal in value to their base salaries.
Subject to the approval of the new Directors Remuneration Policy at the 2016 AGM, these requirements will be increased to two times salary for the CEO and one and a half times salary for the CFO.
Executives are expected to build up the required shareholding by the later of: i the fifth anniversary of the introduction of the guidelines in 2011 or, as regards any additional element following the revision of the guidelines in 2016, the fifth anniversary of that revision : and ii the fifth anniversary of them joining the Board: and they are required to retain 50% of the net of tax vested awards under the LTIP and or Deferred Share Awards until the guidelines are met.
The directors either already hold the required shareholdings under the guidelines or are not yet at the anniversary dates for them to do so.
indd 77 07 12 2015 17:24:45 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 78 Directors Remuneration Report The interests of the directors who held office during the period from 1 October 2014 to 30 September 2015 in the ordinary shares of the Company are as set out in the table below: As at 30 September 2015 As at 1 October 2014 Beneficial i Conditional Beneficial i Conditional Deferred Deferred Director LTIP ii shares iii LTIP ii shares iii Simon Townsend 979,305 2,175,744 456,330 721,291 1,862,539 876,320 Neil Smith 253,207 1,812,693 249,895 25,000 1,578,824 652,718 Robert Walker 435,000 275,000 David Maloney 25,000 25,000 Peter Baguley Adam Fowle Marisa Cassoni i Beneficial share interests include partnership and matching shares held under the SIP of 38,626 shares for Simon Townsend at 30 September 2015 2014: 35,816 shares.
ii Full details of LTIP awards, including performance conditions and exercise periods, are set out in the table on page 76. iii Full details of Deferred Share Awards, including exercise periods, are set out in the table on page 75.
The calculation of the deferred shares awarded for 2015 is estimated by using the closing mid-market price of the shares on 30 September 2015, being 108.2 pence.
The number of shares granted, along with the exercise dates will therefore be revisited to reflect the result on the actual date of grant, when an announcement will be made to shareholders.
The 2014 disclosure above has been similarly adjusted.
In respect of directors serving at 30 September 2015, save for contributions to the SAYE scheme, there have been no other changes in share interests from 30 September 2015 to the date of this report.
The directors are not permitted to hold their shares in hedging arrangements or as collateral for loans without the express permission of the Board.
None of the directors currently holds their shares in such an arrangement.
The following information has not been subject to audit: Percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer 2015 2014 000 000 % change Chief Executive Officer salary 463 523 11 benefits 28 28 bonus 282 398 29 Average per employee salary 38.6 41.2 6.3 benefits 3.3 3.8 13.2 bonus 6.3 5.9 6.8 The table above shows the movement in the remuneration for the CEO between the current and previous financial year compared with movement of the average remuneration per head for all Group employees.
As noted in the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014, the salary, benefits and bonus figures for the CEO for 2014 are calculated on the basis of the salary, benefits and bonus of the former CEO for the period he was CEO until 6 February 2014 and for Simon Townsend his prorated salary from 6 February 2014, benefits and bonus which are all attributable to the period he was CEO to 30 September 2014.
indd 78 07 12 2015 17:24:45 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 79 for the year ended 30 September 2015 Relative importance of the spend on pay The table below shows the relative importance of the spend on pay for all employees compared with the returns distributed to shareholders: 2015 2014 m m % change Remuneration paid to or receivable by all employees 33 29 14 Distributions to shareholders by way of dividends and share buybacks Historical comparative TSR performance graph The graph below shows the TSR in terms of change in value with dividends re-invested of an initial investment of 100 on 1 October 2008 in a holding of the Companys shares against the corresponding TSR in a hypothetical holding of shares in the companies represented in the FTSE 250 index.
The FTSE 250 index was selected as it represents a broad equity market index in which the Company has been a constituent member during the period.
Total Shareholder Return Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream Value Enterprise Inns plc 280 FTSE 250 240 200 160 120 80 40 0 30 Sep 08 30 Sep 09 30 Sep 10 30 Sep 11 30 Sep 12 30 Sep 13 30 Sep 14 30 Sep 15 The graph shows the value at 30 September 2015 of 100 invested in the Companys shares on 1 October 2008 compared with the value of 100 notionally invested in the FTSE 250 index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
The table above shows the total remuneration figure for the CEO during each of those financial years.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus, matching shares awarded in relation to the SIP and LTIP awards performance and matching which vested based on performance in those years.
As noted in the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2014, the figures are calculated on the basis of the salary, benefits, pension, bonus and SIP of the former CEO for the period he was CEO until 6 February 2014 and for Simon Townsend his prorated salary from 6 February 2014, benefits, pension and bonus which are all attributable to the period he was CEO from 6 February 2014.
The total remuneration includes the full value of the LTIP which vested in the year, one-third of which was exercised and the second and third tranches are exercisable in 2016 and 2017 and are not subject to any further performance condition.
indd 79 07 12 2015 17:24:45 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 80 Directors Remuneration Report Service contracts A summary of the service contracts and letters of appointments for the directors is set out below: Executive director Date of agreement Effective date Notice period Simon Townsend 31 October 2000 1 October 2000 12 months Neil Smith 8 October 2010 1 January 2011 12 months Non-executive director Date of appointment Expiry date Robert Walker 9 February 2012 Terminable on 6 months notice David Maloney 10 July 2008 Terminable on 6 months notice Peter Baguley 31 January 2013 Terminable on 6 months notice Adam Fowle 6 February 2014 Terminable on 6 months notice Marisa Cassoni 1 April 2015 Terminable on 6 months notice External appointments The executive directors may accept outside appointments provided that such appointments do not in any way prejudice their ability to perform their duties as executive directors of the Company.
The extent to which any executive director is allowed to retain any fees payable in respect of such outside appointments, or whether such fees are remitted to the Company, will be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
None of the executive directors held any such appointments in the year under review 2014: none.
Shareholder vote The Committee encourages dialogue with the Companys shareholders and will endeavour to consult with major shareholders ahead of any significant future changes to the remuneration policy.
Details of the votes cast in relation to the remuneration report, remuneration policy and new employee share plans at last years AGM are set out below: Remuneration Report 2015 AGM % Votes cast in favour 289,068,351 99.96 Votes cast against 114,063 0.04 Total 289,182,414 Votes withheld 646,646 Remuneration Policy 2015 AGM % Votes cast in favour 282,883,190 97.82 Votes cast against 6,299,223 2.18 Total 289,182,413 Votes withheld 646,646 The Enterprise Inns 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan 2015 AGM % Votes cast in favour 282,842,970 97.81 Votes cast against 6,342,989 2.19 Total 289,185,959 Votes withheld 643,100 Enterprise Inns AR2015 Back.
indd 80 07 12 2015 17:24:45 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report and Accounts 81 for the year ended 30 September 2015 The Enterprise Inns 2015 Save As You Earn Scheme 2015 AGM % Votes cast in favour 288,149,855 99.64 Votes cast against 1,036,325 0.36 Total 289,186,180 Votes withheld 642,880 The Enterprise Inns 2015 Share Incentive Plan 2015 AGM % Votes cast in favour 289,138,914 99.98 Votes cast against 45,276 0.02 Total 289,184,190 Votes withheld 644,870 Application of the policy for 2016 Base salaries and fees At the date of this report the Committee has not reviewed the salaries for the executive directors which take effect on 1 January 2016.
It is anticipated that any increase will be modest, would not exceed the increases awarded to the wider workforce and would be based on merit.
Also at the date of this report the fees for the Chairman and non-executive directors effective from 1 January 2016 have not been reviewed.
The fee policy is as set out on page 72.
The two all-employee share plans, SAYE and SIP, will be considered on an annual basis and may be offered subject to the limits permitted under the relevant legislation.
Annual bonus 2016 Subject to shareholder approval at the 2016 AGM the maximum bonus opportunity for the 2016, financial year will be increased to 150% of salary for all executive directors: an award of up to 80% of salary may be earned subject to the achievement of a sliding scale of adjusted basic EPS targets: up to 20% of salary may be earned subject to personal and strategic targets: and up to a further 50% of salary may be earned subject to the achievement of specific strategic milestones connected to the delivery of the new strategy.
The Committee considers that the forward looking EPS targets, the personal strategic objectives and the strategic targets based on the 2020 strategy are commercially sensitive at this time and has therefore chosen not to disclose them in advance.
Details of the EPS targets will be set out retrospectively in next years Annual Report on Remuneration, and we are committed to disclosing the strategic measures and performance against them on a retrospective basis.
The personal measures are focused on three to four lead indicators of performance and the strategic targets based on the 2020 strategy will include measurable targets based on: number of new experts under our managed model: number of managed sites: number of commercial properties: and average rents.
All targets are considered to be demanding in the context of the Companys circumstances.
LTIP awards 2016 Subject to shareholder approval at the 2016 AGM the LTIP opportunity for 2016 will be increased to 175% of salary.
The market value of a share for the purposes of determining the number of shares subject to an award will be determined by the Committee based on the average share price over the period of up to three months up to the date of grant.
The awards will vest subject to the achievement of stretching performance targets based on relative TSR, ROCE and FCF as set out in the table below.
Given the increase in quantum to 175% of salary compared to the limit of 150% of salary in the policy approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM and the 2015 award of 125% of salary the threshold level of vesting has been decreased and the level of stretch for maximum performance has been increased.
In addition, the targets have been calibrated as follows such that management will not receive substantially more for delivering the same level of performance.
indd 81 07 12 2015 17:24:46 24341.04 7 December 2015 5:19 PM Proof 7 Shareholder Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report 82 Directors Remuneration Report The threshold level of vesting has been reduced from 25% of maximum to 20%, which maintains broadly the same percentage of salary pay-out at threshold.
Up to 125% of salary, 50% of the award is based on relative TSR with the remaining 50% split equally between ROCE and cumulative FCF targets.
This reflects that relative TSR and ROCE remain relevant performance metrics for the Company but the addition of FCF provides a key measurement of the output of the 2020 strategy as well as providing a link to debt reduction.
For delivering stretch performance in line with the 2015 LTIP awards i. e. upper quartile TSR, budget 1% ROCE and with cumulative FCF of 345 million, 125% of salary would vest.
The Committee has sought to ensure that the additional stretch targets for the maximum LTIP to vest reflect the ambitious strategy.
Recognising that the ROCE budget 1% target is already significantly stretching and that FCF is key to delivery of the strategy, the additional stretch for the maximum enhanced LTIP opportunity will be based on delivering upper quintile TSR performance and cumulative FCF of 360 million.
Both the relative TSR and FCF targets are considered to be a real challenge to deliver.
To deliver cumulative FCF of 360 million would require a significant step change in performance compared to the historic flat FCF performance.
In the table below we have shown the vesting schedule for the awards proposed in respect of 2016 and, for the purposes of comparison, the vesting schedule that applies for the awards granted in 2015.
Threshold Stretch Additional stretch Vesting as % of salary Target Pay-out Target Pay-out Target Pay-out TSR Median 21.9% Upper quartile 87.5% n a n a 2015 LTIP awards ROCE Budget 0.25% 9.4% Budget 1.0% 37.5% n a n a Total 31.3% 125.0% n a n a TSR Median 17.5% Upper quartile 62.5% Upper quintile 87.5% 2016 LTIP awards ROCE Budget 0.25% 8.75% Budget 1.0% 31.25% n a 31.25% FCF 330m 8.75% 345m 31.25% 360m 56.25% Total 35.0% 125.0% 175.0% There will be straight line vesting between the points and no reward below threshold performance.
TSR has been set against a comparator group of the FTSE 250 as the Remuneration Committee recognises that a bespoke pool of competitors is small and could produce results which do not reflect the Companys performance.
We therefore believe that a wider comparator group is a more robust and realistic way of measuring how shareholders value the Company.
The Committee considers that disclosing the forward looking three year ROCE budget is commercially sensitive and has therefore chosen not to disclose it in advance.
In addition to the TSR, ROCE and FCF targets, the Remuneration Committee will require that awards will only be earned if underlying financial performance supports it.
The weightings for each measure have been set to balance what the Remuneration Committee considers to be the focus for management in its day to day direction of the business with its ultimate responsibility to shareholders.
Performance is measured over three years: however, awards vest after three, four and five years in equal tranches.
Approval This Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Directors of the Company.
On behalf of the Board P J Baguley Chairman, Remuneration Committee 16 November 2015 Enterprise Inns AR2015 Back.
