46 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Directors Remuneration Report Report from the chairman of the remuneration committee The board and shareholders have approved a linked to the groups long-term strategy.
iNFoRmATioN NoT subJeCT remuneration package for Mr Rashbass that the To AudiT In addition, a one-off award of shares in the board believes is market competitive, aligned RemuNeRATioN RePoRT company with a value of 2,250,000 was with shareholder interests and reflects current CoNTeNTs made in order to compensate Mr Rashbass best practice.
This report covers the reporting period from for incentives foregone on leaving his previous October 1 2014 to September 30 2015 and The key elements of Mr Rashbass remuneration employment.
This was considered to be no includes three sections: package are as follows: more than the comparable commercial value of the incentives foregone by Mr Rashbass the report from the chairman of the A base salary of 750,000 per annum, from his previous employment.
Based on the remuneration committee setting out the subject to annual review in April each year companys average share price for the month of key decisions taken on executive and senior in line with the date of salary reviews for all September 2015, 221,011 shares were awarded management pay during the year: our employees.
Subject to continued the policy report which outlines the A pension allowance of 10% of salary employment, 40% of this award will vest on remuneration policy for the year to per annum, payable in cash, and private September 30 2016 and the remaining 60% September 2016 and later years: and healthcare and life insurance in line with will vest in three equal tranches on September the annual report on remuneration which those provided to the other executive 30 2017, 2018 and 2019 respectively.
sets out how the previous remuneration directors.
policy has been implemented including An annual bonus with a maximum value of Mr Rashbass will not participate in the details of payments made and outcomes up to 150% of salary each year Annual companys Capital Appreciation Plan 2014 for the variable pay elements based on Bonus Plan.
Annual bonuses will be CAP 2014 or profit share scheme.
determined based on financial, business The board believes that the remuneration and or individual performance measures for This report has been prepared in accordance package for Mr Rashbass: a year, as determined by the Remuneration with the relevant requirements of the Large Committee.
The performance measures will and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups provides appropriate alignment with be aligned with the companys corporate Accounts and Reports Regulations 2013 the the mediumand long-term interests priorities.
For financial year 2016, these Regulations and of the Listing Rules of the of shareholders through the significant performance measures will be weighted Financial Conduct Authority.
As required by the weighting of his package towards variable 50% to the achievement of the groups Regulations, a separate resolution to approve performance-driven incentives: budgeted adjusted profit before tax for the remuneration report will be proposed at the reflects best practice in a number of key the year, and 50% to individual objectives companys AGM.
areas, including: linked to the development of the groups the maximum annual bonus potential RePoRT FRom The ChAiRmAN oF long-term strategy.
Any annual bonus and annual 2015 PSP awards will both The RemuNeRATioN CommiTTee earned for a year of up to 100% of salary be capped as a percentage of salary: The remuneration committee reviews the will be payable in cash.
Any annual bonus the annual bonus will be partially remuneration and incentive plans of the earned in excess of 100% of salary will be deferred in shares in order to provide executive directors and other key employees as paid in ordinary shares in the company, the additional longer-term alignment with well as looking at the remuneration costs and vesting of which will be deferred for two shareholders: policies of the group as a whole.
2015 PSP awards will be subject to An annual award of shares under the a five year period between the initial On April 9 2015, the group announced the 2015 Performance Share Plan 2015 PSP award and vesting: appointment of Andrew Rashbass as executive with a face value of up to 200% of salary.
annual cash and deferred bonuses and chairman with effect from October 1 2015, PSP awards will vest five years after grant, the 2015 PSP awards will be subject to subject to shareholder approval, and this was subject to satisfaction of financial and malus and clawback as required by the given at the General Meeting on June 1 2015. strategic measures to be determined by UK Corporate Governance Code: and Richard Ensor retired as executive chairman on the Remuneration Committee that will the company is taking this opportunity September 30 2015.
Following changes to the be aligned with the companys long-term to introduce minimum shareholding board on November 18 2015, Mr Rashbass growth strategy.
The 2015 PSP award guidelines for the CEO of 200% of role has changed to the new role of CEO.
for financial year 2016 will be made salary and 100% of salary for other within six weeks of the announcement The key activity of the committee during executive directors: and of the companys 2015 financial results.
the year has been the structuring of the was appropriate to secure the appointment It is expected that the performance tests remuneration package of Mr Rashbass.
There of an executive as experienced and skilled associated with these awards will be based were no other changes made to the salaries as Mr Rashbass.
on the achievement of an adjusted EPS and incentives of the executive directors during growth target and individual objectives financial year 2015.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Governance directors remuNerAtioN rePort Annual Report and Accounts 2015 47 A long-term incentive plan, CAP 2014, was confirming that salaries of the executive RemuNeRATioN CommiTTee approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
directors would remain unchanged at April During the year the remuneration committee 1 2015: comprised JC Botts chairman, MWH Morgan, The achievement of the CAP 2014 performance approving the average annual pay increase and DP Pritchard independent.
All members target is dependent on a number of factors, for the group, effective from April 1 2015, of the committee are non-executive directors including the health of the financial and of 2%: and of the company.
MWH Morgan is the chief commodities markets, the success of acquisitions approving the annual profit shares for the executive of Daily Mail and General Trust plc, and disposals, the return on the groups digital executive directors and senior management the groups parent company.
For the year under investment, and exchange rates.
In light of of the group for financial year 2015. review, the committee also sought advice and the continuing uncertainty over financial and information from the companys chairman, commodities markets and exchange rates, liNkiNg kPis To RemuNeRATioN managing director and finance director.
The as well as the difficulties of forecasting M&A As explained in the Remuneration Policy Report committees terms of reference permit its activity and investment returns, management on page 49 the groups remuneration policies members to obtain professional advice on any has concluded that it cannot forecast with the are designed to drive and reward earnings matter.
Guidance was sought from Deloitte on required degree of certainty that the minimum growth and shareholder value.
structuring Mr Rashbass package in line with CAP 2014 performance target will be achieved best practice and on benchmarking against an The groups KPIs set out on pages 12 and 13 by 2017.
Accordingly the CAP expense of appropriate peer group.
Deloitte was appointed of the Strategic Report similarly contribute 2.5m charged in the second half of 2014 has and selected by the remuneration committee to to the growth in the groups earnings and been reversed in the first half of this year, and undertake this work as they are independent shareholder value and are integral to the no further CAP cost is being amortised in 2015. and have good knowledge of the group.
They setting of management incentives.
For the were paid 39,500 for this service.
External Notwithstanding the accounting treatment of executive directors, growth in adjusted profits benchmarking was also undertaken for the the CAP cost, the group continues to pursue has traditionally been the KPI on which their remuneration of other executive directors.
the acquisition of high growth businesses and incentives were based.
The introduction of to invest in its digital transformation, and the the Annual Bonus Plan and 2015 PSP, initially The key activities of the committee in the year CAP remains an important part of the incentive to be applied to the new CEO, will enable included: arrangements for delivering this growth future incentives for executive directors and strategy.
senior management to be more closely aligned obtaining advice on a suitable, competitive with the groups key strategic, financial and remuneration package for Mr Rashbass: No changes to the performance conditions operational objectives.
considering the impact of the assumption under the groups long-term incentive plans that the minimum performance target were made during the year.
com Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration policy report The new remuneration policy also provides iNFoRmATioN NoT subJeCT RemuNeRATioN PoliCy To AudiT additional flexibility for designing future The group believes in aligning the interests iNTRoduCTioN incentive plans for the other executive directors of management with those of shareholders.
The current remuneration policy was approved and senior management and ensuring these It is the groups policy to construct executive by shareholders at the General Meeting held incentives are more closely aligned with the remuneration packages such that a significant on June 1 2015 and can be found on the groups long-term strategy.
part of a directors remuneration is linked companys website www.
to performance measures aligned with the The implementation of the remuneration policy The new policy took effect from October 1 groups key strategic, financial and operational for the A Rashbass for the 2016 financial 2015. objectives and with the creation of sustainable year was outlined in the Notice of General long-term shareholder value.
Salaries and The key changes in the new remuneration Meeting sent to shareholders in May 2015.
The benefits are generally not intended to be policy were to accommodate the remuneration implementation of the remuneration policy for the most significant part of a directors package for the A Rashbass as follows: the other executive directors is set out on pages remuneration.
In formulating its directors 57 to 68 of this report.
These arrangements remuneration policy, the committee has the introduction of an Annual Bonus Plan: are expected to remain in place for the 2016 considered employee pay and benefits available the introduction of a Performance Share financial year.
across the group and also sought advice on Plan PSP : best practice from Deloitte.
the recruitment policy was amended to ComPliANCe sTATemeNT accommodate the recruitment award for This report sets out the groups policy and the new CEO: and structure for the remuneration of executive a minimum shareholding guideline of 200% and non-executive directors.
This policy report of base salary was introduced for the CEO is intended to be in full compliance with the and 100% of base salary for the other requirements of the Large and Medium-sized executive directors.
Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
deTAiled RemuNeRATioN ARRANgemeNTs oF exeCuTiVe diReCToRs BAsic sAlAry Purpose and link to Part of an overall market competitive pay package with salary generally not the most significant part of a directors strategy overall package.
Reflect the individuals experience, role and performance within the company.
operation Paid monthly in cash.
Normally reviewed by the remuneration committee in April each year.
Benchmarking The Remuneration Committee examines salary levels at FTSE 250 companies and other listed peer group companies to help determine executive director pay increases.
relationship to There is no prescribed maximum employee salary level.
The approach to setting base salary increases across the group employee salaries takes into account performance of the individuals concerned, the performance of the business they work for, micro and macroeconomic factors, and market rates for similar roles, skills and responsibility.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Governance directors remuneration report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49 BeNefits Purpose and link to Basic benefits are provided as part of a market competitive pay package.
strategy operation Benefits may include: Private healthcare: Life insurance: and Overseas relocation and housing costs.
relationship to Benefits are available to all directors and employees subject to a minimum length of service or passing a probationary employee benefits period.
Benefit levels All executive directors participate in the healthcare scheme offered in the country where they reside.
There is no prescribed maximum level of benefits.
PeNsioNs Purpose and link to Retirement benefits are provided as part of a market competitive pay package.
strategy operation Directors may participate in the pension arrangements applicable to the country where they work.
A director who elects to cease contributing to a company pension scheme due to changes in tax or pension legislation may choose to receive a pension allowance in lieu of the companys pension contributions.
relationship to All directors and employees are entitled to participate in the same pension scheme arrangements applicable to the employee pension country where they work.
The maximum employers contribution to a pension scheme is 15% of pensionable salary.
levels Profit shAres Purpose and link to Profit share links the pay of those executive directors to whom it relates directly to the growth in profits of their strategy businesses.
It encourages each director to grow their profits, to invest in new products, to search for acquisitions, and to manage costs and risks tightly.
Profit shares are designed to maximise sustainable profits with no guaranteed floor and no ceiling.
Profit shares are expected to make up much of a directors total pay and encourage long-term retention.
operation Profit shares are paid in full in the financial year following the year in which they are earned.
In exceptional circumstances profit shares may be paid in part during the year in which they are earned but only to the extent that profits have already been generated.
There is no deferral of profit share.
There is no guaranteed floor or ceiling on profit shares earned.
Profit shares are calculated after charging the cost of funding acquisitions at the groups actual cost of funds.
Each directors profit share is subject to audit and to Remuneration Committee approval, and can be revised at any time if the directors responsibilities are changed.
Gains or losses on the disposal of capital assets, including subsidiaries and investments, are not included in profit shares: In the event of material misstatement relating to any information used in determining the amount of profit share, or gross misconduct by an executive director, the board may claw back profit share previously paid for a period of up to three years after the year when the event happened.
The profit shares of each executive director for financial year 2015 are reported in detail in the remuneration implementation report.
These arrangements are expected to remain in place for financial year 2016. relationship to Incentives, including profit shares, are an important part of the group culture.
The directors believe they directly reward employee incentive good and exceptional performance.
Most employees across the group have an incentive scheme in place.
schemes 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 50 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration policy report continued ANNuAl BoNus PlAN Purpose and link to The Annual Bonus Plan links reward to key business targets and an individuals contribution.
strategy The Annual Bonus Plan provides alignment with shareholders interests through the operation of bonus deferral.
operation Any executive director may participate in the Annual Bonus Plan.
The maximum award that can be made under the Annual Bonus Plan is 150% of salary.
Each year the Remuneration Committee will determine the maximum annual bonus opportunity for individual executive directors within this limit.
Annual bonus payments will be paid in cash following the release of audited results and or as a deferred award over company shares.
Deferred awards are usually granted in the form of conditional share awards or nil-cost options and may also be settled in cash.
Deferred awards usually vest two years after award although may vest early on leaving employment or on a change of control see later sections.
An additional payment in the form of cash or shares may be made in respect of shares which vest under deferred awards to reflect the value of dividends which would have been paid on those shares this payment may assume that dividends had been reinvested in company shares on a cumulative basis.
The annual bonus payable is based on performance assessed over one year using appropriate financial, strategic and individual performance measures.
The majority of the Annual Bonus will generally be determined by measure s of group financial performance.
Any annual bonus payout is ultimately at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The cash bonus will be subject to recovery, and or deferred awards will be withheld, at the Remuneration Committees discretion in exceptional circumstances where, before the preliminary announcement of audited results during the third financial year following the financial year in which the bonus is determined, a material misstatement or miscalculation comes to light which resulted in an overpayment under the Annual Bonus Plan, or there is gross misconduct.
The Annual Bonus Plan will first be operated in financial year 2016 when the only director who will participate is the new executive chairman.
relationship to Incentive schemes, like the Annual Bonus Plan, are an important part of the group culture.
The directors believe they employee incentive directly reward good and exceptional performance.
Most employees across the group have an incentive scheme in schemes place.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Governance directors remuneration report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51 loNg-TeRm iNCeNTiVe PlANs Purpose and link to Share schemes are an important part of overall compensation and align the interests of directors and managers with strategy shareholders.
They encourage directors to deliver long-term, sustainable profit and share price growth.
operation 2014 Capital Appreciation Plan CAP 2014 At the companys AGM in January 2014, the directors received approval for a new long-term incentive scheme following the achievement of the performance conditions of CAP 2010.
Awards under CAP 2014 are granted to senior employees who have direct and significant responsibility for the profits of the group.
Each CAP 2014 award will comprise an option to subscribe for ordinary shares of 0.25 pence each in the company and a right to receive a cash payment.
No individual may receive an award over more than 5% of the award pool.
In accordance with the terms of CAP 2014, no consideration will be payable for the grant of these awards.
The primary performance test under CAP 2014 requires the company to achieve an adjusted profit before tax before CAP costs of 173.6m by financial year 2017 increased to 178.4m for the acquisition of Mining Indaba.
This is equivalent to an average profit growth rate of at least 10% a year from a base in 2013 which the Remuneration Committee decided was a sufficiently challenging target.
Subject to the performance test being satisfied, rewards under CAP 2014 are expected to vest in three tranches in February 2018, 2019 and 2020.
The profit target under CAP 2014 will be adjusted in the event that any significant acquisitions or disposals are made during the performance period.
Awards are granted under CAP 2014 to senior employees of acquired entities who have direct and significant responsibility for the profits of the group.
In the event of material misstatement relating to any information used in determining the vesting of CAP 2014 awards, or gross misconduct by an executive director, the board may claw back long-term incentives previously paid for a period of up to three years after the year when the event happened.
2014 Company Share Option Plan CSOP 2014 At the companys 2014 AGM, the directors also received approval for a new CSOP.
The CSOP 2014 will be a delivery mechanism for part of the CAP 2014 award.
Awards are granted under the CSOP 2014 to senior employees who have direct and significant responsibility for the profits of the group.
Each CSOP 2014 option will enable each UK-based participant to purchase up to 30,000 of shares in the company with reference to the market price of the companys shares at the date of grant.
No consideration will be payable for the grant of these awards.
The options will vest and become exercisable at the same time as the corresponding share award under the CAP 2014 providing the CSOP option is in the money at that time.
The Canadian version of the CSOP 2014 will enable a Canada-based participant to purchase up to 100,000 of shares in the company with reference to the market price of the companys shares at the date of grant 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 52 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration policy report continued loNg-TeRm iNCeNTiVe PlANs 2015 Performance Share Plan PSP At the companys General Meeting in June 2015 shareholder approval was sought for the PSP.
Any executive director may participate in the PSP.
The maximum annual award permitted under the PSP is shares with a market value of 200% of annualised basic salary.
These awards will normally be subject to a performance period of five years.
If the Remuneration Committee determines so, an alternative performance period may be applied with a minimum of at least three years plus, if applied, an additional holding period of up to two years.
Awards may vest early on leaving employment or on a change of control see later sections.
Vesting of these awards will be based on financial performance measures and or strategic business goals, with the precise measures and weighting of the measures determined by the Remuneration Committee on the grant of each award.
For achieving a threshold level of performance against a performance measure, no more than 25% of the portion of the PSP award determined by that measure will vest.
Vesting of that portion would then increase to 100% for achieving a stretching maximum performance target.
All PSP awards may be granted as conditional awards of shares or nil-cost options or, if appropriate, as cash-settled equivalents.
An additional payment in the form of cash or shares may be made in respect of shares which vest under PSP awards to reflect the value of dividends which would have been paid on those shares and this payment may assume that dividends had been reinvested in company shares on a cumulative basis.
PSP awards will be subject to recovery and or withholding at the Remuneration Committees discretion in exceptional circumstances where, before the preliminary announcement of audited results during the sixth financial year following the financial year in which the award is granted, a material misstatement or miscalculation comes to light which resulted in an over-vesting of PSP awards, or gross misconduct.
relationship to all Both the CAP and the PSP reward the creation of long-term shareholder value and are potentially available to all senior employee long-term employees across the group.
An individual would not normally be granted an award under both the CAP and the PSP incentive schemes in the same financial year.
loNg-TeRm iNCeNTiVe PlANs AllemPloyee sChemes Purpose and link to All-employee share schemes align staff with the groups financial performance and promote a sense of ownership.
strategy operation Euromoney SAYE scheme The group operates an all-employee save as you earn scheme in which those directors employed in the UK are eligible to participate.
No performance conditions attach to options granted under this plan.
It is designed to incentivise all employees.
Participants save a fixed monthly amount of up to 500 or such other limit as may be approved from time to time by HMRC for three years and are then able to buy shares in the company at a price set at a 20% discount to the market value at the start of the savings period.
DMGT SIP Daily Mail and General Trust plc, the groups parent company, operates a share incentive plan in which all UK-based employees of the Euromoney group can participate.
Executive directors may participate on the same basis as other employees, in line with HMRC guidance.
All employees based in the UK are entitled to participate in the Euromoney SAYE and DMGT SIP schemes.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Governance directors remuneration report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53 Notes to table: The Remuneration Committee may vary any of the payment were consistent with the Committee may allow CAP awards to performance condition s if an event occurs shareholder-approved remuneration policy vest early on such event.
If the shares which causes it to determine that a varied in force at the time they were agreed: or iii in the company cease to be listed condition would be more appropriate, at a time when the relevant individual was otherwise than on a change of control, provided that any such varied condition is not a director of the company and, in the the CAP will continue to operate but not materially less difficult to satisfy.
In the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, share awards will be satisfied in cash.
event that the Remuneration Committee the payment was not in consideration for Under the PSP and the deferred share was to make an adjustment of this sort, a the individual becoming a director of the bonus plan, outstanding awards will full explanation would be provided in the company.
For these purposes payments vest early in the event of a change of next Remuneration Report.
includes the Remuneration Committee control takeover unless the change of Performance measures The performance satisfying awards of variable remuneration control is an internal reorganisation measures used in the variable incentive and, in relation to an award over shares, or the Remuneration Committee plans are reviewed annually and chosen the terms of the payment are agreed at determines otherwise in which case to focus executive rewards on delivery the time the award is granted.
awards will be exchanged for equivalent of key financial targets for the relevant The Remuneration Committee may awards over shares in the acquiring performance period in addition, where make minor amendments to the Policy company.
In the case of PSP awards, appropriate, to key strategic or operational for regulatory, exchange control, tax the extent to which awards vest will goals relevant to an individual.
Precise or administrative purposes or to take take into account the satisfaction of the targets are set at the start of each account of a change in legislation without performance conditions and, unless the performance period by the Remuneration obtaining shareholder approval for that Remuneration Committee determines Committee based on relevant reference amendment.
otherwise, on a time pro-rated basis points, including, for group financial The Remuneration Committee will operate by reference to the proportion of the targets, the companys business plan, and the variable incentive plans according performance period that has elapsed.
If are designed to be appropriately stretching.
to their respective rules which provide the company is wound up or is or may be The Remuneration Committee intends to flexibility in a number of regards: affected by a demerger, delisting, special honour any commitments entered into with Under the CAP, outstanding awards dividend or other event which would, in current or former directors on their original will vest early in the event of a change the Remuneration Committees opinion terms, including outstanding incentive of control takeover or if the company affect the companys share price, the awards, which have been disclosed in is wound up, but, in the event that Remuneration Committee may allow previous remuneration reports and, where the relevant transaction takes place PSP and deferred share bonus plan relevant, are consistent with a previous prior to the end of the performance awards to vest on the same basis as for policy approved by shareholders.
Any such period, only to the extent that the a takeover.
payments to former directors will be set out Remuneration Committee considers Any buy-out award granted as part of in the Remuneration Report as and when that the performance conditions have the recruitment of an executive director they occur.
However, the rule applying will be treated as a change of control in The Remuneration Committee reserves on changes of control takeovers does line with the agreed commercial terms the right to make any remuneration not apply on an internal reorganisation of that award.
payments and payments for loss of office or where the acquiring company either If there is a variation of the companys including exercising any discretions agrees to continue to operate the share capital or a demerger, delisting, available to it in connection with such plan in accordance with its terms but special dividend, rights issue or other payments notwithstanding that they are satisfying share awards in cash or to event which, in the Remuneration not in line with the policy set out above replace the plan with equivalent share Committees opinion would affect where the terms of the payment were arrangements relating to shares in the the companys share price, the agreed: i before the date the companys acquiring company.
If the company is Remuneration Committee may adjust first remuneration policy approved by affected by any demerger, dividend the terms of the awards.
shareholders in accordance with section in specie, special dividend or other 439A of the Companies Act came into transaction which will adversely affect effect: and ii before the policy set out above the current or future value of awards came into effect, provided that the terms under the CAP, the Remuneration 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 54 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration policy report continued which have been forfeited in order to join the agreements provide for a notice period of 12 NoN-exeCuTiVe diReCToRs company.
When structuring a buy-out award the months from the company and the executive.
The remuneration of non-executive directors Remuneration Committee will take account of The service agreements for PR Ensor, NF Osborn, is determined by the board based on the time all relevant factors, including any performance CHC Fordham, fide Alfano and B AL-Rehany commitment required by the non-executive conditions attached to forfeited incentive include payment in lieu of notice provisions.
directors, their role and market conditions.
awards, the likelihood of those conditions Each executive director participates in bonus or Each non-executive director receives a base being met, the proportion of the vesting incentive arrangements and in the case of A fee for services to the board with an additional performance period remaining and the form of Rashbass a recruitment award as compensation fee payable for non-executive directors the award e. g. cash or shares.
The overriding for forfeiting remuneration in order to join the with selected, additional responsibilities for principle will be that any replacement buy-out company.
example, the chairs of the remuneration and award should, in aggregate, not exceed the audit committees.
The non-executive directors The service agreement for the new CEO, A commercial value of the earnings which have do not participate in any of the companys Rashbass, includes, the following provisions on been forfeited.
The Remuneration Committee incentive schemes.
The non-executive directors termination consistent with the other executive may, in a recruitment scenario, rely upon the receive reimbursement for reasonable expenses directors : 12 months notice from the company Listing Rules exemption from shareholder incurred as part of their role as non-executive and the executive and during such notice the approval to grant a one-off buy-out award to directors.
executive will normally continue to be entitled facilitate the recruitment of a director.
PoliCy oN exTeRNAl to receive, at the absolute discretion of the APPoiNTmeNTs New executive directors are entitled to Remuneration Committee, bonus, long-term The company encourages its executive participate in the Euromoney SAYE and DMGT incentive awards that accrue during the notice directors to take a limited number of outside SIP schemes.
period and the recruitment bonus to the extent directorships provided they are not expected to that the award vests during the notice period.
Where an executive director is appointed from impinge on their principal employment.
Subject If the company terminates employment and within the organisation, the normal policy of to the approval of the company chairman, elects to make a payment in lieu of notice the company is that any legacy arrangements directors may retain the remuneration received PILON this will be calculated on the basis of A would be honoured in line with the original from the first such appointment.
Rashbass base salary for the notice period and terms and conditions.
Similarly, if an executive will also take account of any recruitment bonus ReCRuiTmeNT PoliCy director is appointed following the companys to which A Rashbass would become entitled Compensation packages for new board acquisition of or merger with another company during the notice period.
At the absolute directors are set in accordance with the or business, legacy terms and conditions would discretion of the Remuneration Committee, prevailing Remuneration Policy at their time of be honoured.
A Rashbass will also be considered for any joining the Board.
The main components are bonuses to which he would or may become New non-executive directors appointed to the detailed below.
entitled during the notice period.
The other board will receive a base fee in line with that executive directors service agreements are New executive directors will receive a salary payable to other non-executive directors.
In the currently being reviewed and updated where commensurate with their responsibilities and event that a non-executive director is required necessary the revised contracts for executive which will not be the most significant part to temporarily take on the role of an executive directors will provide for 12 months notice and of their overall remuneration package.
The director, their remuneration may include any provisions for payment in lieu of notice and director will also be offered the benefit of of the elements listed above for executive garden leave.
private healthcare and life assurance.
benefits may include a pension allowance, The service agreements for the executive diReCToRs seRViCe CoNTRACTs relocation or housing allowance.
directors are expressed to expire on reaching The companys policy is to employ executive their respective retirement age: however, the New executive directors will participate in one directors on service agreements which executive directors could not, under UK law, or more of the incentive plans outlined in the are terminable on 12 months notice.
The be required to retire at this age following the section Detailed remuneration arrangements Remuneration Committee seeks to minimise abolition of the default retirement age.
of executive directors earlier in this Policy termination payments and believes these should Report.
be restricted to the value of remuneration for In the event that employment is terminated due the notice period.
to incapacity 90 calendar days absence in a Where appropriate, a new executive director rolling 12 month period the service agreements may be granted a one-off buy-out award for The companys executive directors are provide for termination on six months notice loss of earnings from previous employment employed for an indefinite term and the service 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Governance directors remuneration report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55 apart from NF Osborn and fide Alfano.
The The treatment of outstanding share awards in Committee determines it should vest as contract for NF Osborn provides for one the event of termination is governed by the soon as reasonably practicable following the months notice and for fide Alfano provides for relevant share plan rules as summarised below.
The extent to which the immediate termination.
In these circumstances award vests will take account of the extent to If a participant in the CAP ceases to be employed the company would also make a payment for which the performance condition is satisfied by reason of death, injury, disability, redundancy, pension and pro-rated profit share up to the and, unless the Remuneration Committee the sale of the participants employing business or date of termination for all executive directors.
determines otherwise, on a time pro-rated entity out of the Group, or any other exceptional basis by reference to the proportion of the With the exception of Sir Patrick Sergeant, none circumstance as determined by the Remuneration performance period that has elapsed.
of the non-executive directors has a service Committee, then the Remuneration Committee contract, although JC Botts, DP Pritchard, has the discretion to allow the CAP award to If a PSP award is subject to a holding period TP Hillgarth and ART Ballingal serve under a vest on the normal vesting date, to the extent and a participant ceases to be an officer or letter of appointment.
The service contract of determined by the Remuneration Committee employee of the Group during that holding Sir Patrick Sergeant provides for 12 months at the time of cessation.
If such discretion is period, his award will normally be released at expense allowance and an expense allowance not exercised, then the award will lapse 60 the end of the holding period except where up to the date of termination in the event of days following cessation of employment.
the Remuneration Committee determines it incapacity.
Such discretion is not exercisable on voluntary should be released following the participants resignation of the participant or where the cessation.
However, if a participant is summarily The directors service contracts are available cessation of employment occurs in circumstances dismissed during a holding period, his award for shareholder inspection at the companys which would justify summary dismissal of the will lapse immediately.
Nil-cost options will registered office.
In all other circumstances, awards normally be exercisable for six months after will lapse on the participant ceasing to be release.
PoliCy oN PAymeNT FoR loss employed or giving or being given notice to oF oFFiCe Where an executive director participates in terminate the employment.
The companys approach to payments in the the deferred share bonus plan and ceases event of termination is to take account of the If an executive director participates in the PSP employment, their outstanding awards will individual circumstances including the reason and ceases to be an officer or employee of the normally lapse unless cessation is due to the for termination, individual performance, Group during the performance period in any participants death or a Good Leaver Reason, contractual obligations, the terms of profit share circumstances other than those set out below, in which case outstanding awards will vest at plans incentives and long-term incentive plans an unvested award will lapse on the date on the normal vesting date or, if the Remuneration in which the executive director participates.
Committee so determines, as soon as reasonably practicable following the individuals The companys general practice for all executive If a participant dies, an unvested PSP award will cessation.
directors is to provide for 12 months salary, vest at the time of the participants death taking pension and pro-rated profit share up to the into account the satisfaction of the performance Any buy-out award granted as part of the date of termination.
condition and, unless the Remuneration recruitment of an executive director will be Committee determines otherwise, on a time treated on cessation of employment in line with The company may lawfully terminate an pro-rated basis by reference to the proportion the agreed commercial terms of that award.
executive directors employment without of the performance period that has elapsed.
compensation in circumstances where the The Remuneration Committee may also company is entitled to terminate for cause this If a participant is treated as a good leaver approve a contribution towards a departing is defined in the service agreements.
because cessation of employment is as a executives legal or other professional costs, result of ill-health, injury, disability, the sale where appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee may determine of the individuals employing business or that any executive director is eligible to receive No other termination payments are provided entity out of the Group, the transfer of the an annual bonus in respect of the financial unless otherwise required by law.
individual to another of DMGTs businesses year in which they cease employment.
This outside the Group or any other reason at the bonus would usually be time apportioned.
In A non-executive directors contract can be Remuneration Committees discretion a Good determining the level of bonus to be paid, the terminated by the company giving summary Leaver Reason a participants unvested PSP Remuneration Committee may, at its discretion, notice, with the exception of Sir Patrick award will usually continue until the normal take into account performance up to the date of Sergeant who has a 12-month notice period.
vesting date except where the Remuneration cessation or over the financial year as a whole.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 56 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration policy report continued PoliCy FoR diReCToRs holdiNg equiTy iN The ComPANy With effect from October 1 2015, there is a minimum shareholding requirement of 200% of base salary for the executive chairman and 100% of salary for other executive directors on a continuous basis.
A newly appointed executive director will have a period of five years from their date of appointment to meet the minimum shareholding requirement.
sCeNARio ChARTs FoR diReCToRs RemuNeRATioN The chart below provides illustrative values of the remuneration package for the new CEO, A Rashbass, under three assumed performance scenarios for FY2016.
This chart is for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may differ from those shown.
Assumed PerformANce AssumPtioNs used All performance scenarios Fixed pay Consists of total fixed pay, including base salary, benefits and pension.
Base salary salary effective as at October 1 2015.
Pension allowance amount expected to be received in FY2016 10% of salary.
Minimum less than threshold performance Variable pay No pay-out under the annual bonus.
Performance in line with expectations Variable pay 2 3rd of the maximum pay-out under the annual bonus.
Maximum performance Variable pay 100% of the maximum pay-out under the annual bonus.
PSP awards have been shown at face value, with no share price growth or discount rate assumptions.
All-employee share plans have been excluded.
com Directors Remuneration Report Annual report on remuneration continued Salaries and fees include basic salaries and any non-executive directors fees.
Salaries are reviewed in April each year.
None of the executive directors received a salary increase in 2015.
Differences in salaries between 2014 and 2015 reflect currency movements for those executive directors based outside the UK.
Benefits include private healthcare and costs in relation to private pension schemes.
Pension amounts are those contributed by the company to pension schemes or cash amounts paid in lieu of pension contributions.
Profit shares are calculated as follows: 1.
PR Ensor receives a profit share based on the adjusted pre-tax post non-controlling interests profit of the group.
The profit share is calculated by applying a multiplier of 2.97% 2014: 2.97% to the adjusted pre-tax profits.
In addition, PR Ensor is entitled to 1.11% 2014: 1.11% of adjusted pre-tax profit in excess of a threshold of 44,988,722 2014: 42,846,402.
CHC Fordham receives a profit share linked to the growth in the groups adjusted pre-tax EPS above a base pre-tax EPS.
This base EPS increases by 5% a year and he receives 24,500 for every 1 pence increase in EPS above the base.
For 2015, his base EPS was 74.45 pence 2014: 70.9 pence and the adjusted pre-tax EPS was 81.1 pence 2014: 90.5 pence.
NF Osborn receives a profit share linked to the operating profits of the businesses he manages at a rate of 2.5% on profits to 1m, 4% on the next 1m, 5.5% on the next 1 million and 7% on profits in excess of 3m.
CR Jones receives a profit share linked to the growth in adjusted pre-tax EPS of the group.
A sum of 500 is payable for every percentage point that the adjusted pre-tax EPS is above 11 pence and an additional sum of 800 is payable for every percentage point that the adjusted pre-tax EPS is above 20 pence.
5. fide Alfano receives a profit share linked to the operating profits of the businesses she manages at a rate of 1% on profits between US$402,116 and US$727,116, and a rate of 6.5% on profits above US$727,116.
Her profit share on acquisitions she manages is at a rate of 5% of profits above a threshold.
JL Wilkinson receives a profit share linked to the operating profits of the businesses she manages at a rate of 5% of profits above a threshold of 1m.
In 2014, the benefits figure for JL Wilkinson included 41,837 of New York housing allowance.
In 2014, JL Wilkinson returned to London and no longer receives a housing allowance.
B AL-Rehany receives a profit share linked to the operating profits of the businesses he manages at a rate of 5% of profits above a threshold.
This threshold increases by 10% per annum.
Information relating to certain targets, performance of individual businesses and adjustments to profit are considered to be commercially sensitive and the group do not believe it to be appropriate to disclose now or in the future.
NoN-exeCuTiVe diReCToRs Each non-executive director receives a base fee for services to the board of 30,000 2014: 30,000 with an additional fee of 6,500 2014: 6,500 payable to the chairs of the remuneration and audit committees.
iNFoRmATioN NoT subJeCT To AudiT External appointments PR Ensor is an external member of the Finance Committee of Oxford University Press.
During the year he retained earnings of 20,000 2014: 20,000 from this role.
This amount has not been included in his single figure of remuneration on page 57.
NF Osborn serves as an advisor to the boards of both DMG Events and dmgi, fellow group companies, for which he received a combined fee of US$18,600 2014: US$23,638.
These amounts have not been included in his single figure of remuneration on page 57.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Governance directors remuneration report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59 Profit share performance against expectations for the executive directors under the companys remuneration policy for FY2015 are set out below.
These charts show, for each director, the profit share expected at the beginning of the year based on the groups FY2015 forecast, the actual profit share and an estimate of the maximum profit share for FY2015.
The maximum profit share was calculated assuming that profits were 20% higher than the FY2015 forecast, although profit shares have no ceiling.
6,000 1,200 PR ENSOR CHC FORDHAM 5,000 1,000 4,000 800 3,000 600 2,000 400 1,000 200 0 0 In line with expectations Actual Maximum In line with expectations Actual Maximum 300 900 NF OSBORN CR JONES 800 250 700 200 600 500 150 400 100 300 200 50 100 0 0 In line with expectations Actual Maximum In line with expectations Actual Maximum 1,000 250 fide ALFANO JL WILKINSON 200 800 150 600 400 100 200 50 0 0 In line with expectations Actual Maximum In line with expectations Actual Maximum 300 B AL-REHANY 250 200 150 100 50 0 In line with expectations Actual Maximum 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 60 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Directors Remuneration Report Annual report on remuneration continued VARiAble PAy Of the total remuneration of the seven executive directors who served in the year, 79% was derived from variable profit shares, as illustrated in the following chart: 5% PR Ensor 95% CHC Fordham 70% 30% NF Osborn 46% 54% 32% 68% CR Jones 16% fide Alfano 84% 68% JL Wilkinson 32% 48% 52% B AL-Rehany 21% 79% Total Total excluding PR Ensor 40% 60% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100 Fixed salary and benets Variable profit shares ComPANy shARe sChemes Details of each directors share options can be found on pages 63 to 64.
CAPiTAl APPReCiATioN PlAN 2014 CAP 2014 CAP 2014 was approved by shareholders at the AGM on January 30 2014 as a direct replacement for CAP 2010.
Awards under CAP 2014 were granted in June 2014 to approximately 250 directors and senior employees who have direct and significant responsibility for the profits of the group.
Each CAP 2014 award comprises two equal elements: an option to subscribe for ordinary shares of 0.25 pence each in the company: and a right to receive a cash payment.
No individual could receive an award over more than 5% of the award pool.
In accordance with the terms of CAP 2014, no consideration was payable for the grant of the awards.
The value of awards received by a participant is directly linked to the growth in profits over the performance period of the businesses for which the participant is responsible.
Where there is no growth, no awards are allocated, whereas participants whose businesses grow the most will receive the highest proportion of the award.
The award pool comprises a maximum of 3.5m ordinary shares and cash of 7.6m, limiting the total accounting cost of the scheme to 41m over its life.
Awards will vest in three equal tranches, subject to the performance conditions, and lapse to the extent unexercised by September 30 2023.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Governance directors remuneration report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61 If the primary performance condition is not met Vesting ComPANy shARe oPTioN PlAN during the performance period, the awards will 2014 CsoP 2014 The first tranche will vest on satisfaction of the lapse at the end of the last financial year of the Shareholders approved the CSOP 2014 primary performance condition, but no earlier performance period unless adjusted pre-tax at the AGM on January 30 2014.
1 profits are at least 84.9% of the primary target.
CSOP 2014 was approved by HMRC on The second tranche will vest in the February This is known as the secondary performance March 31 2014. following the initial vesting year in which the condition.
If the secondary performance Awards were granted under the CSOP 2014 following conditions subsequent conditions condition is met, the number of ordinary shares on June 20 2014 to approximately 150 UK are satisfied: and cash in the award pool will be reduced in and Canadian directors and senior employees accordance with the table below to reflect the 1 a.
Adjusted pre-tax profits for that financial of the group who have direct and significant 1 extent to which the adjusted pre-tax profits year equals or exceeds: responsibility for the profits of the group.
have fallen short of the primary target.
Each CSOP 2014 option enables each UK i. if the primary performance condition participant to purchase up to 2,688 shares Adjusted pretax is satisfied, the primary target plus the 1 and each Canadian participant to purchase profits as a % of % reduction percentage growth in RPI from the start up to 8,963 shares in the company at a price the primary target in the award pool of the initial vesting year to the start of of 11.16 per share, the market value at the 100 0 the relevant financial year: or date of grant.
No consideration was payable 95.7 2 for the grant of these awards.
if the primary performance condition is 94.2 6 and become exercisable at the same time as not met but the secondary performance 93.1 10 the corresponding share award under the CAP condition is met, the adjusted pre-tax 91.5 17.3 1 2014. profits for the financial year ending 88.2 37.1 September 30 2017 plus the growth in 84.9 67 The CSOP 2014 has the same performance RPI from October 1 2016 to the start of criteria as CAP 2014.
The number of CSOP the relevant financial year: and If the secondary performance condition is met 2014 awards that vest proportionally reduce in the financial year ended September 30 2017 the number of shares that vest under the b. the contribution to growth of that 1 and the adjusted pre-tax profits in the financial CAP 2014.
The CSOP is effectively a delivery participant does not fall by more than 20% year ended September 30 2018 and or 2019 mechanism for part of the CAP 2014 award.
of that made in the initial vesting year.
1 exceeds the adjusted pre-tax profits for 2017 The CSOP 2014 options have an exercise price then an additional number of ordinary shares The third tranche will vest in the financial year of 11.16, which will be satisfied by a funding and cash will be allocated to the award pool.
following the second vesting year in which the award mechanism which results in the net The number of ordinary shares and the amount 2 subsequent conditions are satisfied.
gain on these options being delivered in the of cash will be equal to one-third of that which equivalent number of shares to participants Performance conditions would have been included in the award pool as if the same gain had been delivered using The primary performance condition requires for 2017 if the adjusted pre-tax profits had CAP 2014 options.
The amount of the funding 1 the group to achieve adjusted pre-tax profits of been equal to 2018 and or 2019. award will depend on the companys share 173.6m, from a 2013 base profit of 118.6m, price at the date of exercise.
by no later than the financial year ending September 30 2017.
Following the acquisition The fair value per option granted and the of Mining Indaba in 2014, this profit target was assumptions used to calculate its value are set increased to 178.4m.
The performance target for CAP 2014 requires the group to generate profit growth of at least 10% a year or RPI plus 5%, whichever is higher over a four year period from a base of profits achieved in 2013.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 62 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Directors Remuneration Report Annual report on remuneration continued CAPiTAl APPReCiATioN PlAN ComPANy shARe oPTioN PlAN sAye 2010 CAP 2010 2010 CsoP 2010 The group operates a save as you earn scheme CAP 2010 was approved by shareholders Shareholders approved the CSOP 2010 at the in which all employees, including directors, at the AGM on January 21 2010 as a direct AGM on January 21 2010.
The CSOP 2010 plan employed in the UK are eligible to participate.
Each CAP 2010 was approved by HM Revenue and Customs on Participants save a fixed monthly amount of up award comprised two equal elements: an June 21 2010. to 500 for three years and are then able to buy option to subscribe for ordinary shares of 0.25p shares in the company at a price set at a 20% Each CSOP 2010 option enabled each each in the company at an exercise price of discount to the market value at the start of the 3 participant to purchase up to 4,972 shares in 0.25p per ordinary share: and a right to receive savings period.
In line with market practice, 3 the company at a price of 6.03 per share, a cash payment.
No consideration was payable no performance conditions attach to options the market value at the date of grant.
No for the grant of the awards.
NF Osborn participated consideration was payable for the grant of in this scheme during the year, details of which The award pool comprised 3,500,992 ordinary these awards.
Any CSOP options that did not can be found on page 63 of this report.
shares with an option value calculated at date fully vest in the first tranche of the CAP 2010 of grant using an option pricing valuation award vested at the same time as the second dmgT siP model of 15m, and cash of 15m, limiting tranche of an individuals CAP award, but only DMGT, the groups parent company, operates the total accounting cost of the scheme to where the CSOP 2010 is in the money.
a share incentive plan in which all UK-based 30m over its life.
Awards vested in two equal employees of the Euromoney group can The CSOP 2010 had the same performance tranches.
The first tranche became exercisable participate.
Employees can contribute up to criteria as CAP 2010 as set out above.
The in February 2013 on satisfaction of the primary 150 a month from their gross pay to purchase number of CSOP 2010 awards that vested performance condition in 2012.
These shares are received proportionally reduced the number of shares tranche became exercisable in February 2014 tax free by the employee after five years.
The that vested under the CAP 2010.
The CSOP was when the primary performance condition was executive directors who participated in this effectively a delivery mechanism for part of the again satisfied in 2013.
The vesting of the scheme during the year were PR Ensor and CAP 2010 award.
The CSOP 2010 options had second tranche was subject to an additional CRJones, details of which can be found on 3 an exercise price of 6.03, which was satisfied performance condition which required the page 65 of this report.
by a funding award mechanism which results in profits of each business in the subsequent 2 1.
Adjusted pre-tax profits are presented before the the net gain on these options being delivered in vesting period be at least 75% of that achieved impact of amortisation of acquired intangible the equivalent number of shares to participants in the year the first tranche of awards become assets, exceptional items, and movements as if the same gain had been delivered using in deferred consideration and acquisition exercisable.
The options lapse to the extent commitments, and the cost of the CAP itself.
The amount of the funding unexercised by September 30 2020.
The net gain on the CSOP options is the market award depended on the companys share price price of the companys shares at the date of The number of options received under the at the date of exercise.
exercise less the exercise price multiplied by the number of options exercised.
share award of CAP 2010 was reduced by the 3.
The Canadian version of the CSOP 2010 had a The fair value per option granted and the number of options vesting from the Company grant date of March 2010 and an exercise price of assumptions used to calculate its value are set Share Option Plan 2010 see below and 5.01, the market value of the companys shares out in note 23. at the date of grant, and enabled each Canadian note 23. participant to purchase up to 19,960 shares in the company.
The fair value per option granted and the assumptions used to calculate its value are set out in note 23.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Governance directors remuneration report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63 iNFoRmATioN subJeCT To AudiT diReCToRs shARe oPTioNs date At start Granted exercised At end exercise from which expiry of year during year during year of year price exercisable date PR Ensor retired September 30 2015 1,810 1,810 4.97 Feb 1 2015 Aug 1 2015 1,810 1,810 CHC Fordham 1,408 1,408 6.39 Feb 1 2016 Aug 1 2016 Performance criteria 20,167 20,167 0.0025 not satisfied Sep 30 2023 Performance criteria 2,688 2,688 11.16 not satisfied Sep 30 2023 24,263 24,263 NF Osborn 1,810 1,810 4.97 Feb 1 2015 Aug 1 2015 Performance criteria 1,340 1,340 11.16 not satisfied Sep 30 2023 1,104 1,104 8.15 Feb 1 2018 Aug 1 2018 3,150 1,104 1,810 2,444 Performance criteria CR Jones 14,457 14,457 0.0025 not satisfied Sep 30 2023 Performance criteria 2,688 2,688 11.16 not satisfied Sep 30 2023 17,145 17,145 Performance criteria fide Alfano 28,020 28,020 0.0025 not satisfied Sep 30 2023 28,020 28,020 Performance criteria JL Wilkinson 2,059 2,059 0.0025 not satisfied Sep 30 2020 Performance criteria 7,954 7,954 0.0025 not satisfied Sep 30 2023 Performance criteria 2,688 2,688 11.16 not satisfied Sep 30 2023 12,701 12,701 Performance criteria B AL-Rehany 16,964 16,964 0.0025 not satisfied Sep 30 2023 Performance criteria 8,963 8,963 11.16 not satisfied Sep 30 2023 25,927 25,927 total 113,016 1,104 3,620 110,500 Issued under the Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC SAYE scheme 2012.
Issued under the Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC SAYE scheme 2013.
Issued under the Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC SAYE scheme 2014.
Options granted relate to the true-up to the funding awards outstanding from tranche 2 of CAP 2010 which vested on February 13 2014.
The number of such options granted was provisional last year and was trued-up to reflect the share price on the date of vesting.
The number of options granted under CSOP 2014 to each director will vest at the same time as the corresponding share award under CAP 2014 providing the CSOP 2014 is in the money at the time.
If the option is not in the money at the time of vesting of the corresponding CAP 2014 award it continues to subsist and will vest at the same time as the second or third tranche of the CAP 2014 share award.
The market price of the companys shares on September 30 2015 was 9.50.
The high and low share prices during the year were 12.61 and 9.41 respectively.
There were 1,104 options granted during the year 2014: 105,925.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 64 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Directors Remuneration Report Annual report on remuneration continued diReCToRs CAsh seTTled oPTioNs Under the terms of CAP 2010 and CAP 2014, the directors have been granted the following cash awards: At start Granted exercised At end of of year during year during year year date from which entitled 49,461 49,461 Performance criteria not satisfied CHC Fordham 2,900 2,900 Performance criteria not satisfied NF Osborn 37,105 37,105 Performance criteria not satisfied CR Jones 60,640 60,640 Performance criteria not satisfied fide Alfano 8,824 8,824 Performance criteria not satisfied JL Wilkinson 23,031 23,031 Performance criteria not satisfied JL Wilkinson 56,109 56,109 Performance criteria not satisfied B AL-Rehany 238,070 238,070 The cash settled options lapse four months after the preliminary announcement of the groups results for the financial year in which the performance conditions are met see note 23.
The number of options and amount of cash award granted under CAP 2014 to each director is provisional and based on the performance of the respective directors individual businesses up to the end of the performance period September 2017.
As such the actual number of options and amount of cash award issued is likely to be different to the amount disclosed.
The percentage of awards that would vest if the minimum performance test was satisfied is 33%.
The number of options received under the share award of the CAP 2014 is reduced by the number of options vesting with participants from the CSOP 2014.
The share options awarded under CAP 2014 have a face value of 10.77 per option on the date of grant June 20 2014. diReCToRs oPTioNs exeRCised duRiNg The yeAR The aggregate gain made by the directors on the exercise of share options in the year was 19,440 2014: 1,441,411 as follows: Number of market price Number of options date of on date of Gain on shares exercised exercise exercise exercise retained 1,810 Feb 6 2015 10.34 9,720 1,810 PR Ensor retired September 30 2015 1,810 Feb 6 2015 10.34 9,720 NF Osborn 3,620 19,440 1,810 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Governance directors remuneration report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65 diReCToRs iNTeResTs iN The ComPANy The interests of the directors in the shares of the company as at September 30 were as follows: ordinary shares of 0.25p each 2015 2014 executive directors PR Ensor retired September 30 2015 145,368 194,529 CHC Fordham 179,971 179,971 NF Osborn 31,354 31,354 CR Jones 192,000 192,000 fide Alfano 78,006 78,006 JL Wilkinson 37,922 89,430 B AL-Rehany 31,844 32,844 Non-executive directors The Viscount Rothermere 24,248 Sir Patrick Sergeant 165,304 165,304 JC Botts 15,503 15,503 MWH Morgan 7,532 7,532 DP Pritchard ART Ballingal TP Hillgarth 884,804 1,010,721 Non-beneficial Sir Patrick Sergeant 20,000 20,000 Each of the executive directors held shares with a value in excess of 100% of salary throughout the year, in accordance with the policy for directors holding equity in the company.
This policy ceases to apply on termination of a directors service contract.
iNFoRmATioN NoT subJeCT To AudiT diReCToRs iNTeResTs iN dAily mAil ANd geNeRAl TRusT PlC The interests of the directors, to be disclosed under chapter 9.8.
6 of the Listing Rules, in the shares of Daily Mail and General Trust plc as at September 30 were as follows: ordinary shares of A ordinary non-voting 12.5p each shares of 12.5p each 2015 2014 2015 2014 1 19,890,364 19,890,364 61,958,863 64,758,863 The Viscount Rothermere 1,544 1,318 PR Ensor retired September 30 2015 1,523 1,271 CR Jones 36,000 36,000 Sir Patrick Sergeant 1 1,247,880 1,243,403 MWH Morgan 1 The figures in the table above include A shares awarded to executives under the DMGT Executive Bonus Scheme.
The Viscount Rothermere had non-beneficial interests as a trustee at September 30 2015 in 4,880,000 A ordinary non-voting shares of 12.5 pence each 2014: 5,540,000 shares.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc has been notified that, under section 824 of the Companies Act 2006 and including the interests shown in the table above, The Viscount Rothermere is deemed to have been interested in 19,890,364 ordinary shares of 12.5 pence each 2014: 19,890,364 shares.
24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 66 EuromonEy InstItutIonal InvEstor PlC www.
com Directors Remuneration Report Annual report on remuneration continued At September 30 2015 and September 30 2014, The Viscount Rothermere was beneficially interested in 756,700 ordinary shares of Rothermere Continuation Limited, the companys ultimate parent company.
The Viscount Rothermere and MWH Morgan had options over 427,680 and 185,666 respectively A ordinary non-voting shares in Daily Mail and General Trust plc at September 30 2014 2014: 487,680 and 201,396 options respectively.
The exercise price of these options is nil.
Further details of these options are listed in the Daily Mail and General Trust plc annual report.
Since September 30 2015, PR Ensor and CR Jones each purchased, through the DMGT SIP scheme, 16 and 20 2014: 32 and 32 additional A ordinary non-voting shares in Daily Mail and General Trust plc respectively.
There have been no other changes in the directors interests since September 30 2015. iNFoRmATioN subJeCT To AudiT diReCToRs PeNsioNs Executive directors can participate in the Harmsworth Pension Scheme a defined benefit scheme, the Euromoney Pension Plan a money purchase plan or their own private pension scheme.
Further details of these schemes are set out in note 26 to the accounts.
Pension contributions paid by the company on behalf of executive directors during the year were as follows: cash alternative to pension scheme euromoney Private contribution Pension Plan schemes total Total 2015 2015 2015 2015 2014 PR Ensor retired September 30 2015 22,918 22,918 22,918 CHC Fordham 37,500 37,500 37,500 NF Osborn 9,399 9,399 9,399 DC Cohen resigned September 30 2014 15,855 CR Jones 39,750 39,750 39,750 fide Alfano 4,256 4,256 3,986 JL Wilkinson 18,000 18,000 17,982 B AL-Rehany 6,915 6,915 6,191 72,067 55,500 11,171 138,738 153,581 The Harmsworth scheme is closed to new entrants: existing members still in employment can continue to accrue benefits in the scheme on a cash basis, with members using this cash account to purchase an annuity at retirement.
Under the Harmsworth Pension Scheme, the following pension benefits were earned by the directors: harmsworth Pension scheme Additional weighting Accrued value of of pension annual Pension cash transfer benefits benefit value pension at accrual at value at Normal if early as shown in sept 30 sept 30 sept 30 retirement retirement single figure 2015 2015 2015 date taken table Cash allowance: 46,700 65,200 902,000 Aug 15 2025 none 100% CR Jones 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 30 Sept 2015 31 Mar 2015 30 Sept 2014 31 Mar 2014 30 Sept 2013 31 Mar 2013 30 Sept 2012 31 Mar 2012 30 Sept 2011 31 Mar 2011 30 Sept 2010 31 Mar 2010 30 Sept 2009 31 Mar 2009 30 Sept 2008 Governance directors remuneration report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67 The accrued annual pension entitlement is that which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to September 30 2015 and ignores any increase for future inflation.
The pension cash accrual represents the sum which would be available on retirement based on service to September 30 2015 to secure retirement benefits, ignoring any increase for future inflation.
All transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Retirement Benefit Transfer Values GN11 published by the Board for Actuarial Standards.
The transfer values of the accrued entitlement include the pension cash accrual and represent the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the schemes liability in respect of the directors pension benefits.
They do not represent a sum paid or payable to individual directors and, therefore, cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
The pension cash accrual has been included in the increase in transfer value net of directors contributions.
Members of the scheme have the option of paying additional voluntary contributions.
Neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the above table.
The normal retirement age for the pension cash accrual element of the scheme is 65.
The normal retirement age for the accrued benefits under the now closed element of the Harmsworth Pension Scheme is 62.
PAymeNTs To PAsT diReCToRs In April 2015 DC Cohen received 138,000 in respect of the profit share for the balance of his notice period.
PAymeNTs FoR loss oF oFFiCe There were no payments for loss of office made in the year.
iNFoRmATioN NoT subJeCT To AudiT ComPARisoN oF oVeRAll PeRFoRmANCe ANd RemuNeRATioN oF The mANAgiNg diReCToR The chart below compares the companys total shareholder return with the FTSE 250 index over the past seven financial years.
For these purposes shareholder return represents the theoretical growth in value of a shareholding over a specific period, assuming that dividends are reinvested to purchase additional shares.
The company is a constituent of the FTSE 250 index and, accordingly, this is considered to be an appropriate benchmark.
com Directors Remuneration Report Annual report on remuneration continued mANAgiNg diReCToR siNgle FiguRe oF RemuNeRATioN CHC Fordham replaced PR Ensor as managing director on October 14 2012.
The single figure of total remuneration for the managing director set out below includes salary, benefits, company pension contributions and long-term incentives as set out on page 57 of this report.
variable element value of long-term profit long-term incentive share incentive vesting variable payout share rates single figure element against options against year on year of total profit maximum vesting in maximum maximum % change remuneration share opportunity period opportunity opportunity % % % 2015 CHC Fordham 36% 575,706 161,700 17% 2014 CHC Fordham 46% 895,206 480,935 52% 2013 CHC Fordham 66% 1,647,267 648,025 58% 585,468 585,468 100% 2012 PR Ensor 10% 4,856,723 4,630,646 82% 26,640 26,640 100% 2011 PR Ensor 11% 4,396,681 4,201,414 82% 2010 PR Ensor 36% 3,976,660 3,787,355 82% 2009 PR Ensor 0% 2,916,771 2,508,665 81% 218,983 218,983 100% The groups profit share scheme has no ceiling: the maximum annual variable element of remuneration was therefore calculated assuming that profits achieved had been 20% higher.
From October 1 2015 this disclosure will be provided for A Rashbass as the groups CEO from November 18 2015.
PeRCeNTAge ChANge iN RemuNeRATioN oF The mANAgiNg diReCToR The table below illustrates the change in remuneration for the managing director compared with the change in remuneration of the average employee across the group at constant currency.
The directors feel that this group of people is the most appropriate as a comparator because employee pay is determined annually by the remuneration committee at the same time as that of the managing director and under the same economic circumstances.
The directors believe this demonstrates the best link between the changes in average remuneration compared to the managing director.
% change 2014 to 2015 salary Benefits incentives Managing director remuneration 15.0% 66.4% Average employee 2.7% 13.3% 9.7% Remuneration in the above table excludes long-term incentive payments and pension benefits.
RelATiVe imPoRTANCe oF sPeNd oN PAy The table below illustrates the companys spend on employee pay in comparison to profits and distributions to shareholders.
These are deemed by the directors to be the significant distributions made during the year and will assist stakeholders in understanding the relative importance of spend on pay.
For this purpose, total employee pay includes salaries, profit shares and bonuses.
2015 2014 % increase m m decrease Total employee pay 146.9 141.1 4.1% Dividends 29.1 28.8 1.0% Adjusted profit before tax 107.8 116.2 7.2% 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8 Governance directors remuneration report Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69 geNeRAl meeTiNgs shAReholdeR VoTe ouTCome The first table below shows the binding shareholder vote on the 2014 remuneration report at the January 2015 AGM.
The second table below shows the binding shareholder vote on the remuneration policy at the January 2015 AGM.
The third table below shows the binding shareholder vote on the remuneration policy at the June 2015 general meeting.
The committee believes the 96.9% votes in favour of the remuneration report shows strong shareholder support for the companys remuneration arrangements.
The committee consults with key investors prior to any major changes in its remuneration arrangements.
votes for % votes against % Abstentions 113,215,978 96.9% 3,617,152 3.1% 724,930 votes for % votes against % Abstentions 102,677,919 87.9% 14,155,606 12.1% 724,535 votes for % votes against % Abstentions 103,127,111 87.1% 15,212,519 12.9% 704,902 APPoiNTmeNTs ANd Re-eleCTioN A Rashbass will stand for election as a director following his appointment to the board on October 1 2015.
CR Jones and all non-executive directors will stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
All other directors will not seek re-election at the AGM.
oTheR RelATed PARTy TRANsACTioNs NF Osborn serves as an advisor to the boards of both DMG Events and dmgi, fellow group companies, for which he received a combined fee of US$18,600 2014: US$23,638.
imPlemeNTATioN oF The RemuNeRATioN PoliCy For the year ending September 30 2016 the group intends to apply the remuneration policy as follows: Directors salaries from October 1 2015 are as set out on page 57.
These salaries will be reviewed in April 2016.
Benefits will also be reviewed during the year although it is not anticipated that any significant changes will be made.
The profit share arrangement for each director will be as described on page 58.
Profit share thresholds are subject to review during the year.
Changes to thresholds are made only where considered appropriate by the remuneration committee, taking into account the businesses that the respective director is responsible for, acquisitions and disposals, and the other factors stated in the groups policy.
The thresholds for the year ending September 30 2016 will be disclosed in the 2016 report and accounts.
Directors will continue to be able to participate in the pension schemes operated in the country in which they reside.
JohN boTTs Chairman of the remuneration committee December 14 2015 24254.04 - 15 December 2015 11:57 AM - Proof 8
