78 Governance Report on directors remuneration Report on directors remuneration Roger Davis Chairman of Remuneration Committee C urrent members Roger Davis Chairman Deirdre Mahlan Fabiola Arredondo George Rose Jan Babiak Judith Sprieser Alan Jebson Paul Walker Chairmans introduction and highlights The Remuneration Committee the Committee is pleased to present its Report on directors remuneration the Report for the year ended 31 March 2015.
Although Experian plc is a Jersey incorporated and registered company we have drawn up this report in line with Schedule 8 of the UK Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2013, as well as the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA Listing Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Report is in two sections: p80 th e Annual report on remuneration which explains how we implemented our remuneration policy for the year ended 31 March 2015 and how we propose to implement it for the year ending 31 March 2016: and p94 the Directors remuneration policy report which contains details of the remuneration policy approved by shareholders last year and which applies until the 2017 AGM.
This has been included for ease of reference only.
Shareholders will be invited to approve the Annual report on remuneration at the Companys AGM on 22 July 2015.
This year has seen significant changes in our executive leadership team.
At the 2014 AGM, Don Robert was appointed Chairman, Brian Cassin was appointed Chief Executive Officer CEO and Kerry Williams was appointed Chief Operating Officer COO.
Lloyd Pitchford joined as Chief Financial Officer CFO on 1 October 2014.
Given these changes, and the fact that Experians long-term incentive plans the Plans were coming to the end of their ten-year cycle, the Committee felt it was appropriate to conduct a thorough review, to consider whether the remuneration structure, and in particular the Plans, remain fit for purpose.
The new senior management team has reviewed the existing strategy of the business and clarified that their priority is to continue to focus where Experian has clear strengths and deliver growth whilst driving operational efficiencies and performance improvements.
In addition, they are committed to optimising the capital allocation in the business by balancing investment with returns to shareholders.
The Committees view is that our Plans have been a significant underpin of the business strategy and Group performance over the past nine years and they are well understood by our senior leaders.
Given the support for our remuneration policy at the 2014 AGM, we believe our shareholders share this view.
Consequently, the Committee has decided that no changes to the framework of our Plans and our remuneration policy are necessary.
It is therefore proposing to seek shareholder approval for renewal of the Plans at the 2015 AGM.
Whilst the Plans will operate in the same way as before, we are proposing two minimal changes that are consistent with our policy, namely: the introduction of clawback provisions, in line with the revised 2014 Code, which will also apply to the annual bonus plan: and a minor adjustment to the profit before tax PBT metric, whereby we will now measure growth in Benchmark PBT on a per share basis.
Whilst continuing to encourage profit growth, this will also reinforce the discipline of balancing growth investments against the value of returning capital to shareholders and therefore enhance the alignment of management and shareholders interests.
These changes strengthen the alignment with both our business strategy and the shareholder experience, and support our philosophy that executive directors should only benefit for delivering exceptional returns to shareholders.
In the context of the underlying performance of the Group Benchmark PBT growth of 4% at constant currency, the Committee determined that a bonus payout equivalent to 75% of salary as against a maximum payout of 200% was appropriate for the executive directors for the year ended 31 March 2015.
The executive directors have elected to defer 100% of their annual bonus for this year into the Co-investment Plans CIP, which is a strong signal of their confidence in Experian and aligns their interests closely with those of shareholders.
Governance Report on directors remuneration 79 Longer-term performance has continued to be good.
Over the three years ended 31 March 2015, Benchmark PBT has grown by an annual average of 8.7% on a constant currency basis, and our cumulative operating cash flow was US$3.9bn.
In addition, the Companys total shareholder return TSR over that period was 2.2% above that of the FTSE 100.
These are the performance measures on which the vesting of the Performance Share Plan PSP and the CIP awards are based.
As a result of this performance, 40.2% of the awards under the 2012 PSP and 81.0% of the awards under the 2012 CIP will vest in May 2015.
Full details of p80 the outcomes are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
The Committee is comfortable that the levels of vesting are commensurate with the Groups underlying financial performance and therefore considers that the payouts are appropriately aligned with business performance.
The Committee has always sought to find the right balance between setting performance targets that are appropriately challenging and represent value creation for shareholders if met, while being achievable and motivational for management.
We believe that this balance is borne out in the levels of vesting this year which reflect the fact that performance has been good overall, although not exceptional.
We will continue to ensure that the targets are equally stretching from year to year, whatever the change in the economic climate or trading conditions.
In summary, the Committee seeks to balance the interests of stakeholders and considers that its aims are being met.
We hope that shareholders agree with our approach and look forward to their support of both the renewal of the Plans and the Annual report on remuneration at the 2015 AGM.
The Remuneration Committee The Committee comprises all of the non-executive directors and met four times during the year ended 31 March 2015.
All of the Committees members are considered to be independent non-executive directors, in accordance with the Code.
The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer attend meetings by invitation, but they do not attend when their own remuneration is discussed and no director is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
Other regular attendees include the Group Human Resources Director and members of the Global Reward team.
The Committee also regularly meets with its independent advisers, Towers Watson.
The Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
Committees roles and responsibilities Making recommendations to the Board on the design of the Groups shortand long-term incentive plans.
Overseeing the Groups executive pension arrangements.
Committee activities During the year, the Committee: Reviewed and approved the 2014 Report on directors remuneration.
Initiated and reviewed feedback from a May 2014 shareholder consultation exercise, concerning the proposed performance measures, targets and operation of the Plans.
Initiated a review of the Companys remuneration arrangements and, as a result, considered the renewal of the Plans and any changes required in light of the September 2014 update to the Code.
Initiated and reviewed feedback from a February 2015 shareholder consultation exercise concerning the proposed renewal of the Plans, to be considered at the 2015 AGM.
Reviewed and approved the proposed remuneration package on recruitment of the new CFO.
Approved the proposed remuneration arrangements for operational leadership including the COO, functional leadership including the CFO, the Group Human Resources Director and the CEO.
Received updates on the Plans, including in respect of performance conditions, and an update on current executive remuneration trends.
Agreed: the 2014 bonus outcome: 2015 bonus targets: targets for long-term incentive awards: the participants for certain Plans: and to make share plan awards including the invitation to employees to participate in the 2014 Sharesave plan.
Reviewed the Committees performance and terms of reference.
For the year ended 31 March 2015 the Committee has implemented the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the AGM in July 2014.
