Fidessa group plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors and corporate governance report continued Directors remuneration report Annual statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee As the newly appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to introduce the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31st December 2015.
The Committee continues to believe that a significant proportion of the remuneration for the executive directors should be performance-related.
The elements of each executives package that are performance-related are the annual cash bonus, which is directly linked to the years operating profit, and long-term share incentives.
The performance-related elements are underpinned by a competitive salary but with very limited benefits.
These principles are reflected in the remuneration policy with the focus of the performance-related elements on consistent financial performance over multiple years and the operation of shareholding guidelines providing alignment with Fidessas strategy and shareholders interests.
The policy has been applied consistently over the last four years and will continue through 2016.
The Committee believes that the appropriateness of not only the policy but also the level and structure of package can be demonstrated by Fidessas ability to attract a high quality successor for the Chief Financial Officer role.
During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved Andy Skeltons remuneration package prior to his appointment.
His package is consistent with that paid to Andy Malpass, the retiring Chief Financial Officer, along with a limited level of one-off compensation for pay foregone from his previous employer and relocation expenses.
The Committee was satisfied that Andy Skeltons remuneration package was consistent with the remuneration policy.
Further details of Andy Skeltons package are set out in the relevant sections of Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Committee also decided that a full year bonus would be payable to Andy Malpass reflecting that he was the Chief Financial Officer for the vast majority of the year, he continued as an executive director for the remainder of the year and has managed an orderly handover.
Further details are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Committee felt that due to the continuing challenges facing the business, prevailing market conditions and potential financial performance of Fidessa, basic salary and the total annual bonus opportunity for the executive directors should remain unchanged for 2015.
As in previous years, when setting the operating profit threshold for the executive directors annual bonus, the Committee considered the market conditions at the time, Fidessas projected financial performance for the year and stakeholders interests.
For 2015, the Committee felt it appropriate to increase the operating profit threshold by almost 8%.
Although the headline operating profit reported for the year is similar to that in the prior year the measure of operating profit that is applicable for the executive directors bonus calculation reduced by 3%.
This resulted in the aggregate of basic salary and annual bonus payable to Chris Aspinwall decreasing by 7% and that payable to Andy Malpass decreasing by 6% compared to 2014.
The Committee, with Board approval, also agreed that the Chairmans fees should be increased by 1.4% for 2015 the Chairmans fees were last changed in 2011.
The Committee has agreed that any increase in executive directors salaries for 2016 will take into account and reflect sensitivities in relation to the percentage increase received by the Groups UK employees.
Additionally, there will be no change in benefits and Chris Aspinwalls and Andy Skeltons annual bonuses will be aligned to operating profit performance consistent with the approach taken since 2013.
During 2016 the Committee will conduct a five year review of the Performance Share Plan to ensure it remains fit for purpose.
Any material changes to the plan proposed will be discussed with major shareholders during the course of the year.
Ken Archer Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
