Dir ectors remuneration report Approach to remuneration Statement by Chair of the The Groups strategic objectives as set out in the Strategic Report are: Remuneration Committee Q driving growth through attractive commercial propositions in our passenger revenue businesses: Q continuous improvement in operating and financial performance: Q prudent investment in our key assets fleets, systems and people : Q focused and disciplined bidding in our contract businesses: and Q maintaining responsible partnerships with our customers and communities.
The Committee believes that achievement against these objectives, which underpin the transformation plans and medium term targets that have been communicated to shareholders, will deliver strong long term Dear fellow shareholder financial performance and shareholder value on a sustainable basis.
I am pleased to present my first Directors Remuneration Report for FirstGroup Remuneration philosophy following my appointment to the Board The key principles underpinning the Committees approach toexecutive remuneration are: and as Chair of the Remuneration Alignment with strategy and business objectives Committee in June 2014.
I trust you will remuneration for FirstGroups Executive Directors and senior nd this report clear and comprehensive managers incentivises the delivery of both.
and that it provides you with the necessary Reward performance remuneration provides a strong and demonstrable link between incentives and performance delivery information to demonstrate the link ina consistent and responsible way, ensuring there is a clear line between the Groups strategy and ofsight between the performance of the Company and payments made to Executive Directors and senior managers.
Alignment transformation plans, its performance between the interests of shareholders and Executive Directors and the remuneration outcomes for tobuild a sustainable performance culture is a key focus.
Performance biased framework components of remuneration offer a performance-biased framework for remuneration which is Firstly, I am delighted to welcome Drummond Hall, who joined the consistent with the Groups scale and unique circumstances, and Committee in June 2014.
David Begg, Colin Hood, John Sievwright which enables Executive Directors and senior managers to share and Jim Winestock stood down from the Committee in June 2014. inthe long term success of the Group, without delivering over-generous benefits or encouraging short term measures or The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Committee to excessive risk taking.
comprise three independent Non-Executive Directors.
Since June 2014 the Committee has had two members, both of whom are independent Competitive remuneration designed to facilitate the long Non-Executive Directors.
Given the large time commitment required termsuccess of the Company and framed in the context of from Committee members over the past year and the existing totalremuneration packages offered by relevant comparator commitments of the other Non-Executive Directors, it was not companies.
The ability to recruit and retain high calibre executives possibleto appoint a Committee member with the time to contribute with the appropriate skills to implement FirstGroups strategy and fully to the Committee.
The appointment of a further memberwill be transformation plans is critical to its success.
discussed with Wolfhart Hauser following his appointment as Chairman Simplicity and transparency the Committee seeks to deliver at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting and a new Committee both for our shareholders and participants, with performance member appointed during the 2015 16nancial year.
targets clearly aligned with theCompanys short and long termgoals.
My priority as a new Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee has been to understand the business strategy and then, with the Committee, review whether the remuneration policies and practices as they apply to the ExecutiveDirectors and senior managers are aligned with thestrategyand appropriately support thedelivery of the signicantimprovement required.
76 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Index to section Directors remuneration policy Page 79 Directors annual report on remuneration Page 88 As a result of the review and following consultation with major Appointment of new Chairman shareholders, the Investment Association and Institutional Shareholder As reported on 11 March 2015, Wolfhart Hauser joined the Board as a Services ISS, the Committee hasmade a number of amendments to Non-Executive Director and Chairman designate on 18 May 2015 and will the Groups remuneration framework that: become Chairman at the conclusion of the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
The Committee carefully considered the fees payable to Wolfhart and Q with immediate effect, introduce a number of best practice agreed that given his skills and experience as well as the time commitment features and strengthen the alignment of an Executive Directors and responsibilities of the role he should receive the normal base remuneration package with the Groups strategy and with Non-Executive Director fee of 52,500 per annum as Chairman designate shareholder interests: and 280,000 per annum as Chairman.
No termination payments will be Q provide a recruitment policy which enables any new Executive made toJohn McFarlane in respect of his standing down from the Board.
Director to be recruited with a package mix that reflects the chosen comparator group: and 2014 15 performance and reward Over the course of the year, the Group has made important progress Q enable a transition strategy so that, over time, the package mix inseveral key areas.
In particular, the success of First Students ofexisting Executive Directors will become more focused on contract portfolio improvements as well as the continued progress variable pay, but with no intent to change the overall positioning ofthe UK Bus turnaround plan.
Whilst demand for Greyhound ofthe value of the package against the market.
serviceswas adversely affected by the significant and rapid reduction in fuel prices, despite the rapid and extensive actions of management The key proposed changes to the remuneration framework are set out to mitigate, this was offset by good performances in our First Transit below and are split into two areas: those that will apply immediately and and UK Rail operations, which both achieved growth towards the top those that will be phased in over time or as future Executive Directors end ofour expectations with robust margins.
Overall, we are broadly where we expected to be at this stage of the Immediate changes to remuneration policy: Q transformation plan.
However, the Group lost three rail franchises in increase shareholding requirements to 200% of base salary for theyear, which will impact future earnings.
theCEO and 150% of base salary for other Executive Directors providing greater alignment with shareholder value over the The Committee reviewed the outcome of the 2014 15 bonus for longterm.
From June 2015, Tim OToole will allocate 15,000 theExecutive Directors in this context.
The bonus outcome was 75% ofhis gross monthly base salary equivalent to over 20% of his ofmaximum potential, compared to a target of 50% and a maximum base salary to acquire shares in the Company, with shares of100%, with Group adjusted operating profit generating 48%, Group beingpurchased fromthe post-tax and post-National Insurance cash ow 10%, non-financial elements 7% and individual performance NI amount: 10%.
The Committee also reviewed other performance factors, in Q in line with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance particular the rail franchise losses.
After careful consideration, the Code, introduce clawback for the Executive Annual Bonus Plan Committee determined that the Group adjusted operating profit EABP and Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, in addition to malus element should be reduced to 30%, equivalent to the target that is currently in place, and a two year post-vesting holding performance, to reect the loss of the rail franchises during the year period on future LTIP awards: andthe future impact on earnings.
Thus reducing the bonus outcome to 57% of maximum potential.
The Committee believes that this Q during April and May 2015 the Committee consulted with a represents a fair balance between the loss of the rail franchises number ofmajor investors on the inclusion of a returns-based andtheprogress made in the turnaround of the Group.
metric ROCE alongside the existing LTIP performance metrics ofEPS and TSR, with the TSR peer group amended to reflect the The 2012 Long Term Incentive Plan awards lapsed in 2015 after failing comparator group selected for benchmarking of remuneration to achieve the required total shareholder return and earnings per policies and practices.
Following feedback from major investors, sharetargets.
which was supportive of theoverall proposed approach, it is intended that future LTIP awards will be based on a combination In recognition of the concerns raised by shareholders over the ofmetrics which are aligned to the Companys strategic objectives degreeof disclosure provided to justify and explain previous bonus and hence with sustainable shareholder value creation.
A further payments, the Committee has materially improved the level of investor consultation will beconducted later in the year following disclosure in this Directors Remuneration Report.
the publication of the Companys 2015 preliminary results and Approach for 2015 16 onwards Annual Report and Accounts.
The consultation will cover the The key task for the Committee this year has been to undertake a choice of performance metrics as well as their definitions, comprehensive review of Executive Director and senior management weightings and target levels ofperformance.
To enable the remuneration looking at all aspects of remuneration and how each best outcomes from the consultation to beappropriately reflected supports the future success of FirstGroup.
We considered what was andto allow for full input from the new Chairman, grants of LTIP appropriate for the business and the market in which we operate, and awards will be deferred until immediately after the announcement have taken into account feedback from shareholders, best and market of the Companys half-yearly results in November 2015: and practice, and the key principles of good corporate governance.
Prior to commencing the task, the Committee appointed new remuneration advisers, PwC.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 77 Dir ectors remuneration report continued Q as noted above, it is intended to utilise a single comparator group are not envisaged and major investors will be consulted prior to any forthebenchmarking of remuneration, and any relative TSR change in incentive opportunity for existing Executive Directors.
measurement retained in the LTIP.
This group comprises However, this approach does allow, over time, the package for companies in the travel, business services and industrial existingExecutive Directors to be transitioned to be more aligned to sectors, which are of comparable scale, complexity and activity performance and more aligned to our chosen comparator group.
The comparator group is set out on page 92.
Owing to the changes set out above, a new remuneration policy will be For current Executive Directors, no changes to base salary or incentive presented to shareholders for approval in a binding vote at the Annual opportunity are planned for 2015 16, as the Committee considers General Meeting on 16 July 2015.
It will replace the previous policy, overall pay to be competitive for the current post holders against our andthe Committee expects it then to be in place for the next three newly dened comparator group.
The Annual Report on Remuneration, which describes how the currentpolicy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM has been Medium term changes to remuneration policy implemented in the year under review and how the new remuneration Analysis of the current Executive Director structures showed that policy will be implemented for the year ahead, will be subject to theincentive opportunities are signicantly behind market competitive an advisory vote at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
For the current Chief Executive and to a lesser extent the current The Committee rmly believes the changes to the remuneration policy Group Finance Director, this is offset by a base salary that is higher are in the best interestsof the Company and fully support the thanthe comparator group median, meaning that overall compensation Companys strategy andbusiness objectives, and have no hesitation in is competitive against the newly dened comparator group.
Therefore, recommending bothresolutions to shareholders.
the Committee does not have any immediate plans to change incentive opportunities for the current Executive Directors.
However, the Senior managers remuneration Committee wishes to transition Executive Director remuneration The Committee has also considered the structure of pay for those overtime to better align it with the practice in the chosen comparator employees immediately below the Executive Directors.
In order group, with agreater weighting towards variable pay, and to have in toprovide a strong focus on each division achieving specic place a policy that enables the recruitment of new Executive Directors, goalstounderpin and drive overall Company performance, the if required, onarrangements that are more reective of the package Committeeintends toalign a proportion of the LTIP exclusively mixwithin ourchosen comparator group.
Accordingly, for new  for an interim period to recruitsthe policy will: .
Thereafter, the Committee will reviewwhether itisstillrelevant andnecessary, and may Q increase the Chief Executives and other Executive Directors choosetoreturn the LTIPtoafully .
maximum opportunity under the EABP to 150% of base salary from 120% and 100% respectively : and Shareholder engagement Q The Committee is committed to an open and transparent dialogue set the maximum annual award under the LTIP at 200% of base withshareholders on the issue of executive remuneration and salary for the Chief Executive and 175% for other Executive considers these engagements vital to ensure its remuneration Directors the current maximum award level as set out in our strategycontinues to be aligned with the long term interests of current remuneration policy is 150%: however, more recently FirstGroups shareholders.
awards have been limited to 120% of base salary.
A maximum opportunity of 300% may be used in exceptional circumstances, I have appreciated the time various major shareholders and their such as to aid recruitment.
representative bodies have put into helping us develop our new remuneration policy and practices over the past 12 months.
The Committee believes that the above approach is more aligned with Thechallenge of providing motivational and shareholder aligned market norms and will enable the Company to recruit competitively, as remuneration arrangements in a recovery situation is complex, required, and ensure Executive Directors remuneration packages are butwebelieve with the assistance of our major shareholders fully aligned with business performance.
Following the announcement wecanstrikea fair balance.
I look forward to your support at on 10 June 2015 that Chris Surch will be retiring from the role of Group theforthcomingAnnual General Meeting.
Finance Director in January 2016, his replacement will be recruited on this basis.
Imelda Walsh Impact on existing Executive Directors Chair, Remuneration Committee Overall the Committee considers total remuneration for current Executive Directors to be broadly competitive, with lower than market incentive opportunities being offset by above median base salaries.
Noimmediate adjustments to remuneration are therefore proposed.
However, in light of the market positioning against the new comparator group, the Committee has determined that there will be no base salary increases for the current Executive Directors over the life of this policy.
To the extent that any increases in remuneration are deemed justied, these will be achieved through changes to the variable pay opportunity rather than base pay.
Substantial increases to the total pay opportunity 78 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Dir ectors remuneration policy Policy report This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration policy for the Company and has been prepared in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The policy has been developed taking account of the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to remuneration.
The Committee also takes significant account of guidelines issued by the Investment Association, ISS and other shareholder bodies when setting the remuneration framework.
It also seeks to maintain an active and constructive dialogue with investors on developments in the remuneration aspects of corporate governance generally and any changes to the Companys executive pay arrangements in particular.
The new remuneration policy will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the Annual General Meeting on 16 July 2015 and, subject to receiving majority shareholder support, the policy will operate from the date of approval and is intended to remain applicable for the following three years.
Information on how the Company intends to implement the policy for the current financial year is set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration section.
Remuneration philosophy Overall remuneration Remuneration structure Alignment with strategy and business objectives Fixed elements Reward performance The structure of and quantum of individual remuneration Short term Performance-biased framework incentives packages varies by role and level of responsibility and geography Competitive remuneration Long term incentives Simplicity and transparency Remuneration policy for Executive Directors Purpose and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics link to strategy Salary To attract and Typically reviewed annually in March, While there is no maximum annual increase, salary Not applicable maintain highcalibre effective from 1 April increases in percentage of salary terms for executives withthe Executive Directors will normally be within the range Any increases take account of: attributes, skills ofthose for Group employees, in particular those Q Company and individual performance andexperience who are not within collective bargaining agreements Q role and responsibilities required to deliver Q market positioning Where the Committee considers it necessary or theGroups strategy Q external indicators, such as inflation appropriate, larger increases may be awarded in and marketconditions individual circumstances such asa change in Q pay increases of Group employees  or alignment to the peergroup The Committee has the exibility to set the salary Recovery or withholding of a new hire at a discount to the market level No recovery or withholding applies initially and to realign it over thefollowing years asthe individual gains experience in the role.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee may agree to pay above market levels to secure or retain an individual who is considered by the Committee to possess significant and relevant experience which is critical to the delivery of the Companys strategy Details of the salaries for each of the Executive Directors to be paid from 1 April 2015 are shownon page 88.
Existing Executive Directors will not receive any base salary increases for the duration of this remuneration policy FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 79 Dir ectors remuneration report continued Purpose and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics link to strategy Benets Provide market A range of benets may be provided Benets are not generally expected to be a Not applicable competitive benets including, but not limited to, provision of significant part of the remuneration package in to assist in attracting company car or cash equivalent, private financial terms and retaining medical insurance, life assurance, long The cost of benets is not pre-determined, executives term disability insurance, general reecting the need to allow for normal increases employee benets and travel and associated with the provision ofbenets relatedexpenses The Committee retains the discretion to offer additional benets as appropriate, such as assistance withrelocation, tax equalisation andoverseas tax advisoryfees Recovery or withholding No recovery or withholding applies Pension benets Allows executives to Payment may be made into a pension The Chief Executive participates in a dened Not applicable build long term savings scheme ordelivered as a cash allowance benefit arrangement, which provides him with for their retirement, 1 50th accrual foreach year of service up to a Recovery or withholding ensures the total xed scheme earnings cap of140,705 No recovery or withholding applies remuneration package perannum.
For earnings above this cap is competitive and hereceives an allowance of 20% of base salary aidsretention Executive Directors employed after April 2011 receive a pension allowance equal to 20% of base salary In the event of further changes to the pension tax regime adversely affecting individuals pension benets and or the Groups pension arrangements, the Committee may amend the pension benets available, but only on a basis which would not cost the Company materially more than the Executive Directors current arrangements in terms of percentage of base pay Annual bonus To focus on the Bonuses are awarded annually under the For existing Executive Directors The bonus is based on a combination delivery of annual Executive Annual Bonus Plan EABP Maximum bonus opportunity is 120% of base ofnancial, operational and individual goals, to strive for salary for the Chief Executive and 100% for other metrics, which the Committee may At least half the bonus awarded in superior performance Executive Directors review from time to time.
The precise anyyear will be deferred into shares, and to achieve allocation between financial and normally for a period of three years The Committee has discretion to increase awards specic targets which non-financial metrics as well as to the existing Executive Directors in order, over The EABP is reviewed annually to ensure support the strategy weightings within these metrics, will time, to re-align their remuneration to create a performance measures and targets are depend on the strategic focus of the Deferred share more leveraged package.
Any such increase appropriate and support the strategy Company from year to year.
At least half element encourages would be subject toprior consultation with major of any award will be subject to financial An amount of up to 25% of the retention and provides investors and be limited to 150% of base salary measures.
Details of the bonus maximummay be payable for a link between the For newly recruited Executive Directors measures for EABP awards to be made thresholdperformance bonus and share Maximum bonus opportunity will be 150% of in respect of the financial year ending pricegrowth The Committee has a discretion to base salary for newly recruited Executive 31March 2016 are set out on page 91 permit a dividend equivalent amount Directors toaccrue on shares which vest under Vesting of deferred shares is dependent theEABP on continued employment or good leaver status Recovery or withholding The Committee retains the discretion, The rules of the EABP contain malus and acting fairly and reasonably, to alter the clawback provisions to take account of bonus outcome in light of the underlying exceptional and adverse circumstances performance of the Company, taking as described in more detail on page 95 account of any factors it considers relevant.
The Committee will consult with major investors before any exerciseof its discretion to increase thebonus outcome 80 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Purpose and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics link to strategy Long Term Incentive Plan Incentivises the Awards under the LTIP are rights to For existing Executive Directors LTIP awards will be subject tothe execution ofstrategy, receive conditional shares or nil-cost Normal award policy currently set at a maximum achievement of a combination of and drives long term options over shares, subject to opportunity of 150% of base salary, although the stretching targets designed to value creation and continuedemployment and Committee has the discretion to make an award incentivise performance in support alignment with longer  of up to200% of base salary ofthe Groups strategy and business term returns to objectives, measured over a three year An amount of up to 25% of the maximum The Committee has discretion to increase awards shareholders performance period.
The Committee may be payable for threshold to the existing ChiefExecutive and existing Group determines the measures, their relative performance, with maximum vesting Finance Director in order, over time, to re-align weightings and targets prior to being equal to100% ofany award made their remuneration to create a more leveraged eachaward package.
Any such increase would be subject Shares which vest under the LTIP toprior consultation with major investors and be The Committee retains the discretion, aresubject to an additional holding period limited to 200% of base salary for the existing acting fairly and reasonably, to alter the of two years following the threeyear Chief Executive and 175% of base salary for the LTIP vesting outcome in light of the performance period.
Shares may be sold existing Group Finance Director underlying performance of the Company in order to satisfytax or other relevant during the performance period, taking liabilities as a result of anaward vesting For newly recruited Executive Directors account of any factors it considers Maximum award opportunity will be 200% of The Committee has a discretion to permit relevant.
The Committee will consult with base salary for a newly recruited Chief Executive a dividend equivalent amount to accrue major shareholders before any exercise and 175% ofbase salary for other newly recruited on shares which vest under theLTIP of its discretion to increase the LTIP Executive Directors vesting outcome Recovery or withholding In exceptional circumstances, awards of up to The rules of the LTIP contain malus and 300% of base salary may be made, such as to clawback provisions to take account of aid recruitment exceptional and adverse circumstances as described in more detail on page 95 All-Employee Share Plans To encourage all Opportunity to participate in Sharesave The maximum participation level is inaccordance N A employees to make a and Share Incentive Plan on the same with HMRC limits long term investment terms as other eligible employees in the Companys Recovery or withholding shares in a tax No recovery or withholding applies efficient way Changes to the remuneration policy from previous policy Following the review of executive remuneration during the year, the remuneration policy has been revised.
The following summary sets out the changes when compared to last years approved policy.
No changes have been made to benets and pensions.
Policy element Previous policy Change to policy Rationale for change Separate peer groups used for The Committee will use a single comparator Provides a more tightly dened comparator Overall benchmarking remuneration and relative group for benchmarking remuneration and any group and a clearer reference point for remuneration TSR performance relative TSR performance.
The comparator theCompany and shareholders policy group will comprise companies in the travel, business services and industrial sectors that are of comparable scale, complexity and activity toFirstGroup.
Changes to the comparator group may be made over time to ensure it remains appropriate Salary levels take into account themarket For a new Executive Director salary level Provides a clearer reference point for the Salary for executives in the passenger transport totake into account companies in the Company and shareholders sector, and other companies of comparator group as dened above Provides the ability to secure or retain an comparable scale, complexity and In exceptional circumstances to be able individual who possesses significant and geographical spread topay above market levels relevant experience which is critical to the delivery of the Companys strategy Maximum opportunity for the Chief For newly recruited Executive Directors Annual Bonus Creates a more leveraged package, whichin Executive of 120% of base salary and themaximum opportunity will be 150% the longer term will provide amore sustainable forother Executive Directors of 100% ofbasesalary and competitive quantum of remuneration in ofbase salary line with theCompanys peers The Committee has discretion to make awards of up to 150% to the existing Provides the ability, over time, to re-alignthe Executive Directors, with any increase subject existing Executive Directors remuneration to prior consultation with major investors to create a more leveragedpackage FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 81 Dir ectors remuneration report continued Policy element Previous policy Change to policy Rationale for change Maximum opportunity for the Chief For a newly recruited Chief Executive the Creates a more leveraged package, which will Long Term Executive and other Executive Directors maximum opportunity will be 200% of base provide a quantum of remuneration more in Incentive Plan of150% of salary, although the Committee salary and for other newly recruited Executive line with the Companys peers may in exceptional circumstances make Directors will be 175% of base salary Provides the ability in exceptional an award of up to 200% of base salary In exceptional circumstances up to 300% circumstances, such as the buy-out No holding period post-vesting ofbase salary may be awarded ofawards to facilitate the recruitment of anewExecutive Director, to give higher The Committee has discretion to make LTIPawards than 200% of base salary awards of up to 200% of base salary to the existing Chief Executive and 175% of base Provides the ability, over time, to re-align the salary to the existing Group Finance Director, existing Executive Directors remuneration to with any increase subject to prior create a more leveragedpackage.
consultation with major investors Supports the alignment of Executive Two-year holding period following three-year Directors interests with that of the long term vesting period business strategy and shareholders Malus arrangements apply to the EABP In conjunction with malus arrangements, The Committee believes it is appropriate to Clawback and LTIP plans clawback introduced for annual bonus and have the power to withhold and clawback LTIP plans in line with UK Corporate payments in certain circumstances Governance Code requirements Requirement to build a holding ofshares in Required holding will be increased to 200% Provides greater alignment of Executive Shareholding the Company equal to aminimum of 100% of base salary for the Chief Executive and Directors interests with those of guidelines of base salary within a five year period 150% of base salary forother Executive shareholders Directors Requirement to retain at least 50% of the Supports build up of shareholding in shares, net of tax, vesting under a Group Required retention will increase to 75%, net theCompany share incentive plan of tax, until the guideline is achieved EABP and Long Term Incentive Plan exibility The Committee operates within its policy at all times.
It will also operate the EABP and LTIP according to the rules of each respective plan and consistently with normal market practice and the Listing Rules, including exibility in a number of areas.
How the Committee will retain exibility includes: Q when to make awards and payments: Q how to determine the size of an award, a payment, or when and how much of an award should vest: Q who receives an award or payment: Q how to deal with a change of control, restructuring or any other corporate event of the Group: Q whether an Executive Director or senior manager is a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes and whether and what proportion ofawards vest at the time of leaving or at the original vesting date s : Q how and whether an award or its performance conditions may be adjusted in certain circumstances e. g. change of accounting policy : Q the choice of and adjustment of performance measures, weightings and targets for each incentive plan from year to year in accordance with the remuneration policy set out above and the rules of each plan: and Q amending plan rules in accordance with their terms.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
Setting performance measures and targets In determining the levels of executive reward, the Committee places considerable emphasis on ensuring a strong and demonstrable link between actual remuneration received and the delivery of FirstGroups strategic plans.
The measures and weightings used under the EABP are selected annually to reect the Groups key strategic initiatives for the year and reect both financial and non-financial objectives.
The targets for the EABP are set by reference to the Companys strategy and internal budgets as well as the external context, such as market forecasts.
This approach seeks to ensure that the targets are appropriately challenging.
The LTIP provides a focus on delivering superior returns to shareholders by providing rewards for longer term growth and shareholder return outperformance.
The Committee reviews annually whether the performance measures, weightings and calibration of targets remain appropriate and sufciently challenging taking into account the Companys strategic objectives and shareholder interests.
All-employee share awards are not subject to performance conditions in line with the treatment of such awards for all employees and inaccordance with the applicable tax legislation.
82 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Shareholding guidelines The CEO is expected to hold shares equivalent in value to a minimum of 200% of base salary and other Executive Directors 150% of base salary within a five-year period from the later of their date of appointment or the approval of this remuneration policy.
Executive Directors are further required to retain at least 75% of the shares, net of tax, vesting under a Group share incentive plan or otherwise acquire shares in the Company until the shareholding guideline is met.
The Committee reserves the right to relax or waive the application of the guidelines where it believes it is justied by the circumstances.
In addition, Executive Directors are required to hold shares which vest under the LTIP for an additional holding period of two years following the threeyear performance period, with only those shares required to cover a tax liability on exercise or vesting of an LTIP award permitted to be sold.
Group employee considerations In setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the Committee takes into account the overall approach to reward for employees in the Group.
FirstGroup operates in a number of markets and its employees carry out a diverse range of roles across the UK and US.
All employees, including Directors, are paid by reference to the market rate and base salary levels are reviewed regularly.
When considering salary increases for Executive Directors, the Committee pays close attention to pay and employment conditions across the wider workforce.
The key difference between Executive Director remuneration and other employees is that, overall, the remuneration policy for Executive Directors is more heavily weighted towards variable pay linked to business performance than for other employees, so that remuneration will increase or decrease in line with business performance and align the interests of Executive Directors and shareholders.
In particular, long term incentives areprovided only to the most senior executives as they are reserved for those considered to have the greatest potential to inuence overall levels of performance.
The Committee does not formally consult with employees on Executive Director remuneration, but as a result of the Companys all-employee share plans UK-based employees are able to become shareholders in the Company and can comment on the remuneration policy in the sameway as other shareholders.
In addition, the Company provides a number of forums for employees to provide feedback on remuneration aswellasreceiving employee views from the Group Employee Director, who attends meetings of the Committee at the invitation ofthe Chair oftheCommittee.
Legacy arrangements The Committee may approve payments to satisfy commitments agreed prior to the approval of this remuneration policy.
Thisincludes previous incentive awards that are currently outstanding and unvested which have been disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration reports.
TheCommittee may also approve payments outside of this remuneration policy in order to satisfy legacy arrangements made to an employee prior to and not in contemplation of promotion to the Board of Directors.
All historic awards that were granted but remain outstanding remain eligible to vest based on their original award terms.
Reward scenarios The graphs below provide an indication of the reward opportunity for each of the current Executive Directors based on their roles as at 1April2015.
Chief Executive Group Finance Director Total remuneration 000s Total remuneration 000s Minimum 1,069 Minimum 541 100% 100% On-target 1,830 On-target 901 58.4% 27.7% 13.9% 60% 25%15% Maximum Maximum 3,099 1,531 34.4% 32.8% 32.8% 35.3% 29.4% 35.3% 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 Fixed pay EABP LTIP Fixed pay EABP LTIP The basis of calculation and key assumptions used to complete the charts above are as follows: Minimum only xed pay is payable i. e. base salary, benets and pension or cash in lieu of pension.
No bonus is payable i. e. performance is below threshold levels.
Base salary levels on which other elements of the remuneration package are calculated are based on those applying for 2015 16 and benets are based on the cash cost to the Company or the taxable value to the Executive Director.
The value of the Chief Executives pension benefit and allowance is assumed to be in line with that for 2014 15 as set out in the Executive Directors total remuneration table.
The value of the Group Finance Directors pension allowance is 20% of his base salary.
On-target xed pay plus 50% of maximum EABP payout and a LTIP award with a face value of 120% of base salary vests at 25% of maximum.
Maximum xed pay plus 100% of maximum EABP payout and a LTIP award with a face value of 120% of base salary vests in full.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 83 Dir ectors remuneration report continued Approach to recruitment remuneration The Committee believes it is vital to be able to attract and recruit high calibre executives who are focused on delivering the Groups strategic plans, while relating reward to performance in the context of appropriate risk management, and aligning the interests of Executive Directors and senior managers with those of shareholders to build a sustainable performance culture.
The Committees approach when considering the overall remuneration arrangements in the recruitment of a new Executive Director is to take account of his or her remuneration package in their prior role, the market positioning of the remuneration package and not to pay more than is necessary to facilitate their recruitment.
The remuneration package for a new Executive Director will be set in accordance with the terms of the Companys approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment, except: Salary The salary level shall take into account companies in the comparator group, which comprises companies that are broadly in line with FirstGroups size, structure and complexity and have features that are comparable to FirstGroup.
The Committee has the exibility to set the salary of a new Executive Director at a discount to the market level initially, witha series of planned increases implemented over the following few years to bring the salary to the desired positioning, subject to individual performance.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee has the ability to set the salary of a new Executive Director at a rate higher than the market level to reect the criticality of the role and the experience and performance of the individual.
Benets The Company may award certain additional benets and other allowances including, but not limited to, those to assist with relocation support, temporary living and transportation expenses, educational costs for children and tax equalisation to allow exibility in employing an overseas national.
Pension benets Any new Executive Director based outside the UK will be eligible to participate in pension or pension allowance, insurance and other benefit programmes in line with local practice.
Annual bonus The maximum bonus opportunity shall be 150% of base salary.
Long Term The maximum opportunity shall be 200% of base salary for a newly recruited Chief Executive and 175% of base salary IncentivePlan forother newly recruited Executive Directors.
However, a maximum opportunity of 300% of base salary may be used in exceptional circumstances, in addition to any buy-out of forteited awards.
Replacement The Committee shall consider what cash or replacement share-based awards, if any, are reasonably necessary to awards facilitate the recruitment of a new Executive Director in all circumstances.
This includes an assessment of the awards andany othercompensation or benets item that would be forfeited on leaving their current employer.
These payments would not exceed what is considered by the Committee to be a fair estimate of remuneration lost whenleaving the former employer and would reect, as far as possible, the nature and time horizons attaching to that remuneration and the impact of any performance conditions.
If the Executive Directors former employer pays a portion of the remuneration that was deemed foregone, the replacement payments will be reduced by an equivalent amount.
In the case of an internal executive appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role will beallowed to pay out according to its existing terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment will continue.
Notice periods The Committee shall utilise notice periods of up to 12 months.
For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the fee arrangement shall be set in accordance with the approved remuneration policy in force at that time.
84 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Executive Directors service agreements The Executive Directors service agreements, including arrangements for early termination, are carefully considered by the Committee and aredesigned to recruit, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the calibre required to manage the Company.
The Committees policy is for Executive Directors service contracts to be terminable on no more than one years notice.
The details of existing Executive Directors service contracts are summarised in the table below: Executive Director Date of service contract Notice period Tim OToole 25 January 2011 12 months Chris Surch 9 May 2012 6 months Policy on payment for loss of ofce Executive Directors service agreements contain provisions for payment in lieu of notice.
The Company is unequivocally against rewards for failure: the circumstances of any departure, including the individuals performance, would be taken into account in every case.
Directors service agreements are kept for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered ofce.
Service agreements may be terminated without notice and without payment in lieu of notice in certain circumstances, such as gross misconduct.
The Company may require the Executive Director to work during their notice period or may choose to place the individual on garden leave, for example to ensure the protection of the Companys and shareholders interests where the Executive Director has access to commercially sensitive information.
Except in the case of gross misconduct or resignation, the Company may at its absolute discretion reimburse for reasonable professional fees relating tothe termination of employment and, where an Executive Director has been required to re-locate, to pay reasonable repatriation costs, including possible tax exposure costs.
In the event of an Executive Directors departure, any outstanding share awards will be treated in accordance with the plan rules as follows: Plan Treatment on cessation EABP The EABP provides no entitlement to a bonus following cessation of employment, unless the leaver is considered a good leaver.
Where an individual is considered a good leaver in the event of death or termination of employment by reason of ill-health, disability, injury, statutory redundancy, agreed retirement, sale of employing company or business out of the Group or at the discretion of the Committee a performance-related bonus will be paid.
This will be based on the proportion of the bonus year forwhich the individual has been actively employed and bonus if any will be paid at the normal time, although the Committee retains discretion to pay it earlier in appropriate circumstances.
There is no entitlement to any bonus award under the EABP for any financial year where an Executive Director has not been actively working, even if still in employment.
The Committee has discretion to make an award in these circumstances, but would only consider exercising itsdiscretion if this were justied by the circumstances and timing of the Executive Directors departure.
The Committee will not exercise that discretion in respect of any period when the Executive Director is on garden leave.
Any resulting bonus payment will normally be time pro-rated and be based on the level ofperformance achieved.
Deferred share awards will normally lapse on cessation of employment or, at the Committees discretion, on service of notice of termination of employment.
However, under good leaver provisions other than in the case of death unvested EABP deferred shares will vest either at the end of the vesting period or in the event of termination by reason of ill-health on the date of cessation of employment or any other date determined by the Committee.
Where an award vests early, the good leaver will receive a pro-rated number of shares to reect the acceleration of vesting, although in the event of termination by reason of ill-health the Company may exercise discretion to waive pro-rating.
In the case of death, deferred share awards vest on the date of death and no pro-rating is applied.
Long Term Awards will normally lapse on cessation of employment.
IncentivePlan However, in good leaver circumstances other than in the case of death unvested LTIP shares will vest either at the end of the performance period or in the event of termination of employment by reason of ill-health onthedate of cessation of employment tothe extent the performance conditions have been satisfied as determined by theCommittee.
A good leaver will normally receive a pro-rated proportion of any outstanding LTIP awards.
The Committee may choose to allow certain awards to vest while others lapse, depending on the circumstances of the case.
In the case of death, awards vest on the date of death and are not subject to the performance conditions, with pro-rating applying in the same way as for good leavers.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 85 Dir ectors remuneration report continued Plan Treatment on cessation All-employee Awards will vest in accordance with the rules of the relevant plan, which do not permit the exercise of any discretion share plans bytheCommittee.
Policy on external appointments The Committee believes that the Company can benefit from Executive Directors holding one approved non-executive directorship of another company, offering Executive Directors the opportunity to broaden their experience and knowledge.
Company policy is to allow Executive Directors to retain the fees earned from such appointments.
Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment The Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts, but each has a letter of appointment with the Company.
Each letter of appointment generally provides for a three-month notice period.
Non-Executive Directors are normally appointed for two consecutive three-year terms, with any third term of three years being subject to rigorous review and taking into account the need progressively to refresh theBoard.
In line with the requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at each AGM.
The appointment of each of the Non-Executive Directors is subject to early termination without compensation if he or she is not re-appointed at a meeting of shareholders.
Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors may on occasion receive reimbursement of costs incurred in relation to professional advice.
These payments, if made, aretaxable benets to the Non-Executive Director and the tax arising is paid by the Company on the Directors behalf.
Chairmans fee The fee for the Chairman is determined by the Committee and reects the commitment, demands and responsibility of the role.
The fee is paid monthly and can either be taken in cash or shares or a combination of both.
The fee is inclusive of all Committee roles and is not performancerelated or pensionable.
Limited benets relating to travel, accommodation and meals may also be payable incertain circumstances, with the tax arising being paid by the Company on the Chairmans behalf.
John McFarlane receives a fee of 250,000 per annum and Wolfhart Hauser will receive a fee of 280,000 upon succession to the role.
The fee payable to the Chairman may be varied either up or down from this level during the three year period that this remuneration policy operates to ensure it continues to appropriately recognise the requirements of the role.
Group Employee Director The Group Employee Director receives a normal remuneration package, including participation in any benefit and incentive arrangements andpension scheme, for his or her regular employment duties appropriate to the role performed.
The Group Employee Directors fee as aNon-Executive Director is payable in addition to normal remuneration as an employee of FirstGroup.
86 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Non-Executive Director fees Fees for the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole, upon the recommendation of the Executive Directors andtheChairman.
The policy on Non-Executive Directors fees is: Purpose and link To be sufficient to attract, motivate and retain Non-Executive Directors necessary to contribute to a high performing Board.
to strategy Operation Fees are determined by the Board, within the limits set out in the Companys Articles of Association, with Non-Executive Directors abstaining from any discussion or decision on their fees.
The Board takes account of recognised best practice standards for such positions when determining the fee level andstructure.
The Non-Executive Directors receive a base fee, with additional fees payable for chairmanship of the Companys key Committees and for performing the Senior Independent Director role.
Fees are paid monthly and can either be taken in cashor shares or a combination of both.
Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment contain provisions for payment in lieu of notice.
Other than the Group Employee Director, Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys incentive arrangements or receive any pension provision.
Non-Executive Directors are reimbursed for expenses, and any tax arising on those expenses is settled directly by the Company.
To the extent that these are deemed taxable benets, they will be included in the Annual Report on Remuneration, as required.
Reasonable costs of travel and accommodation for business purposes are reimbursed to Non-Executive Directors.
On the limited occasions when it is appropriate for a Non-Executive Directors spouse or partner to attend, such as to a business event, the Company will meet these costs.
The Company will meet any tax liabilities that may arise on such expenses.
Fee levels Fees per annum are: Q Non-Executive Director base fee: 52,500 Q Group Employee Director: 39,375 Q Senior Independent Director: 7,500 Q Chair of Audit Committee: 12,000 Q Chairs of Remuneration Committee and Board Safety Committee: 10,000.
The above fee levels may be varied either up or down during the three year period that the remuneration policy operates toensure they continue to appropriately recognise the time commitment and responsibilities of the role, increases or decreases to fee levels for Non-Executive Directors in general and fee levels in companies of a similar size and complexity.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee values its continued dialogue with shareholders and engages directly with them and their representative bodies at the earliest opportunity.
Shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM, as well as any additional feedback and guidance received during the year isconsidered by the Committee as it develops the Companys remuneration framework and practices.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 87 Dir ectors remuneration report continued Annual Report on Remuneration This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and Rule 9.8.
The Annual Report on Remuneration and the Annual Statement willbe put to an advisory shareholder vote at the Annual General Meeting on 16 July 2015.
Executive Directors total remuneration Share retention 3 4 Salary Benets Bonus LTIP award Pension Total Executive Directors Year 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 1 2 Tim OToole 2015 846 47 578 N A 176 1,647 5 2014 846 37 600 324 179 1,986 1 2 Chris Surch 2015 450 1 256 N A 90 797 2014 450 1 266 N A N A 90 807 1 Taxable benets include: Tim OToole 12,000 car allowance, 14,800 US private medical insurance, 11,000 travel expenses and 9,000 reimbursement of advisory fees principally relating to taxation in the UK and US.
Chris Surch 1,400 UK private medical insurance.
2 The following pension-related benets were received during the year: Tim OToole 141,000 pension allowance and a dened benefit pension input amount netofDirectors contributions of 34,800.
Chris Surch received a 90,000 pension allowance.
3 The total cash equivalent including the cash value of deferred shares of the EABP bonus award for Tim OToole and Chris Surch is detailed above for 2013 14 and2014 15.
For each year, half of the bonus was in the form of share awards deferred for three years.
4 The LTIP awards granted in 2011 and 2012 lapsed in May 2014 and June 2015, respectively, on failing to meet the performance criteria.
5 In 2011, Tim OToole was awarded 263,490 shares under a Retention Award Plan in the form of a conditional share award for nil consideration.
It vested and shares were released on 6 November 2013 at a market value of 122.90 pence per share.
This was a one-off award and no further awards will be made under the Plan.
Base salary 2014 2015 % increase Tim OToole 846 846 Nil Chris Surch 450 450 Nil The Committee takes account of a number of factors when considering salaries, with particular focus on the experience, performance, and the internal and external relative positioning for total reward of the individuals, and also the average budgeted increase in base salaries of the Groups workforce of 2.2%.
As a result of these considerations and the emphasis on salary restraint from shareholders, the Committee determined that the base salaries of Tim OToole and Chris Surch would not increase in 2015 16.
The Committee considers overall pay to be competitive for the current post holders against the newly dened comparator group as set out on page 92.
Benets For 2014 and 2015 benets for Executive Directors include the provision of a company car allowance for the Chief Executive, US and UK private medical cover, life assurance, travel expenses and advisory fees.
Pension Tim OToole participates in a dened benefit pension scheme.
His contributions to this scheme are paid via salary sacrifice with an equivalent contribution being paid directly to the pension scheme by the Company.
This provides him with 1 50th accrual for each year of service, based on average pensionable salary for the three tax years prior to retirement.
He has chosen a normal retirement age of 60 and can receive his benets unreduced at that time.
Pensions normally increase in line with the consumer prices index and provide a dependants pension on a members death.
There is a scheme earnings cap of 140,705 above which a pension allowance of 20% of base salary is paid.
Information in the table below includes the total accrued benefit at 31 March 2015 which represents the annual pension that is expected to be payable on eventual retirement given the length of service and salary of Tim OToole.
Increase in accrued Total accrued annual pension in benefit at the year to Age at Pension 31 March 2015 31 March 2015 31 March 2015 age 000s 000s 1 Tim OToole 59 60 13 4 1 Pension age is the earliest date a non-reduced pension is payable.
2 Under the rules of the dened benefit scheme Tim OToole can continue to accrue benets beyond the pension age.
3 No additional benets are available on early retirement.
88 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Each Executive Director employed after 1 April 2011 receives a pension allowance equal to 20% of their base salary.
The allowances paid during the year to Tim OToole and Chris Surch were 141,000 and 90,000, respectively.
Performance-related pay The Committee believes it is important that for Executive Directors a significant proportion of the remuneration package is performance-related and the performance conditions applying to incentive arrangements support the delivery of the Companys strategy and transformation plans.
The Committee considers performance against a range of metrics to ensure that the assessment is rounded, taking into account both qualitative and quantitative factors.
The table below outlines each of the performance measures used in the Companys current performance-related incentives and how they support the Companys strategy, transformation plans and business objectives as outlined in the Strategic Review.
Strategic KPIs objectives Our values LTIP EPS TSR Bonus Group adjusted operating profit Group cash ow Safety Customer satisfaction Individual performance Executive Annual Bonus Plan 2014 15 Executive Directors annual bonus awards For 2014 15, the EABP comprised five discrete elements as set out below.
Group adjusted operating profit a key KPI used in managing the business Group cash ow adjusted for UK Rail franchise portfolio changes of 107.9m, encourages management to devise operational plans focused on cash generation to create options for the Board in relation to, among other uses, investment in key assets of eet, systems and people Safety to ensure that risk controls, safety procedures and safety behaviours areconstantly improved to reduce long term injuries and avoid safety incidents across all the divisions.
Performance was assessed against a balanced scorecard across abroad range of indicators, including long term injuries, passenger injuries and collisions Customer satisfaction performance was assessed against a balanced Group adjusted operating profit 60% scorecard of measures: customer satisfaction surveys, punctuality, cancellations Group cash ow 10% and complaints across UK Bus, UK Rail, First Student, First Transit and Greyhound Safety 7.5% Customer satisfaction 7.5% Individual performance performance was assessed against individual Individual performance 15% objectives for the year, which were aligned with the Groups strategy and transformation plans, and the Executive Directors core areas of responsibility The Committee assessed each discrete element of the EABP separately as part of an overall balanced scorecard of measures.
Within each element the Committee considered a number of sub-elements and formed a rounded assessment of the performance of Executive Directors atthe end of the year.
Awards were also subject to an underlying performance override enabling them to be scaled back to reect the Groupsperformance.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 89 Dir ectors remuneration report continued For 2014 15, the financial and non-financial performance outcomes were as follows: Performance outcome Performance as a percentage of Metric Weighting outcome Threshold Target Maximum Commentary maximum bonus Group adjusted 60% Between target and Group adjusted An assessment of operating profit maximum operating profit of 48% relative to a 303.6m was target outcome ahead of target of of30% and 295.0m and within amaximum the threshold to outcome of 60% maximum range of 277.5m to 309.4m Group cash ow 10% Maximum Group cash ow of An assessment of 39.4m was ahead maximum outcome of target of 9.7 m of 10% relative to and threshold of atarget of 5% 29.7 m, and exceeded the maximum of10.3m Safety 7.5% Between threshold Safety was An assessment of and target belowtarget 3% relative to a target of 3.75% and a maximum outcome of 7.5% Customer satisfaction 7.5% Broadly in line Customer An assessment of withtarget satisfaction was 4% relative to a broadly in line target of 3.75% withtarget and a maximum outcome of 7.5% Overall performance Between target and Overall An overall maximum performance assessment of 65% wasrobust relative to a target despitethe of42.5% and challenging amaximum environment outcome of 85% The maximum bonus potential of Tim OToole was 120% of base salary and for Chris Surch was 100% of base salary.
During the year, the Company achieved robust year on year operating profit growth of 13.3%, principally reecting increased profits in First Student, UK Rail and UK Bus, resulting in a Group adjusted operating profit of 303.6m.
Group cash ow of 39.4m was above the maximum target, principally driven by improved working capital, stronger cash generation from the Groups operations and lower tax, interest and pensionpayments this excludes the impact of rail end of franchise cash outow, as the Committee believes this better reects the .
The customer satisfaction measure was broadly in line with target and the safety measure was below target,  from First Student, First Transit and Greyhound offset by below target performances from UK Bus and UK Rail.
The individual performance element of the EABP represents 15% of the total award.
The Committee also carefully reviewed the performance of the Executive Directors against objectives that were set at the start of the year.
Tim OTooles individual objectives related to supporting long term growth through effective leadership, delivery of the transformation plans and developing the management structure.
The Committee judged that he had met the vast majority of his objectives and accordingly agreed a bonus of 10% against his individual objectives, relative to a target of 7.5%.
Chris Surchs individual objectives related to corporate finance initiatives, supporting the divisions in achieving financial objectives and driving cost savings across the Group.
The Committee judged that he had also met the vast majority of his objectives and accordingly agreed a bonus of 10% against his individual objectives relative to a target of 7.5%.
Whilst overall the Group is broadly where it was expected to be at this stage of the transformation plan, the Group lost three rail franchises in theyear, which will impact future earnings.
Therefore, after careful consideration, the Committee agreed that the Group adjusted operating profit element should be reduced to 30%, the equivalent of target performance, to reect the loss of the rail franchises and the future impact on earnings.
This resulted in a bonus award of 57% of maximum potential to Tim OToole and Chris Surch.
90 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Based on the above performance outcomes, the table below sets out the Executive Directors bonus payments for 2014 15.
Cash Shares Total value Per cent of Per cent of Executive Director 000s 000s 000s salary maximum Tim OToole 289 289 578 68 57 Chris Surch 128 128 256 57 57 1 Share awards to Tim OToole will be granted as conditional share awards for nil consideration and those to Chris Surch as nil-cost options.
Share awards are deferred for three years, subject to continued employment.
2015 16 Executive Directors annual bonus awards In line with the 2014 15 annual bonus awards, performance will be assessed against five metrics: Group operating profit 65% of award, cash generation 10% of award, safety 7.5% of award, customer satisfaction 7.5% of award and individual performance 10% ofaward.
The Group operating profit and cash generation targets were set against the Companys budgeted performance and were subject to a rigorous process ofchallenge by the Committee and the Board.
In particular, the impact of the loss of rail franchises means that in assessing performance, the Committee will continue to monitor each division and also the Companys performance on a rail and non-rail basis.
Specic targets will not be disclosed in advance as they would give a clear indication of the Groups business objectives, which are commercially sensitive.
Where bonus targets are no longer commercially sensitive, typically following the end of the financial year, they will be disclosed in that years Directors Remuneration Report.
Awards are subject to an underlying performance override enabling them to be scaled back to reect the Groups performance as well as malus and clawback.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity for Tim OToole and Chris Surch will be 120% and 100% of base salary, respectively.
Half of any bonus earned will be deferred into the Companys shares for three years, conditional upon continued employment.
Long Term Incentive Plan 2015 Long Term Incentive Awards The Committee has reviewed the Companys LTIP arrangements as part of its comprehensive review of Executive Director and senior management remuneration, which included consultations with major investors and their representative bodies on the inclusion of a returns-based metric ROCE alongside theexisting LTIP performance metrics of EPS and TSR, with the TSR peer group amended to reect the comparator group selected for benchmarking of remuneration policies and practices.
Following feedback from major investors, which was supportive of the overall proposed approach, it is intended that the 2015 LTIP awards will be based on a combination of metrics which are aligned to the Companys strategic objectives and hence with sustainable shareholder value creation.
A further investor consultation will be conducted later in the year following the publication of the Companys 2015 preliminary results and Annual Report and Accounts.
The consultation will cover the choice of performance metrics as well astheir denitions, weightings and target levels of performance.
To ensure the outcomes from the consultation are appropriately reected, and to allow for full input from the new Chairman, grants of LTIP awards will be deferred until immediately after the announcement of the Companys half-yearly results in November 2015.
Awards will be subject to a holding period of two years following the three year performance period as well as malus and clawback.
On this basis an award will be granted to an existing Executive Director as follows: Face value Minimum threshold performance Maximum performance Performance % of base salary % of maximum potential % of maximum potential period 120% 25% 100% 1.4.
18 Before an award vests the Committee must be satisfied that the underlying performance of the Group is satisfactory.
The Committee believes that having a performance underpin is an important feature of the plan as it mitigates the risk of unwarranted vesting outcomes.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 91 Dir ectors remuneration report continued The single comparator group for the benchmarking of remuneration and any relative TSR metric retained for the LTIP will comprise the following 32companies: Aggreko Carnival Grafton Group Serco Group AMEC DCC Hays SIG Atkins WS easyJet Interserve Smith DS Babcock International Electrocomponents Kier Group Stagecoach Group Balfour Beatty G4S Mitie Group Thomas Cook Group Bunzl Galliford Try National Express Travis Perkins Capita GKN Regus Wolseley Carillion Go-Ahead Group Rentokil Initial Wood Group John In the event of one or more of the constituents undergoing a takeover, merger, dissolution, variation in capital or any other event that will materially affect the calculation of a ranking, the Committee shall determine how this should be reected in the ranking calculation.
In the event of a change of control, awards will normally vest on a pro-rata basis by reference to the length of time since the award was granted, and only if the performance conditions can effectively be regarded as having been satisfied at that time, although the Committee may decide not to pro-rate an award if it is inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
2014 Long Term Incentive Awards In 2014 the Committee granted awards to Executive Directors on the following basis: Share price at Face value Number of shares Face value of award % of award which Performance Executive Director dateofgrant % of base salary awarded 000s vests at threshold period Tim OToole 129p 120 785,288 1,014,750 10% 1.4.
17 1 Awards were granted to Tim OToole as conditional nil-cost awards and those to Chris Surch as nil-cost options.
2 Awards were calculated using the average five day closing mid-market share price at the time of grant.
The awards are exercisable at the end of a three-year performance period subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions and continued employment.
Half of the award is subject to the growth in the Companys earnings per share and the remaining half of the award is subject to the Companys relative total shareholder return.
In addition, before an award vests the Committee must be satisfied that the underlying performance of the Group is satisfactory.
Details of the performance measures and targets for the 2014 LTIP award are set out below.
EPS % of award which vests 10p 0% 10p 5% 12p 12.5% 16p 50% Between 5% and 12.5% of the award will vest on a straight-line basis if EPS at the end of the performance period is between 10p and 12p.
Between 12.5% and 50% of an award will vest on a straight-line basis if EPS at the end of the performance period is between 12p and 16p.
92 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Relative TSR Ranking % of award which vests Below median 0% Median 12.5% Upper quartile 50% Between median and the upper quartile of the peer group, vesting will be on a straight-line basis between 12.5% and 50%.
The TSR comparator group for the 2014 award was the FTSE 250 excluding financial services and extraction companies.
EPS performance vesting schedule TSR performance vesting schedule % of total % of total award vesting award vesting 50.0% 50.0% 37.5% 37.5% 25.0% 25.0% 12.5% 12.5% 5.0% 5.0% 0% 0% 0p 10p 12p 16p 0% 25% 50% 75% 100% EPS Performance relative to peer group percentile 2012 Long Term Incentive Awards The LTIP award granted in 2012 to Tim OToole lapsed in full in June 2015 on failing to achieve its TSR and EPS performance targets.
The awards granted in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 also lapsed.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 93 Dir ectors remuneration report continued Executive Directors interests in share awards The outstanding share awards under the LTIP, deferred share bonus under the EABP and SAYE are set out in the table below.
There have been no changes to the terms of any share awards granted to Directors.
The number of awards detailed in the table below have been adjusted to reect the rights issue in 2013 following the application of the standard rights issue adjustment formula.
Date on Awards Number of which award Number of lapsed awards held vests Date of awards held Awards Awards during the as at Exercise becomes Expiry Director Plan grant as at 1.4.
18 1 The table above shows the maximum number of shares that could be released if awards were to vest in full.
Participants do not receive dividends on unvested shares.
3 In respect of the deferred share element of the 2013 14 bonus award, Tim OToole was granted an award over 223,554 shares structured as a conditional award for nilconsideration with a face value of 300,009 and Chris Surch an award over 99,137 shares structured as a nil-cost option with a face value of 133,041.
These awards were granted at an average five day closing mid-market price of 134p per share and will be deferred for three years from 1 April 2014.
Tim OToole waived his bonus for 2011 12 and 2012 13.
4 Award vested in May 2014, with all shares being retained.
Share price on the vesting date was 134p.
5 Award lapsed in May 2014 on failing to meet the performance conditions.
6 Award lapsed in June 2015 on failing to meet the performance conditions.
7 An award vests on the date the Committee determines whether performance conditions have been met, or if on that date dealing restrictions apply, the first date after dealing restrictions cease to apply.
Shareholding guidelines In accordance with the existing remuneration policy, Executive Directors are required to build up a specified shareholding in the Company.
Thisisto create greater alignment of the Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders.
The guidelines require Executive Directors toretain at least 50% of the shares, net of tax, vesting under a Group share incentive plan orotherwise acquire shares in the Company over aperiodof five years until a shareholding with a market value calculated by reference to the year-end share price equal to 100% of base salary isachieved.
The Committee reserves the right to relax or waive the application of such guidelines in certain circumstances, including the impending retirement of an Executive Director.
The table below sets out the Executive Directors and their connected persons shareholdings including beneficial interests and a summary of outstanding and unvested share awards as at 31 March 2015.
Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Unvested EABP Unvested LTIP beneficially beneficially awards subject awards subject Vested but not Shareholding Current owned at owned at to continued to performance exercised share requirement % shareholding % Executive Director 1.4.
15 employment conditions awards of basic salary of basic salary 2 Tim OToole 685,532 770,882 223,554 2,219,895 100% 83% 3 Chris Surch 76,335 76,335 173,012 881,569 100% 15% 1 Based on the middle market closing price of an ordinary share of the Company of 91p per share on 31 March 2015.
The range of the Companys share price for the year was 91p to 140p.
2 Tim OToole has not met the shareholding requirement as a result of the fall in the Companys share price.
3 Chris Surch was appointed a Director on 1 September 2012 and has until 2017 to meet the shareholding requirement.
4 No changes in Executive Directors interests occurred in the period of 1 April to 10 June 2015.
94 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Subject to the approval by shareholders of the new remuneration policy at the 2015 Annual General Meeting, the shareholding requirement of the Chief Executive will be increased to 200% of base salary and for other Executive Directors to 150% of base salary within a five year time period.
The new guidelines will also require Executive Directors to retain at least 75% of the shares, net of tax, vesting under a Group share incentive plan or otherwise acquire shares in the Company until the shareholding guideline is met.
In addition, any shares vesting under the LTIP will be required to be held by Executive Directors for a further period of two years following the three year performance period.
From June 2015, Tim OToole will allocate 15,000 of his gross monthly base salary equivalent to over 20% of his base salary to acquire shares inthe Company, with shares being purchased from the post-tax and post-NI amount.
All-employee share schemes Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys Sharesave SAYE and Share Incentive Plan BAYE on the same terms as other eligible employees.
SAYE The maximum participation level in the SAYE plan is 500 per calendar month with participants granted linked share options, by reference toprojected savings, with a strike price up to a 20% discount to the prevailing share price at the time of grant.
On the maturity of the savings contracts, participants can elect to use the accumulated savings to exercise the option or request the return of their savings.
BAYE The maximum participation level in the BAYE is as per HMRC limits and provides for a combination of the following: Q free shares the Company can give each participant free shares worth up to 3,600 each: Q partnership shares participants can use up to 1,800 per year out of pre-tax and pre-NI pay to buy partnership shares: Q matching shares the Company can give matching shares at a ratio of up to two matching shares for each partnership share bought by the employee: and Q dividend shares participants can use up to 1,800 of dividends from plan shares each year to buy further shares in the Company through the plan.
At present the Company provides two matching shares for every three partnership shares, subject to a maximum Company contribution of shares to the value of 20 a month and any dividend shares.
No free shares are provided.
The shares are held in trust for up to five years, in which case no income tax or NI will be payable.
The matching shares will be forfeited if the corresponding partnership shares are removed from trust within three years from award.
In accordance with the applicable legislation shares that remain subject to the plan are held on behalf of participants in a UK-based trust.
Preventing rewards for failure In respect of awards made under the EABP and LTIP, from 2015 onwards, in the event of a triggering event, such as a material mis-statement of accounts, gross misconduct or computational error, the Company will have the ability to clawback awards.
For the EABP, annual cash bonuses may be clawed back at any time up to the end of the third financial year after that in respect of which the payment is made and share awards will remain subject to clawback for three years following the date of grant.
For the LTIP, awards will remain subject to clawback for two years following the end of the three-year performance period.
In addition, prior to the vesting of awards made under the EABP and LTIP, in respect of awards made from 2014 onwards, the Committee may reduce awards to reect any triggering event, such as material mis-statement of accounts or gross misconduct.
Dilution The Company ensures that the level of shares granted under the Companys share plans and the means of satisfying such awards remains within best practice guidelines so that dilution from employee share awards does not exceed 10% of the Companys issued share capital for all share plans and 5% in respect of executive share plans in any ten-year rolling period.
The Committee monitors dilution levels at least once a year.
At31March 2015, 5.5% of the Companys issued share capital had been allocated for the purposes of its share incentive plans over a ten-yearperiod, including 2.6% in respect of the LTIP and EABP.
Employee benefit Trust The FirstGroup Employee benefit Trust has been established to acquire ordinary shares in the Company, by subscription or purchase, from funds provided by the Group to satisfy rights to shares arising on the exercise or vesting of awards under the Groups share-based incentive plans.
Thetrustees of the FirstGroup Employee benefit Trust have informed the Company that their intention is to abstain from voting in respect of the FirstGroup shares held in the trust.
As at 31 March 2015, 1,063,008 shares were held by the Employee benefit Trust to hedge outstanding awards of 52,878,940.
This means that the trust holds sufficient to satisfy 2.0% of outstanding awards.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 95 Dir ectors remuneration report continued Performance graph The graph below shows the total shareholder return performance of 100 invested in FirstGroup plc shares over the last six years compared to an equivalent investment in the FTSE 250.
The FTSE 250 Index has been selected as it provides an established and broad-based index, of which the Company is a constituent.
Total shareholder return 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 31 March 2009 31 March 2010 31 March 2011 31 March 2012 31 March 2013 31 March 2014 31 March 2015 FirstGroup plc FTSE 250 Index Total shareholder return Total shareholder return Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream Remuneration of the Chief Executive The table below shows the total remuneration gure for the highest paid Executive Director, the Chief Executive, during each of the last six years.
The total remuneration gure includes the annual bonus and LTIP awards which vested based on performance in those years.
The annual bonus percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
From 1 November 2010 to 31 March 2011, Tim OToole received remuneration of 357,000.
2 Relates to the remuneration of Tim OToole who was appointed Chief Executive in November 2010.
3 Tim OToole waived his bonus in 2012 and 2013.
Percentage change in remuneration levels The table below shows the movement in the salary, benets and annual bonus for the Chief Executive between the current and previous financial year compared to that for the average UK employee UK Bus and UK Rail, but excluding Group.
The Committee has chosen this comparator as it feels that it provides a more appropriate reection of the earnings of the average worker than the movement in the Groups total wage bill, which is distorted by movements in the number of employees and variations in wage practices in the US.
For the benets and bonus per employee, the gures are based on those employees eligible to participate in such schemes.
Base salary Benets Annual bonus 1 Chief Executive Nil 27.0% 3.7 % UK employees 2.2% Nil Nil 1 Increase reects travel expenses of 11,000 incurred in 2014 15.
96 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Relative importance of spend on pay The table below illustrates the Companys expenditure on pay in comparison to adjusted operating profit and distributions to shareholders by way of dividend payments.
2014 2015 million million % change Group adjusted operating profit 268 304 13 Distributions to shareholders Total employee pay 2,824 2,833 1% 1 Group adjusted operating profit has been used as a comparison as it is a key financial metric which the Board considers when assessing Company performance.
2 Total employee pay is the total pay for all Group employees, including pension and social security costs.
Non-Executive Directors fees Non-Executive Directors fees were reviewed in 2014 and the Chairmans fee was reviewed as part of the appointment of the new Chairman in 2015.
Fees paid to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors during the year ended 31 March 2015 are set out below: Non-Executive Director Fees Benets Totals 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 1 John McFarlane 66 250 66 250 2 Mick Barker 38 39 3 2 41 41 3,5 David Begg 60 14 60 14 4 Warwick Brady 40 40 4 Drummond Hall 46 1 47 3,5 Colin Hood 60 14 3 1 63 15 3 John Sievwright 56 12 56 12 Brian Wallace 54 63 1 1 55 64 4 Imelda Walsh 4848 6 Jim Winestock 50 60 2 7 52 67 1 John McFarlane was appointed a Non-Executive Director and Chairman designate on 5 December 2013 and became Chairman on 1 January 2014.
2 In addition to his fee as a Non-Executive Director, Mick Barker receives earnings from the Group as an employee including pension and as an Employee Director upto September 2014 amounting to 57,000 2013 14: 59,000.
As a participant in the BAYE he received 193 matching shares during the financial year.
Based on the middle market closing price of a share on 31 March 2015 of 91p, the value of these were 176.
3 David Begg, Colin Hood and John Sievwright stood down as Directors on 24 June 2014.
4 Warwick Brady, Drummond Hall and Imelda Walsh were appointed as Non-Executive Directors on 24 June 2014.
5 In addition to their fees, David Begg and Colin Hood received payments of 15,000 and 12,500, respectively, in lieu of three months notice under the terms of their letters of appointment following their stepping down as Directors.
No other payments were made to former Directors or for loss of ofce.
6 Benets include accommodation expenses to attend UK Board and Committee meetings and travel expenses to attend a corporate event.
Each Non-Executive Director of the Company has elected to receive 40% of their fees in the form of shares in the Company, except for JohnMcFarlane and Warwick Brady who receive 100% of their fees in shares and Imelda Walsh who receives 25% of her fee in shares.
External board appointments Where Board approval is given for an Executive Director to accept an outside non-executive directorship, unless the appointment is in connection with the Group business, the individual Director is entitled to retain any fees received.
For serving as a Director of CSX Corporation, Tim OToole receives a fee of $75,000 per annum which is taken in CSX common shares and an annual grant of $150,000 also in CSX common shares.
Bothelements are deferred until Tim OToole leaves the board of CSX Corporation and therefore he does not receive any current compensation.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 97 Dir ectors remuneration report continued Non-Executive Directors interest in ordinary shares The beneficial interests of the Non-Executive Directors and their connected persons who held ofce at 31 March 2015 in the shares of the Company as at that date and 1 April 2014 are shown below: Ordinary shares beneficially owned at Ordinary shares 1.4.
14 or date of beneficially owned at appointment, if later 31.3.
15 John McFarlane 26,192 144,388 1 Mick Barker 44,585 59,062 Warwick Brady 12,500 35,252 Drummond Hall 16,326 Brian Wallace 32,720 53,455 Imelda Walsh 9,933 Jim Winestock 29,329 49,434 Mick Barkers total shareholding includes shares acquired under the Companys BAYE plan comprising Partnership Shares, Matching Shares and any Dividend Shares.
2 Between 1 April and 10 June 2015, Non-Executive Directors received the following shares as payment of fees: John McFarlane 21,237: Mick Barker 2,207: Warwick Brady 5,156: Drummond Hall 3,679: Brian Wallace 3,958: Imelda Walsh 2,383: and Jim Winestock 3,842.
In addition, Mick Barker received 260 shares under the Companys BAYE plan.
Non-Executive Directors dates of appointment Non-Executive Directors have an agreement for service for an initial three year term, which can be terminated by either party giving three months notice.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at each Annual General Meeting.
The table below sets out these terms for those Non-Executive Directors serving as at 31 March 2015.
Appointment end date in accordance with Date of appointment Notice period letter of appointment 1 John McFarlane 5 December 2013 3 months AGM 2015 Mick Barker 1 January 2012 3 months AGM 2015 Warwick Brady 24 June 2014 3 months AGM 2015 Drummond Hall 24 June 2014 3 months AGM 2015 Brian Wallace 1 August 2012 3 months AGM 2015 Imelda Walsh 24 June 2014 3 months AGM 2015 Jim Winestock 1 August 2012 3 months AGM 2015 1 John McFarlane will be standing down as a Director at the conclusion of the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Role of the Remuneration Committee The Committee is primarily responsible for determining and recommending to the Board the framework for executive remuneration and for determining, on behalf of the Board, the remuneration of Executive Directors and senior managers.
The Committees full terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
The Committees principal responsibilities are summarised below: Q determining and agreeing with the Board the framework for executive remuneration that ensures Executive Directors and senior managers are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are rewarded in a fair and responsible manner for their individual contribution towards the success of the Company: Q ensuring that the remuneration policy is appropriate and consistent with effective risk management: Q within the agreed framework, setting and determining the total individual remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors and senior managers, giving due regard to individual and Company performance, and remuneration trends across the Group: Q approving the design of, and determining the targets for, any performance-related plans and the total annual payments made under such plans to Executive Directors and senior managers: Q determining any share incentive plan performance targets: and Q determining the terms of employment and remuneration of each Executive Director and senior manager, including recruitment and termination arrangements.
98 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Composition of the Remuneration Committee The current members of the Committee are Imelda Walsh Chair and Drummond Hall, both from 24 June 2014.
All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors.
David Begg, Colin Hood, John Sievwright and Jim Winestock stood down from the Committee on 24June 2014.
Other attendees at the Committee meetings include the Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Employee Director, Group Reward & Pensions Director and PwC.
The Company Secretary attends meetings as secretary tothe Committee.
Attendees arenot involved in any decisions, and are not present for any discussions, regarding their own remuneration.
Given the large time commitment required from Committee members over the past year and the existing commitments of the other NonExecutive Directors, it was not possible to appoint a third Committee member with the time to commit fully to the Committee.
The appointment ofa further member will be discussed with Wolfhart Hauser following his appointment as Chairman at the conclusion of the forthcoming AnnualGeneral Meeting and a new Committee member appointed during the 2015 16 financial year.
Committee attendance The table below shows the Committee members during 2014 15 and their attendance at scheduled Committee meetings.
Number of scheduled Number of scheduled Committee meetings Committee meetings Members eligible to attend attended Imelda Walsh 44 Drummond Hall 44 1 David Begg, Colin Hood, John Sievwright and Jim Winestock stood down asmembers of the Committee on 24 June 2014.
Between 1 April 2014 and 24 June 2014 there was one scheduled Committee meeting on 24 June 2014 which they all attended.
2 Drummond Hall and Imelda Walsh were appointed members of the Committee on 24 June 2014, following the conclusion of the Committee meeting held that day.
After each meeting, the Chair of the Committee presented a report on its activities to the Board.
Committee activities In line with its remit, amongst other matters, the Committee took the following actions during the year: Q reviewed the current trends in remuneration practice and updated UK governance requirements: Q reviewed the Annual General Meeting outcome and feedback from institutional shareholders and shareholder bodies, giving consideration to the implications for future remuneration policy: Q undertook a comprehensive review of the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and senior managers, including incentive arrangements and benchmarking comparator groups: Q approved individual remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors and senior managers: Q reviewed and agreed to a further consultation on the performance metrics, weightings and targets of the LTIP: Q reviewed and agreed to amend the structure of divisional incentives for certain senior managers: Q reviewed the remuneration arrangements for new Executive Directors: Q approved the introduction of clawback: Q approved revised shareholding guidelines and the introduction of holding periods for Executive Directors and senior managers: Q reviewed the fee for the new Chairman: Q assessed the level of achievement against objectives under the EABP and LTIP: Q engaged major investors and their representative bodies on the Companys new remuneration policy and its implementation: Q reviewed and approved the Directors Remuneration Report: and Q reviewed the Committees performance and its terms of reference.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015 99 Dir ectors remuneration report continued Priorities for 2015 16 For the coming year it is anticipated that the Committee will focus on the following areas: Q supporting the Groups strategy and transformation plans: Q ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements: Q consulting with major shareholders on the definitions of LTIP performance metrics, weightings and targets: Q developing revised incentive arrangements for those senior managers immediately below the Executive Directors: Q implementing the new remuneration policy, subject to approval by shareholders: Q ongoing training of Committee members: and Q ensuring that remuneration arrangements continue to attract, motivate and retain Executive Directors and senior managers, and reward Company performance, with a focus on maintaining the link between performance and reward, whilst maintaining a prudent approach to cost and the risk to the business.
External adviser The Committee has authority to obtain the advice of external independent remuneration consultants.
It is solely responsible for their appointment, retention and termination and for approval of the basis of their fees and other terms.
During the year the Committee carried out a review of remuneration advisers to the Committee.
As a result of the review, the Committee decided to appoint PwC to provide it with independent advice on executive remuneration.
The Chair of the Committee agrees the protocols under which PwC provides advice and the Committee is satisfied that the advice it has received from PwC has been objective and independent.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
PwC provided independent commentary on matters under consideration by the Committee and provided updates on market practice and legislative requirements.
PwC fees for advice provided to the Committee were 149,000.
Fees were charged on a time and materials basis.
PwCalso provided general consultancy services to FirstGroup during the year: however, the Committee is satisfied that this does not compromise the independence of the advice it has received from PwC.
Shareholder engagement During the year, the Committee wrote to, and had discussions with, a number of major investors and their representative bodies to seek their views on the remuneration policy to be submitted to shareholders on 16 July 2015 to provide them with an opportunity to see the policy at an early stage and provide feedback.
The dialogue was constructive and shareholders were broadly supportive of the Committees approach on these matters.
When reviewing the remuneration framework of Executive Directors and senior managers, the Committee takes into account the views and guidance expressed by major investors and their representative bodies.
Shareholder votes on remuneration matters At the AGM on 16 July 2014, the resolutions on the remuneration policy and Annual Report on Remuneration received the following votes from shareholders: Annual Report on Remuneration including the Remuneration Policy Annual Statement of the Chair of the Committee Votes for 767,562,067 89% 606,528,428 74% Votes against 95,204,285 11% 208,086,339 26% Total votes cast 862,766,352 814,614,767 Votes withheld 15,581,485 63,733,071 In light of the size of the vote against the Annual Report on Remuneration, the Committee has had positive and constructive discussions and dialogue with shareholders and their representative bodies regarding a revised remuneration policy and practices.
The views of shareholders andtheir representative bodies are very important and the material points discussed have helped shape the revised remuneration policy to beproposed at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Audit requirements The Groups auditor, Deloitte LLP, has audited the information contained in the sections and tables headed Executive Directors total remuneration, Benets, Pension, 2014 15 Executive Directors annual bonus awards, 2014 Long Term Incentive Awards, 2012 Long Term Incentive Awards, Executive Directors interests in share awards, Shareholding guidelines, Non-Executive Directors fees and Non-Executive Directors interests in ordinary shares.
On behalf of the Board Imelda Walsh Chair, Remuneration Committee 10 June 2015 100 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2015
