Fidessa group plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Introduction This report by the Remuneration Committee has been approved by the Board for submission to shareholders in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and the reporting requirements of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
The report has been split into two sections: the Directors Remuneration Policy as approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, which sets out the policy on the directors remuneration for the three year period commencing on 30th April 2014, and an Annual Report on Remuneration, which discloses the directors remuneration for the year ended 31st December 2015.
Fidessa will be seeking shareholders support for the Directors Remuneration Report excluding the Directors Remuneration Policy at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors remuneration policy The document below is an extract of the Directors Remuneration Policy that was approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
The chart illustrating the application of the remuneration policy in 2014 has been omitted as have the sections relating to service contracts, employees and shareholders.
Andy Skelton entered into a service contract on 17th August 2015 and that service contract is consistent with the directors remuneration policy.
Up to date details of the long-term incentives granted to the executive directors are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The complete version of the Directors Remuneration Policy is available in the 2013 Annual Report which may be found at http: www.
Extract from approved directors remuneration policy The Committee believes that the executive directors and senior managers should be rewarded fairly and competitively according to their performance.
This should be at a comparable level to directors in similar companies and at a level that will attract, motivate and retain individuals of an appropriate calibre to deliver Fidessas strategy and value to shareholders.
Fidessas remuneration philosophy is that a significant proportion of the remuneration of the executive directors and senior management should be performance-related, so that management is clearly focused on financial performance.
Whilst the annual bonus is focused on operating profit in the year, the long-term share-based incentives are focused on earnings per share and share price performance measured over multiple years.
The focus on financial performance avoids excessive short-term risk taking, encourages consistent performance over multiple years and aligns remuneration with Fidessas strategy and shareholders interests.
It aims to deliver value and good growth over the long-term whilst balancing the extent of caution and risk.
The individual elements of the remuneration packages offered to executive directors are set out in the table below.
Executive directors remuneration policy Salary Each executive directors salary is paid monthly and reviewed annually.
When setting salary levels the Committee takes into account an individuals experience, knowledge and performance in the role, business and individual performance, achievement of objectives, comparative salaries and periodic reviews from the Committees remuneration advisers.
In addition, the Committee considers the salary increases being provided to Fidessa employees over recent years and the period under review to take account of potential sensitivity of salary increases to executive directors.
Recent benchmarking undertaken by the Committees remuneration advisers showed that the executive directors salaries are in line with comparative salaries.
Maintaining this alignment is one of the factors the Committee takes into account when setting salary levels.
This approach should assist in the recruitment, motivation and retention of high performing individuals.
Fidessa group plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors and corporate governance report continued Benefits Benefits are very limited as the Committee strongly believes in focusing directors remuneration on types of remuneration that can be aligned with the interests of shareholders.
Executive directors are entitled to life insurance, ill health income protection and private medical insurance.
The benefits offered may vary during the policy period but they shall not exceed those benefits generally offered to employees.
Annual The purpose of the annual bonus is to reward the performance of the executive directors based on an bonus annual business target.
It is based on financial performance measures which are reviewed annually.
The applicable sections of the Annual Report on Remuneration sets out details of the performance measures and the operation of the annual bonus.
To be consistent with other tiers of management, the annual bonus is paid in two instalments, an interim and final bonus being paid after the half year and final results are announced respectively.
The proportion of the bonus payable as an interim bonus is around one third of the likely annual bonus payable.
In the unlikely event that the overall amount due for the annual bonus is less than that already paid as an interim bonus, the excess is clawed back.
The rationale for the methodology is to directly align the bonus with the financial performance, whilst at the same time avoid reward for poor performance.
A component of the annual bonus may be deferred, through the use of the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP, thus encouraging a longer term focus.
If an element of the annual bonus constitutes an award under the DABP, that award, together with dividends earned, will vest three years after the grant, subject to continued employment.
A summary of the DABP is set out in note 19 to the financial statements.
The Committee will take into consideration the executive directors shareholdings and existing long-term share-based incentives when determining whether deferral of an annual bonus is appropriate or not.
The maximum bonus payable is subject to an upper limit of 125% of salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer.
The maximum proportion of the annual bonus that can be deferred as an award under the DABP in any year will be ordinary shares with a market value at the time of the award of 50% of the annual bonus for that year.
Long-term Long-term incentives are an important form of overall compensation when judiciously incentives combined with other forms of remuneration.
Such incentives are also key to aligning long-term remuneration with the long-term interests of shareholders.
These incentives also encourage employee retention and consistent performance when the vesting conditions are based on average or aggregate measures over multiple years.
The current primary long-term incentive plan which the executive directors can receive awards from is the Performance Share Plan PSP, which was overwhelmingly approved by shareholders in May 2011.
Each award from the PSP has a vesting period of four years and a performance condition related to growth in earnings per share measured over four years.
The maximum annual award under the PSP to an executive director is 500,000 based on the market value of the shares at the time of the award.
When determining the value of the awards to grant to the executive directors, the Committee takes into account, and ensures consistency with, the awards granted to other employees.
Fidessa group plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Long-term The previous share schemes in which the executive directors have an interest are the EGRIP and the incentives Share Bonus Plan SBP.
continued A summary of these plans, their operation, performance conditions and clawback arrangements is set out in note 19 to the financial statements.
Pension The provision of a pension contribution may be important in helping Fidessa attract and recruit high performing individuals.
The directors are entitled to participate in a money purchase pension scheme, but the current executive directors do not participate.
The maximum contribution that Fidessa may make to a directors money purchase pension scheme shall be consistent with other employees in the same location.
From 2014, Fidessa will match the contributions of employees participating in the UK money purchase pension scheme up to a maximum of 3% of salary.
Such contribution will be taken into consideration when agreeing a directors salary so that it does not result in an inappropriate proportion of fixed remuneration.
Other The executive directors are also eligible to participate in the Share Incentive Plan SIP and Monthly Share Purchase Plan MSPP on terms that are no better than other employees.
These plans are applicable to over 90% of employees and provide a matching share for each share purchased.
The directors participation in these plans is limited to the maximum allowed in the relevant UK legislation.
A summary of these plans and their operation is set out in note 19 to the financial statements.
The performance measures for the annual bonus are set by reference to the financial performance as reported to the Operating Board.
When considering the relevant targets, the Committee takes into account the directors on target earnings i. e. salary and bonus for the year and sets a target level that is sufficiently demanding taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time and the expected financial performance for the year.
The Committee chooses financial performance measures which are simple to operate, transparent and can be applied accurately.
The financial performance measures consist of a threshold and a sliding scale of payment once that threshold has been achieved.
In relation to the PSP the performance measure is set by reference to the growth in earnings per share which the Committee considers appropriate, as the vesting of an award requires an improvement in Fidessas financial performance.
In addition, such a measure is simple to operate, transparent and can be applied accurately.
Fidessa group plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors and corporate governance report continued Non-executive directors remuneration policy Fees The fees of the Chairman and non-executive directors are paid monthly and reviewed annually taking into account time commitment, responsibilities and fees paid by listed companies with a similar market capitalisation.
The Committee sets the Chairmans fee and the Board, excluding the non-executive directors, sets the non-executive directors fees.
The fee increases will take into account the outcome of the annual review and other factors, such as inflation.
Additional fees for non-executive directors for duties outside the ordinary course of their service may be payable from time to time to reflect the time and responsibility involved.
Benefits The Chairman is entitled to life insurance, ill health income protection and private medical insurance.
Those benefits shall be provided on terms that are no better than those available to other employees.
Annual n a bonus Long-term n a incentives Pension n a Other The Chairman participates in the Share Incentive Plan SIP on terms that are no better than those available to other employees.
Fidessa provides a matching share for each share purchased in the SIP.
The Chairmans participation in the SIP is limited to the maximum allowed in the relevant UK legislation.
A summary of the SIP and its operation is set out in note 19 to the financial statements.
Fidessa group plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration policy for new directors In the event that a new executive director is appointed or a new service contract is entered into, the service contract would be subject to a notice period of not greater than 12 months with the director entitled to receive salary, bonus and benefits as well as participate in the current share plans.
The remuneration package for the new director would be set in accordance with the terms of Fidessas approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment whilst at the same time reflecting the experience and skill of the individual.
The new directors total remuneration would be consistent with comparative packages as advised by the Committees remuneration advisers and the proportions of the various elements of the remuneration package would be broadly similar to those relating to the current executive directors.
The total remuneration for a new director is not expected to be higher than the current Chief Executives total remuneration.
In the year of joining, the annual bonus and associated performance measures will be varied to reflect the part year.
In addition, when recruiting new executive directors the Committee may need to offer additional cash and or share-based elements on a one-time basis when it considers these to be in the best interests of Fidessa and its shareholders.
Such payments would be limited to the remuneration lost when leaving the former employer to take up a position with Fidessa and would reflect the delivery mechanism e. g. cash, shares, options, time horizons and whether performance requirements are attached to that remuneration.
Shareholders will be informed of such payments at the time of appointment.
In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role would be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
In addition, other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment would continue as appropriate, provided that they are put to shareholders for approval at the earliest opportunity.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that Fidessa will meet reasonable relocation expenses in line with market practice.
The appointment of non-executive directors shall be on terms substantially similar to those of the existing non-executive directors and in accordance with the remuneration policy for non-executive directors applicable at the time.
Payments for loss of office In the event of termination, the directors will receive payments for loss of office in accordance with the termination provisions of their service contracts and letters of appointment as applicable.
The Committee has discretion to recommend the payment of an alternative bonus to an executive director in relation to the notice period worked by that director.
Such bonus shall not exceed 125% of salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of salary for any other director, shall be in lieu of any pro-rata annual bonus the executive director may be entitled to receive and may only be payable if the executive directors role was materially changed during the relevant period and appropriate performance criteria were set and satisfied.
No executive director is entitled to receive any bonus payment in lieu of the required notice period or unexpired part thereof.
The treatment for share-based incentives previously granted to an executive director will be determined based on the relevant plan rules.
The default treatment will be for outstanding unvested awards to lapse on cessation of employment.
In relation to awards granted under the PSP, DABP, SIP or MSPP plans, in certain prescribed circumstances good leaver status may be applied and the awards may vest in full in the case of the DABP, SIP and MSPP or part in the case of the PSP.
A summary of the good leaver provisions and the treatment for the part vesting of awards are set out in note 19 to the financial statements.
