Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Directors Remuneration Report Chairmans Annual Statement Our strategy and KPIs are focused on ensuring that we only grow in a way that is sustainable.
This creates a perennial challenge to management to ensure that we continuously grow our resources and reserves, deliver profits and cash to fund our development projects, maintain positive relationships with all our stakeholders and operate efficiently and sustainably.
We incentivise this through a short-term annual bonus scheme, which we believe incorporates short-term targets which are aligned to the long-term strategic objectives so that these priorities are embedded within the day-to-day activities of our business rather than being seen as something extra.
This simple and consistent approach, adopted within the business for many years, also explains our policy of not using long-term share-based incentives within our executive remuneration structures and why we do not see the need to have shareholding guidelines in place for our executives.
Second, there is the expectation that companies will introduce malus and or claw-back provisions and other forms of deferred variable pay.
The Remuneration Committee has given careful thought to this new requirement during 2015.
We believe that the existing remuneration arrangements already mitigate this risk and therefore we do not consider that it is necessary to introduce such provisions at present.... our current policy continues to be appropriate Charles Jacobs We consider the competitiveness of our remuneration packages Chairman of the Remuneration Committee within the context in which we operate and the Remuneration Committee operates a policy which is culturally appropriate to Fresnillos Mexican resources environment.
Both the levels of annual bonus and the lack of share-based incentives need to be seen within that context.
We therefore believe our current policy continues to be appropriate.
As in previous years, we have published remuneration information in respect of our Chief Executive Officer as if he were a member of the Board, even though that is not currently the case.
We believe this is within the spirit of our reporting obligations, even if it is not strictly required, as it adds to the transparency of our reporting.
Dear Shareholder, My Remuneration Committee colleagues and I will keep these I would like to introduce this years Directors Remuneration Report by matters under review.
We continue to talk to our shareholders focusing on the two revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code and have had no negative feedback to date in relation to our which have taken effect this year.
These revisions bring the considered stance on remuneration.
In 2016, we will undertake a review of our and tailored approach that Fresnillo takes to its remuneration remuneration policy in anticipation of the need to renew it at our 2017 arrangements for senior executives into focus.
In support of that, I would welcome any comment or discussion with any of our shareholders who have views First, there is the expectation that remuneration should be designed to on our approach to remuneration.
promote the long-term success of the Company.
Given Fresnillos long history as a resources business, it follows that sustainable long-term Yours faithfully success is at the core of what the Company is trying to achieve.
Mr Charles Jacobs Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 126 F Fre res sn ni illo llo T To od da ay y S St tr ra at te egi gic c R Re ep por ort t C Cor orp por ora at te e G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S Sta tate tem me en nt ts s Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Remuneration Policy Introduction The retention of key management and the alignment of This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the elements management incentives with the creation of shareholder value are of the Remuneration Policy of the Company the Remuneration key objectives of this policy.
Policy relevant to the interpretation of the Annual Report on Implementation for 2015.
The Remuneration Policy, which was Setting base salary levels for Executive Directors at an appropriate prepared in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies level is a key to managerial retention in Mexico.
Therefore, the and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Remuneration Committee seeks to ensure that salaries are market the Regulations, was put to a binding vote at the Annual General competitive both within the Mexican context and internationally for Meeting held on 16 May 2014 which was also its Effective Date.
Total compensation is set within a range full Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders is included in the around the median level for the Companys peer group within Mexico 2013 Annual Report pages 133-138 on the Companys website http: and internationally, total remuneration is benchmarked biennially to www.
ensure that the whole remuneration package is maintained at this level over the long term.
Salaries are positioned within the range Remuneration Policy according to experience and service.
The Remuneration Policy seeks to ensure that the Company is able to attract, retain, and motivate its executives and senior management.
The table below sets out the key elements of Executive Directors pay set out in the Remuneration Policy: Base Salary Provides the core reward for the role Operation Reviewed annually and fixed for 12 months starting on 1 April each year and the review is influenced by: Role, experience and performance Average workforce salary adjustments Mexican economic factors Comparison with the Companys peer group in Mexico and internationally Salaries are benchmarked biennially by reference to companies of similar size and complexity and will be positioned within a mid-range of the Companys comparator peer group in Mexico and internationally.
The next review will take place in April 2016.
Maximum Value The Chief Executives salary will be reviewed taking account of the benchmarking information received by the Remuneration Committee and the maximum value of the Chief Executives base salary will be positioned within the mid-range for companies in the peer group of Mexican and international resources companies.
Performance Metric The Remuneration Committee considers individual salaries at the appropriate meeting each year by reference to the factors noted under the Operation heading in this table.
Details of the current remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Discretion The Remuneration Committee will establish the Companys comparator peer group in Mexico and internationally as part of the biennial review which it will consider in April 2014.
The peer group will be reviewed again in April 2016 as part of the following biennial review.
The Committee will report on the outcome of these reviews within the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration for 2016.
Benefits Help recruit and retain employees Operation An Executive Director would be entitled to life insurance, the use of a Company car, the payment of premiums for medical insurance covering limited expenses and check-ups.
Benefits may be changed if Company policy on benefits changes.
Maximum Value The current benefits are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report.
The maximum value of benefits will be determined by Company policy that is applicable to all employees.
Discretion The Remuneration Committee may consider changes to the benefits made available to Executive Directors in line with any changes in the policy for benefits provided to all employees.
Pension Rewards continued employment and sustained contribution Operation The Group operates a defined contribution scheme.
Executive Directors are entitled to membership of the defined contribution scheme.
Maximum Value The maximum contribution for any employee may not exceed 16% of salary.
127 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy continued Annual Bonus Rewards the achievement of shortand long-term financial and strategic business targets and delivery of personal objectives Operation Targets are renewed annually and relate to the strategic aims of the business as a whole.
A scoring system is used for the plan.
Each objective set for the executive at the beginning of the year is allocated a points-rating which represents a median performance target for that objective.
Upper and lower point thresholds are set to allow for outstanding performance and to ensure that underperformance is not rewarded.
For each member of the Executive Committee including the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Vice President of Exploration and the Chief Operating Officer, a bonus is only payable if the aggregate performance equals or exceeds 100 points.
Bonus payments are paid for aggregate performance against target at or above 100 points as follows: Points Variable Pay Months Salary Variable Pay % of salary 100104 Two 16.67 105109 Four 33.33 110114 Five 41.67 115 Six 50.00 Maximum Value The maximum percentage of salary is 50% six months salary and is paid where Executive Directors achieve 115 points or more under the Annual Bonus Plan.
Performance Metric The KPI targets focus on risks that are within the control and influence of management.
Thus, the management of safety, security, project, human resource, exploration and environmental risks are all currently implicitly covered within the KPIs.
The KPIs and targets are also designed to ensure that both short-term objectives and the long-term development of the Fresnillo Group are given equal priority.
Discretion The Remuneration Committee considers that the KPIs, upon which bonuses are based, may need to evolve from year to year in line with the strategy and therefore it retains the discretion to adjust individual KPI weightings from year to year.
The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to adjust bonus payments to take account of the following: Factors outside the control of Executive Directors e. g. force majeure circumstances.
In deciding whether adjustment is merited, the Remuneration Committee will consider the appropriateness of the Executive Directors response to those circumstances: in this situation an upward adjustment may be considered.
Poor executive response to adverse health, safety or environmental performance during the year, in which case a downward adjustment would be considered.
Any such discretion will be fully explained in future Directors Remuneration Reports.
Annual Bonus Plan and policy on variable remuneration It is the Companys policy not to use its equity to incentivise long-term performance.
The Companys core strategy is one of long-term sustainable growth.
Sustainable growth in mining requires the steady and safe expansion of the Groups operations through the discovery of new resources and construction, maintenance and or expansion of new mines.
The Annual Bonus Plan aligns incentives to the short-term and long-term KPIs, rewarding the achievement of shortand long-term financial and strategic business targets and delivery of personal objectives in the following manner: Strategic objective Key Performance Indicator Timeframe Measure Weighting Maximise the potential of Production Short and long term Increase in equivalent ounces produced 26 existing operations Safety Short term Fatalities 5 Deliver growth through Resources Long term Increase in total resources 10 development projects Extend the growth pipeline Increase in resources upgraded from 20 inferred to indicated Advance sustainable development Stakeholders Long term Various 11 Financial Short term Net profit adjusted 17 All objectives Teamwork 11 Alignment of executive remuneration and the market In setting the fixed remuneration of the members of the Executive Committee, information relating to the mining company comparators is provided by various consultants.
Information relating to the Mexican economic metrics and internal benchmarking is collated by management for the Remuneration Committee to consider.
128 F Fre res sn ni illo llo T To od da ay y S St tr ra at te egi gic c R Re ep por ort t C Cor orp por ora at te e G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S Sta tate tem me en nt ts s Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Comparison of executive and wider Company remuneration External appointments When setting pay and benefits for Executive Directors and the It is the Boards policy to allow Executive Directors to accept Executive Committee, the Remuneration Committee takes account of directorships of other quoted and non-quoted companies provided pay and conditions across the Group.
It will consider the overall pay that they have obtained the consent of the Chairman of the increase percentage negotiated with employee representatives as its Company.
Any such directorships must be formally notified to starting point.
The Remuneration Committee may agree pay the Board.
increases above or below the agreed percentage in exceptional circumstances, where in its discretion it considers such variance to the Chairman and Non-executive Directors norm to be justified.
Other than the Towers Watson report specifically The remuneration of the Chairman of the Company and the Noncommissioned by the Remuneration Committee in 2014, when the executive Directors consists of fees that are paid quarterly in arrears.
Remuneration Policy was set, the same benchmark reports are used The Chairman and Non-executive Directors do not participate in any in the evaluation of executive and employee remuneration, thus long-term incentive or annual bonus schemes, nor do they accrue providing a common approach to both.
The Remuneration any pension entitlement.
Neither the Chairman nor any of the NonCommittee does not consult with employees in setting Directors executive Directors has a service contract with the Company: however remuneration.
each has entered into a letter of appointment with the Company.
Engagement with shareholders on remuneration Non-executive Directors letters of appointment The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee engages with relevant On their initial appointment, each of the Non-executive Directors organisations concerning the Companys approach to remuneration, signed a letter of appointment with the Company, for an initial period and he reports back to the other members of the Remuneration of three years.
Since April 2011, the letters of appointment all serving Committee on such dialogue as necessary.
Non-executive Directors have been drafted in accordance with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, thus obliging Policy on recruitment them to retire at each Annual General Meeting and be subject to The Remuneration Committee will consider the remuneration of new annual re-election by shareholders to serve for a further term of executive appointees to the Board by reference to the Remuneration one year.
The amendments have been drafted such that renewed Policy.
The Committee does not expect to pay sign-on payments or appointment will not necessitate a new letter of appointment.
compensate new Directors for any variable remuneration forfeited from any employment prior to joining the Board.
Salary will be set so Each Non-executive Director is expected to commit a minimum of 14 as to be market competitive both within the Mexican context and days per year in fulfilling their duties as a Director of the Company.
A internationally for comparable companies and taking account of the base fee of 30,000 is paid to each Non-executive Director to reflect experience and seniority of the appointee coming into the new role.
the time commitment and level of involvement they are required to make in the activities of the Board as a whole.
There are no set fees Policy on loss of office for membership of any Board committees or for the chairmanship of Other than in circumstances of gross misconduct, Directors and senior the Board.
The UK-based Non-executive Directors receive a higher fee executives, including the Chief Executive Officer, leaving employment to reflect the additional time commitment that they make in order to from the Group, will be entitled to receive salary and pro-rated annual travel to Board meetings in Mexico and to their responsibilities as bonus based on performance to the date of leaving.
Statutory appropriate as Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the entitlements are payable according to Mexican labour law, based on Remuneration Committee and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Mexican labour law does not make any provision for employers and employees to give or receive notice of termination of Copies of the Directors letters of appointment and service employment.
Therefore the Committee will not make payments in agreements are available for inspection at the Companys lieu of notice to departing executives unless required to do so by law.
No contractual commitments concerning loss of office were entered into with any Director prior to 27 June 2012.
The key terms of the Non-executive Directors letters of appointment for the Directors serving during the year are as follows: Date of original letter of Notice period from Director Duration of 1 Director appointment to the Company term Fees p. a. Alberto Baillres 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Juan Bordes 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Rafael MacGregor 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Arturo Fernndez 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Fernando Ruiz 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Guy Wilson 1 July 2008 3 months 1 year 90,000 Alejandro Baillres 16 April 2012 3 months 1 year 30,000 Maria Asuncion Aramburuzabala 16 April 2012 3 months 1 year 30,000 Jaime Lomeln 15 August 2012 3 months 1 year 30,000 Brbara Garza Lagera 11 April 2014 3 months 1 year 30,000 Charles Jacobs 11 April 2014 3 months 1 year 90,000 Jaime Serra 11 April 2014 3 months 1 year 30,000 1 Unexpired term: the Non-executive Directors all have rolling contracts which are subject to the annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The current term expires on 3 May 2016, being the date of the next Annual General Meeting but the appointment will continue after that date provided that each Director is re-elected at the AGM.
129 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Directors Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration 2015 Introduction This report sets out information about the remuneration of the Directors and senior management of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2015.
In accordance with the Regulations, the information provided in the section entitled Directors Remuneration 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 and the accompanying notes has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP.
Although the Chief Executive Officer is not currently a member of the Board, the Remuneration Committee have elected to report on his remuneration in this report as if he were a Director, in keeping with the spirit of the Regulations.
2 The basis of calculation for Mr Alvdrez annual bonus for 2015 is set out in the table below.
3 The Group operates two pension schemes: i a defined benefit scheme which was closed to new members on 1 July 2007 with benefits frozen at this date for existing members, subject to indexation with reference to the Mexican National Consumer Price Index: and ii a defined contribution scheme which was introduced on 1 July 2007.
On behalf of members earning a salary of no more than 25 times the minimum wage in force from time to time the employing company may make contributions of 5% to the scheme.
The employing company may also make additional contributions between 5% and 8% of salary to this plan.
Members may elect to match contribution percentages between 5% and 8% of salary.
Mr Alvdrez is a member of the Companys defined benefit scheme in respect of service before 30 June 2007 and of the defined contribution scheme in respect of service since 1 July 2007.
4 The Company does not operate a long-term incentive plan or any share-based incentives.
130 F Fre res sn ni illo llo T To od da ay y S St tr ra at te egi gic c R Re ep por ort t C Cor orp por ora at te e G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S Sta tate tem me en nt ts s Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations The objectives, as applied to Mr Alvdrez incentive payment, the measures associated with each objective, and the relative weighting between objectives, are detailed below: 2014 Weighting 2015 2015 2015 Points 2014 Points 1 Objective Measure Points Target Result Award Result Award Production Increase in equivalent ounces 26 89.8 million equivalent ounces 92.5 26.80 76.1 26.10 3 produced of silver 2014: 75.7 million equivalent ounces of silver 2 Exploration Increase in total resources 10 Maintain prior year total 102% 10.20 98% 9.80 growth resources Increase in resources upgraded 20 Maintain prior year total 103% 20.60 101% 20.20 3 from inferred to indicated indicated 3 4 Financial Net profit adjusted 17 US$141 million US$236 28.50 US$323 18.40 2014: US$299 million million million Stakeholder Relationship with key 5 Unmeasured 3.00 3.00 5.00 5.00 stakeholders e. g. communities 4 and unions 4 Management of land rights 3 4.25 4.25 4.25 4.25 4 Controls over contractors 3 3.75 3.75 4.25 4.25 Teamwork Collective teamwork across 5 Unmeasured 5.00 5.00 7.00 7.00 4 the Group Progressing the Succession Plan 6 2.00 2.00 5.00 5.00 for Executive Committee 4 positions 5,6 Safety Fatal accidents 5 Zero 1 0 1 0 Total 100 104.10 100.00 Adjustments 0 0 Total 100 104.10 100.00 1 The Points Weighting is considered by the Remuneration Committee each year to ensure that it reflects an appropriate balance of priorities for management.
Where a change of emphasis is considered to be necessary, the Weighting will be amended in future years.
2 Any decrease in equivalent ounces produced and or in reserves and resources will result in points being deducted from the total points scored.
3 Net profit is adjusted to exclude currency fluctuation, the effect of year-on-year changes in metals prices and any revaluation of the Silverstream contract.
The 2015 Net Profit amount for the purposes of the 2015 annual bonus was re-based to take account of the year-on-year changes in currency, metals prices, the revaluation of the Silverstream contract.
4 The points awarded for the Stakeholder and Teamwork objectives are subject to some discretion.
The following points are awarded depending on the Remuneration Committees assessment of the Stakeholder and Teamwork effort: Satisfactory performance 100% of weighting points: outstanding performance 140% of weighting points: and underperformance 0 points.
5 In the event of a single fatality, zero points will be awarded for Safety.
For the purposes of calculating fatalities, all fatalities are included, irrespective of whether they are employees or contractors.
Conversely, in the event of zero fatalities during the year, the number of points awarded would be increased to 10 points.
6 In addition to the penalty for a single fatality see note 5, the number of points awarded will be further reduced by 1% if there are two fatalities, or by 2% if there are three fatalities, or by 3% if there are four fatalities etc.
131 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Directors Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration 2015 continued Pension entitlement The pension entitlement of the Chief Executive Officer is as follows: US$000 Defined Contribution Scheme DCS Defined Benefit Scheme DBS 1 Rights as at 31 December 2015 US$362 US$1,073 Additional benefit in the event that the In the event of early retirement, Mr Alvdrez is Mr Alvdrez is not currently entitled to any Chief Executive Officer retires early entitled to receive his accumulated contributions additional benefit on early retirement in the DBS both member and Company to the DCS Increase, before inflation and the Increase in accrued benefits effect of foreign exchange, in 1 US$000 Accumulated accrued benefits during the year accrued benefits during the year At 31 Dec At 31 Dec 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2 Octavio Alvdrez 1,435 1,569 134 91 90 94 Notes: 1 The decrease in accrued benefits during the year includes a revaluation effect of US$ 253k 2014: US$51k.
2 Both the 2014 and 2015 figures shown in the table above are reported in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
Mr Alvdrez is expected to retire at his normal retirement age of 60 years old.
Shares held by Directors Unaudited Information The number of Ordinary Shares of the Company in which the Directors were beneficially interested at 1 January 2015 and at 31 December Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2015 2015 was: Chief Executive Officer Salary and Benefits 1 January 31 December The total remuneration paid to Mr Alvdrez during the year was 2015 2015 US$1,165,935.
1 Alberto Baillres 552,595,191 552,595,191 Juan Bordes 15,000 15,000 During the year, Octavio Alvdrez served as Chief Executive Officer but was not appointed as a member of the Board of Directors.
Rafael MacGregor Mr Alvdrez is employed under a contract of employment with Arturo Fernndez Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo S. A. fide C. V. a subsidiary of Fresnillo Jaime Lomeln plc.
Mr Alvdrez contract was entered into on 15 August 2012 and Fernando Ruiz 30,000 30,000 is governed by Mexican Federal Labour Law.
Mr Alvdrez service agreement does not have a fixed term and can be terminated Guy Wilson 15,000 15,000 in writing by either party with no entitlement to additional Mara Asuncin Aramburuzabala compensation for termination other than compensation payments Alejandro Baillres required for termination without cause under Mexican labour laws.
Brbara Garza Laguera No benefits are payable on termination.
Charles Jacobs The salary payable under Mr Alvdrez service agreement is Jaime Serra MXN$860,000 per month, which excludes payments for holidays, 1 Alberto Baillres holds an indirect interest in the Company.
Mr Baillres and companies Company-paid savings contributions and other cash benefits.
In 2015, controlled by Mr Baillres hold, in aggregate, 68.9% of the issued share capital and his total salary payments were MXN$14,078,946 US$887,953.
In voting rights of Peoles.
Peoles holds 552,595,191 Ordinary Shares 74.99% of the 2014, his total salary payments were MXN$12,293,884 US$924,470.
issued share capital in the Company.
Mr Alvdrez was awarded a salary increase of 7.5% to reflect his development as Chief Executive Officer over the past year.
Towers Watson have confirmed that the salary review was in line with the Remuneration Policy.
Under his service agreement, Mr Alvdrez is entitled to 26 working days paid holiday per year.
He is not entitled to profit-sharing PTU.
Mr Alvdrez is also entitled to life insurance, the use of a chauffeur and Company car, the payment of medical insurance premiums covering limited expenses and check-ups, meals and subsistence payments and club subscriptions.
132 F Fre res sn ni illo llo T To od da ay y S St tr ra at te egi gic c R Re ep por ort t C Cor orp por ora at te e G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S Sta tate tem me en nt ts s Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Annual Bonus During the year, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the Mr Alvdrez achieved 104.1 points under the bonus scheme for the Remuneration Policy and concluded that it should continue to be year ended 31 December 2015 2014: 100.0 points and therefore was applied in 2016 on a consistent basis to 2015.
The comparator group awarded a bonus of MXN$1,720,000 US$108,480 for 2015. of companies for the purposes of validating the salaries of Executive Directors was reviewed during the year and Towers Watson have Pensions confirmed to the Remuneration Committee that the Chief Executive The Group operates two pension schemes: i a defined benefit Officers remuneration remains in line with the Remuneration Policy.
scheme which was closed to new members on 1 July 2007 with It will be reviewed again in 2016.
The Remuneration Committee is benefits frozen at this date for existing members, subject to therefore satisfied that it is implementing the Remuneration Policy indexation with reference to the Mexican National Consumer Price appropriately in respect of the Chief Executive Officers remuneration Index: and ii a defined contribution scheme which was introduced even though it is not legally required to do so.
The Remuneration Committee has considered the effectiveness of Membership of the latter scheme is voluntary, members earning a KPIs and targets set for 2015 and it continues to consider that the salary of no more than 25 times the minimum wage in force from overall structure of the Incentive Plan and the targets set in 2015 time to time may make contributions of 5% to the scheme.
On behalf remain appropriate for 2016 other than where adjusted to reflect the of members earning a salary of no more than 25 times the minimum 2016 business plan targets.
The 2016 weightings and measures are wage in force from time to time the employing company may make therefore set out in the table below.
The 2016 targets and contributions of 5% to the scheme.
The employing company may also performance against those targets will be disclosed in the 2016 make additional contributions between 5% and 8% of salary to this Annual Report.
Members may elect to match percentages between 5% to 8% Weighting of salary.
1 Objective Measure Points Production Increase in equivalent ounces produced 26 Mr Alvdrez is a member of the Companys defined benefit scheme in 2 compared to prior year production level respect of service before 30 June 2007 and of the defined contribution scheme in respect of service since 1 July 2007.
Exploration Net increase in total resources 10 2 growth compared to previous year-end total Pensions and other benefits are also set at levels that are market Net increase in resources upgraded 20 competitive to ensure that the retentive benefits of market from inferred to indicated compared to 2 competitive salaries are not eroded by poor Group performance.
previous year-end total Financial Year-on-year increase in net profit 17 Malus and Claw-back 3 adjusted The Remuneration Committee has considered whether malus and or 4 Stakeholder Relationship with key stakeholder 5 claw-back provisions should be incorporated into the service 4 agreement for the Chief Executive Officer.
Given that the Company Surface tenure 3 4 does not operate any remuneration plans with a timeframe of more Controls over contractors 3 than one year, the Remuneration Committee does not consider that 4 Teamwork Collective teamwork across the Group 5 there is much value in introducing such provisions into the contractual Succession Plan for Executive 6 arrangements with the Chief Executive Officer at this stage.
The Committee positions Remuneration Committee will review this position regularly.
5,6 Safety Fatal accidents 5 Year-on-year percentage change in remuneration of CEO and all Total 100 employees Adjustments Percentage Change in US Dollar amounts Total 100 20142015 1 Base Salary The Points Weighting is considered by the Remuneration Committee each year to Fees Benefits Annual Bonus ensure that it reflects an appropriate balance of priorities for management.
Where a change of emphasis is considered to be necessary, the Weighting will be amended in Chief Executive Officer 3.9% 1.3% 10.2% future years.
All employees 5.3% 3.2% 2.90% 2 Any decrease in equivalent ounces produced and or in reserves and resources will result in points being deducted from the total points scored.
3 Net profit is adjusted to exclude currency fluctuation, the effect of year-on-year Implementation of the Remuneration Policy in 2015 and 2016 changes in metals prices and any revaluation of the Silverstream contract.
In 2014, the Remuneration Committee asked Towers Watson to 4 The points awarded for the Stakeholder and Teamwork objectives are subject to some recommend a framework for setting the salaries of Executive Directors discretion.
The following points are awarded depending on the Remuneration and members of the Executive Committee.
Following this review, the Committees assessment of the Teamwork effort: Outstanding 7 points: Satisfactory Remuneration Committee established the peer group of companies for 5 points: Underperformance 0 points.
5 the purposes of validating the remuneration of Executive Directors the In the event of a single fatality, zero points will be awarded for Safety.
For the purposes Peer Group.
The Peer Group consists of 11 resources companies from of calculating fatalities, all fatalities are included, irrespective of whether they are employees or contractors.
Conversely, in the event of zero fatalities during the year, Europe, USA, Canada and Mexico.
The Remuneration Committee has the number of points awarded would be increased to 10 points.
agreed that the Chief Executives salary should be set within a range of 6 In addition to the penalty for a single fatality see note 5, the number of points 25% to 75% of the Peer Group for base salary.
In 2014, Towers Watson awarded will be further reduced by 1% if there are two fatalities, or by 2% if there are advised the Remuneration Committee that the CEOs salary was three fatalities, or by 3% if there are four fatalities etc.
currently slightly ahead of the median level compared to the Peer Group: however once variable pay is taken into account, the CEOs remuneration is below the median level.
133 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Directors Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration 2015 continued Activity during 2015 Remuneration Committee During the year, the Committee met four times.
Its key activities during the year were: Membership Review of the Remuneration Policy, in line with UK regulatory The Remuneration Committee consisted of the following Directors in requirements and, particularly, developments to the UK Corporate the year ended 31 December 2015: Governance Code: Mr Charles Jacobs Chairman, Independent Non-executive Receipt of reports from Towers Watson concerning the Director benchmarking of remuneration for members of the Executive Mr Alberto Baillres, Chairman of the Board Committee and Executive Directors, by reference to the Peer Group Mr Fernando Ruiz, Independent Non-executive Director for the purpose of setting parameters for executive remuneration, particularly salaries for that group: Mr Baillres was non-independent at the time of his appointment Consideration of information about Mexican inflation trends and to the Board and therefore his membership of the Remuneration internal employee salary reviews prior to setting the annual salary Committee does not comply with Code Provision D. 2.1 of the UK increases for the Chief Executive Officer and members of the Corporate Governance Code.
However, the Board believes that Executive Committee: Mr Baillres experience and knowledge of the Group and the Mexican Review of the performance of the Chief Executive Officer and market and his considerable contribution to the Remuneration members of the Executive Committee compared to the KPIs set Committees deliberations justifies his membership of the for 2014 and approval of annual bonus awards for 2014 based on Remuneration Committee.
achievement of KPI targets: Review of KPI targets for members of the Executive Committee for Role 2015, including consideration of the effectiveness of changes to The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for making the targets to reward better performance in safety improvement recommendations to the Board on the Groups Remuneration Policy and exploration efforts set the previous year: and for senior management the Chief Executive Officer and other Other activities, e. g. Committee evaluation, as required by the members of the Executive Committee, and for determining specific Committees terms of reference.
remuneration packages for senior management, including pension rights and any compensation packages, as well as remuneration of Details of the attendance of members at meetings of the Committee the Chairman within agreed terms of reference.
during the year are set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the Advisers to the Remuneration Committee Chairmans remuneration: however the Chairman does not receive Remuneration consultants are engaged by Group companies to any remuneration other than his fee as a Non-executive Director of provide benchmarking information on remuneration but not to the Company.
provide guidance on the structure of remuneration.
All of the consultants that the Group uses are independent of the Company.
No Terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee have been remuneration consultants are directly engaged by the Remuneration approved by the Board and are available on the Companys website Committee itself.
Benchmarking information on pay and employment conditions is supplied annually by Mercer, Hay Group and Data Compensation.
The information provided is used across the Group in determining salaries for all employee grades including senior management.
Whilst the Remuneration Committee takes such information into account when considering executive remuneration, none of these advisers are considered to materially assist the Remuneration Committee in the performance of its duties.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee receives specific reports comparing the remuneration of the members of the Executive Committee to international benchmarks.
Towers Watson have advised the Remuneration Committee in relation to the establishment of the Peer Group and the provision of benchmarking information showing the position of the remuneration, and particularly the salaries, of members of the Executive Committee in relation to the Peer Group.
Towers Watson provide general advice and benchmarking information to the Group concerning executive remuneration and during 2015, the Group paid Towers Watson US$7,326 2014: US$51,713.
The Company Secretary ensures that the Remuneration Committee fulfils its duties under its terms of reference and provides regular updates to the Remuneration Committee on relevant regulatory developments in the UK.
The Group Human Resources Department provides information on Mexican market trends and compensation structures for the broader employee population in the Fresnillo Group.
134 F Fre res sn ni illo llo T To od da ay y S St tr ra at te egi gic c R Re ep por ort t C Cor orp por ora at te e G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S Sta tate tem me en nt ts s Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations AGM Voting on the Remuneration Report The Remuneration Committees approach to executive remuneration has received strong support from shareholders at every Annual General Meeting since the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange in 2008.
More than 99% of independent share votes cast on the advisory vote at each AGM have been in favour of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Payments to departing Directors During the year, the Company has not made any payments to past Directors: neither has it made any payments to Directors for loss of office.
Share ownership guideline The Remuneration Committee has considered whether a share ownership guideline should be set for Executive Directors and has determined that no such guideline should be set at the present time.
As the Company does not operate a share-based incentive scheme and, as indicated earlier in this report, the culture for incentives in the Mexican market does not favour share-based incentives, there would be neither opportunity nor appetite for executives to build a shareholding in the Company.
The Remuneration Committee will keep this policy under review.
Performance reviews As required by the Regulations, the following graph sets out the performance of the Companys share price since its listing compared to the FTSE 100 Index.
This is deemed to be the most appropriate indices for comparative purposes.
Fresnillo Total Return Index FTSE 100 Total Return Index 500 400 300 200 100 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 135 Fresnillo plc Corporate Governance Annual Report 2015 Driving Long-Term Value from Solid Foundations Directors Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration 2015 continued The total remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer for the past five years, in US dollars, has been as follows: Year ending 31 December 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Chief Executive Officer Jaime Lomeln Octavio Alvdrez Total remuneration US$000s 1 Jaime Lomeln 1,698 1,329 Octavio Alvdrez 580 1,116 1,217 1,166 Total 1,698 1,909 1,116 1,217 1,166 Percentage change on previous year 11.1% 12.4% 41.5% 9.1% 4.2% Proportion of maximum bonus paid to CEO in year Jaime Lomeln 33.33% 66.66% Octavio Alvdrez 66.66% 33.33% 33.33% 33.33% 1 This figure only relates to remuneration paid to Jaime Lomeln in his capacity as Chief Executive Officer in 2012.
Relative importance of the spend on pay 2015 2014 % Change 1 Staff Costs US$000s 88,539 91,311 2.98% Distributions to shareholders US$000s 37,582 86,954 56.78% 1 Staff costs are taken without PTU in order to make a like-for-like comparison with the Chief Executive Officer who does not receive PTU.
This Report has been approved by the Board of Directors of Fresnillo plc.
Signed on behalf of the Board.
Charles Jacobs Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 29 February 2016 136
