Directors remuneration report Over the previous two years the capital restructuring which resulted THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Remuneration Committee had from the share placement in 2013, consulted with shareholders on foreign exchange rate movements the companys remuneration policy over the period of the plan, and a proposed new Long Term discontinued and acquired businesses, changes in pensions Incentive Plan, which was approved by shareholders in 2014.
In 2015 and other accounting treatments and provisions for certain legacy the Remuneration Committee has concentrated on ensuring the onerous contracts.
The intention was to ensure that the measurement policies and reward schemes which are in place operate in a way which of the actual and targeted performance was done on a like for like basis.
properly reflects and rewards sustainable value creation.
The effect of some changes was to reduce the target, whilst others We have again looked carefully at increased it.
Where adjustments Mark Elliott what financial measures are most were made for new onerous contract Remuneration Committee Chairman appropriate for the groups strategy provisions, the accounting provision and at those items which should taken in the year in relation to future be included in or excluded from losses would only have effect in I am pleased to present the directors the underlying performance metrics relation to those future years.
used to determine the extent to remuneration report for 2015.
As is The 2015 annual bonus outcome which executives performance has mentioned elsewhere in this annual for the CEO and CFO was 70% achieved the development of the report, 2015 was a year of good and 65% of maximum bonus group for its stakeholders.
progress in implementing the strategy opportunity respectively, which I will retire from the board, reflected a 14% growth in which the new management team and therefore as Remuneration underlying earnings for 2015. developed towards the end of 2013.
Committee chairman, at the Scoring for non-financial metrics conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
I am The year has not been without its applicable to the annual bonus for pleased to say that John Daly has challenges, but the direction of travel the CEO and CFO was 67% and agreed to take over the role.
Under is right and the underlying performance 33% of maximum respectively Johns leadership, the committee with the maximum contributing plans to review the remuneration of the business is reflected in the 15% of maximum bonus potential policy during 2016 since that policy remuneration outcomes which are in each case.
Grahame Gibson did will require shareholder approval in described in this section of the report.
not have non-financial objectives 2017 and, as part of that review, the given his change in role and committee will consider whether subsequent retirement.
Full details the remuneration arrangements of the bonus outcomes for each of for the group can be improved the executive directors are set out or simplified.
For any proposed on pages 84 and 85. significant changes to the policy, the committee will consult with major Annual bonus due to the CEO and shareholders prior to the 2017 AGM.
CFO in excess of 50% of maximum was deferred for a period of three How performance is reflected years and paid in G4S shares under in remuneration outcomes the plan rules.
In addition, the CEO The committee looked carefully and CFO volunteered to translate at the underlying performance of immediately the entire cash element the on-going business of the group net of tax of their annual bonus in determining the appropriate payments into G4S shares which measures of performance in the will contribute towards their minimum year and over the longer period shareholding requirements.
As a applicable to the performance share result of these awards they have plan period which ended in 2015. both increased considerably their outright shareholdings as well as In order to properly reflect that their interests in deferred shares.
underlying performance, the committee has taken account of We have reviewed whether the changes to the business over the adjustments to prior years results relevant measurement period and would have resulted in any change made adjustments where appropriate to the bonus calculation for existing to enable an equivalent comparison.
or former executive directors and So, for example, the performance were satisfied that no claw-back against which the earnings in 2015 is applicable as a result, since the was measured was adjusted to take relevant performance measures into account the effects of the would still have been satisfied.
74 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Governance In relation to the 2013 performance of the board.
The committee Main activities of the Remuneration share plan which vests this year, the conducted a review in 2015 Committee during the year % measurement of EPS performance and concluded that no increase was normalised to allow for a should be made, but confirmed proper like for like comparison its intention to continue to ensure between the business as it was in that the position was rewarded 2012 the baseline year and the appropriately and that the business as it was at the time of chairmans fee should continue vesting as described above.
The to be reviewed regularly.
half of the award which was measured against total shareholder How we operate our returns did not earn any award and annual bonus plan overall 26.5% of the total award For 2015, the committee decided vested based on performance over to operate the annual bonus with the three year period from 2013 to financial measures of performance 2015.
The awards to past directors of underlying group earnings and Reporting & Governance 26% have been subject to review of the underlying group operating cash Annual bonus 34% applicable legal and performance flow before capex and the same criteria, following which it was Executives base pay 6% measures will be applied in 2016. concluded that the pro-rated Chairmans fee 6% The non-financial measures of awards were payable.
performance are aligned with the Below board level remuneration 12% groups strategic objectives.
The LTIP 16% How we implemented proportion of maximum bonus our remuneration policy attributable to non-financial When operating the policy, the measures was set at 15% for both Consulting with our shareholders committee takes account of the the CEO and CFO in 2015, but I will be available to answer questions overall approach and structure of for 2016, the CFOs non-financial and listen to the views of our employee reward across the group measure will contribute up to 30% shareholders at the forthcoming and pay decisions for the wider of maximum bonus opportunity, Annual General Meeting.
workforce as well as the results of with a consequent decrease in the appropriate benchmarking data.
It proportion of the annual bonus Retirements is the committees intention that that will depend on group financial In October 2014 it was announced pay should reflect the responsibility performance.
The committee that Grahame Gibson would retire attached to the role fulfilled, individual concluded that it was appropriate from the board at the companys performance and other relevant to bring the arrangements for the Annual General Meeting in 2015. market information.
The remuneration CFO into line with those applicable MrGibson therefore stood down available must allow the group to to other senior functional executives from the board on 4 June 2015, but attract, retain and motivate directors given the significant element of his continued to be paid in accordance and other senior executives who role which will be involved with with the terms of his employment will lead the group in the long-term strategic projects which are not contract until he retired on 20 interest of its stakeholders.
Mr Gibson remained eligible for annual bonus for 2015 Base salary reviews Our long-term incentive plan as well as PSP and LTIP awards in As reported last year, the CEOs The long-term incentive plan which he participated, in each case and CFOs salaries were increased introduced in 2014 had pro-rated to his retirement date.
by 3% with effect from 1 January overwhelming support from As reported previously, Trevor 2015 and Grahame Gibsons base shareholders and will continue Dighton stepped down from the pay for 2015 remained unchanged.
to operate unchanged in 2016. board at the 2013 Annual General For 2016, following a review, Meeting and retired from the UK Code compliance the CEOs base pay has been company on 30 July 2014.
MrDighton The committee had in place malus increased by 1% and that for remained eligible to receive an and clawback before their introduction the CFO remains unchanged.
award under the 2013 PSP, pro-rated became a feature of the revised UK This review took account of for the period of his employment to Corporate Governance Code.
These market salary levels as well as 30 July 2014.
Details of the award arrangements are explained on page salary increases elsewhere in the which vested are set outon page 87.
The committee is also conscious group.
The increase awarded to of the Codes requirement that Mark Seligman stepped down from the CEO was somewhat lower executive directors remuneration the Remuneration Committee when than the average percentage should be designed to promote the he retired from the board at the AGM increase applicable to group long-term success of the company in 2015 and, as mentioned above, I employees based in the UK.
and that performance-related elements will retire from the board and leave MrGibson retired in October 2015. of remuneration should be transparent, the Remuneration Committee at the The committee is also responsible stretching and applied rigorously.
John for setting the fees for the chairman Daly will succeed me as chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 75 Directors remuneration report continued The committees performance Voting on remuneration The committees formal The annual report on remuneration performance review carried out will be put to an advisory vote at at the end of 2015 concluded that this years Annual General Meeting, the committee was effective and and we look forward to receiving its performance was rated highly shareholders support once again overall.
Suggestions were made this year.
for improving the committees performance further and as a consequence the committee will review and, with the engagement Mark Elliott of the executive directors, seek Remuneration Committee to simplify the groups incentive Chairman arrangements for its most senior employees whilst supporting the 24 March 2016 recruitment and retention of top class talent and measuring the linkage between value creation and incentivisation.
Committee membership and attendance Meetings attended Fixed pay Scheduled Unscheduled Mark Elliott Chairman 3 of 3 1 of 1 base pay John Daly 2 of 2 retirement benefits Winnie Fok 3 of 3 1 of 1 other benefits Mark Seligman 1 of 1 1 of 1 Short-term incentives Clare Spottiswoode 3 of 3 1 of 1 annual bonus plan one year Mark Seligman retired from, and John Daly was appointed to, the board and the Long-term incentives committee in June 2015 Long term incentive plan three years ensuring that failure is not rewarded Responsibilities and that the duty to mitigate loss The Remuneration Committee is recognised.
is responsible for all elements of the remuneration of the executive The committee approves the design directors, other members of the and determines the targets and group executive committee and formulae for performance-related the chairman of the board.
pay schemes operated by the company.
It approves the eligibility of executive It also agrees with the board the framework and policy for the directors and other group executive committee members for annual remuneration of other senior managers of the group and reviews bonuses and benefits under long term incentive plans and assesses and recommends to the board the remuneration of the company secretary.
performance against the objectives of those plans.
In determining remuneration policy, The committees terms of reference the committee takes into account are available on the companys a variety of legal and regulatory website at www.
requirements, and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Our remuneration approach We seek to attract and retain the The committee also determines best people whilst ensuring that the policy on the duration, notice period remuneration policy and practice and termination payments under drive behaviours that are in the the contracts with the executive long-term interests of the company directors, with a view to recognising and its shareholders.
service to the company whilst 76 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Remuneration Policy The companys remuneration policy for directors was set out in full in the companys 2013 Annual Report and Accounts on pages 66 to 72 and can also be found on the companys website.
It was approved by shareholders at the companys Annual General Meeting held on 5 June 2014 with 98.38% of all votes cast in favour.
The policy refers to a long term incentive plan which was also approved at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, with 96.88% of all votes cast in favour.
The remuneration policy came into effect on 6 June 2014 and will continue to apply for up to three financial years unless a new or revised policy is approved by shareholders in the meantime.
For convenience a summary of some of the main features of the policy is set out on pages 77 to 82 below.
Directors remuneration policy summary Remuneration policy for executive directors BASE PAY Purpose and link to strategy The final salary decision may also following a significant change be influenced by role, experience, to the nature or scale of the Base pay is set at competitive levels individual and company performance, business: or in order to recruit and retain high internal relativities and increases for calibre executives with the skills following a significant change to group employees.
required in order to manage a the nature or scope of the role: or company of the size and global for a new appointment, where the Maximum opportunity footprint of G4S.
base pay may initially be set below Actual base pay for each executive the market level and increased The level of pay will reflect director is disclosed each year in over time, as experience develops a number of factors including the Directors remuneration report.
and with reference to the individual experience, expertise individuals performance in In determining salary increases, the and role.
the first few years in the role.
committee considers market salary levels including those of appropriate Operation Where exceptional increases are comparator companies.
Reviewed annually and fixed for made we will fully disclose and explain 12 months commencing 1 January.
Ordinarily, annual salary increases the rationale for such increases.
Interim salary reviews may be would be no more than the average carried out following significant annual increase across the group.
Performance measures changes in role, scope or responsibility However, in exceptional circumstances None, although individual or at any other time at the a higher level of increase may be performance may have a bearing committees discretion.
awarded, for example: on salary increases.
BENEFITS Reasonable business expenses other benefits granted at the Purpose and link to strategy in line with G4S expenses policy discretion of the committee up As with base salary, a suitable e. g. travel, accommodation and to 3% of base pay per annum range of benefits is made available subsistence will be reimbursed per director in order to recruit and retain high and in some instances the associated calibre executives.
reasonable business expenses tax will be borne by the company.
which are reimbursed are not Operation subject to a maximum, since these Executives are entitled to a number Maximum opportunity are not a benefit to the director.
maximum benefits per director of benefits comprising paid holiday, Any allowance in relation to healthcare for themselves and their per annum: relocation will provide for the family and life insurance of up to holidays 30 days reimbursement of reasonable 4 times base salary, car allowance, car allowance 20,000 costs incurred.
business related transport, limited business related local transport financial advice from time to time 40,000 and expatriate benefits where Performance measures relevant.
A relocation allowance for financial advice, expatriate None.
reflecting reasonable costs actually benefits and relocation expenses, incurred will be paid.
the expense will reflect the cost of the provision of benefits from Other benefits may be granted time to time but will be kept at the discretion of the under review by the committee Remuneration Committee.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 77 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy summary continued Remuneration policy for executive directors ANNUAL BONUS Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity As a result of the number of factors taken into account in determining Rewards the achievement of annual Maximum opportunity of 150% financial and strategic business targets of base pay per annum for the bonus, there is no minimum pay-out level.
and delivery of personal objectives.
Deferred element encourages 125% of base pay per annum For illustrative purposes, in the event that only threshold has been long-term shareholding and for any other executive director.
achieved, pay-out would be 35% of maximum, rising to full pay-out Performance measures should achievement of a stretch Operation Typically, executive directors bonus performance level be achieved for Awarded annually based on measures are weighted so that: all measures assuming the nonperformance in the year.
Targets are between 70% and 85% of the financial performance measures set annually and relate to the group bonus is based on achievement were satisfied.
and or the business managed by of challenging financial performance the executive.
The deferred element of the bonus measures e. g. profit before tax is not subject to any further Bonus outcome is determined by and amortisation, organic growth, performance measures but is subject the committee after the year end, cash-flow measures, etc.
with to clawback in certain circumstances.
based on annual performance each measure operating The non-deferred part of the bonus, against targets.
independently of the others: and which is settled in cash, is also the remainder is linked to Bonuses are paid in cash, but subject to clawback see separate personal and or non-financial executives are required to defer any section below on page 80. measures, which are strategic bonus payable in excess of 50% of or operational in nature.
their maximum bonus entitlement into shares.
Deferral is for a Each year, the committee may use its minimum period of three years.
discretion to vary the exact number Dividends or equivalents accrue of measures, as well as their relative during the deferral period on weightings, and this will be disclosed deferred shares.
in the annual remuneration report.
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN The award is settled by the transfer Performance will be measured Purpose and link to strategy Incentivises executives to achieve of market-purchased shares to the based on a combination of earnings executive directors.
per share growth, total shareholder the companys long-term financial goals, as well as focus on value return against a comparator group All the released shares after tax and average operating cash flow.
creation, whilst aligning the must be retained until the minimum interests of executives with For awards made in 2014, these shareholder requirement is met.
were in the proportion of 40%, 30% those of shareholders.
Currently, the minimum shareholding and 30% respectively.
However, the requirement is 200% of base salary committee retains the flexibility Operation for the CEO and 150% for the to amend these proportions, Executive directors are granted other executive directors.
provided that no single measure awards on an annual basis, which will be a significantly greater vest over a period of at least three Maximum opportunity proportion than the others.
years subject to continued service Maximum opportunity of 250% of and the achievement of a number At threshold, 25% of the relevant base pay per annum for the CEO.
This increases on a Maximum opportunity of 200% straight-line basis up to 100% for The Remuneration Committee of base pay per annum for other performance in line with maximum.
reviews the quantum of awards executive directors.
Targets are set out on page 89. to be made to each executive each year to ensure that they Awards are subject to clawback in Performance measures remain appropriate.
certain circumstances see below Awards vest based on performance on page 80.
Dividends or equivalents accrue over a period of at least three during the vesting period on financial years commencing with awards that vest.
the financial year in which the award is made.
78 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Governance RETIREMENT BENEFITS provide a cash allowance in lieu intended to be broadly market Purpose and link to strategy As with base salary and other of a contribution into such plan.
benefits, making available a suitable The current executive directors retirement benefits package aids the Maximum opportunity receive cash allowances.
The CEO Maximum opportunity of up to 25% recruitment and retention of high receives 25% of base pay as a cash calibre executives, allowing such of base pay for the CEO and 20% for allowance: the CFO receives 20% the other executive directors save executives to provide for their of base pay and the other executive retirement.
that 40% of base pay per annum director received 40% of base pay was payable to Grahame Gibson.
reflecting his historic participation Operation in a defined benefits plan which Performance measures G4S operates a defined contribution has been closed.
group-wide personal pension plan in None.
The level of award is kept under the UK in which executives may participate.
Alternatively, G4S may review by the committee and is Remuneration policy for non-executive directors CHAIRMANS FEE annually by the committee.
The with other increases for similar Purpose annual fee is an all-inclusive roles in other companies.
To attract and retain a high calibre consolidated amount.
The committee chairman by offering a market Fees payable to the chairman retains the discretion to review the competitive fee, which also reflects and other non-executive directors chairmans fees at any other time if the responsibilities and time in aggregate per annum shall not appropriate.
The chairmans fees are commitment.
There are no exceed the maximum specified in reviewed against other companies performance-related elements.
the companys articles of association of a similar size.
Operation Maximum opportunity The chairmans fee is disclosed each Ordinarily, any increase of the year in the Directors remuneration chairmans fee would be in line report.
The fees are reviewed NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FEES EXCLUDING THE CHAIRMAN Purpose composition build-up consisting of: expected to participate in one or more board committees.
All the To attract and retain high calibre a base fee non-executive directors NEDs fees are reviewed against other an additional fee for chairing companies of a similar size.
by offering market competitive a committee fees which should reflect the Maximum opportunity responsibilities and time an additional fee for the role commitment.
There are no of senior independent director.
Ordinarily, any increase of the NEDs fees would be in line with performance-related elements.
The NED component fees are other increases for similar roles reviewed annually by the executive in other companies.
The board retains the NED fees including any additional discretion to review the NED fees Fees payable to non-executive fee for any additional role listed at other times, as appropriate, to directors including the chairman below are disclosed each year in reflect any changes in responsibilities in aggregate per annum shall not the Directors remuneration report.
exceed the maximum specified in the companys articles of With the exception of the chairman, The basic fee covers committee association for the relevant year.
the fees for NEDs are structured by membership and each NED is BENEFITS Purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Benefits may be provided from Reasonable business expenses Reasonable business expenses which time to time in connection with in line with G4S expenses policy are reimbursed are not subject to the chairman and other NEDs e. g. travel, accommodation and a maximum, since these are not a performing their roles, such as subsistence will be reimbursed and benefit to the director.
business travel, subsistence and in some instances the associated tax Benefits and expenses will reflect entertainment, accommodation will be borne by the company.
the actual cost of provision.
and professional fees for tax and social security compliance, and other ancillary benefits.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 79 Directors remuneration report continued Notes to the directors Legacy plans The committee The non-executive directors do not reserves the right to make any participate in any incentive schemes remuneration policy summary remuneration payments and nor do they receive any benefits 1.
Performance measures payments for loss of office other than those referred to in Annual Bonus Plan The actual notwithstanding that they are not the above table.
performance measures and targets in line with the policy summarised are set by the Remuneration above where the terms of the 2.
Malus and claw-back mechanisms Committee at the beginning of each payment were agreed i before Since 2010, any cash and or shares year.
The performance measures the policy came into effect or awarded under the annual bonus used for our annual bonus plan have ii at a time when the relevant plans and the previous Performance been selected to reflect the groups individual was not a director of the Share Plan may be subject to key performance indicators.
The company and, in the opinion of the clawback.
The Long Term Incentive committee aims to ensure that the committee, the payment was not Plan and the annual bonus plan may measures appropriately encourage in consideration for the individual be subject to malus or clawback the executive directors to focus becoming a director of the company.
from the executive director on the companys strategic annual concerned if the Remuneration For these purposes, payments may priorities, whilst the targets are Committee so determines and, in include the committee satisfying set to be stretching but achievable.
the case of misstatement of accounts, awards of variable remuneration.
where the Audit Committee concurs.
The aim is to strike an appropriate In cases where all or part of the The time period in which the balance between incentivising annual variable remuneration award was clawback can be operated depends financial and strategic business targets, in the form of shares, the payment on the reason for the overpayment and each executive directors key terms are those agreed at the time as set out in the table below.
role-specific objectives for the year.
The amount to be clawed back Long Term Incentive Plan In In particular, awards made under the directly from the executive director choosing the performance measures previous Performance Share Plan will be the overpaid amount, but the for the Long Term Incentive Plan, the will continue to vest in accordance Remuneration Committee retains committee aimed to find a balance with the rules of that plan and the discretion to claw back the net of measures which reflect the to the extent that the relevant i. e. post-tax amount of the award companys long-term financial goals performance tests are met.
received by the executive director.
as well as incentivise executives Details of the vesting of the awards to create sustainable, long-term will be published in the annual value for shareholders.
Annual Bonus Plan including deferred Malus and claw-back elements LTIPs 2014 Plan PSP previous Current LTIP Material misstatement of up to 2 years after up to 2 years after vesting up to 2 years after vesting group financial accounts the payment of the except where due to cash element fraud or reckless behaviour when it shall be 6 years after vesting Misconduct up to 6 years after up to 6 years after vesting the payment of the cash element Fraud unlimited unlimited 80 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Principles and approach to reflecting the value, nature, one external non-executive time horizons and performance appointment and retain any recruitment and internal measures attached.
In such fees paid directly to him for promotion of directors circumstances, the company the appointment, although he When hiring a new executive will disclose a full explanation does not currently hold such director, or promoting to the board of the detail and rationale for an appointment.
from within the group, the committee such one-off awards.
will offer a package that is sufficient Mitigation obligations on to retain and motivate and, if In certain circumstances, it may be termination payments are explicitly relevant, attract the right talent necessary to buy out long notice included in the executive directors whilst at all times aiming to pay no periods of previous employment.
Notice payments for more than is necessary.
Ordinarily, Ashley Almanza are payable With regard to internal remuneration for a new executive monthly and those for Himanshu promotions, any commitments director will be in line with the Raja are payable in two sixmade before promotion and policy set out in the table summarised monthly instalments, in advance.
unconnected with the individuals above.
However, discretion may promotion may continue to be Non-executive directors letters be required for exceptional honoured even if they would of appointment: circumstances such as dealing not otherwise be consistent with remuneration relinquished with the policy prevailing when Appointment is subject to in a previous job.
the provisions of the articles of association of the company, The maximum level of on-going For external and internal as amended from time to variable pay that may be awarded appointments, the Remuneration time regarding appointment, to new executive directors on Committee may agree that retirement, fees, expenses, recruitment or on promotion to the the company will meet certain disqualification and removal board shall be limited to 400% of relocation expenses including legal of directors.
base salary as set out in the policy fees, as set out in the policy table.
table summarised above calculated All continuing non-executive In determining the approach at the date of grant, excluding any directors are required to stand for all relevant elements, the buy-out awards see below.
for re-election by the shareholders Remuneration Committee will Remuneration and any buy-out at least once every three years, consider a number of factors, arrangements will be announced although they have agreed to including but not limited to as far as possible at the time a new submit themselves for re-election external market practice, current executive director or chairman is annually in accordance with the arrangements for existing appointed, or in the following UK Corporate Governance Code.
executive directors and other Directors remuneration report.
Initial period of appointment is two years.
When determining the remuneration of a newly All reasonably incurred Service contracts appointed executive director, expenses will be met.
Shareholders are entitled to inspect the Remuneration Committee a copy of executive directors Fees are normally will apply the following principles: service contracts at the companys reviewed annually.
head office and at the AGM.
The on-going remuneration package to be designed in Executive directors service contracts accordance with the policy all have the following features: table summarised above.
Contracts are drafted in line New executive directors will with best practice at the time participate in the annual bonus the executive directors scheme and long term incentive were appointed.
plan on the same basis as existing Terminable on 12 months notice executive directors.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to grant one-off Specific provisions for Ashley cash or share-based awards to Almanza and Himanshu Rajas executive directors where it contracts dated 2013 include: determines that such an award Following board approval, Ashley is necessary to secure the Almanza is allowed to hold recruitment of that executive two external non-executive director and where it is in the appointments and retain the fees best interests of the company paid to him for the appointments.
Such awards would only He is currently a non-executive be made as compensation for director of Noble Corporation remuneration relinquished under and Schroders plc, but Mr Almanza a previous employment i. e. will step down from the board of buy-out arrangements and would Schroders plc on 28 April 2016. be intended to mirror forfeited Himanshu Raja is allowed to hold awards as far as possible by Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 81 Directors remuneration report continued Loss of office payment contract does provide for such to finalise any settlement agreement, accrual, although any payment but in exercising such discretion the The duration of the notice period in the executive directors contracts would depend on the discretion Remuneration Committee would of the Remuneration Committee.
remain mindful to ensure that there is 12 months.
was no reward for failure.
The value of the termination The Remuneration Committee would consider the application payment would cover the balance The fees for outplacement of any salary and associated benefits services and reasonable legal of mitigation obligations in relation to any termination payments.
payments due to be paid for the fees in connection with advice remaining notice period, the value on a settlement agreement may The contracts do not provide for of which will be determined by be met by the company.
the payment of a guaranteed bonus the Remuneration Committee.
The The table below illustrates how in the event of termination.
Ashley Remuneration Committee would Almanza will not be eligible for each component of pay would also retain the discretion to make bonus accrual during any period be calculated under different appropriate payments necessary of garden leave.
Himanshu Rajas circumstances: Automatic good leaver Treatment for Treatment for Plan categories good leavers other leavers Annual bonus All leavers other than voluntary Executive directors may receive a bonus Bonus cash element resignation and summary dismissal.
to be paid on the normal payment date opportunity and in accordance with the agreed will lapse.
performance measures but reduced pro-rata to reflect the time employed.
Annual bonus - Injury, disability or ill health Deferred shares may be released if the Deferred deferred share executive director ceases employment share awards - Redundancy element prior to the third anniversary as a result will lapse.
- Retirement of one of the good leaver reasons.
- Death - Termination without cause - Change of control or sale of employing company or business - Any other circumstances at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee Performance - Injury, disability or ill health Awards will vest on the relevant Awards Share Plan vesting date on a time-apportioned will lapse.
- Redundancy previous basis, unless the Remuneration - Retirement Committee determines otherwise, - Death and subject to the achievement of the performance measures.
- Change of control or sale of employing company or business - Any other circumstances, provided that the Remuneration Committee considers there are exceptional circumstances Long Term - Injury, disability or ill health Awards will vest on the relevant vesting Awards Incentive Plan date on a time-apportioned basis, unless will lapse.
- redundancy current the Remuneration Committee determines - Retirement otherwise, and subject to the achievement - Death of performance measures at the relevant vesting date.
- Change of control or sale of employing company or business The vesting date for such awards will normally be the original vesting date, - Any other circumstances unless otherwise determined by the at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Remuneration Committee As directors may leave employment for a wide range of reasons, the Remuneration Committee retains discretion to approve payments where the reason for leaving does not fall precisely within the prescribed good leaver category.
The committee will take account of the directors performance in office and the circumstances of their exit.
The committee will seek to balance the interests of shareholders, the departing director and the remaining directors.
Any awards subject to performance conditions would be assessed at the end of the relevant period and be subject to time apportionment.
82 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Governance ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION AUDITED INFORMATION Executive directors The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for the 2015 financial year for each executive director, together with the comparative figures for 2014.
Aggregate executive directors emoluments are shown in the final column of the table.
Grahame Gibson ceased to be a director on 4 June 2015, but continued to be employed by the group until 20 October 2015.
The 2015 sums for base pay, benefits, annual bonus and pension-related benefitsshown in the table are the payments he received in respect of his qualifying service to 4 June 2015.
Payments made in relation to the period thereafter are set out on page 87.
Thesum shown in the table in relation to the PSP payment for 2015is however the full amount paid to Mr Gibson since the performance period over which entitlement was measured ran from 2013 to 2015 and dividing the sum between the period before and after his retirement from the board is not meaningful.
Mr Gibsons 2015 PSP entitlement was pro-rated to 20 October 2015.
Benefits include car allowance, business-related travel, healthcare, disability and life assurance.
Benefit values include the cost of certain travel, overnight accommodation, meals and memberships which HMRC treats as a taxable benefit and on which the company has paid, or will in due course pay, tax as it does not consider such expenses to be benefits in the ordinary sense.
The grossed-up amounts for 2015 are 70,777 for Ashley Almanza, 47,225 for Himanshu Raja and 7,716 for Grahame Gibson.
Benefit values also include local travel costs of 16,668 and 37,504 for Ashley Almanza and Himanshu Raja respectively who bear the tax themselves, and other business costs which HMRC deems to be benefits.
In 2015 for Grahame Gibson, the benefits value includes a total value of 32,498 relating to flights for him and his family between the UK and US.
The 2014 benefits values also include taxes met by the company in respect of certain expenses which were incurred in the prior year.
Part of Mr Gibsons salary was paid in sterling and part in US$.
The US$ element has been converted into sterling for the purposes of reporting, at the exchange rates prevailing in each month in which Grahame Gibson was paid.
The average exchange rate during the period was $1.5326 $1.65055 in 2014.
Any bonus due above 50% of the individuals maximum bonus entitlement is awarded as deferred shares which vest after a period of three years, apart from Grahame Gibsons 2015 annual bonus which was paid entirely in cash due to his retirement.
In addition, for 2015, Ashley Almanza received 115,000 from Schroders plc and a fee of $82,500 as well as shares valued at $56,531 from Noble Corporation from his non-executive directorships referred to on page 81 and retained such remuneration.
Mr Almanza received an additional PSP award in May 2013 upon becoming CEO, the EPS performance period for which runs to 31 December 2015.
The TSR performance however will not be measured until shortly before the vesting date in May 2016 and therefore the 2015 PSP figure in the table above does not include any sums which may be due in respect of the May 2013 award.
Non-executive directors The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for the 2015 financial year for each non-executive director, together with the comparative figures for 2014.
Aggregate non-executive directors emoluments are shown in the last column of the table.
Mark Seligman stepped down as chair of the Audit Committee on 5 June 2014 and retired as a non-executive director on 4 June 2015.
Tim Weller was appointed as Chair of the Audit committee on 6 June 2014.
John Daly was appointed as a non-executive director on 5 June 2015.
Benefit values include the cost of overnight accommodation, travel and meals which HMRC treats as a taxable benefit and on which the company has paid, or will in due coursepay, tax as it does not consider such expenses to be benefits in the ordinary sense.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 83 Directors remuneration report continued Further notes to the single expenditure.
On-target performance Almanza and Himanshu Raja and would result in a payment of 60% of 125% of base pay for Grahame total figure of remuneration maximum entitlement, with 100% Gibson.
Bonuses are paid in cash tables audited information only being earned in the event of up to 50% of maximum entitlement.
2015 Annual bonus achievement of a stretch performance Where the bonus amount is in During the financial year ending significantly in excess of budget.
excess of 50% of the maximum 31 December 2015, the performance bonus potential, the amount which The remaining 15% of the bonus for measures relating to the annual exceeds 50% will be delivered in Messrs Almanza and Raja was linked bonus scheme rules were consistent the form of a deferred share award to objectives relating to non-financial with the remuneration policy, with which vests after a period of performance, which consist of 85% of the bonus for both Ashley three years.
personal objectives or relate to the Almanza and Himanshu Raja and organisation and which are linked The tables below show how pay 100% of the bonus for Grahame to specific elements of the groups was linked to performance in 2015 Gibson being based on achievement strategy for which the directors and set out details of each of the of challenging financial performance concerned had responsibility.
financial measures, the targets in measures.
The financial performance respect of these measures and measures were based on budgeted The maximum bonus potential has the actual outcomes: group earnings and budgeted group remained unchanged from 2014. operating cash flow before capital It is 150% of base pay for Ashley Ashley Almanza Non-financial objectives were % of maximum Score Financial measures Targets Achievement bonus achieved set in the following areas: Group Earnings 195m 196m 70% 45% Health & safety Group OCF 448m 477m 15% 15% Strategy & execution Total 85% 60% People & culture Organisation 15% of maximum bonus potential was allocated to non-financial measures Governance and the level of achievement was assessed at 10%.
Mr Almanza performed well in delivering the first phase of the strategy, strengthening the leadership team and developing a more efficient organisation.
Safety remains an area where management has identified the need for performance improvement across the organisation.
Himanshu Raja Non-financial objectives were set % of maximum Score Financial measures Targets Achievement bonus achieved in the following areas: Group Earnings 195m 196m 70% 45% People, capability building, values Group OCF 448m 477m 15% 15% and organisation Total 85% 60% Governance & control Operational Excellence 15% of maximum bonus potential was allocated to non-financial measures Cost Leadership initiatives and the level of achievement was assessed at 5%.
Mr Raja met his cost leadership and operational excellence objectives in relation to procurement and the first phase of IT strategy development.
Further focus is required on cost leadership within the finance organisation and cash management and controls.
Grahame Gibson % of maximum Score Mr Gibsons bonus entitlement was Financial measures Targets Achievement bonus achieved pro-rated over the period in 2015 Group Earnings 195m 196m 80% 51% during which he was employed, i. e. Group OCF 448m 477m 20% 20% to 20 October 2015.
Total 100% 71% The table below sets out the annual bonus awards which were made to executive directors in respect of the financial year ending 31 December 2015 based on the performance described above: Mr Gibsons bonus shown here 2015 annual 2015 annual bonus is the full payment made, including 2015 annual bonus deferred for the period after he stood down bonus % of salary % of salary from the board.
Ashley Almanza 956,670 104% 29% Himanshu Raja 623,538 97% 22% Grahame Gibson 476,327 86% 0% 84 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Any bonus due above 50% of the individuals maximum bonus entitlement is awarded as deferred shares which vest after a period of three years.
Additionally, Messrs Almanza and Raja immediately translated the cash element of their bonus after tax into G4S shares.
Deferred Cash shares Ashley Almanza 687,525 269,145 Himanshu Raja 482,813 140,725 Grahame Gibson 476,327 0 Performance Share Plan PSP The PSP values shown in the 2015 and 2014 columns of the single figure table relate to the PSP awards made in March 2013 and March 2012 for the three year performance periods ending on 31 December 2015 and 31 December 2014 respectively.
The performance measures and targets of these PSP awards are set out below: Half of each award 2012 and 2013 Half of each award 2012 and 2013 Average annual growth in EPS period ending on Ranking against the bespoke 31 December in the Proportion of comparator group by Proportion of third year allocation vesting reference to TSR allocation vesting Less than global Nil Below median Nil CPI 4% pa Global CPI 4% pa 25% Median 25% 11% over 3 years Global CPI 4 Pro-rata between Between median Pro-rata between to 11% pa 25% and 100% and upper quartile 25% and 100% Greater than global CPI 100% Upper quartile 100% 11% pa 33% over 3 years The table below illustrates the companys performance The table below illustrates the companys performance against the 2012 PSP award targets and the resulting against the 2013 PSP award targets and the resulting payout as shown in the 2014 column of the single payout as shown in the 2015 column of the single figure table: figure table: Vesting Vesting Performance % of element Performance % of element Average annual Decrease of 0% Average annual Increaseof 53% growth in EPS 7.2% pa growth in EPS 8.1% pa Relative TSR Ranked between 0% Relative TSR Ranked between 0% 14th and 15th 14th and 15th in in peer group peer group Total vesting 0% of Total vesting 26.5% of maximum maximum Total pension entitlements retirement on 20 October 2015.
The earliest date when entitlement audited information His total accrued pension in the to a pension arises without consent Neither Ashley Almanza nor defined benefits scheme at and without actuarial reduction is Himanshu Raja is a member of 31 December 2015 was nil age 60 the normal retirement date.
the groups pension plan, which 24,200 at 31 December 2014.
On 3 March 2015, Grahame Gibson is a defined contribution group In 2011, Grahame Gibson transferred his remaining and residual personal pension plan available transferred the majority of his pension benefits in an amount of to all UK employees.
Instead they pension benefits to a private pension 363,188 to a private pension receive cash allowances of 25% and arrangement leaving a residual pension arrangement.
The transfer value 20% of their base pay, respectively.
Grahame was calculated using the same Grahame Gibson ceased accruing Gibson has passed normal retirement actuarial basis as that used by the pensions under the companys date which was 17 January 2013 and trustees of the pension scheme defined benefit scheme on 6 April the accrued pension set out above for all members.
A salary supplement in lieu of includes the application of a late pension of 40% of basic salary was retirement factor.
paid from then on until his Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 85 Directors remuneration report continued SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR AUDITED INFORMATION Awards under the LTIP approved by the shareholders at the companys AGM in June 2014 were made in March 2015 consistent with the companys normal grant policy.
Details of the awards made to the executive directors are summarised in the table below and further details are given in the table on directors shareholdings and interests below: EPS, TSR and AOCF % vesting at Director Award type Number of shares Face value Performance condition Performance period threshold Ashley Conditional 788,627 2,291,750 40% EPS 30% TSR 01 01 2015 25% Almanza shares 30% AOCF 31 12 2017 Grahame Conditional 425,508 1,236,527 40% EPS 30% TSR 01 01 2015 25% Gibson shares 30% AOCF 31 12 2017 Himanshu Conditional 443,048 1,287,500 40% EPS 30% TSR 01 01 2015 25% Raja shares 30% AOCF 31 12 2017 Notes: 1.
The face value calculation was based on a share price of 2.906 which represents the average closing share price during the three business days following the announcement of the companys 2014 financial results.
Further details on performance conditions are set out in the table below.
Performance measures for long term incentives awarded in 2015 40% of each award granted 30% of each award granted 30% of each award granted Average annual Ranking against growth in EPS the bespoke period ending on Proportion comparator Proportion Average Proportion 31 December of allocation group by of allocation operating of allocation in the third year vesting reference to TSR vesting cash flow vesting Less than 5% pa Nil Below Nil 105% Nil median 5% pa 15% 25% Median 25% 105% 25% over 3 years 5 to 12% pa Pro-rata Between Pro-rata Between Pro-rata between 25% median and between 105% and between 25% and 100% upper quartile 25% and 100% 125% and 100% Greater than 100% Upper 100% 125% 100% 12% pa 36% quartile over 3 years The bespoke comparator group to satisfy LTIP awards.
Participants in been achieved by reference to the consists of companies constituent the LTIP will receive a further share groups audited accounts which of the FTSE 100 index corrected award with a value equivalent to the provide an accessible and objective to exclude financial institutions and dividends which would have been measure of the groups earnings companies in the extractive sector paid in respect of LTIP awards, per share.
The committee may and include competitor companies vesting at the end of the alter the terms of the EPS measure which are outside that index.
if it feels that it is no longer a fair measure and is no longer The companys current policy is The company calculates whether incentivising.
TSR ranking will to use market purchased shares the EPS performance targets have be verified externally.
Statement of directors shareholding and share interest audited information The executive directors are required to build up a minimum shareholding in G4S, as explained in the remuneration policy.
Shares are valued for these purposes at the year-end price, which was 225.50p per share at 31 December 2015.
Further shares Number of Total shares Share Shareholding acquired or Deferred under LTIP ownership requirements deferred shares held as awards subject requirements achieved at since 2015 2014 at 31 12 15 to performance % of salary 31 12 15 31 12 15 Ashley Almanza 150,000 100,000 306,149 2,528,364 200% 37% 405,218 Himanshu Raja 100,000 50,000 195,859 1,331,236 150% 36% 267,063 Grahame Gibson 550,000 657,553 0 1,246,734 n a n a n a Notes: 1.
Deferred share awards and PSP or LTIP awards do not include the further shares with a value equivalent to the dividends which are paid in respect of shares received.
The number of shares is gross and will be subject to tax when they are released.
In addition to the above, each of the directors has a deemed interest in the total number of shares held by the companys employee benefit trust.
As at 31 December 2015, the trustees of the employee benefit trust held 6,320,144 shares 2014 6,408,450.
Includes any shares owned by connected persons.
There were no vested but unexercised interests.
Since 31 December 2015 Mr Almanza acquired 191,935 shares outright and 146,410 deferred shares on 16 March 2016 and a further 66,873 shares on 22 March 2016 upon the vesting of the 2013 PSP and Mr Raja acquired 134,786 shares outright and 76,552 deferred shares on 16 March 2016 and a further 55,725 shares on 22 March 2016 upon the vesting of the 2013 PSP.
86 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Governance The shareholdings for non-executive directors are shown below.
John Daly n a There are no requirements for Mark Elliott 25,000 25,000 the non-executive directors to hold Winnie Fok 20,000 20,000 shares nor for any former directors Mark Seligman n a 75,496 to hold shares once they have left Paul Spence 20,000 10,000 the company.
Clare Spottiswoode 4,681 4,681 Tim Weller 37,570 37,570 No further such payments are PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF due to be made.
AUDITED INFORMATION OFFICE AUDITED INFORMATION Mr Gibsons unvested awards Nick Buckles Grahame Gibson under the PSP remained subject Nick Buckles ceased to be a director Grahame Gibson, who stepped to performance and were pro-rated in May 2013.
His unvested awards down as a director of the company to 20 October 2015.
The award under the 2013 PSP have been on 4 June 2015, ceased to be an made in 2013 has vested and the pro-rated to that date.
Mr Buckles employee on 20 October 2015. total amount paid under that award has been awarded shares to the appears in the single figure table on Mr Gibson was entitled under the value of 32,929 under that scheme.
The LTIP awards made in terms of his contract to payment 2014 and 2015 remain subject to comprising the following amounts performance which will be tested Trevor Dighton in respect of the period from 5 June Trevor Dighton ceased to be a at the normal vesting dates.
2015 until his contract came to an director in June 2013 and retired end on 20 October 2015: in July 2014.
He was eligible on Base pay of 227,065 a pro-rata basis to July 2014 for an award under the 2013 PSP.
Annual bonus of 194,338 Mr Dighton has been awarded Benefits of 15,998 shares to the value of 91,724 Cash allowance in lieu of pension under that scheme.
of 90,826 2009 2015 Total Shareholder Return PERFORMANCE GRAPH 300 AND TABLE 250 The line graph shows the seven-year annual Total Shareholder 200 Return TSR performance against the FTSE 100 index.
The directors 150 believe this to be an appropriate 100 form of broad equity market index against which to base a comparison 50 given the size and geographic coverage of the company.
0 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 FTSE 100 index G4S Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 87 Directors remuneration report continued CEOs pay in last ten financial years 1 1 2 Year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2013 2014 2015 Nick Nick Nick Nick Nick Nick Nick Nick Ashley Ashley Ashley Incumbent Buckles Buckles Buckles Buckles Buckles Buckles Buckles Buckles Almanza Almanza Almanza CEOs total single figure of annual remuneration 000 1,908 2,269 2,376 3,248 2,823 1,542 1,186 514 1,459 2,521 2,462 Bonus % of maximum awarded 76% 95% 83% 74% 53% 0% 0% 0% 72% 98% 70% PSP% of maximum vesting 63% 75% 100% 100% 58% 14% 0% 0% n a n a 27% Notes: 1.
Nick Buckles stepped down as CEO on 31 May 2013 and Ashley Almanza took over as CEO from 1 June 2013.
After July 2011, the CEOs total single figure of annual remuneration included payment in lieu of pension.
This was 40% of base pay for Nick Buckles and is 25% of base pay for Ashley Almanza.
Prior to July 2011, a notional sum equal to 40% of relevant base pay has been included.
The value of shares that vested in the relevant year under the PSP or a notional value in the case of shares vested but unexercised have been included in the prior years CEOs total figures since that is the most relevant year for measurement of performance.
The figures before 2013 did not include taxable expenses for a selected group of G4S general increases in salary and the PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN employees.
The Remuneration structure of the benefits provided is CEOS REMUNERATION Committee has chosen all often driven by local market The table below shows how the employees in the UK as the group practice.
Hence, as the Group CEO percentage change in the CEOs which should provide the most is based in the UK, employees in the salary, benefits and bonus between appropriate comparator.
same country, rather than all 2014 and 2015 compares with the employees within the group, have G4S employs 610,000 employees percentage change in the average of been chosen as the comparator.
Inflation is a key driver of each of those components of pay Percentage change in remuneration between 2014 and 2015 Salary Benefits Bonus CEO 3% 19% 27 % See note Average change for all other UK employees 4.4% 11% below Information on bonuses is not readily available for all other UK employees.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The table below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay compared with other disbursements from profit.
2015 2014 Change Dividends paid 145m 143m 1.4% Total employee costs 4,792m 4,955m -3.3% Restated see note 11 There were no share buy-backs effected in either year.
Mr Almanzas base pay by 1% from companys key strategic objectives.
No change As for last year, the financial IMPLEMENTATION OF was made to Mr Rajas base pay.
measures are allocated an 85% REMUNERATION POLICY weighting for Ashley Almanza.
IN 2016 Annual Bonus Scheme For Himanshu Raja, the financial measures are allocated a lower The annual bonus for the 2016 A summary of the directors financial year will operate on the weighting of 70% for 2016.
The remuneration policy is set out on non-financial measures will therefore same basis as that for 2015 and will pages 77 to 82 and the full policy be consistent with the remuneration account for up to 15% and 30% can also be found on www.
com of their maximum bonus opportunity policy.
opportunity remains at 150% of for Messrs Almanza and Raja respectively.
base pay for both Ashley Almanza Executive directors remuneration and Himanshu Raja.
The financial These non-financial measures are Base pay measures are group earnings and based on the groups strategy and For 2016, at the annual pay review, operating cash flow.
These have core values and cover the following it was decided to increase been selected as they support the key areas: 88 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 Governance Ashley Almanza To the extent that they are no shareholders at the 2014 AGM will longer commercially sensitive, be consistent with the remuneration Embed a stronger health targets and performance levels policy.
As for 2015, the Remuneration & safety culture against them will be disclosed in the Committee considers that a Improve efficiency and companys 2016 annual report and combination of earnings per share effectiveness of the organisation, accounts.
The proposed target levels growth, total shareholder return and people and culture for 2016 have been set to be cumulative cash flow targets are challenging and align with the the most appropriate performance Implement market and product specific strategies business plan.
In reviewing the measures for the 2016 awards, as targets, the committee took into they provide a transparent method Strengthen contract controls account a number of factors of assessing the companys and take-on processes including for example the fact that performance, both in terms of Himanshu Raja in relation to group earnings, the underlying financial performance minimum target that needs to be and returns to shareholders.
Organisational efficiency, including met in order for any bonus to be procurement savings Awards granted under the LTIP payable must be at least equal to Integrated IT systems during the 2016 financial year the earnings in 2015.
The committee development and implementation are subject to the performance considered the proposed targets conditions listed in the table below: Cash flow and capital expenditure relating to non-financial measures management and concluded that these were Fiscal efficiency also demanding.
Details of the performance Long Term Incentive Plan measures and targets are deemed The level of awards due to be to be commercially sensitive since granted in the 2016 financial year they relate to the 2016 financial year.
under the LTIP approved by the Performance measures for long-term incentives awarded in 2016 40% of each award granted 30% of each award granted 30% of each award granted Average annual growth in EPS Ranking against the bespoke period ending on 31 December Proportion of comparator group by Proportion of Average operating Proportion of in the third year allocation vesting reference to TSR allocation vesting cash flow allocation vesting Less than 5% pa Nil Below median Nil 105% Nil 5% pa 15% over 3 years 25% Median 25% 105% 25% 5 to 12% pa Pro-rata Between median Pro-rata Between 105% Pro-rata between 25% and upper quartile between 25% and 125% between 25% and 100% and 100% and 100% Greater than 12% pa 100% Upper quartile 100% 125% 100% 36% over 3 years The companys current policy is to Adjustments to the EPS will be of the company.
The adjusted EPS use market-purchased shares to made in respect of: for the purposes of calculating satisfy LTIP awards.
performance against the LTIP Constant exchange rates in line target shall be further adjusted by Participants in the LTIP will receive with previous years, these will be a increasing the average number a further share award with a value normalised to the rates in the of shares in issue during the equivalent to the dividends which base year performance year by the number would have been paid in respect Acquisitions earnings will be of shares bought back during the of LTIP awards vesting at the end added to the EPS base at the past three years of the performance period.
level used in the acquisition business case b decreasing the net interest The company calculates whether cost in the performance year in the EPS performance targets have Disposals earnings will be respect of the interest charge on been achieved by reference to the removed from the EPS base the cash cost of any share buy groups audited accounts which at the business plan rate backs during the past three years.
provide an accessible and objective Share buy-back the company Interest will be calculated at the measure of the groups earnings will only execute buy-backs if groups average costs of funds for per share.
the investment is economically the year.
accretive and it is in the interest Integrated Report and Accounts 2015 G4S plc 89 Directors remuneration report continued The Remuneration Committee will provisions movement as a ADVISORS TO THE apply discretion in the event of percentage of EBITDA.
If the impairment is not operating cash flow is the average For 2015, the Remuneration a result of management failure, then over three years.
Committee received advice from it will not impact the payout.
TSR ranking will be verified Deloitte as the committees The Remuneration Committee may externally.
appointed advisor on executive and alter the terms of the EPS measure senior management remuneration if it feels that it is no longer a fair Non-executive directors matters.
The Remuneration measure and is no longer remuneration Committee has satisfied itself as incentivising.
The fees payable to the nonto the independence of Deloitte.
executive directors are set by Deloitte is a member of the Operating cash flow is a measure the executive directors and the Remuneration Consultants Group taken before capital expenditure chairman.
The fees payable to the and operates voluntarily under and investments to ensure that non-executive chairman are set its code of conduct in the UK.
management is not incentivised to by the Remuneration Committee.
In both cases, fees are reviewed Operating cash flow is expressed as mid-year.
EBITDA - working capital and Fees for services Advisor Appointment Services provided to Remuneration Committee to Rem Co Other services provided to Company Deloitte 2014 Advice on executive remuneration 56,800 Advice on controls, tax advice on expatriate and share plans, and also provided other consulting ser vices.
These services were provided by different parts of Deloitte.
Fees for services to the Remuneration Committee are at an agreed rate based on time involved.
Herbert Smith Freehills LLP provided legal advice to the company, including in relation to the operation of the companys incentive arrangements.
This advice was available to be considered by the Remuneration Committee.
The group chief executive, Ashley Almanza, provided guidance to the Remuneration Committee on remuneration packages for senior executives within the group.
Further guidance was received from the groups HR directors, Irene Cowden who held the role in the first six months of the year and Jenni Myles in the second six months and the director of compensation and benefits Sok Wah Lee.
Neither the group chief executive nor the group HR directors participated in discussions regarding their own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the advice it received during the year was objective and independent based on the experience of its members generally.
Information about who are the members of the Remuneration Committee and their attendance at meetings of the committee during the year under review can be found on page 76.
STATEMENT OF VOTING AT GENERAL MEETING A resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy as set out in the companys annual report for the year ended 31 December 2013 was passed at the companys Annual General Meeting held on 5 June 2014.
At the companys Annual General Meeting held on 4 June 2015, a resolution was passed to approve the Directors Remuneration Report other than the part containing the summary of the Directors Remuneration Policy for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The results of the votes on these resolutions are set out in the table below: Resolution For Against Withheld Directors Remuneration Policy 2014 AGM 98.38% 1.62% 787,216 Directors Remuneration Report 2015 AGM 96.92% 3.08% 334,376 Mark Elliott Remuneration Committee Chairman 24 March 2016 90 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2015
