Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Annual report on remuneration Executive Directors remuneration summary Remuneration principles and policy Principles The Committee believes in pay for performance and that Executive Directors remuneration should be designed to promote the long-term success of the company.
The Committee seeks to ensure that performance-related elements of the Executive Directors remuneration are transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
Policy The Committee considers the companys shareholder approved remuneration policy, our Executive Directors pay comparator groups and pay levels for the wider employee population of the Group when determining the total individual pay packages of the Executive Directors.
The balance between the xed, short-term variable and long-term variable elements of pay is carefully reviewed, with overall packages weighted heavily towards the latter to closely align Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders.
The table below summarises how the Committee sets each element of the remuneration packages for our Executive Directors.
Fixed Pay Base salary Salaries are reviewed annually, supported by data from relevant comparator groups, taking into account the 105 Executive Directors role, experience and performance as well as the average increases for the broader GSK workforce.
Salary levels in respect of 2016 are as follows: Sir Andrew Witty 1,114,500: Simon Dingemans 735,600 and Dr Moncef Slaoui $1,242,100.
Other benets Principally healthcare, car, personal financial advice, life assurance, assignment and travel expenses.
105 Pension UK Executives Sir Andrew Witty, who joined the group in 1991, and certain other UK Executives are members of legacy final salary 106 plans, which have been closed to new entrants since 2001.
From 2013, increases in pensionable earnings have been limited to 2% per annum.
Otherwise, GSK operates a dened contribution plan for UK Executives.
Simon Dingemans is not a member of a plan for pension contributions but instead receives cash in lieu of contributions.
US Executives GSK operates the Cash Balance Pension Plan, and the GSK 401 k Plan, a savings scheme.
The Supplemental 106 Cash Balance Pension Plan and the Executive Supplemental Savings Plan ESSP, a savings scheme, are open to Dr Moncef Slaoui and certain other US Executives to accrue benets above US Government limits imposed on the 401 k Plan and the Cash Balance Pension Plan.
Pay for performance Safeguards The company has long standing clawback and malus arrangements under its LTI and bonus plans for Executive 113 and risk Directors and other Executives that enable the company to recover sums paid or withhold the payment of any management sum, on the occurrence of a triggering event e. g. significant misconduct by way of violation of regulation, law, or a significant GSK policy, such as the Code of Conduct.
Annual bonus The target and maximum bonus opportunities 107 for the Executive Directors are as follows: The majority of the bonus is based on achievement of Target Maximum challenging financial targets core Group business unit % of % of operating profit and core Group profit before interest and tax salary salary as agreed by the Board and the Committee CEO 125 200 Individual performance against pre-determined personal objectives CFO 80 180 Chairman, Global Vaccines 85 200 Deferred Individuals must defer 25%, and may defer PSP and DAPB matching awards are based on the following 109 Annual up to a total of 50%, of any bonus earned.
three equally weighted performance measures over a threeto Bonus Plan year period: 110 Deferred bonuses may be matched up to DABP one-for-one subject to performance criteria.
R&D new product performance : Adjusted free cash ow : and Relative TSR.
25% vests at threshold, rising to 100% for stretching performance exceeding the set threshold by a specified margin.
Performance The performance share awards for the 109 Share Plan Executive Directors are as follows: to Against a comparator group comprising GSK and nine PSP 110 % of salary other pharmaceutical companies based on a vesting schedule of 30% vesting at median, rising to 100% CEO 600 vesting for upper quartile performance.
CFO 400 PSP awards are subject to a three-year performance period Chairman, Global Vaccines 500 and an additional two-year vesting period.
