Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information 2014 Remuneration policy summary continued Non-Executive Director remuneration policy Element Purpose and link to strategy Overview Chairmans fee To provide an inclusive at rate fee There is no formal maximum, however, fees are reviewed annually and set that is competitive with those paid by reference to a review of the Chairmans performance and independently by other companies of equivalent sourced market data.
size and complexity subject to the The Remuneration Committee is responsible for evaluating and making limits contained in GSKs Articles recommendations to the Board on the fees payable to the Chairman.
The Chairman does not participate in discussions in respect of his fees.
Fees can be paid in a combination of cash and or GSK shares or ADS.
Basic fee There is no formal maximum, however, fees are reviewed annually and set by reference to independently sourced market data.
The Chairman and CEO are responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board on the fees payable to the companys Non-Executive Directors.
A minimum of 25% is delivered in the form of GSK shares or ADS.
Supplemental To provide additional compensation Additional fees for Committee Chairmen, intercontinental travel, the fees for Non-Executive Directors Senior Independent Director and Medical scientific Experts.
Current fee excluding the Chairman taking on levels are set out on page 118 of the 2015 Annual Report.
additional Board responsibilities or undertaking intercontinental travel to meetings.
Benets To facilitate execution of Travel and subsistence costs for Non-Executive Directors are incurred in the responsibilities and duties normal course of business in relation to meetings on Board and Committee required by the role.
matters and other GSK-hosted events.
This includes Non-Executive Directors undertaking intercontinental travel to meetings.
Non-Executive Directors may from time to time be accompanied by their spouse or partner to these meetings or events.
The costs associated with the above are all met by the company and in some instances, they are deemed to be taxable and therefore treated as benets for the Non-Executive Director.
Non-Executive To enhance the link between At least 25% of the Non-Executive Directors total fees, excluding those of the Directors share directors and shareholders, Chairman, are paid in the form of GSK shares or ADS and allocated to a share allocation plan GSK requires Non-Executive or ADS account.
Directors to receive a significant The Non-Executive Directors may also take the opportunity to invest part or part of their fees in the form of all of the balance of their fees into the same share or ADS account.
The GSK shares or ADS which are notionally awarded to the Non-Executive Directors and allocated to their interest accounts are set out in the Directors interests table on page 119 of the 2015 Annual Report.
The accumulated balances of these GSK shares or ADS, together with the notional dividends accrued, are not paid out to Non-Executive Directors until they leave the Board.
Upon leaving, the Non-Executive Directors will receive either the GSK shares or ADS, or a cash amount equivalent to the value of the GSK shares or ADS at the date of leaving, or date of payment if later.
Letter of Non-Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors will be subject to annual election or re-election and appointment Chairmans terms of engagement will normally serve no longer than nine years from the date of first election by are set out in letters of appointment shareholders at a general meeting.
as set out in the table on page 118 The Chairman will be subject to annual appointment by shareholders and may of the 2015 Annual Report.
serve longer than nine years from the date of first election by shareholders at a general meeting.
