Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Remuneration report Chairmans annual statement The Committee believes that significant shareholdings remain a key Dear Shareholder mechanism for aligning the personal interests of our executives with Following the 2015 AGM, I succeeded Tom fide Swaan as Chair of the interests of long-term shareholders.
Sir Andrews shareholding the Remuneration Committee the Committee, and I am pleased is over 10 times his base salary in GSK shares, which is well in to present to you our Remuneration Report for 2015.
I would also excess of his share ownership requirement of four times his base like to take this opportunity to thank Tom on behalf of the salary.
Committee for his leadership during his time as its Chairman.
As disclosed in our 2014 Remuneration Report, the setting of Remuneration decisions in respect of 2015 adjusted free cash ow and R&D new product targets for LTI 2015 marked further substantial progress against our strategy of awards granted in 2015 was delayed pending the completion creating a balanced group of three world leading businesses in of the Novartis transaction.
Targets for these awards were Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare, with a clear agreed and details of the adjusted free cash ow target were aim to deliver growth and improve returns to shareholders.
The communicated via a stock exchange announcement on 31 July Group is in a strong position to succeed as a long-term business 2015.
Given the signicance of the transaction, the Committee with global scale and less exposure to risk and volatility.
In the past also considered the impact of the changes on targets for the year, we have accelerated new product sales growth, integrated the outstanding 2013 and 2014 LTI awards.
The key principle was new businesses in Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare and to ensure that the incentives continued to operate as originally restructured our Pharmaceuticals business.
The Committee has focussed on ensuring that the stretch were ahead of the guidance set out towards the start of the year, of performance targets was retained and that incentives continued and we believe we are well positioned to return to Core earnings to measure performance against the strategic objectives originally per share growth in 2016. identied at grant.
Details of the decisions reached are set out in the following report.
Against this background, the key decisions made by the Committee in respect of 2015 remuneration were as follows: Agenda for 2016 No material changes to executive remuneration are proposed The bonus outcomes for the Executive Directors were for 2016.
The Committee decided that salary levels for Executive determined by reference to performance against the agreed Directors would be increased by 2.5% effective 1 January 2016. financial measures, as well as the Committees assessment This is consistent with the salary increase budget for our broader of their individual performance.
GSK achieved performance employee populations in the UK and US.
Given that our in excess of the relevant financial targets for the year.
The Remuneration Policy will expire at our 2017 AGM, this year the improved performance for 2015, together with the assessment Committee will be undertaking a review of GSKs remuneration of individual performance and contribution, resulted in bonus arrangements.
As part of this review we will continue our regular awards for 2015 which were ahead of the previous year.
I would dialogue with shareholders and will hold our annual meetings draw shareholders attention to the detailed disclosure in the with GSKs largest investors later in the year to listen to their views following report of our annual bonus plan and of the bonuses and feedback.
Meanwhile, if any shareholders have any feedback earned.
We have further enhanced the reporting of our annual on our current remuneration arrangements, or views on where bonus plan and of the bonuses to be paid, to help shareholders we should focus the review, please do not hesitate to pass understand how these awards were earned.
I hope that those comments for my attention to our Company Secretary, shareholders will join me in welcoming these enhanced Victoria Whyte.
AGM Vesting of the 2013 Performance Share Plan and Deferred Finally, I would like to thank shareholders for their input and Annual Bonus Plan awards was based on the agreed measures engagement during my first year as Chairman of the Committee of relative TSR, adjusted free cash ow, R&D new products and I welcome all shareholders feedback on this report.
We look and business diversication performance, each over the three forward to receiving your support for our 2015 Remuneration years to 31 December 2015.
The overall vesting level achieved Report at our AGM on 5 May 2016. for the 2013 LTI awards was 37.75%.
Further details of that achievement are also presented in the following report.
Urs Rohner Remuneration Committee Chairman 16 March 2016 102 GSK Annual Report 2015
