DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Directors remuneration policy The Companys full policy on remuneration for executive Directors was approved by shareholders on 1 May 2014 and can be found on the Companys website at www.
We have included sections of the remuneration policy below that we consider would be most helpful for shareholders to have repeated here.
Policy table for executive Directors Fixed pay Base salary Benefits in kind Pension To provide a market competitive To provide benefits consistent To provide appropriate retirement Purpose and salary to recruit and retain with the scope and location of benefits and assist with recruitment link to individuals with the necessary the role.
strategy knowledge, skills and experience to deliver the Groups strategic objectives.
Normally reviewed annually Benefits are consistent with Provided by means of an allowance Operation with any increase generally those provided to senior delivered in cash and or as payment to taking effect from 1 July taking managers, and principally a pension plan.
into account a number of factors include car and fuel allowance, Where historical arrangements are in including individual experience, life assurance, disability and place, benefits are provided in part scope of the role, responsibility healthcare benefits.
through membership of the GKN Group and performance, Group Other benefits may be provided Pension Scheme 2012. profitability, prevailing market at the discretion of the conditions and pay awards in the Committee based on individual Group generally.
circumstances and business requirements, such as appropriate relocation and expatriate allowances and support.
Salary increases will normally be Benefits are set at a level which The maximum allowance for Directors Maximum in line with the average increase the Committee considers appointed from 1 January 2013 onwards potential awarded to other employees in appropriate and are kept under is 25% of base salary.
Car and fuel allowances Directors appointed before that date increases may be awarded in will not increase by more than currently have legacy benefits under circumstances where it is 15% in any one year.
Some the GKN Group Pension Scheme 2012, considered appropriate by the benefits such as healthcare a defined benefit scheme.
The pension Committee, such as: insurance are provided through due under these arrangements is up to an increase in scope and third parties and therefore the two-thirds of pensionable salary responsibility cost to the Company may vary calculated on a career average basis a new executive Director being from year to year.
Relocation and for service from 1 September 2007 moved to market positioning expatriate allowances, where onwards, with a maximum annual over time granted, are set at a level which accrual rate of 1 30th.
The Committee an existing executive Director the Committee considers has discretion to provide alternative falling below market appropriate based on market arrangements on terms no more positioning.
practice and individual favourable if it considers it to be in the To comply with the Regulations, circumstances.
best interests of the Company.
These the maximum potential value for Directors receive a supplementary cash existing Directors will be no allowance of up to 40% of the difference more than the amount paid to between their individual pensionable the Chief Executive at any time salary and base salary.
Performance measures GKN plc 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Variable pay Annual bonus plan STVRS Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Sustainable Earnings Plan SEP To drive and reward achievement Any STVRS payment above a To encourage and reward sustained Purpose and of short-term financial and percentage of salary currently earnings performance in line with the link to strategic measures which 65% is deferred into shares to Groups growth strategy and its strategy support long-term strategic assist with retention of key objective of creating long-term objectives.
executives and to align their shareholder value.
interests with those of To assist with retention of key shareholders.
Awards comprise a core award and a Award levels and performance DBP awards are released at the Operation measures including the end of a two-year deferral sustainability award equal to 20% of the shares in a core award with vesting proportion relating to strategic period.
Awards generally lapse measures and weightings are in the event of resignation based on performance over an initial three-year core period and subsequent reviewed annually to ensure during the deferral period.
alignment with the Groups On release, a cash amount is two-year sustainability period.
paid equivalent to the aggregate Subject to performance, 50% of the core financial and long-term strategic objectives.
dividends per share paid during award is released after the end of year the deferral period.
three: the balance of the core award and Level of payment is determined by the Committee after the year A malus provision exists to allow the sustainability award are released the Committee to adjust after the end of year five.
end based on performance against targets.
unvested DBP awards in the On vesting, the value of dividends event of material misstatement, accrued on vested shares from date of Payments up to a certain percentage of base salary material failure of risk grant to date of release is delivered in management or serious additional shares or cash at the currently 65% are normally made in cash and the balance is reputational damage.
The Committee reviews the award levels deferred into shares under the DBP.
The Committee has annually and keeps performance targets under review to ensure continued discretion to make the payment wholly in cash in certain alignment with strategy.
circumstances for example to a departing Director.
Maximum is 110% of base salary.
No additional opportunity above Maximum award level under the SEP Maximum the STVRS maximum.
rules is 200% of base salary including potential both the core and sustainability awards.
value Targets are normally applied to a No additional performance Core awards: Performance combination of Group, and measures see STVRS but Measured over the initial three-year measures where appropriate individual release is subject to continued period based on a stretching EPS portfolio, financial and strategic employment.
A significant Vesting at threshold is 25% rising to a proportion of the total award is maximum of 100%.
Sustainability awards: Performance is measured over If the highest level of EPS attained in a one-year period.
Payments any year of the core performance period range between 0 and 110% of is achieved or exceeded in both years base salary with 55% of base four and five, the sustainability award salary payable for achievement will vest in full subject to any reduction of on-target performance.
made in respect of the core target not being satisfied over the core performance period.
The sustainability target will be assessed for year four and year five separately.
Vesting at threshold is 50% rising to a maximum of 100%.
Vesting of core and sustainability awards is subject to an additional test based on the Committees assessment of the quality of earnings as described on page 94.
GKN plc 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Performance measures STVRS: a combination of financial and strategic measures which support the delivery of the Groups long-term strategic objectives.
Appropriate targets are set each year which align with the specific business objectives for that year.
The Committee has discretion to alter targets to reflect changed circumstances such as material changes in accounting standards or changes in the Groups structure.
The Committee also has discretion to reduce payments based on its assessment of underlying performance of the Group, including health and safety performance.
SEP: based on sustained EPS growth over the long term in line with GKNs stated growth strategy and objective of creating long-term shareholder value.
Before any vesting can occur, the Committee must be satisfied that this is justified by the quality of earnings.
This will involve consideration of Group return on average invested capital ROIC against internal projections, shareholder expectations, new investment performance and cost of capital to ensure that the level of vesting appropriately reflects shareholder value creation.
In accordance with the rules of the SEP, the Committee can adjust and or set different performance measures and targets if events occur such as a change in strategy, a material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business or a change in prevailing market conditions which cause the Committee to determine that the measures or targets are no longer appropriate and that amendment is required so that they achieve their original purpose.
While stretching, targets under the STVRS and SEP are designed to discourage inappropriate risk taking.
Policy table for Chairman and non-executive Directors To provide fees within a market competitive range to recruit and retain individuals with the Purpose and link necessary experience and ability to make a substantial contribution to the Groups affairs.
to strategy Fees are reviewed periodically.
Operation The fee structure is: the Chairman is paid a single consolidated fee non-executive Directors are paid a basic fee plus an additional fee for any chairmanship of Board Committees and for the role of Senior Independent Director.
Set at a level which reflects the contribution and commitment required of them, taking into Maximum potential value account fee levels in other companies of similar size and complexity.
Overall the fees paid to non-executive Directors will remain within the limit stated in the articles of association, currently 1 million per annum.
The Chairman and non-executive Directors do not receive benefits in kind nor do they participate in the Groups shortand long-term incentive arrangements or in its pension scheme.
GKN plc 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
