DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Katherine Innes Ker Committee Chair Andrew Allner Chairman Nick Horler Independent Non-Executive Director Adrian Ewer Independent Non-Executive Director Carolyn Ferguson Group Company Secretary A large proportion of the executive directors remuneration is payable in shares.
Our remuneration policy is focused Half of the total annual performance related bonus is awarded as deferred on supporting our business strategy.
shares, to be held for a period of three years and subject to recovery and withholding provisions.
Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP are DEAR SHAREHOLDER also made in shares which further aligns the interests of our executive directors It is my pleasure to present the directors remuneration report for the year with those of our shareholders.
In the case of the Group Chief Executive this ended 27 June 2015. year, around 75% of his total remuneration has been delivered through variable pay and over 60% of his total remuneration was delivered in shares.
The report which follows my annual statement has been split into two parts: An annual performance related bonus of 104.4% of salary which is 69.6% of The directors remuneration policy, which sets out the Groups remuneration maximum bonus 2014: 97.5% will be awarded to the executive directors.
policy for directors for the next three years.
As explained below, this policy is The annual bonus this year rewarded the achievement of Group operating subject to a binding shareholder vote at the 2015 AGM and will replace the profit and cashflow targets and the majority of the business objectives set at policy approved at the 2014 AGM the start of the year.
These included challenging Group profit, cashflow and The annual report on remuneration, which sets out i payments and non financial targets, the full details of which can be found on pages 78 and 79. awards made to the directors and details the link between Group The remuneration committee used its discretion to adjust the reported performance and remuneration for the year ending 27 June 2015 and operating profit of 114.7m by the amount of goodwill writeoff of 4.9m, ii how the remuneration policy will be implemented for the year ending details of which can be found on page 117.
This report together with my annual statement is subject to The LTIP awards granted to the executive directors in 2012 will mature an advisory vote at the 2015 AGM with 100% of the award vesting 2014: 80%.
This long term incentive award The key principles underpinning the remuneration committees approach rewarded the successful implementation of long term value creation targets to executive remuneration have been to ensure that the way we measure set three years ago and which included stretching total shareholder return, and reward performance is aligned to our strategic objectives.
Remuneration earnings per share and strategic target measures.
Full details of the performance strategy is designed to facilitate the long term success of the Group and against targets can be found on page 79. provides a strong and demonstrable link between incentives and performance The Group Chief Executive received a base salary increase of 1.8% on 1April delivery.
Alignment between the interests of our shareholders and executive 2015, which is less than the average inflationary increase awarded to all employees directors is a key focus and this report seeks to provide shareholders with a across the Group, this approach having been consistent for the last four years.
clear and transparent account of how these key principles have been applied During the year, the Group Finance Directors role was expanded to include to achieve the remuneration outcomes for our executive directors.
additional commercial responsibilities and in light of the significant increase in scope of his role, his salary was increased by 11.35% with effect from 1 April 2015.
PERFORMANCE AND REWARD 2014 15 The total single remuneration figure for our executive directors for the year DEPARTURE OF GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR ended 27 June 2015 is shown below.
The committees unanimous view was that Shortly after the 2014 15 year end, the Board was informed of the Group the Groups performance supported the executive directors remuneration this Finance Directors intention to leave the Group to take up a new role at the year.
There has been a good set of results, which were aligned with our strategy end of the calendar year.
While full details will be disclosed in next years annual and the Group remains in a strong financial position with strong cash generation report, we can confirm that the remuneration he will be paid upon leaving will and a robust balance sheet.
Over the year, the Groups market capitalisation be in accordance with our policy.
As he will remain employed by the Group on has increased by 13.9% to 1.16bn and over the three year period by 124.1%.
the vesting date, the 2012 LTIP award will therefore vest in November 2015, as The total single remuneration figure for our executive directors for the year will the performance related deferred shares held for three years since 2012.
All ended 27 June 2015 is shown below: other LTIP awards and deferred shares will lapse upon cessation of employment.
This includes half of the annual performance related bonus of 104.4% of salary 2015 2014 000 000 referred to above, the deferred share element of which will not be awarded.
In Group Chief Executive David Brown 2,163 1,960 addition, he will forfeit any entitlement to bonus for the year ending 2 July 2016.
Group Finance Director Keith Down 1,265 1,299 LTIP AND REMUNERATION POLICY The current LTIP was first approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2005 and See pages 78 and 79 for further details will expire in September 2015.
The Company therefore intends to introduce a replacement LTIP at this years AGM on 22 October 2015.
The remuneration committee felt it would be appropriate to include as part of the process a review of its overall remuneration policy to ensure that it is aligned with The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 70 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Group strategy.
We shall therefore seek to obtain approval for a revised policy at the same time as seeking approval for the new LTIP.
Whilst we believe During the year, our executive directors delivered a good financial our remuneration arrangements have been effective and are fit for purpose, our and strategic performance in bus and rail with overall results ahead business has continued to evolve as has the industry in which we operate.
We of initial expectations at the beginning of the year.
The highlights of are also conscious of changes in remuneration market practice and investors the year included: perspective on certain aspects of remuneration governance.
The combination Successful mobilisation of the GTR franchise, the UKs largest franchise of these factors has led us to believe that the time is right to make amendments to strengthen our current policy.
Successful negotiation of the Southeastern direct award contract Submitted bids for Northern and TransPennine Express franchises The proposed changes were developed with three main aims: as well as bidding in German rail and Singaporean bus markets To increase alignment between our strategy and the way we measure and reward performance Sector leading customer satisfaction in regional bus operations To further strengthen the alignment between executives and our Profit growth in all divisions of the business shareholders, and longer term shareholder returns Rail division profit ahead of initial expectations To ensure compliance with best practice and corporate governance principles Share price of the Group increased to 26.98 and over the three year period to 27 June 2015, the increase was 124.1% We have consulted with our major shareholders and shareholder representative bodies regarding changes to our remuneration policy for the 2015 16 financial Continued growth in the bus division operating profit up year and beyond.
6.6% and margins up 0.5% In addition to the introduction of the new LTIP, the key changes proposed to Record passenger numbers in the rail division our policy going forward are: Proposed full year dividend increased to 90p per share, An increase in the level of the Group Chief Executives shareholding guideline an increase of 6.5% in line with our progressive dividend policy from 100% to 150% of salary and a commensurate increase in the maximum An improvement in net cash of 335.6m and an adjusted net LTIP opportunity.
This proposal is in light of the growth in both size and to EBITDA ratio of 1.32x, below the Groups target level complexity of the Group driven by our success in bidding for the Thameslink, Extension of the Groups bank facility for an additional year Southern and Great Northern Rail Franchise.
Alongside this, the Group has to July 2020 also delivered outstanding total shareholder returns TSR three year Achievement of key financial targets against a challenging TSR of 33.7% p. a.. As a result, the committee believes it appropriate to operational and political climate reflect the increased size and complexity of the Group in the Group Chief Executives total remuneration, with the increase in performance related remuneration to tie it to longer term performance and shareholder returns For the 2015 16 long term incentive awards, a customer service target will ABOUT THIS REPORT replace the operating profit performance condition used for the 2014 15 This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of grant.
This is as measured by the independent passenger watchdog Transport the Companies Act 2006, the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Focus formerly Passenger Focus and published in the annual report.
Groups Accounts & Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, which The measure will be subject to an operating profit threshold.
The customer came into force on 1 October 2013 and which set out the new reporting service target, split equally between rail and bus, recognises that providing requirements in respect of directors remuneration, and the Listing Rules.
high levels of customer service is fundamental to our success and it is a The legislation requires the external auditor to state whether, in their key operating performance measure for Go-Ahead.
It is a strategic priority opinion, the parts of the report that are subject to audit have been for the Group to provide high quality service, and it influences our ability properly prepared in accordance with the relevant legislation and to retain franchises and to win new ones.
Ensuring management is focused these parts have been highlighted.
on this strategic measure is critically important therefore as a driver of long term shareholder value.
From 2014 15, customer service targets will no longer form part of the annual performance related bonus.
Growth in adjusted earnings per share EPS and relative TSR are retained and will each determine 40% of the award and the customer service target will determine 20%.
Going forwards, the committee has the discretion to vary the weighting and choice of metrics for future awards.
However, it would consult with shareholders before introducing significantly different metrics The recovery and withholding provisions will be extended and updated so that they apply to all future bonus and LTIP awards and are in line with market and best practice An additional two year post vesting requirement will apply to vested LTIP shares for awards granted from 2015 onwards I have appreciated the time various major shareholders and their representative bodies have put into helping us develop our new remuneration policy and I look forward to shareholder support at the forthcoming AGM.
Katherine Innes Ker, Remuneration Committee Chair 2 September 2015 www.
com 71 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SUMMARY OF REMUNERATION POLICY OPERATED FROM 28 JUNE 2015 ONWARDS It is intended that the remuneration policy set out in this report will, if approved for the purposes of section 226D 6 b of the Act, take effect immediately after the AGM on 22 October 2015.
ELEMENT & MAXIMUM PURPOSE & LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE TARGETS Base salary Salary is the core reward for the role Paid monthly in cash Annual salary increases for executive n a and enables the Group to recruit directors will not normally exceed In determining base salaries, the committee and retain individuals of the calibre the average increase awarded to considers: required to deliver its strategic other UK based employees Pay levels at companies of a similar size objectives and lead its management However, larger increases may be and complexity in the FTSE 250 team, without paying more than is awarded in certain circumstances External market conditions necessary including but not limited to: Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group Base salary also reflects the individuals Increase in scope of responsibilities skills, expertise, experience and role Individual performance, skills, experience of the role within the Group in post and potential To apply salary progression for Salaries are normally reviewed annually with a newly appointed director changes taking effect from 1 April each year Where a directors salary has fallen The committee may also review salaries on an significantly below market position ad hoc basis if an individual is promoted and or there is an increase in their responsibilities Performance related bonus Focuses on the key priorities for Annual, non-pensionable payments made Maximum of 150% of salary Performance metrics will normally include Group profit, cash and individual PRB the coming year after the AGM strategic goals with profitability accounting for at least half of the opportunity Deferral of half of bonus into Group Half of any bonus is paid in cash following A quality of earnings review and health and safety target thresholds also shares aligns executive directors the AGM and half is paid in shares deferred apply to the full bonus interests with those of shareholders for a period of three years Based on the achievement of specific financial and non financial objectives Subject to recovery and withholding provisions for three years following the award Long term incentive Aligned to the strategic objectives Annual grant of performance shares that Maximum of 150% of salary for Performance measured over three financial years plan LTIP of the Group to deliver long term vest three years after grant subject to the Group Chief Executive and 100% of Performance metrics will include compound annual growth in adjusted returns to shareholders satisfaction of performance conditions salary for other executive directors EPS and relative TSR with each accounting for at least 25% of the award Awards granted from 2015 must be retained Exceptional circumstances maximum For the 2015 awards adjusted EPS would have a 40% weighting, relative other than to pay tax or NICs due on receipt e. g. on recruitment of 200% of salary TSR would have a 40% weighting and customer satisfaction ratings in of the shares for two further years our bus and rail divisions will each have a 10% weighting Subject to recovery and withholding For the EPS and TSR measures not more than 25% of the award may provisions for three years following vesting vest at threshold performance The committee has the discretion to vary the weighting of and choice of metrics including the comparator groups prior to each award.
However, it would consult with shareholders before introducing significantly different metrics Pension allowance Provides a cash alternative to Monthly, non pensionable payment, A cash allowance of up to 15% of n a 1 pension contributions in line paid in cash salary may be provided with market practice Other benefits Ensures package is competitive with The main benefits include family private Benefits are intended to be market n a market practice and employees have health care, death in service and life competitive but are not subject to a a minimum level of insured benefits assurance cover 4x base salary, free maximum as the cost of providing the travel on the Groups services and insured benefits is set by third party professional membership subscriptions providers and can vary from year to year All employee share plans Executive directors are eligible to Executive directors may participate in these Participation levels operate in n a participate in HMRC approved all plans in line with HMRC guidelines currently accordance with HMRC limits as employee schemes which encourage prevailing where relevant, on the same basis amended from time to time share ownership as other eligible employees To align the financial interests of Executive directors are required to retain 150% of salary holding for the Group n a Share ownership the executive directors with those 50% of the post tax gain on vested LTIP and Chief Executive and 100% of salary of shareholders deferred share awards until such time as holding for other executive directors the Group Chief Executive has achieved a holding of 150% of salary and other executive directors have achieved 100% of salary 1 The current Group Chief Executive does not receive any form of pension provision from the Group.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 72 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY ELEMENT & MAXIMUM PURPOSE & LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE TARGETS In this section of the report, we set out the remuneration policy for the Base salary Salary is the core reward for the role Paid monthly in cash Annual salary increases for executive n a Group operating from 28 June 2015 and which will become formally effective and enables the Group to recruit directors will not normally exceed following approval from shareholders through a binding vote at the 2015 AGM.
In determining base salaries, the committee and retain individuals of the calibre the average increase awarded to We do not envisage making any changes to our policy over the next three considers: required to deliver its strategic other UK based employees years, however, we will review our policy each year to ensure that it remains Pay levels at companies of a similar size objectives and lead its management appropriate.
If we feel it necessary to make a change to our policy within the However, larger increases may be and complexity in the FTSE 250 team, without paying more than is next three years, we will seek shareholder approval.
awarded in certain circumstances External market conditions necessary including but not limited to: POLICY OVERVIEW Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group Base salary also reflects the individuals Increase in scope of responsibilities Our remuneration policy aims to ensure that the way we measure and reward skills, expertise, experience and role Individual performance, skills, experience of the role performance is aligned to our strategy in order to incentivise our executive within the Group in post and potential To apply salary progression for directors to deliver long term value for our shareholders.
Remuneration levels Salaries are normally reviewed annually with a newly appointed director must not be excessive and be at a level that promotes the attraction, motivation changes taking effect from 1 April each year and retention of high calibre individuals to deliver performance that will meet Where a directors salary has fallen The committee may also review salaries on an the strategic objectives of the Group.
significantly below market position ad hoc basis if an individual is promoted and CONSIDERATIONS WHEN DETERMINING or there is an increase in their responsibilities REMUNERATION POLICY Performance related bonus Focuses on the key priorities for Annual, non-pensionable payments made Maximum of 150% of salary Performance metrics will normally include Group profit, cash and individual The committee considers shareholder feedback received and guidance PRB the coming year after the AGM strategic goals with profitability accounting for at least half of the opportunity from shareholder representative bodies more generally when reviewing Deferral of half of bonus into Group Half of any bonus is paid in cash following A quality of earnings review and health and safety target thresholds also remuneration policy.
During the year, the committee undertook a review of shares aligns executive directors the AGM and half is paid in shares deferred apply to the full bonus remuneration policy and consulted with our major shareholders and shareholder interests with those of shareholders for a period of three years representative bodies and their feedback has helped shape the policy.
Based on the achievement of specific A substantial proportion of the executive directors pay is performance-related, financial and non financial objectives with half of the annual bonus subject to deferral into the Groups shares.
Subject to recovery and withholding A broad range of financial and non financial targets are included in our incentive provisions for three years following the award structure and recovery and withholding provisions have been extended to apply to both the annual bonus and LTIP.
Long term incentive Aligned to the strategic objectives Annual grant of performance shares that Maximum of 150% of salary for Performance measured over three financial years plan LTIP of the Group to deliver long term vest three years after grant subject to the Group Chief Executive and 100% of Working with the audit committee, the remuneration committee ensures Performance metrics will include compound annual growth in adjusted returns to shareholders satisfaction of performance conditions salary for other executive directors that risk is properly considered in setting the overall remuneration policy.
EPS and relative TSR with each accounting for at least 25% of the award The executive directors are also incentivised to take environmental, social and Awards granted from 2015 must be retained Exceptional circumstances maximum For the 2015 awards adjusted EPS would have a 40% weighting, relative governance matters seriously and to consider the long term implications of their other than to pay tax or NICs due on receipt e. g. on recruitment of 200% of salary TSR would have a 40% weighting and customer satisfaction ratings in decision making.
Accordingly, in line with the Investment Associations guidelines of the shares for two further years our bus and rail divisions will each have a 10% weighting on responsible investment disclosure, the committee has linked a proportion of Subject to recovery and withholding For the EPS and TSR measures not more than 25% of the award may the annual bonus to the achievement of safety and good governance objectives.
provisions for three years following vesting vest at threshold performance In setting the remuneration policy the committee considers the remuneration The committee has the discretion to vary the weighting of and choice packages offered to employees across the Group.
As a point of principle, of metrics including the comparator groups prior to each award.
salaries, benefits, pensions and other elements of remuneration are However, it would consult with shareholders before introducing benchmarked regularly to ensure they remain competitive in the markets significantly different metrics in which we operate.
As would be expected, we have differences in pay and benefits across the Pension allowance Provides a cash alternative to Monthly, non pensionable payment, A cash allowance of up to 15% of n a businesses which reflect individual responsibility, market and geographical 1 pension contributions in line paid in cash salary may be provided location.
When considering annual salary increases, the committee reviews with market practice the proposals for salary increases for the employee population generally, as Other benefits Ensures package is competitive with The main benefits include family private Benefits are intended to be market n a it does for any other changes to remuneration policy being considered.
market practice and employees have health care, death in service and life competitive but are not subject to a The Group did not formally consult with employees when drawing up the a minimum level of insured benefits assurance cover 4x base salary, free maximum as the cost of providing the directors remuneration policy.
However, the Group considers any informal travel on the Groups services and insured benefits is set by third party feedback received through employee staff surveys or other channels.
professional membership subscriptions providers and can vary from year to year All employee share plans Executive directors are eligible to Executive directors may participate in these Participation levels operate in n a participate in HMRC approved all plans in line with HMRC guidelines currently accordance with HMRC limits as employee schemes which encourage prevailing where relevant, on the same basis amended from time to time share ownership as other eligible employees To align the financial interests of Executive directors are required to retain 150% of salary holding for the Group n a Share ownership the executive directors with those 50% of the post tax gain on vested LTIP and Chief Executive and 100% of salary of shareholders deferred share awards until such time as holding for other executive directors the Group Chief Executive has achieved a holding of 150% of salary and other executive directors have achieved 100% of salary 1 The current Group Chief Executive does not receive any form of pension provision from the Group.
com 73 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED to share in the long term success of the Group without delivering excessive COMMITTEE DISCRETIONS benefits or encouraging short termism or excessive risk taking.
It also aligns The committee operates the Groups variable incentive plans according to their interests with those of our shareholders.
their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC rules where relevant.
To ensure the efficient administration of these plans, the committee will The choice of performance measures for the performance related bonus is based on a mixture of financial, non financial, personal and strategic targets, apply certain operational discretions.
These include the following: with a clear alignment to the Groups short and long term strategic objectives.
Selecting the participants in the plans on an annual basis As the LTIP was due to expire in September 2015, the Group intends to Determining the timing of grants of awards and or payment introduce a replacement LTIP at this years AGM.
The performance metrics Determining the quantum of awards and or payments within the limits used in the current LTIP have been reviewed in order to ensure they are set out in the policy table on page 72 aligned with delivering value to shareholders.
As a result of this review, changes Determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment of performance have been made to the performance metrics used in the LTIP.
Making the appropriate adjustments required in certain circumstances The key change to the LTIP performance metric for 2015 16 will be to replace e. g. change of control, rights issues, corporate restructuring events, and the operating profit measure with customer satisfaction targets.
Operating special dividends profit was introduced in 2012 13 to reflect the three year strategic target to increase bus operating profit to 100m and rail operating profit by 2015 16.
Determining good leaver status for incentive plan purposes and applying As the Group has made significant progress towards achieving these goals, we the appropriate treatment propose to remove this measure for future LTIP awards and to replace it with a Undertaking the annual review of weighting of performance measures, measure derived from the Groups strategic objectives.
Customer satisfaction is and setting targets for the annual bonus plan and LTIP from year to year a key operating performance measure for Go-Ahead and it is a strategic priority If an event occurs, which results in the annual bonus plan or LTIP performance for the Group to provide high quality service, with customer service a key conditions and or targets being deemed no longer appropriate e. g. a material measure of our performance.
It influences our ability to retain franchises and to acquisition or divestment, the committee will have the ability to adjust win new ones, and ensuring management is focused on this strategic measure is appropriately the measures and or targets and alter weightings, provided that critically important therefore as a driver of long term shareholder value.
the revised conditions or targets are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
The weighting of the earnings per share EPS targets has been increased Outstanding share incentive awards that remain unvested or unexercised as it is an important growth measure and a driver of shareholder value.
at the date of this report, as detailed on pages 81 and 85, remain eligible The weighting on the total shareholder return TSR measure has also for vesting or exercise based on their original award terms.
increased as it improves shareholder alignment and is consistent with providing long term returns to shareholders.
PERFORMANCE MEASURE SELECTION The committee will have discretion to introduce other measures for future In choosing the performance metrics and targets we have sought to provide awards but would consult with major shareholders before making any a strong and demonstrable link between management incentives and the significant changes.
We have also sought to set a performance based Details of the specific targets chosen for each of the performance related framework for remuneration which is consistent with the Groups scale and bonus and LTIP for the coming year are set out on pages 83 and 84. unique structure.
This enables the executive directors and senior managers TOTAL REMUNERATION BY PERFORMANCE SCENARIO FOR 2015 16 FINANCIAL YEAR 000 A significant proportion of executive directors potential remuneration is performance-related.
This comprises annual bonuses under the performance-related bonus and long term incentives under the LTIP.
The charts below provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunity for the executive directors split between fixed, target and maximum remuneration scenarios.
The scenarios do not take into account share price appreciation or dividends.
Fixed remuneration: base salary as at 1 April 2015, benefits as received in 2014 15 and, for the Group Finance Director only, the value of his pension allowance.
Target: fixed remuneration plus half of the maximum annual bonus plus threshold vesting under the LTIP.
Maximum: fixed remuneration plus the maximum annual bonus award 150% of base salary plus 100% vesting of LTIP awards 150% for the Group Chief Executive and 100% for the Group Finance Director.
Note: The Group Finance Director will be leaving the Group at the end of the calendar year and therefore fixed remuneration will only be part payable with no remuneration payable for LTIP and bonus, these values having lapsed upon cessation of employment.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 74 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Compensation will normally take the form of conditional awards or options CONSISTENCY WITH REMUNERATION FOR THE over Group shares but cash and or time vested payments may be made WIDER GROUP where the committee believes these would offer better value for money Remuneration arrangements are determined throughout the Group based for shareholders.
Existing arrangements will be used where possible, however, on the same principles: that reward should be sufficient to attract and retain the committee also reserves the ability to make use of the flexibility provided high calibre talent whilst supporting the delivery of the business strategy.
under the Listing Rules without prior shareholder approval.
The committee is The committee reviews the remuneration for those employees immediately sensitive to investor concerns about such arrangements and will endeavour to below the executive directors to ensure that this incentivises the delivery of take cost effective approaches.
both strategy and business objectives.
SERVICE CONTRACTS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Through our devolved structure, local management are empowered to create tailored remuneration packages on an individual business-by-business basis.
The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director entered into As a result, the components and levels of remuneration for different employees a service agreement with The Go-Ahead Group plc on 1 April 2011 and will differ from the policy for executive directors as set out above.
The term of each service contract is undefined may receive bonus, pension and share awards which vary according to the and is terminable by either the Group on one years notice or by the executive local business and market practice.
The maximum provision and incentive director on six months notice.
The directors service contracts are available opportunity available are determined by the seniority and responsibility for inspection at the Companys registered office.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Participation in the LTIP is currently limited to executive directors only while In accordance with their service contracts, the executive directors are able participation in the DSBP is limited to executive directors and senior management.
to accept external appointments and are permitted to retain any fees paid It is an important part of Go-Aheads values that all colleagues, not just for such services, provided that approval is given by the Board.
During the management, have the opportunity to become shareholders in the Group.
year, the Group Finance Director was appointed as a non-executive director All employees, with at least six months continuous service, therefore have the of Topps Tiles plc and received fees totalling 17,409 2014: nil.
The Group opportunity to participate in our Share Incentive Plan and Sharesave Scheme.
Chief Executive is a non-executive director of ATOC Limited and Rail Delivery Group Limited.
He does not receive any fees in relation to these roles.
RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION On appointing a new executive director, the committee would seek DEPARTURE OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS to align the remuneration package for the relevant individual with the Executive directors service contracts contain a provision, exercisable at the Groups remuneration policy as set out on pages 72 and 73.
It would aim discretion of the Group, to pay an amount in lieu of notice on early termination not to pay more than necessary to secure the right candidate and the of the contract.
Such payments are limited to base salary plus pension allowance package would take into account the experience and calibre of the individual and other benefits such as family private healthcare and life assurance cover, concerned.
The remuneration package for a new executive director would but would not automatically include entitlement to bonus or share awards.
be set in accordance with the terms of the approved remuneration policy The Group can also pay legal fees and outplacement services.
There are in force at the time of appointment.
no provisions for special pension benefits, such as beneficial early retirement Where a newly appointed executive director is required to relocate, the Group terms.
Other than the notice periods specified above, the executive directors may pay the costs of relocation if appropriate and may provide tax equalisation are not due any contractual compensation payments in the event of early and assistance with reasonable legal fees.
The committee believes that the contracts provide appropriate protection of the interests of shareholders when Any executive director promoted internally may remain eligible for payments negotiating a termination, at which time the committee would take into under incentive plans joined and or contractual arrangements entered into account the departing directors duty to mitigate his her loss when before joining the Board.
However the committee will have regard to best determining the amount of any compensation.
practice in reviewing the treatment of any such entitlements.
The committee assesses on an individual basis whether it is necessary to compensate executive directors for incentives lost from their previous employers.
The level and timing of such compensation will normally seek to reflect or take account of the term and performance conditions of the payments or awards forgone on a like for like basis.
com 75 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED LOSS OF OFFICE PAYMENTS The treatment of remuneration for executive directors whose service with Go-Ahead terminates will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
However, the table below sets out the treatment of elements of remuneration that would normally apply: Reason for termination Retirement, redundancy: disability: death or change of ownership Other leavers e. g. resignation misconduct Salary and contractual Payment equal to the aggregate of the base salary and the value of any contractual Paid to date of termination, including pay benefits benefits for the notice period including any accrued or untaken holiday for any accrued but untaken holiday Performance related Bonus awarded subject to satisfaction of performance targets for the No award for year of termination bonus cash relevant financial year, pro-rated accordingly for the period of employment to the date of cessation of employment Performance-related Awards vest on the date of cessation of employment Awards lapse in full on cessation of employment bonus deferred shares Unvested LTIP awards Awards normally vest at the normal vesting date unless the remuneration Awards lapse in full on cessation of employment committee determines the award should vest on the date of cessation of employment The amount of award vesting will be subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions and will normally be reduced pro rata to reflect time elapsed between grant and cessation of employment although the committee has discretion to waive pro rating where it believes it would be appropriate to do so NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY The remuneration policy for non-executive directors is set out in the table below.
Non-executive directors are not involved in any discussions or decisions about their own remuneration.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Fees The basic fee for the Chairman and non-executive directors is The remuneration of the non-executive directors takes the form solely a fixed annual fee commensurate with the time each director of fees, which are set annually by the Board is expected to spend on the Groups affairs and with the The level of fees set is subject to the current limits as set out in the responsibility assumed as director of a listed company Groups articles of association currently aggregate fees of 500,000 Fees are set at a level to attract and retain individuals with for all non-executive directors appropriate expertise to complement the Groups strategy Fees are reviewed on 1 April each year with reference to comparable listed companies in the FTSE 250 Additional fees Additional fees may be paid to non-executive directors Non-executive directors are not eligible to receive performance-related payable for duties who are Chairmen of a Board committee and or who remuneration or pension entitlements or to participate in share option schemes occupy the role of senior independent director to reflect Non-executive directors may also be provided with limited travel, hospitality the additional responsibility and time commitment required and accommodation expenses.
LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT Each non-executive director has a letter of appointment which provides for a notice period of six months.
The terms of appointment contain no entitlement to compensation for early termination.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Groups registered office during normal business hours and will also be available for inspection prior to and during the AGM.
The contract dates and notice periods for the non-executive directors are shown in the table below: Notice period Notice period Director Date of service contract from the Company from the director Andrew Allner October 2008 6 months 6 months Katherine Innes Ker July 2010 6 months 6 months Nick Horler November 2011 6 months 6 months Adrian Ewer April 2013 6 months 6 months RETIREMENT AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS In accordance with the Groups articles of association and the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at each AGM.
Accordingly all directors will be offering themselves for annual re-election at the Groups AGM on 22 October 2015.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 76 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The members of the committee have no personal interests in the matters ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION to be decided by the committee other than as shareholders, and have no conflicts of interest arising from cross directorships.
Committee members INTRODUCTION did not attend meetings where matters associated with their own remuneration This section details the remuneration of the Board during the financial year were considered.
Together with the remuneration committees annual During the year, the committees recommendations were all accepted statement on pages 70 and 71, it will be proposed for an advisory vote unanimously by the Board and implemented without amendment.
by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
TERMS OF REFERENCE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEETINGS The committees terms of reference are reviewed annually and approved by The committee held three scheduled meetings during the year, excluding the Board.
They are available on our corporate website at www.
com additional meetings to review and discuss remuneration policy and shareholder or upon request from the Group Company Secretary.
Details of the members attendance at committee meetings can be found on page 57.
EXTERNAL ADVISORS TO THE COMMITTEE New Bridge Street NBS a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited, part ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE of Aon plc act as independent remuneration advisors to the committee.
The committees principal responsibilities are to: The advisor was selected through a thorough process led by the Chair Review the ongoing appropriateness and effectiveness of the Groups of the remuneration committee and was appointed by the committee.
remuneration policy Neither Aon Hewitt Limited nor the wider Aon plc provided any other Determine and approve the remuneration policy for the executive directors services to the Group during the year and therefore the committee was and senior management, including bonuses and share awards and the balance satisfied that it provided objective and independent advice.
NBS is a between the fixed and performance-related elements of pay member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and complies with its code of conduct.
The fees payable to NBS for advice throughout the Regularly review the design and targets for performance-related pay year were 20,778 2014: 19,079. arrangements and approve the total annual payments Determine the policy for executive directors service agreements, including recruitment and termination payment policies Oversee the salary and bonus arrangements for the senior management within the Group Determine the fees of the Chairman 2014 15 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE HIGHLIGHTS GOVERNANCE Considering remuneration best practice to ensure it is integrated into In addition to the remuneration committees principal responsibilities remuneration policy, strategy and implementation detailed above, we set out below our key highlights during the year ended 27 June 2015, which can be broadly divided into the following areas: Ensuring remuneration reporting is clear, transparent and in accordance with best practice reporting REMUNERATION POLICY Reviewing overall remuneration policy to ensure it is aligned with 2015 16 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE PRIORITIES Group strategy and complies with best practice principles In addition to setting targets and reviewing outcomes, the committee Consulting with major shareholders and shareholder representatives will also focus on the following priorities which will be to: on changes to remuneration policy, in particular in relation to the LTIP Ensure that the Groups remuneration policy for the departure of In conjunction with the current LTIP expiring in 2015, agreeing new executive directors is applied for the remuneration of the departing rules for the replacement LTIP Group Finance Director SETTING TARGETS & REVIEWING OUTCOMES Ensure that the Groups recruitment remuneration policy is taken into account when appointing the new Group Finance Director Setting the executive directors LTIP and performance related bonus targets for 2015 16 Set targets and review outcomes for performance related remuneration Testing the performance conditions and level of vesting for Continue to remain abreast of best practice and market developments the 2012 13 LTIP in remuneration and reporting Reviewing performance against targets for the annual performance Monitor the ongoing balance between long term and short term related bonus 2014 15 incentives to ensure that they remain appropriately aligned to the Groups strategic objectives REWARD FRAMEWORK Provide ongoing training and support for committee members Reviewing the levels of pay for the executive directors in the annual salary review and making recommendations to the Board in respect of the remuneration of the Chairman Reviewing the overall remuneration policy for senior management www.
com 77 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS At last years AGM 24 October 2014 the directors remuneration report received the following votes from shareholders: Directors remuneration policy Directors remuneration report Shareholder vote Total number of votes % of votes cast Total number of votes % of votes cast For 21,489,111 96.71% 25,012,991 97.59% Against 651,724 2.93% 538,681 2.10% Discretionary 78,990 0.36% 78,377 0.31% Total votes cast excluding withheld 22,219,825 100% 25,630,049 100% Votes withheld 3,452,025 41,801 Total votes cast including withheld votes 25,671,850 25,671,850 IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR THE YEAR ENDED 27 JUNE 2015 EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR BASE SALARIES Base salary levels for executive directors are shown below and will remain in place until April 2016 when they will be reviewed again: Executive directors From 1 April 2015 From 1 April 2014 % Increase David Brown 541,800 532,200 1.8% Keith Down 380,000 341,251 11.35% Keith Downs increase reflected the significant increase in the scope of his role to include wider commercial responsibilities.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION AUDITED The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each executive director for the year ended 27 June 2015.
Comparative figures for 2014 have also been provided.
Short term incentives 2 Performance-related bonuses Long term Deferred incentives Pension Single total 1 2 2 3 4 Salary and fees Taxable benefits Cash bonus sharebonus LTIP allowance remuneration figure 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive directors David Brown 2015 535 3 279 279 1,067 2,163 2014 523 5 383 383 666 1,960 Keith Down 2015 351 2 183 683 46 1,265 2014 335 4 245 245 426 44 1,299 1.
Taxable benefits The taxable benefit for the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director comprises family healthcare membership.
Cash bonus and deferred share bonus performance-related bonus The table below illustrates the components of the annual performance-related bonus award at maximum and actual payouts for business objectives set at the start of the year.
The executive directors were awarded an overall bonus of 104.4% of salary out of a potential maximum bonus of 150%.
As shown above, half of this bonus is payable in cash and half is awarded as deferred shares to be held for a period of three years.
The full bonus is subject to clawback provisions.
The Group Finance Director will not receive the deferred shares element of this bonus on account of his cessation of employment at the end of the calendar year.
Payout of maximum Metric Performance Measure performance Actual payout Group operating profit Actual 2013 14 Profit before tax post IAS 19 65% 40.5% Group cash flow Net debt after adding back restricted cash 10% 10.0% Strategic KPIs See below 25% 19.1% Total 100% 69.6% Group operating profit The Group operating profit target for the 2014 15 financial year was as shown below, with payout on a sliding scale from the 2013 14 Group operating profit: Measure Target Payout % of salary Actual 2014 15 Group operating profit Group Operating Profit 103.2m in 2013 14 0% Group Operating Profit Budget of 113.8m in 2014 15 65% Actual Group operating profit for the year ended 27 June 2015 was 114.7m.
In accordance with the committees procedures, a formal end of year quality of profit and budget was undertaken.
As a result, an adjustment was made to the Group operating profit to include the 4.9m impairment charge for performance related remuneration purposes.
The actual Group operating profit used to determine performance related bonus was 109.8m resulting in a payout of 40.5% of salary, equivalent to 65% of the maximum payout under this measure.
Cashflow For Group cashflow defined as net debt after adding back restricted cash, the target for the 2014 15 financial year was 250.3m.
Actual net debt after adding back restricted cash was 244.7m 2014: 260.0m resulting in the maximum payout of 10%.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 78 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic KPIs For the 25% of performance-related bonus attributable to strategic KPIs, the following objectives were set for both executive directors: Progress towards the 100m bus operating profit target for 2015 16, evidenced by revenue growth of 3% on budget performance for 2014 15 and progress on cost efficiency plans leading to 9m cost reduction target by 2015 16 Address any under performance in acquisitions from 2009 with a strategic view Explore growth opportunities in the bus division either though an acquisition or contract bidding Ensure operational performance is maintained at all train operating companies and continue to work collaboratively with Network Rail to improve their performance Ensure that the mobilisation process for the new rail franchise allows for a smooth transition to GTR.
Deliver committed obligations for GTR, set up appropriate governance and recruit top team.
Prepare for the assimilation of Southern in July 2015.
Meet corporate plan targets Secure extensions to Southeastern and London Midland on the right terms.
Bid for UK franchise contracts at Northern and TransPennine Express.
Bid for international contracts As a consequence of GTR, strategically plan the incorporation of synergies in both rail and Group Ensure that the Groups core values of trust and transparency and achieving the highest levels of corporate governance are maintained and recognised Ensure that Go-Aheads reputation is enhanced with key stakeholders and that the role that private operators can bring to the provision of public services is recognised Ensure that succession plans are in place for all directors across the businesses.
Continue with people development plans including staff engagement across the Group Ensure customers are satisfied with our services.
For Rail, measured through overall passenger satisfaction National Rail Passenger Survey, target of an average of 80%.
For Bus, as measured by passenger satisfaction levels from Passenger Focus target 90% Ensure that investor confidence in Go-Ahead is enhanced and that market expectations are managed and aligned The committee reviewed in detail all objectives which had been set at the start of the financial year.
Each objective, which had been individually weighted, was measured before the committee concluded that 19.1% of the 25% overall award had been achieved.
Health and safety target threshold The annual performance related bonus includes an underpin that enables the committee to use its discretion to scale back the bonus earned should there be a major safety event or a deterioration in health and safety performance.
The committee concluded that bonus payments should not be reduced.
Vesting of 2012 13 LTIP award The table below summarises the performance conditions for the 2012 13 LTIP award and the actual performance achieved.
This award was subject to performance conditions measured over three financial years ending with the end of the 2014 15 financial period.
As shown below, the adjusted EPS growth target 50% weighting and relative TSR target 40% weighting were fully achieved.
The long term strategic target 10% weighting was also achieved in full upon satisfying the following objectives: Improve the pre qualification submissions for preferred bidder status in our targeted franchises Ensure we had the highest probability of winning further rail franchises, in particular GTR, to replace the predicted loss of rail profits whilst fully understanding the risk and reward mechanism in the new style franchises Reduce the requirement for rail profit from new franchises, by improving bus profits, through a combination of organic growth, acquisitions and cost efficiencies % of EPS and Compound annual Relative TSR vs FTSE 250 Long term TSR elements vesting growth in EPS excluding certain sectors strategic targets Weighting % of award 50% 40% 10% Below threshold 0% Less than RPI 2% p. a.
Below median Threshold 25% RPI 2% p. a.
Median Between threshold and maximum 25% to 100% RPI 2% p. a. to RPI 6% Between median and upper p. a. quartile Maximum 100% RPI 6% p. a. or more At or above upper quartile Performance achieved Adjusted EPS of 150.8p.
31st out of 127 companies See commentary above From a base of 141.9p this is equivalent to growth of RPI 8.4% p. a.
Actual % vesting 50% 40% 10% The values of the LTIP awards are shown in the executive directors remuneration table on page 78.
These include the share value of the long term incentives and a cash value equivalent of the gross cumulative dividend payment which would have been payable between the date of award and the date the shares are acquired.
For the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director the share values amount to 970,823 and 621,324 respectively based on the average market share price in the last quarter of 2014 15 of 25.78.
These values have been estimated as the awards will not actually vest until shortly after the 2015 AGM.
The cash equivalent value of the gross cumulative dividend payment equates to 96,216 for the Group Chief Executive and 61,578 for the Group Finance Director.
Pension allowance The Group Finance Director only receives a non-pensionable cash supplement of 13% of his base salary.
The Group Chief Executive does not receive any form of pension provision from the Group.
com 79 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 2014 15 LTIP AWARDS GRANTED DURING THE YEAR ENDED 27 JUNE 2015 AUDITED As reported in the annual report last year, LTIP awards were granted to the executive directors during the year ended 27 June 2015.
These were structured as nil-cost options, which are exercisable at the end of a three year performance period commencing with the start of the 2014 15 financial period and ending with the 2016 17 financial period, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
The 2014 15 grant policy was to grant awards with a face value of 100% of salary as follows: 1 2 Basis of Share price Number of shares over Face value of award Vesting determined Executive director award granted at grant date which award was granted 000 by performance over David Brown 100% of salary 25.03 21,335 534 Three financial years ending on 1 July 2017 Keith Down 100% of salary 25.03 13,661 342 1 The number of shares over which the award was granted was calculated using a share price of 24.52, this being the average closing mid-market price of a Go-Ahead share during the four week period immediately prior to the date of grant in accordance with the Plan rules.
2 The face value of the award has been calculated based on the share price of 25.03 at date of grant.
The performance conditions attaching to the 2014 15 LTIP awards were as follows: Payout Compound annual Relative TSR vs FTSE 250 Group operating % of each element growth in EPS excluding certain sectors company profit Weighting % of total award 30% 30% 40% Below threshold 0% Less than RPI 2% p. a.
Below median Achievement of long term strategic targets, as assessed by the committee, is described below Threshold 25% RPI 2% p. a.
Median Between threshold and Between 25% Between RPI 2% p. a.
Between median and maximum and 100% and RPI 8% p. a. upper quartile Maximum 100% RPI 8% p. a.
Upper quartile The Group operating profit target applying to 40% of the LTIP award will be payable on a sliding scale between the threshold and maximum targets.
No element of the award will vest unless Group operating profit has increased from the Groups operating profit for the year ended 28 June 2014 by at least 25% over three financial years.
At threshold, 20% will vest if operating profit measured in the year ending in June 2017 has grown by 25%.
At maximum, 40% will vest if operating profit has grown by 50%.
A sliding scale applies for growth between 25% and 50%.
The above targets would be adjusted should there be any changes to current accounting policies.
Awards will continue to vest three years after grant, subject to the performance conditions being met over broadly the same period.
PAYMENTS TO FORMER DIRECTORS AND PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE AUDITED There were no payments made to former executive directors and no payments for loss of office were made during the year ended 27 June 2015.
SHARE INCENTIVE PLAN SIP During the year, executive directors participated in The Go-Ahead Group plc SIP on the same terms as other employees.
The SIP is an HMRC approved plan open to all staff permanently employed by a participating company and who have completed at least six months continuous service at the date of application.
Participants may contribute up to a maximum of 150 per month or 10% of pre-tax salary if less which the Trustee of the SIP uses to buy partnership shares on their behalf.
Deductions are made from an employees gross income so no income tax or National Insurance will be payable provided the shares are held in trust for up to five years.
SHARESAVE SCHEME During the year, executive directors participated in The Go-Ahead Group Plc Savings-Related Share Option Scheme Sharesave, launched in February 2014.
At this time, all permanent employees who had completed at least six months continuous service with a participating company were invited to make monthly savings of between 5 and 50 for three years.
At the end of the savings term, participants have the choice of their money back, or Go-Ahead Group shares at a 20% discount to the market price set at the date of invitation.
SOURCING OF SHARES AND DILUTION Awards under all the Groups share schemes are satisfied by market purchases of shares.
Further details can be found in shareholder information on pages 153 to 154.
PENSION AND OTHER BENEFITS The Group Chief Executive had no specific pension entitlement.
The Group Finance Director receives a non-pensionable cash alternative to pension contributions of 13% of his salary.
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES Fee levels for the non-executive directors were reviewed on 1 April 2015 and increased by 1.8%.
000 p. a. Andrew Allner 172 169 1 Katherine Innes Ker 52 51 Nick Horler 47 46 1 Adrian Ewer 52 51 1 Additional fees of 5,000 payable to Katherine Innes Ker and Adrian Ewer for chairing the remuneration and audit committees respectively.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 80 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION AUDITED The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each non-executive director for the year ended 27 June 2015 and the prior year: Single total remuneration figure 000 p. a. Andrew Allner 2015 170 2014 166 Katherine Innes Ker 2015 52 2014 50 Nick Horler 2015 46 2014 45 Adrian Ewer 2015 52 2014 50 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AND SHARE INTERESTS SHAREHOLDING REQUIREMENTS The remuneration committee believes that the interests of the executive directors should be closely aligned with those of shareholders over the long term.
Executive directors are required to retain 50% of the post-tax gain on vested LTIP and deferred share awards until such time as they achieve a holding of 100% of salary.
Shares that count to this requirement are limited to shares beneficially held by the director, their spouses or dependent children.
During the year, in consultation with major shareholders, the level of the guidelines was reviewed and from the 2015 16 year, the Group Chief Executives share ownership guidelines will increase to 150% of salary.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AUDITED Details of the interests of the executive directors in shares and long term incentive interests are set out in the table below, together with the extent to which each of the executive directors has complied with the guidelines as at 27 June 2015.
At this date, the Group Chief Executive beneficially held 21,677 shares.
Based on the closing share price on 27 June 2015, this equates to108% of base salary.
The Group Finance Director beneficially held 13,322 shares, equating to 95% of base salary.
The vesting of the 2012 13 LTIP awards and the 2012 deferred share bonus award in November 2015 would result in post tax indicative holdings of the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director increasing to 226% and 202% respectively.
Sharesave options Shareholding Shareholder without Shareholder as a % requirement DSBP awards subject LTIP awards subject to performance 1 Legally owned requirement of salary met to deferral conditions performance conditions conditions Vested Vested Executive but not but not 2 2 3 Director 27.06.15 28.06.14 27.06.15 Unvested Vested Lapsed exercised Unvested Vested Lapsed exercised David 21,677 6,586 100% 108% Yes 28,694 51,797 28,670 37,658 103 Brown Keith 13,322 3,639 100% 95% No 18,369 33,157 18,348 24,101 103 4 Down 1 Shareholding as a % of salary includes only shares held beneficially by the director, their spouse or children.
Unvested deferred shares or LTIP awards have not been included.
Shareholding is based on the closing share price on 27 June 2015.
2 Excludes DSBP shares and LTIP awards which will be granted in November 2015 for the year ended 27 June 2015.
The value of deferred share awards granted in respect of the year ended 27 June 2015 is shown in the executive directors remuneration table on page 78.
3 Relates to the 2012 13 LTIP awards which have vested in respect of performance for the year ended 27 June 2015 and which will be exercised shortly after the 2015 AGM, in November 2015, the value of which is shown in the executive directors remuneration table on page 78.
4 In accordance with policy, 12,826 of the unvested DSBP awards for the Group Finance Director will lapse upon cessation of employment at the end of the calendar year.
The remaining 5,543 will vest as normal in November 2015 having been held for a period of three years.
The 33,157 unvested LTIP awards for the Group Finance Director will also lapse in full.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AUDITED Non-executive directors are not subject to a shareholding requirement.
The shareholdings of each non-executive director is as follows: As at 27 June 2015 As at 28 June 2014 Andrew Allner 742 742 Katherine Innes Ker Nick Horler Adrian Ewer 138 140 There have been no changes in the current executive and non-executive directors interests in shares in the Group between the end of the financial year and 2 September 2015. www.
com 81 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REMUNERATION The table below shows the percentage change in the Group Chief Executives total remuneration between the financial years 28 June 2014 and 27 June 2015, compared to the average change for all employees of the Group.
% change from 2014 to 2015 Salary Benefits Bonus Group Chief Executive 1.8 40.0 27.2 Average employees 2.5 0.8 THE RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The following table sets out the percentage change in dividends and overall spend on pay in the financial year being reported on, compared to that of the previous year.
2014 15 2013 14 m m % change Dividends 36.7 34.7 5.8 Overall expenditure on pay 1,079.6 929.2 16.2 The Group has not made any other significant distributions and payments or other uses of profit or cashflow deemed by the directors to assist in understanding the relative importance of spend on pay.
MATERIAL CONTRACTS There have been no other contracts or arrangements during the financial year in which a director of the Group was materially interested and or which were significant in relation to the Groups business.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR PERFORMANCE GRAPH The graph below shows a comparison of The Go-Ahead Group plc cumulative TSR against that achieved by the FTSE 250 Index for the last six financial years to 27 June 2015.
In assessing the performance of the Groups TSR, the Board believes the FTSE 250 index comparator group it has chosen represents an appropriate and fair benchmark upon which to measure the Groups performance for this purpose.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN REBASED TO 100 300 250 200 150 100 50 27 06 2009 03 07 2010 02 07 2011 30 06 2012 29 06 2013 28 06 2014 27 06 2015 The Go-Ahead Group plc FTSE 250 Index Peer Group average return This graph shows the value by 27 June 2015 of 100 invested in The Go-Ahead Group plc on 27 June 2009 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 index and our peer group over the same period.
The other points plotted are the same values at intervening financial year ends.
The table overleaf shows the total remuneration figure for the Group Chief Executive over the same six year period.
The total remuneration figure includes the performance related bonus and LTIP awards and the percentage of the maximum opportunity that these represent.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 82 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION COMPARISON Annual performance related bonus Long term incentive vesting actual award v maximum vesting v maximum Single total opportunity opportunity figure of remuneration Year Group Chief Executive 000 000 and % vesting 000 and % vesting 1 2014 15 David Brown 2,163 558 69.6% 1,067 100.0% 2 2013 14 David Brown 1,960 766 97.5% 666 80.0% 2012 13 David Brown 942 422 55.3% 2011 12 David Brown 1,022 513 68.0% 3 2010 11 David Brown 251 125 100.0% 2010 11 Keith Ludeman 1,564 530 100.0% 2009 10 Keith Ludeman 1,349 689 100.0% 73 21.7% 1 The single figure of total remuneration for 2014 15 includes the vesting of the 2012 13 LTIP award.
2 The single figure of total remuneration for 2013 14 includes the vesting of the 2011 12 LTIP award.
David Brown was granted LTIP awards for the first time in October 2011 following his appointment in April 2011 and hence this is the first opportunity that LTIP awards have been eligible to vest.
3 Following his appointment in April 2011, David Brown was paid a pro-rata performance-related bonus for the financial year 2010 11.
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR THE YEAR ENDING 2 JULY 2016 This policy will apply to any remuneration paid on or after the Groups AGM on 22 October 2015.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS BASE SALARIES The base salaries of the executive directors were reviewed with effect from 1 April 2015 and are 541,800 and 380,000 for the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director respectively.
These will remain unchanged until the annual salary review is undertaken on 1 April 2016.
BENEFITS The benefits for both executive directors will remain consistent with those detailed in the remuneration policy section on page 72.
PENSION The current pension arrangements described on page 80 will remain in place for the forthcoming financial year.
PERFORMANCE-RELATED BONUS The performance-related bonus for 2015 16 will operate on a similar basis as in 2014 15 and will be consistent with the policy detailed in the remuneration policy section of this report in terms of the maximum bonus opportunity and performance conditions.
The incumbent Group Finance Director will not be entitled to any pro-rata performance related bonus for 2015 16.
In the table below, we disclose the executive directors performance-related targets for the year ending 2 July 2016: Metric Weighting % of maximum bonus Group operating profit 65% see below Group cashflow 10% see below Strategic KPIs 25% see below Group operating profit The Group operating target for the 2015 16 financial year will be 2015 16 Corporate Plan operating profit budget with payout on a sliding scale from the final 2014 15 operating profit.
Measure Target Payout % of salary Actual 2015 16 Group operating profit Group operating profit in 2014 15 0% Group operating profit budget in 2015 16 65% Cashflow For Group cashflow, the target for the 2015 16 financial year will be adjusted net debt after adding back restricted cash in accordance with the Corporate Plan.
For Group operating profit and cashflow metrics, the maximum bonus opportunity requires performance to be in line with the Groups budget for 2015 16.
The committee believes that to achieve budget, which is considered to be very stretching, would be a significant performance and deserve payment of maximum bonus.
Group operating profit must exceed that in 2014 15 before any element of the Group operating profit measure can vest.
Vesting will be on a straight line basis between these two points.
Any bonus payable would be satisfied 50% in cash and 50% in deferred shares and all bonus is subject to recovery and withholding provisions.
Strategic KPIs For strategic KPIs, the target for the 2015 16 financial year includes a number of non-financial strategic and personal objectives over the course of the year.
These objectives reflect the individual roles of the executive directors in achieving the Groups strategy and cover both bus and rail divisions and the Group as a whole.
The individual targets include short term strategy, people and investors, in addition to personal objectives.
Targets will be stretching, and more information on the specific targets and performance against them will be provided retrospectively in next years remuneration report to the extent that they do not remain commercially sensitive at the time.
A health and safety target threshold will continue to apply to the full bonus, with the remuneration committee having discretion to reduce bonus payments potentially to zero should it be considered appropriate.
Recovery and holding provisions will apply to the full performance-related bonus and the audit committee will undertake a formal end-of-year quality of profit and budget review in conjunction with the auditor.
com 83 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED LTIP AWARDS Subject to approval at the 2015 AGM, LTIP awards from the 2015 16 financial year will be granted under the new LTIP.
The incumbent Group Finance Director will not receive an award as he will leave the Group shortly after the awards will be granted.
The new LTIP will have standard terms, allowing the grant of conditional awards, nil cost options and forfeitable shares.
Dividend equivalents will be paid on vested shares up to the end of the holding period.
The new LTIP will comply with the 5% and 10% in 10 years dilution limits and best practice with regard to leavers and on a change of control.
Full details will be contained in the Notice of AGM.
LTIP awards granted in the 2015 16 financial year will continue to operate under the same EPS and TSR principles subject to the following changes: The EPS and TSR elements of the award will account for 40% each previously 30% each The EPS target and threshold have been raised and the amount of award gained at threshold reduced to reflect the impact of the GTR franchise and Southeastern direct award contract A customer satisfaction target of 20% split equally between rail and bus will replace the Group operating profit target For the year commencing 28 June 2015, the LTIP award for the Group Chief Executive will have a face value of 150% of salary.
The performance measures and targets for awards to be made in 2015 16 are detailed below: EPS Payout Compound annual Payout Relative TSR vs FTSE 250 Customer % of element growth in EPS % of TSR element excluding certain sectors satisfaction targets Weighting % of total award 40% 40% 20% Below threshold 0% Less than RPI 5% p. a.
0% Below median See below Threshold 10% RPI 5% p. a.
25% Median Between threshold Between 10% Between RPI 5% p. a.
Between 25% Between median and and maximum and 100% and RPI 13% p. a. and 100% upper quartile Maximum 100% RPI 13% p. a.
100% Upper quartile The customer satisfaction target will be as measured by the independent passenger watchdog Transport Focus formerly Passenger Focus and published in the annual report.
This is a key operating performance measure for Go-Ahead.
It is a strategic priority for the Group to provide high quality service and customer satisfaction is a critical measure of our performance.
It influences our ability to retain franchises and to win new ones and ensuring management is focused on this strategic measure is critically important therefore as a driver of long term shareholder value.
For the rail customer service targets, there has been a decline over the last three years from 82% in 2012 to 76% in 2015 in the blended Transport Focus National Rail Passenger Survey NRPS for the three train operating companies.
GTR is a new franchise to the Group and was not included in these results before Spring 2015.
The benchmark for the train operating companies will be the London and South East Sector NRPS score which consists of 12 franchises that serve the region and run into London.
The threshold for the performance measure will be the current London and South East Sector NPRS of 78%.
The target will be to increase it to 82% over the three year performance period.
For the bus customer service targets, the threshold will be to maintain the 2015 Bus National Passenger Survey National Passenger Survey NPS score of 90% which is already high and at an industry leading level.
The target will be in increase the NPS score to 93% over the three year performance period.
Payout % of each element Rail Customer Service Target Bus Customer Service Target Weighting 10% 10% Below Threshold 0% Less than 78% Less than 90% Threshold 10% 78% 90% Between Threshold and Max Between 10% and 100% Between 78% and 82% Between 90% and 93% Maximum 100% 82% 93% There is an additional profit threshold for the customer service target which is that EPS growth over the three year period must be greater than RPI 5% before any of the customer service element of award can vest.
The above EPS targets are based on current accounting policies and will be adjusted should there be any changes to these policies.
We have taken the opportunity to bring our clawback provisions in line with best practice, by extending the recovery and withholding provisions to include both the performance-related bonus and LTIP.
Awards granted under the new LTIP will also be subject to an additional two-year holding period following the vesting of awards.
During this period vested awards may not be sold other than to pay any tax or NICs due on exercise.
This will result in an overall five-year period before executives can realise the gain on their vested shares.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FEES The non-executive directors fees were reviewed on 1 April 2015 as stated in the table on page 80.
These will remain unchanged until the next annual fee review is undertaken on 1 April 2016.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 84 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information APPENDICES OUTSTANDING LTIP AWARDS AUDITED Balance post At Granted Exercised Lapsed Balance at Awards that vested in 2014 15 exercise in Share price 28 June 2014 during the year during the year during the year 27 June 2015 and exercised in 2015 16 2014 15 at the date of Award date award No.
NOVEMBER 2014 AWARDS The performance conditions attaching to the November 2014 awards are measured over the three financial years ending with the 2016 17 financial period.
Details of the performance conditions relating to this award can be found on page 80.
OCTOBER 2013 AWARDS The performance conditions attaching to the October 2013 awards are measured over the three financial years ending with the 2015 16 financial period.
Details of the performance conditions relating to this award can be found on page 71 of the 2013 annual report.
NOVEMBER 2012 AWARDS Details of the performance targets to which the 2012 LTIP award relates together with actual vesting against those targets are set out on page 79.
For and on behalf of the Board Katherine Innes Ker, Remuneration Committee Chair 2 September 2015 www.
