Strategic report Governance Financials 55 Dear ShareholDer InDex to the report Remuneration This Directors Remuneration report sets out details of our remuneration policy, describes how the policy will be Committee Chairmans 55 Committee implemented for the year ahead, and Annual Statement discloses the amounts paid to our Executive Summary of Remuneration Policy 57 and Non-Executive Directors for the year report ended 30 September 2015.
Annual Report on Remuneration 62 1 Single total figure of 62 What is in this report?
remuneration for each Director Our remuneration policy received binding 2014 & 2015 Shareholder approval at the 2014 Annual General Meeting and the policy took 2 Annual Bonus awards 64 performance assessment for formal effect from the date of approval.
2015 The Committee is satisfied that the policy remains fit for purpose and it is 3 LTIS awards performance 65 currently intended that it will cover the assessment for 2015 full three-year period to the 2017 Annual 4 Share scheme interests 66 I am pleased to present General Meeting.
To maximise clarity awarded during the year and transparency, for reference, we have on behalf of the Board, for 5 Payments to past Directors 66 republished our remuneration policy the first time as Graingers report in an abridged form pages 57 to 61.
This report also includes an Annual 6 Payments for loss of office 66 Remuneration Committee Report on Remuneration pages 62 to 73 Chairman, the 2015 which describes how the remuneration 7 Directors shareholding 67 policy was implemented for the year ended Directors Remuneration and share interests 30 September 2015 and how we intend report.
8 Performance graph and table 69 to apply the policy for 2016.
The Annual total shareholder return Report together with this annual statement will be put to an advisory Shareholder vote 9 Chief Executive single figure 70 at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
Belinda Richards 10 Percentage change in 70 Alignment of remuneration Committee Chairman remuneration of Chief withstrategy Executive and employees The Committees overarching aim in 11 Relative importance of spend 70 designing the remuneration policy is to on pay promote the long-term success of the Company.
To achieve this aim the policy 12 Statement of implementation 71 seeks to closely align remuneration with the of Remuneration Policy for 2016 Companys strategic objectives, to build a sustainable performance culture, to reward 13 Directors Service Agreements 72 outperformance of expectations and to and Letters of Appointment align the interests of our management 14 Details of Remuneration 72 team with those of our Shareholders.
Committee, advisers to the Committee and their fees 15 Statement of voting at 73 general meeting 56 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Governance GoveRnAnce continued The packages of our Executive Directors Exactly in accordance with the contractual With regards to the awards granted in are made up of base salary, benefits provisions specified in Executive Directors 2012, these are due to vest in December and pension, and, subject to stretching service agreements and having reference to 2015, with 50% of the award based on performance conditions, an annual bonus the Companys agreed policy for departing NNNAV performance measured over the and Long-Term Incentive Scheme LTIS.
Executive Directors, Andrew Cunningham three-year period to 30 September 2015 Performance conditions are made up of and Mark Greenwood were not eligible and 50% of the award based on absolute a combination of corporate and personal for a bonus in 2015 having given notice to total shareholder return performance objectives derived from the Companys key the Company during the financial year to measured over the three-year period to performance indicators and participants are terminate their employment in connection 10 December 2015.
Total shareholder only rewarded in the event that strategic with their retirement.
Grainger currently return is currently forecast to show an objectives are successfully delivered.
applies a similar policy to all staff whereby annual compound increase in the region During the year, in line with best practice, no annual cash bonus will be payable in of 33% and NNNAV increased by 68% robust withholding and recovery provisions circumstances where notice has been against the 23% increase in the Halifax were approved by the Committee and will given by an employee to the Company to and Nationwide Home Price Indices.
apply to both the annual bonus and LTIS terminate his or her employment within the The NNNAV performance achieved described on page 72 and, in addition, relevant financial year.
was slightly less than the maximum shareholding guidelines will continue Nick Jopling earned a bonus at 56% performance requirement included in to apply.
of his salary and 45% of the maximum.
the conditions and, based on current Bonus at this level was payable as a result of forecasts, absolute total shareholder return 2015 performance and reward delivering OPBVM of 101.9m marginally performance is set to exceed the maximum Aligned with our core objective of ahead of the budget set at the start of performance requirement.
Therefore, based generating Shareholder returns through the year and ROSE of 10%.
In addition, on current forecasts, 98% of awards look the active management of our assets, the a number of key personal performance set to vest overall.
This level of forecast majority of our annual bonus is subject targets were delivered during the year.
vesting is consistent with the strong to a combination of OPBVM and ROSE Details of the Committees assessment performance of the Company to date targets.
These metrics combine to ensure of performance against the targets are under the relevant portions of the threethat Executive Directors are focused on set out in detail in the Annual Report on year performance periods.
driving profit from our day-to-day activities Remuneration on page 64.
In light of this at the same time as maximising the value Implementation of policy for 2016 performance achieved, the Committee of our underlying assets.
In addition, a The base salary of Nick Jopling, will be was comfortable with the bonus outminority of our bonus opportunity is earned increased by 3% with effect from 1 January turn payable.
based on how well our Executive Directors 2016, in line with the level of increase LTIS awards are subject to performance perform against a broader scorecard of our awarded to the Companys workforce more targets that are also aligned with delivering key performance metrics which include generally.
No increases in salary will be long-term sustainable returns for our targets relating to: i retaining our leading awarded to Andrew Cunningham or Mark Shareholders.
Performance targets are position in the residential property market: Greenwood in light of their forthcoming based on NNNAV and absolute total ii achieving an appropriate balance in our retirements from the Board.
With regards to the revenue generating opportunities: and iii Other than the introduction of awards granted in 2011 under the LTIS, the optimisation of our capital structure withholding and recovery provisions in the these vested in full in December 2014. and gearing.
annual bonus and LTIS for financial year This reflected the strong performance 2015 awards, no other changes will apply ofthe Company over the relevant threein how we operate our policy for the 2016 year performance period for the award financial year.
with total shareholder return showing an annual compound increase of 28% and NNNAV increasing by 58% against the 14% increase in the Halifax and Nationwide Home Price Indices.
In both cases, the performance achieved exceeded the maximum performance requirement included in the conditions.
