OUR GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Our approach to REMUNERATION COMMITTEE remuneration supports a strong focus on CHAIRMANS LETTER performance and reflects the nature of our business.
DEAR SHAREHOLDERS Remuneration Policy is available on the corporate governance section of the Halfords website www.
On behalf of the Remuneration halfordscompany.
com and, for ease of reference, Committee, I am pleased to is also summarised on pages 58 to 61. present the Remuneration Report REMUNERATION STRUCTURE AND for the financial period ended 104,000 PHILOSOPHY 3 April 2015.
We Fits The Remuneration structure is comprised of the The Report has been prepared in line with the new IN ONE WEEK following elements: UK Reporting Regulations that came into force in 2013 and consists of three sections: Fixed pay base salary, benefits and pension: and This Annual Statement: Variable pay annual cash bonus and Our Policy Report, which sets out the 00% 8.9m Performance Share Plan.
Directors Remuneration Policy for all Directors KEY FACT LITRES OF of Halfords: and Our approach to remuneration supports a strong focus on performance and reflects the nature SCREENWASH Our Annual Report on Remuneration, which of our business.
Our remuneration philosophy FY15 sets out the details of how the Companys is aimed at providing Executive Directors with Directors were paid during FY15 and how incentive opportunities strongly aligned to growth, our policy will be implemented in FY16.
The profitability and shareholder returns.
Annual Report on Remuneration is subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2015 AGM.
REMUNERATION POLICY The Committee was pleased that shareholders approved our Remuneration Policy at the AGM that took place on 29 July 2014.
There are no proposals to amend the policy at this time and it is intended to continue until 2017.
The Groups full Getting Into Gear 56 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 3 April 2015 23744-04 PROOF DOCUMENT SHELL 09-02-2015 STRATEGIC OUR FINANCIAL SHAREHOLDER REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION following Matt Davies resignation and, ultimately, PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN PSP To ensure that the interests of the Executive approved the package offered to his successor, Jill McDonald.
Directors continue to align with the delivery of the strategy, the Committee again determined that the The Committee also approved the addition performance measure for the FY15 PSP would be of malus and clawback provisions within the based on 75% Group EBITDA growth and 25% FY16 Executive Bonus and Deferred Bonus Group Revenue Growth.
schemes and, as mentioned above, approved the introduction of clawback provisions into the new The rules for the current PSP expire this year, having been in place for 10 years.
The Committee PSP rules, alongside existing malus provisions.
In each case, these provisions give the Committee has considered and approved new rules for the PSP, which will be placed before members for the ability to reduce awards prior to vesting or require repayment of awards that have vested or their approval at the 2015 AGM.
We took this opportunity to introduce clawback provisions into been paid in certain circumstances.
the plan, alongside existing malus provisions.
CONCLUDING REMARKS At the forthcoming AGM, shareholders will be SAVE AS YOU EARN SCHEME SAYE provided with two separate votes relating to The Committee believes that encouraging remuneration matters: colleagues to own shares in the business encourages them to think like an owner in their 1.
Vote on the 2015 Annual Report on dealings with customers and colleagues, which Remuneration in line with the Regulations: this is why the Committee doubled the monthly sum is an advisory vote: and that colleagues are permitted to save from 250 2.
Approval of the new rules of the Halfords to 500.
Share ownership is another factor that PSP following the expiry of the current PSP makes Halfords a great place to work, as it drives Scheme.
At the last AGM, members approved the renewal of a I hope that you will find the report clear, UK SAYE Scheme, which led to the adoption transparent and informative.
The Committee has of new rules for the UK SAYE.
Members also sought to set a remuneration environment that approved measures to allow overseas colleagues strongly aligns the commercial direction of the to participate in similar SAYE schemes.
Group with the interests of shareholders, whilst reflecting best practice developments and market INCENTIVE REMUNERATION REVIEW trends.
I look forward to your support at the The Committee approved a 2% salary increase Companys AGM.
for Executive Directors, mirroring that awarded to colleagues throughout the Support Centre Yours faithfully in the October 2014 pay review.
Executive Claudia Arney Directors earned bonuses of 94.0% of their Chairman of the Remuneration Committee maximum FY15 opportunity FY14 97.5%.
The 4 June 2015 Committee determined that this level of bonus was appropriate, reflecting the strong PBT result and compelling performance against key strategic objectives during the financial year.
Matt Davies resigned as Chief Executive Officer with effect from 30 April 2015.
His termination arrangements were consistent with the approved Remuneration Policy.
Further details are provided at appropriate places throughout the Annual Remuneration Report.
The Committee recommended to the Board a potential CEO remuneration package, as the Group searched for a replacement CEO STOCK CODE: HFD 57 halfords.
