HIKMA PHARMACEUTICALS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Remuneration report Letter from the Chair Aligning remuneration to Group success The journey over the last few years has built more systems and processes to support, but not deviate from, that vision of family.
Having completed that programme, this Dear Shareholders year has been one of minimal change in remuneration This is my final letter to you as Chair of the Remuneration practice, largely focusing on embedding the policies Committee.
Over the past year I have spent a significant that we have.
amount of time with Dr Pamela Kirby who will be taking the Chair from the AGM.
She is very experienced in Performance remuneration remains a very important remuneration matters and is now fully inducted part of the way that we incentivise and motivate all into Hikma.
I wish her every success in taking our employees.
It builds on our philosophy of providing the Committee forward.
a salary to ensure stability, but for the growth of our people and our Company we have to provide the Looking back over my tenure, I am delighted with the opportunities to excel and recognise where that occurs.
progress that has been made from the listing of a private company in 2005 to joining the FTSE 100 in early 2015.
I would like to add a personal note of thanks to This has been a period of immense development and Marcus Peaker of PwC.
His well-considered, practical growth, particularly in terms of our remuneration policy, and measured approach has been a steady guide during human resources practices and our people strategy.
Sadly, as PwC become our auditor Hikma has always treated its people as members of a in 2016, we must say good bye to Marcus.
We have family, providing the important elements of stability and conducted a review of remuneration advisers and I am an environment in which people can flourish.
The journey pleased to welcome Willis Towers Watson to the team.
over the last few years has built more systems and As an organisation, Hikma is committed to clear and processes to support, but not deviate from, that vision open communication.
I have always been available of family.
I feel privileged to have been on that journey.
to shareholders to raise matters directly and I remain Over the past few years we have undertaken significant open to discussion with shareholders should there work to develop our remuneration policy to ensure it be any matters that they wish to raise directly.
is fit for purpose for a global FTSE 100 enterprise and supports the entrepreneurial and acquisitive strategy of the Group.
This has resulted in significant change and I would like to thank all of our shareholders for their Michael Ashton Chair of the Remuneration Committee 102
