Home Retail Group 44 Annual Report 2015 Directors remuneration report Chairs introduction executive directors.
There has been strong business performance during the three-year performance period to 28 February 2015.
Despite the Groups basic benchmark EPS reducing by 11% from the FY12 actual of 8.7p in the first year of the three-year performance period, it subsequently increased by 69% over the remaining two years to end the three-year performance period at 13.0p.
This resulted in an absolute three-year increase of 49% and a three-year Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR of 14%.
Over the same three-year period the share price increased by 94%.
Further details are provided on page 53.
Dear fellow shareholders, I am pleased to present the remuneration report for the year ended 28 February 2015.
Matters considered during the year The purpose of the Remuneration Committee is to ensure that the After considering the revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code, remuneration offered to our executive directors supports the strategic the committee undertook a review of the malus and claw-back provisions aims of the business by delivering strong business performance aligned applying to annual bonus and PSP awards.
Following this review, the with shareholder interests.
committee has developed an approach that will be applied from FY16 As detailed in last years report, the committee carried out a full to both annual bonus and PSP awards.
Information on this is provided review of executive remuneration during FY14 and formulated a revised on page 49.
Details will be provided should events occur that lead to policy which became effective from the Annual General Meeting AGM this policy being applied.
in July 2014, having received a 94.9% vote in favour.
During the year, the committee also considered other executive The committee is satisfied that this framework continues to be pay arrangements including, but not exclusively, the structure of FY16 appropriate for the coming year and as such no changes in respect of the arrangements and the base pay for the executive directors.
Based on policy report are being proposed this year.
Therefore, this years report their contribution to business performance during the year, both focuses on how the policy was implemented during FY15, and our executive directors have been awarded a 2% increase, which is in line approach for FY16, as set out on pages 45 to 53.
For completeness, the with the pay award for the broadbanded population which covers a full policy report, which will not be subject to a vote at the 2015 AGM, range of circa 3,500 roles, both management and non-management is also set out on pages 54 to 61. across the Group.
Further information is provided on page 48.
Link to strategy Engagement The strategy for the Group is set out in the strategic report on pages 5 During the year I contacted a number of major shareholders and and 6 and is focused on creating long-term value for our shareholders I am grateful for the input I received.
I hope that shareholders will by offering leadership in convenience and choice for customers in be supportive of the advisory resolution on the FY15 annual report an emerging digital age.
The Argos Transformation Plan, announced on remuneration.
I will be available at the AGM to answer any in October 2012, and the Homebase Productivity Plan, which was questions you may have.
announced in October 2014, are key to the delivery of this strategy.
The committee is satisfied that the framework set out in the policy report continues to support this strategy and the interests of our Cath Keers shareholders, by aligning incentives and the associated stretching targets Chair Remuneration Committee with the strategic plan.
The links to strategy that support specific elements of remuneration are set out in the policy report on pages 54 to 61.
Remuneration outcomes in FY15 Directors remuneration report for the year ended At the end of FY15, the committee reviewed performance against the 28 February 2015 targets for both benchmark profit before tax PBT and adjusted cash flow The directors remuneration report has been prepared in to determine annual bonus outcomes.
Performance achieved was 40.3% accordance with the relevant provisions of the Listing Rules and for benchmark PBT and 70.5% for adjusted cash flow.
This resulted in Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups a total bonus pay-out for executive directors of 72.0% of base salary Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
against the maximum opportunity of 130% of base salary.
In line with As last year, and in line with reporting regulations, this report policy, 75% of this total amount will be paid in cash and 25% deferred into is split into two sections: shares for three years.
Further details are provided on page 45, including The annual report on remuneration pages 45 to 53, which details of the threshold and maximum targets.
The committee is satisfied provides details on how directors were paid in FY15 and how that this level of bonus pay-out is reflective of the business performance we intend to implement the remuneration policy in FY16.
for FY15, which saw growth in benchmark PBT and another strongly This section of the report will be subject to an advisory cash-generative performance in respect of adjusted cash flow.
shareholder vote at the 2015 AGM.
The FY13 Performance Share Plan PSP awards granted in 2012 The policy report pages 54 to 61, which received a positive with three-year performance targets, exceeded threshold performance shareholder vote at the AGM on 2 July 2014.
It is intended that for both relative Total Shareholder Return TSR and basic benchmark this will last three years until the AGM in 2017 when a new Earnings Per Share EPS resulting in a total pay-out of 65.6% for policy will be presented for the shareholder approval.
Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation Annual Report 2015 45 3.
T erry Duddy stepped down from the Board on 14 March 2014 and the FY15 figures for Annual report on remuneration salary, benefits and pension reflect payments for this period.
In line with his contractual obligations, Terry Duddy continued to receive his base salary and benefits including This section provides information about the Remuneration Committee, pension supplement up to 2 July 2014 the date of the FY14 AGM and the value of how directors were paid in FY15 and how the committee intends to these payments is shown under Other.
implement the remuneration policy, as set out on pages 48 to 49, in FY16.
Notes to the single-figure table and remuneration outcomes The following directors were members of the committee during FY15: Benefits Cath Keers Chair Ian Durant Benefits include values relating to all-employee share schemes including John Coombe Jacqueline fide Rojas Save-As-You-Earn SAYE, private medical insurance, life assurance and Mike Darcey company car cash allowance.
The value of the SAYE benefit has been calculated as 250 x 20% x 12 to reflect the value of the share price At the invitation of the committee, John Walden, the Chief Executive discount which applies, based on directors saving the maximum amount from 14 March 2014, attended the meetings to give background over the course of the year.
The committee was also advised by John Walden was also provided with certain travel benefits, including Richard Ashton, Finance Director: Julie Elder, Human Resources Director: a cash allowance to cover certain flights to and from the US, and US private and Louise Baker, Head of Reward.
The secretary to the committee was health cover.
The benefits shown for Terry Duddy reflect the period until 14 March Deloitte LLP continued to act as advisors to the committee, having 2014 when he stepped down from the Board.
been appointed during FY14 following a competitive selection process.
During the year they have advised the committee on a number of executive FY15 annual bonus remuneration matters including, but not exclusively, developments Following the committees review of remuneration, the maximum annual in market practice and governance and reward benchmarking data.
Total bonus opportunity for executive directors in FY15 was reduced to 130% fees for advice provided to the committee during the year under review, on from 150% in previous years.
The payment of FY15 bonus was subject to a time-spent basis, amounted to 83,300.
Deloitte LLP are members of the the achievement of targets based on two equally-weighted measures: Remuneration Consultants Group and the committee is satisfied that their benchmark PBT and adjusted cash flow.
The table sets out the performance advice is independent.
Deloitte LLP also provided other services to Home achieved against each metric and corresponding bonus pay-out.
75% of Retail Group in relation to broader remuneration matters.
the bonus is paid in cash and 25% deferred into shares for three years in line The terms of reference of the committee can be found on the Groups with agreed policy.
The committee is satisfied that the financial performance of the Group The details over the following pages show the implementation of for FY15 and level of year-on-year growth in benchmark PBT and strongly policy, first looking back to FY15 and second looking forward to FY16.
cash-generative performance in respect of adjusted cash flow supports the payment of the bonuses described in the following table.
Executive directors single total figure of remuneration audited The following table sets out the single-figure for total remuneration for Benchmark Adjusted executive directors for FY15 and FY14.
J ohn Walden was appointed as Chief Executive with effect from 14 March 2014 and was not an executive director during FY14.
Terry Duddy did not receive any bonus in respect of time served during FY15.
I n addition to the LTIP shown above, in March and May 2012, upon the appointment of John Walden as Managing Director of Argos, the Company made an award under the terms of the companys PSP.
The awards were subject, in part, to performance conditions which were fully satisfied.
The first of these awards was released on the vesting date of 1 March 2015 and sufficient shares were sold to satisfy the tax and social security liabilities falling due on the release of these shares and to cover the incidental costs of disposal.
The value of this award, based on the share price at the vesting date and before the sale of shares mentioned, was 1,062,000.
Further details are provided on page 50.
Home Retail Group 46 Annual Report 2015 Directors remuneration report continued FY13 PSP awards performance tested in FY15 Total pension entitlements audited Performance conditions for executive directors for the FY13 PSP award Pension provision for both executive directors was provided in the form were based 60% on TSR and 40% on basic benchmark EPS targets.
of an annual cash allowance.
At the choice of the executive director, this The performance conditions were tested at the end of the three-year may be delivered in the form of either a cash allowance or as a payment performance period, 27 February 2015, and threshold performance into the Groups Defined Contribution scheme.
The allowances for the for both conditions was exceeded.
The level of performance for each Chief Executive and Finance Director are 30% of base salary and 25% condition and corresponding award is set out in the table below.
As well as TSR and basic benchmark EPS performance, the value of Until 30 April 2013, Richard Ashton accrued benefits under a awards in the single-figure table and in the table below are calculated non-contributory unapproved unfunded retirement benefit scheme for using a share price of 1.99 and include dividend-equivalent amounts.
The share price used is the average of the price for the three months Terry Duddy received a cash allowance for pension provision until preceding 28 February 2015.
Awards are released to participants on 14 March 2014.
See Other below for benefits post 14 March 2014.
The value at the date of release may be higher or lower than the amount stated depending on share price movements.
The annual Other audited report for FY16 will reflect the value of the FY13 award at date of vesting.
As set out above, in line with his contractual obligations and as disclosed The committee is satisfied that the business performance over the in the FY14 report, Terry Duddy continued to receive his base salary and three-year performance period supports the vesting of awards.
benefits including pension supplement from 14 March 2014, when he stepped down from the Board, up to 2 July 2014 the date of the FY14 Basic AGM.
The value of these payments is reflected under this heading in benchmark the single-figure table.
TSR EPS Total % weighting 60% 40% 100% Executive directors remuneration for FY15 The following section provides information about remuneration Maximum opportunity arrangements for executive directors during the year under review, FY15.
% of salary 150% 100% 250% All arrangements are in line with the policy report set out on pages 54 to 61.
50th Threshold 25% of element percentile 5% CAGR n a FY15 base salary As set out in the single-figure table, the base salary for John Walden, 90th Chief Executive, was 650,000 from the date of appointment, and for Maximum 100% of element percentile 10% CAGR n a Richard Ashton, Finance Director, was 480,000.
59th The base salary for the Chief Executive was set on appointment in line Performance achieved percentile 14% CAGR n a with our stated policy and at a level which reflected market practice in companies of similar size and complexity.
The base salary of the Finance Vesting % of maximum 42.7% 100.0% 65.6% Director was not increased during the year.
000 value John Walden, Chief Executive from FY15 pension entitlements 14 March 2014 563 880 1,443 As set out in the notes to the single-figure table, the executive directors continued to receive allowances in line with policy during FY15.
000 value Richard Ashton, Finance Director 820 1,279 2,099 FY15 annual bonus 1 The notes to the single-figure table describe the targets and outcome 000 value Terry Duddy, of the FY15 annual bonus.
A s set out in the FY14 report, Terry Duddy was afforded good leaver status by the committee.
The shares that will be released to him have been pro-rated to reflect his service during the performance period.
Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation Annual Report 2015 47 3.
C umulative adjusted cash flow was introduced as a measure for the FY15 awards to FY15 PSP award reflect the importance of cash generation in delivering our strategic plan.
The successful During FY15 the executive directors were granted PSP awards equivalent management of cash generation is important in supporting the Groups investment plans and future earnings growth.
to 200% of base salary, reduced from 250% in previous years.
FY15 awards were subject to performance targets that continued to C umulative adjusted cash flow is defined in a consistent manner to that utilised within the annual bonus scheme and is calculated as the Groups reported cash flow excluding support the delivery of the Groups strategic and growth ambitions, as well capital expenditure, shares issued or purchased including those acquired to fulfil as reflecting the continued focus on cash as part of the Groups strategy.
incentive scheme share awards, acquisitions or divestments, dividends paid to To support the latter, in addition to targets for TSR and basic benchmark shareholders, payments made to reduce the Groups defined benefit pension scheme deficit, increases or decreases in the Groups Financial Services loan book and cash flows EPS, a new target based on cumulative adjusted cash flow was introduced in respect of exceptional restructuring items.
F or FY15 awards, cumulative adjusted cash flow is measured over the three financial The following table sets out more detail on the performance measures, years FY15, FY16 and FY17.
Threshold vesting 25% of the element will require which will be assessed over the three financial years FY15, FY16 and FY17.
cumulative adjusted cash flow of 835m, with full vesting 100% of the element requiring cumulative adjusted cash flow of 1,030m.
Vesting occurs on a straight-line Each will vest on a straight-line basis between the relevant points: performance basis between these two points.
It is intended that the committee should have the discretion to adjust the target, on an exceptional basis only, for material factors that may otherwise distort performance in either direction to allow performance to be Basic Cumulative assessed against targets that have been set on a consistent basis.
Any use of discretion benchmark adjusted 1 2 3 TSR EPS cash flow to adjust performance targets or the assessment of performance will be disclosed to shareholders in the annual report on remuneration following the relevant year-end.
% of award 40% 30% 30% In accordance with the rules of the plan, the committee may determine Threshold to waive or change any performance condition in accordance with its terms 25% of element 50th percentile 7% CAGR 835m or if any significant corporate event occurs which causes the committee to reasonably consider it appropriate to do so.
Maximum The committee has the discretion to review any additional adjustments 100% of element 75th percentile 20% CAGR 1,030m at the time of vesting.
Notes: If the committee uses its discretion in relation to any performance 1.
T SR measures the growth in share price in a hypothetical shareholding assuming any targets, details will be provided of how the discretion was exercised and dividends received are reinvested for Home Retail Group compared to that of selected how the resulting level of award was determined in the annual report retail comparators across the performance period.
This provides a direct link between the remuneration of executive directors and the value generated for shareholders.
on remuneration following the relevant year-end.
F or the awards made in FY15, 25% of the award vests for TSR performance at the 50th percentile of the comparator group, with full vesting for TSR performance at the 75th percentile.
Vesting occurs on a straight-line performance basis between these two points.
Below 50th percentile performance no award will vest.
For these awards, TSR will be measured over the period of three consecutive financial years of the Group commencing 2 March 2014.
T he TSR comparator group was unchanged for FY15 at the point of making awards.
However, following the merger of Carphone Warehouse and Dixons Retail, the committee used its discretion to determine the appropriate method of assessment.
The comparator group for the TSR element of the FY15 award comprised: Debenhams: Dixons Carphone: Dunelm: Halfords: J Sainsbury: Kingfisher: Marks & Spencer: Morrisons: Mothercare: Next: Tesco: Topps Tiles: Travis Perkins: and WH Smith.
In the event of any further material changes to the comparator group, the committee will use its discretion to determine the appropriate method of assessment.
B asic benchmark EPS continues to be one of our key profit measures.
This measure reflects the profitability of the Group and therefore helps to align awards with growth in this key financial metric.
For the FY15 awards, growth rates will be measured over the three financial years FY15, FY16 and FY17 on a point-to-point basis.
T he committee continues to set stretching basic benchmark EPS growth targets which are aligned to our growth ambitions.
25% of this element of the award vests for basic benchmark EPS CAGR of 7%, with full vesting 100% of this element requiring CAGR of 20%.
Home Retail Group 48 Annual Report 2015 Directors remuneration report continued Executive directors implementation of our remuneration policy The committee continues to set stretching targets for the annual bonus for FY16 non-audited which support year-on-year improvement of Group financial performance.
The committee has applied the approved policy for FY16 as set out below: The threshold to maximum ranges around target recognise the year-onyear growth ambitions of the Group and have been set to continue to FY16 base salary incentivise executive directors to deliver the business performance In line with policy, salary increases for the wider employee group, as well expected by shareholders.
as relevant market data and individual performance, are taken into Due to the competitive nature of the retail sector, the targets for FY16 consideration when determining increases for the executive directors.
have not been disclosed in this report as they are considered by the Board Based on these considerations, the salaries for the Chief Executive and to be commercially sensitive information and as such could be damaging to Finance Director have been increased for FY16 in line with the increase the Groups and shareholders interests.
The committee will disclose for the broadbanded population across the Group which covers a range targets retrospectively in the FY16 annual report.
Details of targets in of roles, both management and non-management of c. 2%.
respect of the FY15 annual bonus are provided on page 45.
FY16 FY15 FY16 awards under the PSP 1 base salary base salary Increase As reflected in the policy and consistent with the approach taken in FY15, awards under the PSP for the executive directors will continue to be 200% John Walden, 2 of base salary.
Chief Executive 663,000 650,000 2% Given the strategy of the Group for FY16 and its KPIs as set out on Richard Ashton, page 11, the committee feels it appropriate to continue to structure PSP Finance Director 489,600 480,000 2% awards as set out in the table below.
The FY16 awards will continue to vest on a straight-line basis between the relevant points.
FY15 salary from date of appointment.
Basic Cumulative benchmark adjusted TSR EPS cash flow Pension entitlements % of award 40% 30% 30% Pension arrangements for the executive directors are unchanged from FY15.
Threshold FY16 annual bonus 25% of element 50th percentile 7% CAGR 860m As reflected in the agreed policy and consistent with the approach taken in FY15, the maximum annual bonus opportunity for executive directors Maximum will continue to be 130% of salary with 75% of any bonus payment paid 100% of element 75th percentile 20% CAGR 1,020m in cash and 25% deferred into shares for three years.
Given the strategy of the Group for FY16 and its key performance Further details of these measures are provided on the next page.
indicators KPIs as set out on page 11, the committee feels it appropriate to continue to structure bonuses with equally-weighted benchmark PBT and adjusted cash flow targets as set out in the following table: Benchmark Adjusted Metrics and weighting PBT cash flow Threshold to maximum 5m below 15m below as a range around target to 22.5m above to 35m above Weightings John Walden, Chief Executive 50% 50% Richard Ashton, Finance Director 50% 50% Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation Annual Report 2015 49 Non-executive directors single total figure of TSR remuneration audited The TSR comparator group for FY16 has been reviewed in light of the As outlined in the policy table on page 58, non-executive director merger of Dixon Retail and Carphone Warehouse.
The committee fees should be broadly in line with market levels, set to reflect the considered a number of options against an agreed set of criteria and responsibilities undertaken and sufficient to attract and retain highbased on this assessment both AO World and B&M Retail have been calibre non-executives.
included in the comparator group for FY16 awards.
The full comparator The following table sets out the single figure for total remuneration group is set out in the table below.
The targets are set out in the previous for non-executive directors for FY15 and FY14.
Non-executive directors table and all other aspects of the measurement and definition of TSR are did not receive any performance-related payments or benefits during unchanged from FY15.
AO World Dunelm Marks & Spencer Tesco 000 FY15 FY14 B&M Retail Halfords Morrisons Topps Tiles John Coombe 250 250 Debenhams J Sainsbury Mothercare Travis Perkins Mike Darcey 87 87 Dixons Carphone Kingfisher Next WH Smith Ian Durant 100 100 Cath Keers 92 92 Basic benchmark EPS The committee has reviewed the FY15 basic benchmark EPS growth targets Jacqueline fide Rojas 77 77 and is satisfied that they continue to be aligned to the growth ambitions of the Group and are stretching for the FY16 awards.
The fees shown above include the element used to purchase shares.
For the FY16 awards, growth rates will be measured over the three financial years FY16, FY17 and FY18 on a point-to-point basis.
The targets Non-executive directors arrangements for FY16 non-audited are set out in the table above and all other aspects of the measurement The table below provides information on the Groups forward-looking and the definition of basic benchmark EPS are unchanged from FY15.
arrangements for non-executive directors in relation to FY16.
Following a review in February 2015, fees will be held at their current Cumulative adjusted cash flow level for FY16.
The committee also reviewed the approach to the cumulative adjusted cash flow target.
The committee is satisfied that the target continues to Element of fee support the delivery of the cash generation needed to deliver the Groups Cash element to be used to 1 strategic plan.
000 of fee purchase shares Total For FY16 awards, cumulative adjusted cash flow is measured over the Chairman 200 50 250 three financial years FY16, FY17 and FY18.
The targets are set out in the table on page 48 and all other aspects of the measurement and definition Non-executive director of cumulative adjusted cash flow, together with committees discretion base fee 50 27 77 to adjust targets where appropriate, are unchanged from FY15.
Senior independent director fee 10 10 Malus and claw-back Following a review of current provisions in light of the revised UK Audit Committee Corporate Governance Code, the committee determined that both malus chair fee 22.5 22.5 and claw-back provisions will apply to annual bonus and PSP awards with effect from FY16 ie from FY16 awards onwards.
The committee has Remuneration Committee developed an approach that sets out the considerations and process for chair fee 15 15 the recovery of amounts that were paid in error following identification of a misstatement of results, an error in the calculation of an award and Note: 1.
T his element of the fee must be used to purchase Group shares after the payment of tax.
or gross misconduct resulting in misstatement of results or a revised Shares purchased must be retained until retirement from the Board.
Details will be provided should such events occur which lead to this policy being applied.
Home Retail Group 50 Annual Report 2015 Directors remuneration report continued Audited information relating to share awards Awards made to executive directors during FY15 audited The table below sets out details of the awards made under the PSP to the executive directors during FY15.
These awards are subject to the performance conditions set out on page 55.
F ace value for PSP is calculated using the average of the closing middle market quotations recorded in the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the ten dealing days preceding the award date and for Options is calculated using the closing middle market share price on the dealing day preceding the award.
These are HMRC approved options linked to the PSP award.
If these options are exercised the PSP award is scaled back by the same gross amount.
Outstanding scheme interests of executive directors audited The table below provides details of the position as at the end of FY15 or position as at the date of resignation of the executive director from the Board if earlier of outstanding awards made to the executive directors who served in the period under review.
A s described in the notes to the singlefigure table, the awards received by John Walden in March and May 2012 were performance-tested in 2013.
The performance targets were fully met and the awards released to John Walden in March and May 2015.
P erformance conditions were not achieved for FY12 awards made on 10 May 2011 and all shares lapsed.
Additionally, awards for Terry Duddy were lapsed to reflect his date of cessation.
S hare price has been rounded to one decimal place.
Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation Annual Report 2015 51 Share options The following table shows the share options granted under the sharesave plan and the approved share options granted under an HMRC approved amendment to the PSP.
At the time of vesting, to the extent that there is a gain on the approved options under the PSP, conditional awards to the same value will be forfeited, resulting in the same gross value as a conditional award only.
S ee policy table on page 57 for details on legacy awards.
L egacy awards lapsed six months after cessation of employment for Terry Duddy.
Statement of directors shareholding and share interests audited The Group requires executive directors to hold shares equivalent to 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of base salary for the Finance Director.
The executive directors are required to retain at least 50% of the after-tax value of shares vesting under the long-term incentive arrangements until such time as the guidelines have been met.
During FY15 the Finance Director met the shareholding requirement in full.
The Chief Executive retained 100% of the after-tax value of shares vesting on 1 March 2015 and will continue to retain shares vesting from long-term incentive arrangements in line with the shareholding guidelines outlined above.
The table below sets out the directors current interests in Home Retail Group shares as at the year-end, with the exception of Terry Duddy where the shareholding is at 14 March 2014, the date he stepped down from the Board.
Executive directors Interest in shares and share options Total shares and options not Shares owned outright without performance conditions subject to performance conditions at 28 February 2015 as at 28 February 2015 as at 28 February 2015 John Walden 621,479 621,479 Richard Ashton 615,200 95,960 711,160 1 Terry Duddy 3,231,547 197,277 3,428,824 Note: 1.
2,619,355 shares were held by the director and 612,192 by a connected person.
Home Retail Group 52 Annual Report 2015 Directors remuneration report continued Non-executive directors Shares owned outright Shares owned outright by connected at 28 February 2015 persons at 28 February 2015 John Coombe 10,000 123,179 Mike Darcey 50,028 Ian Durant 35,730 Cath Keers 38,040 Jacqueline fide Rojas 16,402 External appointments Neither John Walden nor Richard Ashton held any external appointments during FY15.
Terry Duddy was a non-executive director of Hammerson for which he received and retained an annual fee of 60,000.
Payments made to past directors audited No payments were made during FY15 other than those made to Terry Duddy who served as a director during the year described on pages 45 to 61.
Payments for loss of office audited No payments were made during FY15.
Percentage change in remuneration non-audited The table below illustrates the percentage change in salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Chief Executive based on the single-figure table compared with that of colleagues in the broadbanded population which covers a range of roles, both management and non-management across the Group.
Remuneration for broadbanded colleagues is not subject to union negotiations and, as for FY14, the committee believes this provides the most reasonable comparator group.
% change % change % change in base salary FY14FY15 in benefits FY14 FY15 in annual bonus FY14FY15 1 Chief Executive 21.5% decrease 12.7% decrease 44.2% decrease 2 Broadbanded colleagues 2.1% increase 3.7% increase 13.1% decrease Notes: 1.
F igures for the Chief Executive relate to Terry Duddy for FY14 and both Terry Duddy and John Walden for FY15.
The base salary for John Walden for FY15 was set at a level which reflects market practice in companies of a similar size and complexity.
The lower salary also impacts the decrease in annual bonus, alongside performance against targets.
The decrease in benefits is due to differences in travel benefits.
T he following is relevant for the broadbanded population: a.
Salary increases are based on an overall budget of circa 2%.
The increase provided above also reflects personal performance.
Benefit cost increases relate to increased costs of private medical cover and car benefit provision.
c. The decrease in average bonus is due to the impact of a lower adjusted cash flow performance against target during FY15 compared to FY14.
Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation Annual Report 2015 53 Historic TSR performance non-audited Relative importance of spend on pay non-audited The graph below compares the TSR of Home Retail Group against the The table below illustrates the year-on-year change in total remuneration FTSE 350 Index of General Retailers for a six-year period.
The FTSE 350 compared to benchmark profit after tax and distributions to shareholder Index of General Retailers is considered the most appropriate choice for FY15 and FY14.
of index as it is a relevant comparator group for a retail business.
FY15 FY14 Percentage change m m year-on-year 350 325 Total remuneration 643.2 659.8 2.5% decrease 300 Benchmark profit after tax 99.1 82.9 19.5% increase 275 250 1 Shareholder distributions 28.7 25.8 11.2% increase 225 200 Note: 1.
S hareholder distributions refer to dividends paid or declared in respect of the financial year.
175 150 Shareholder voting non-audited 125 The table below sets out the results of the vote on the FY14 100 remuneration report and the FY14 directors remuneration policy 75 report at the 2014 AGM: 50 25 FY14 remuneration report FY14 policy report 28 February 27 February 28 February 3 March 2 March 1 March 28 February 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Votes % Votes % Value of 100 invested on 28 February 2009 Votes Home Retail Group FTSE 350 Index of General Retailers in favour 551,856,290 98.83% 533,499,996 94.90% Votes against 6,511,986 1.17% 28,669,901 5.10% Chief Executive remuneration outcomes non-audited Total votes 558,368,276 100.00% 562,169,897 100.00% The table below illustrates the Chief Executive single-figure for total remuneration, annual bonus pay-out and PSP vesting as a percentage Votes withheld 5,269,224 n a 1,467,603 n a of maximum opportunity for the same six-year period.
Chief Executive The committee is pleased with the level of shareholder support for the single figure of Annual bonus FY14 remuneration report and is committed to ongoing dialogue with remuneration pay-out LTIP vesting 000 % of maximum % of maximum shareholders.
T he FY10 single figure includes vesting from a number of legacy award schemes from 400 GUS plc, as well as bonus and LTIP pay-out for that year.
300 FTSE350 200 100 0 Home Retail Group 54 Annual Report 2015 Directors remuneration report continued The policy report is unchanged from the report approved by the shareholders at the FY14 AGM, with the exception of the charts on page 58 which reflect FY16 arrangements.
Policy report non-audited The committee reviewed the operation of the remuneration of executive directors during FY14.
The policy table on pages 54 to 57 reflects the policy approved at the 2014 AGM and it is intended to apply for three years until 2017 unless a revised policy is approved by shareholders before this date.
Group policy on the remuneration of executive directors, as described in the table on pages 54 to 57, is underpinned by the following principles: Remuneration arrangements support the attraction and retention of senior executives with the necessary skills and capability to deliver key strategic priorities for the Group without paying any more than necessary.
The interests of shareholders and senior executives should be aligned through the use of performance metrics that support the creation of shareholder value by providing a strong link to the business strategy and financial performance of the Group.
Total reward packages will be aligned with the relevant market comparable UK listed retailers and companies of a similar size and complexity to the Group but will be affordable in the context of overall business performance.
The levels of short-term and long-term variable remuneration and the mix of equity and cash are set to provide stretching performance hurdles and incentives without encouraging unnecessary risk-taking.
Individual executive contribution to delivering sustained, long-term business performance will be recognised and rewarded.
Executive directors will be encouraged to acquire and retain Group shares through both the PSP and all-employee plans to further support alignment with shareholders.
The same principles apply for the remuneration decisions for the Group Executive Board comprising senior executives, including the executive directors and other senior colleagues across the Group where relevant.
The committee engages pro-actively with the Groups major shareholders on remuneration matters.
As set out in her introductory letter, the committee chair consulted with major shareholders in early 2014 on the proposed changes to the long-term and short-term incentive arrangements and other executive remuneration matters.
Remuneration policy table executive directors BASE SALARY STRATEgIC OBjECTIVES To attract and reward executives of a suitable calibre to deliver the Group strategy.
Contractual fixed-cash amount paid monthly OPERATION Generally reviewed on an annual basis with any salary changes typically effective in March When reviewing salaries, account is taken of the following: Benchmark data for other comparable UK listed retailers and companies of a similar size and complexity to Home Retail Group Movements in the employment market The general economic environment Individual performance Increases awarded to other colleagues in the Group While there is no set maximum, the committee would expect any increases to be broadly in line with increases awarded to MAxIMuM other colleagues in the broad-banded population which covers a range of roles, both management and non-management across the Group The committee retains the discretion to make increases above this level in certain circumstances, for example, but not limited to: an increase in the individuals scope of responsibilities in the case of a new executive director who may be initially positioned on a lower initial salary while they gain experience in the role Details of the base salaries for the executive directors for FY16 are provided in the annual report on remuneration on page 48 PERFORMANCE METRICS None although performance of the individual is taken into account when setting and reviewing base salary levels.
Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation Annual Report 2015 55 SHORT-TERM INCENTIVE ANNuAL BONuS STRATEgIC OBjECTIVES To incentivise and recognise the delivery of the Groups strategic annual goals.
Targets are set at the beginning of each year OPERATION Performance is determined by the committee after the year-end, based on assessment against targets measured over one financial year The committee retains the discretion to scale back payment of any bonus after assessing the formulaic outcome against targets, should it consider it appropriate to do so 75% of any annual bonus payment is paid in cash, with the remaining 25% deferred into share awards The committee may, at its discretion, claw-back bonus awards in the event of material misstatement, an error in the calculation of the bonus or misconduct The committee will set the deferral period applicable to the deferred bonus awards, which will normally be three years Deferred share awards are subject to malus during the deferral period.
The committee retains discretion to lapse unvested deferred awards in the event of material misstatement, error or misconduct Deferred share awards will normally be delivered to participants after the normal vesting date, subject to the underlying financial performance of the Group and any other performance conditions that may apply Awards may incorporate the right to receive dividend equivalents in the form of cash or shares during the vesting period Maximum bonus opportunity for executive directors is 130% of base salary with up to 20% of maximum bonus opportunity MAxIMuM payable for meeting threshold performance.
Performance measures for the annual bonus are normally based on annual financial performance measures, such as profit and PERFORMANCE METRICS adjusted cash flow.
The committee may decide to include other, non-financial, key strategic targets in future years to reflect alignment with business strategy and shareholder interests, subject to at least 50% of measures being financial in nature For FY15, targets will be based on benchmark PBT and adjusted cash flow and are equally weighted The committee will review the targets and weighting each year and reserves the right to change measures and weightings in future years to reflect alignment with shareholder interests and business strategy While the deferred bonus awards are not subject to any further performance conditions, awards will vest subject to the satisfactory underlying financial performance of the Group up until the date of vesting The approach to targets that will apply for FY16 is provided in the annual report on remuneration on page 48 LONg-TERM INCENTIVE PSP STRATEgIC OBjECTIVES To incentivise and reward delivery of long-term returns for shareholders and support retention.
OPERATION Awards are normally granted annually and vest at the end of a three-year performance period, subject to assessment of the achievement of performance conditions by the committee, unless the committee determines otherwise Award levels are determined based on market practice among other retailers and companies of a similar size and complexity as the Group with a face value set by reference to multiples of base salary Performance measures are selected by the committee to incentivise the delivery of value to shareholders over the longer term through the achievement of key strategic measures A malus rule applies to executive directors for awards granted since FY13 giving the committee the discretion to scale back unvested awards in the event of misstatement, error or misconduct Awards may include the right to receive in cash or shares the value of dividends payable on award shares that vest over the vesting period The usual maximum value of shares awarded to executive directors in respect of a financial year will be 200% of base salary.
MAxIMuM 25% of the award ie up to 50% of base salary vests for achieving threshold performance The PSP rules allow awards in shares in respect of a financial year of up to a maximum of 300% of base salary.
However, the committee does not intend to make awards above the usual maximum of 200%, other than in exceptional circumstances for example, to facilitate the buy-out of awards forfeited by a new recruit on cessation of their previous employment Performance is assessed against three measures weighted as follows: PERFORMANCE METRICS 40% relative TSR performance against a group of sector peers 30% EPS growth 30% cumulative adjusted cash flow The committee reserves the right to alter the measures and weightings year-on-year if it deems it appropriate, for example to focus executives on one measure to align better with the Groups strategy and shareholder interests The approach to the targets that will apply for the FY16 awards are provided in the annual report on remuneration on page 48 The committee may change a performance condition in accordance with its terms or if any event happens which causes the committee reasonably to consider this is appropriate Home Retail Group 56 Annual Report 2015 Directors remuneration report continued APPROVED HMRC ADDENDuM TO THE PSP STRATEgIC OBjECTIVES To support retention by delivering a proportion of the PSP award in a tax-efficient way.
Provides the opportunity to have an element of any PSP award delivered using an HMRC approved plan OPERATION Where a gain is made on the HMRC approved options under the PSP, conditional awards to the same value are forfeited to deliver the same gross value in a tax-efficient way MAxIMuM Will not exceed the current tax thresholds permitted by HMRC currently 30,000.
PERFORMANCE METRICS Performance of the metrics will be assessed in line with those outlined under the PSP award In addition, the share price at the time of vesting must be greater than the share price at award date for this element of the PSP to trigger ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES STRATEgIC OBjECTIVES To support alignment of executives with shareholders.
OPERATION Executive directors are entitled to participate in the same all-employee share schemes offered to other Group colleagues The Group currently operates a SAYE scheme under which participants can make monthly savings over a period of three or five years linked to the grant of options over Home Retail Group shares Participation limits for the SAYE scheme are up to those set by HMRC The committee reviews the structure of the all-employee scheme on an annual basis to set the maximum.
However, this will not exceed the limits set by HMRC Participation limits for the SAYE scheme are up to those set by HMRC MAxIMuM The committee reviews the structure of the all-employee scheme on an annual basis to set the maximum.
However, this will not exceed the limits set by HMRC PERFORMANCE METRICS None.
BENEFITS STRATEgIC OBjECTIVES To support the attraction and retention of executives of the calibre required to deliver the Group strategy.
The benefits provided take into account market practice and may include, but are not limited to, the following: OPERATION Car benefits, including a driver Private medical insurance and US healthcare for the executive directors family Relocation Life insurance Limited personal travel and home office expenses Subscription to professional bodies The committee retains the discretion to change the benefits provided including providing additional benefits in line with market practice MAxIMuM There is no maximum.
The value of benefits will vary year-on-year depending on the cost of providing these benefits Set at an appropriate market level in the context of the market role individual PERFORMANCE METRICS None.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS STRATEgIC OBjECTIVES To support the attraction and retention of executives of the calibre required to deliver the Group strategy.
Executive directors are provided with retirement benefits which, at the choice of the executive director, may be delivered in the OPERATION form of either a cash allowance or as a payment into the Groups Defined Contribution scheme The value of the retirement benefit is the same regardless of the form chosen and executive directors receive no additional benefit contribution if this allowance is delivered as payment into the Defined Contribution scheme MAxIMuM The maximum employer contribution in respect of a financial year for any director is 30% of base salary PERFORMANCE METRICS None.
Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation Annual Report 2015 57 Remuneration policy table legacy plans The following tables set out a summary of any legacy plans under which outstanding awards are currently operating: HOME RETAIL gROuP NON-APPROVED SHARE OPTION PLAN STRATEgIC OBjECTIVES Legacy plan.
OPERATION Rolled-over market value options were granted over Group shares following the demerger from GUS plc.
The options are governed by the rules of the GUS plc executive share option scheme Vested options normally lapse on the tenth anniversary of grant, or if earlier, six months after cessation of employment excluding time where dealing in shares is restricted under the Model Code or twelve months in the case of death All outstanding options are now exercisable.
Details of outstanding options granted to the current executive directors are set out MAxIMuM on page 50 PERFORMANCE METRICS Performance conditions measuring historic GUS plc EPS growth have already been assessed and fully met.
HOME RETAIL gROuP SECuRED uNAPPROVED RETIREMENT BENEFIT SCHEME STRATEgIC OBjECTIVES Legacy plan.
The Finance Director has retained benefits under a Secured Unapproved Retirement Benefit Scheme which is now closed to OPERATION future accrual.
This arrangement is designed to replicate the benefits available from the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme for earnings over a certain limit.
No further benefits will accrue under this scheme Subject to the consent of the independent trustee of the scheme, the Group may offer members the opportunity to take a cash equivalent transfer offer from the scheme.
The cash equivalent offer would be calculated using the same factors as those used by the Trustee of the Home Retail Group Pension Scheme with the exception of the mortality assumption which would be changed to reflect the assumed mortality of the membership of the scheme The cash equivalent transfer value would not typically provide any additional or uplifted benefit to the individual.
Group National Insurance costs relating to individuals accepting a cash equivalent offer may be covered by the Group at the discretion of the committee MAxIMuM n a legacy plan.
Notes: The performance measures selected for the purposes of the annual bonus plan and the long-term incentive plan are key performance indicators for the Group.
They support and reward sustainable and long-term shareholder value creation.
Performance targets are set taking into account prior-year performance, annual budgets and longer-term financial plans, strategic imperatives and external factors including analyst forecasts.
The claw-back mechanism under the annual bonus plan will be facilitated through the reduction in value of whichever of the following payments come first: The vesting of any deferred bonus if such arrangements exist linked to the performance year to which the claw-back related: or The next vesting under the PSP at its value when it vests : or The next bonus.
Only after these possibilities have been exhausted would the Group seek to recover a net-of-tax cash payment from the individual.
The elements of remuneration for executive directors apply to a significant number of employees within the Group.
Award levels and participation vary depending upon seniority and market factors.
Further details are provided on page 58. general The committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed: i before the policy came into effect: or ii a t a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Group and, in the opinion of the committee, the payment was not in consideration of the individual becoming a director of the Group.
For these purposes payments includes, but is not limited to, the committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
The committee may also make minor amendments to the policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Home Retail Group 58 Annual Report 2015 Directors remuneration report continued All-colleague remuneration policy Illustration of our executive remuneration policy for FY16 The remuneration policy for colleagues across the Group enables us to The charts below show how the composition of each of the executive provide a reward package that supports the recruitment of individuals with directors remuneration packages varies at different levels of performance the skills we need to deliver both service to our customers and the broader achievement.
The chart for the Chief Executive is based on the strategic priorities of the Group.
remuneration arrangements for John Walden, who was appointed Circa 6,600 colleagues are eligible to participate in annual bonus with effect from 14 March 2014. arrangements, which are subject to stretching Group or Operating Company targets and their personal performance.
Performance measures John Walden Richard Ashton are broadly aligned with those of the executive directors.
Chief Executive 000 Finance Director 000 Management colleagues who have the greatest potential to influence 3,099 Group performance are also invited to participate in the long-term incentive arrangements.
Circa 350 colleagues are invited to participate 2,240 on an annual basis.
43% All permanent colleagues in the UK are eligible to participate in the 1,673 44% all-employee share schemes.
20% 1,186 28% 911 26% 21% 28% 624 27% Remuneration policy table non-executive directors 29% 100% 54% 28% 100% 52% The following sets out a summary of each element of the non-executive directors remuneration packages, the policy for how these are operated Fixed In line with Maximum Fixed In line with Maximum pay pay and their link to the Group strategy.
expectation expectation Fixed pay Annual bonus Long-term share awards Fees should be broadly in line with market levels and Element and sufficient to attract and retain high-calibre non-executives.
strategic Note: Fees for each non-executive should be set by reference to objective The values exclude share price appreciation and dividends.
The charts have been updated the responsibilities undertaken.
Fees are a combination of cash fees paid monthly and Policy and The assumptions used in the charts above are as below.
shares, purchased twice each year.
Shares purchased must maximum be retained until retirement from the Board of Directors.
Fixed pay minimum performance While there is no maximum fee level for individuals, the Base salary, benefits and pension total fixed pay total fees paid to the non-executive directors will not exceed the aggregate limit set out in the Groups Articles Base salary: As effective for FY16 of Association, currently 1.5m.
Benefits: Based on the value received for FY15 The fee structure is as follows: Pension: Based on pension provision of 30% for the The Chairman fee comprises a single, consolidated fee.
Chief Executive and 25% for the Finance Director The non-executive directors are paid a basic fee, plus No bonus pays out additional fees for chairing the Audit and No vesting under the PSP Remuneration Committees and to the senior independent director.
In line with the groups expectations The Group reserves the right to pay additional non-cash Total fixed pay as outlined under minimum performance benefits if considered appropriate, the value of which 50% of maximum bonus opportunity 65% of base salary for both would be within the limit described above.
Actual fee levels are disclosed in the annual report on of the executive directors remuneration for the relevant financial year.
25% of long-term incentive share awards 50% of base salary for both of the executive directors Maximum performance Total fixed pay as outlined under minimum performance 100% of annual bonus opportunity 130% of base salary for both of the executive directors 100% of long-term incentive share awards 200% of base salary for both of the executive directors Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation Annual Report 2015 59 John Waldens service contract includes a duty to mitigate any payment Recruitment remuneration arrangements made in lieu of notice by seeking comparable alternative employment.
When determining the remuneration of a new executive director, the As part of his leaving arrangements, Terry Duddy also had a duty to committees principle is to ensure that the arrangements are in the best mitigate should he find alternative employment before 2 July 2014. interests of both the Group and the shareholders by paying only what is While Richard Ashtons contract does not include specific terms relating considered necessary to recruit an individual of the right calibre to deliver to mitigation in respect of a payment in lieu of notice, the committee the Group strategy.
would expect to require a similar duty to mitigate should any payment The committee will consider all relevant factors when determining the in lieu of notice be agreed at the time of Richard Ashtons departure.
arrangements for a new executive director.
This may include, but is not Copies of the service contracts may be viewed at the Groups limited to, the skills experience of the individual, market practice and any registered office.
remuneration being forfeited by the individual.
Typically, a new recruit will be brought in on, or be transitioned onto, the same package structure that applies to other executive directors as set out in the policy table.
However, Non-executive directors letters of appointment in exceptional circumstances, the committee retains discretion to make The non-executive directors, including the Chairman, are appointed via appropriate remuneration decisions that fall outside the limits and letters of appointment.
Non-executive directors are initially appointed for structure of the policy if it considers this to be necessary to recruit the a three-year term and are typically expected to serve up to a maximum of individual.
This may include, but is not limited to, the provision of three, three-year terms subject to review by the Board every three years.
Notwithstanding this, the maximum level of variable The appointment of a non-executive director may be terminated with remuneration which may be awarded excluding any buy-outs will be one months notice by either the Group or the individual.
The Chairman is within the limits set out in the policy table.
subject to a notice period of three months.
To facilitate recruitment, the committee may buy-out any Copies of the letters of appointment may be viewed at the Groups remuneration arrangements forfeited by a new director on leaving their registered office.
The committee will generally seek to structure any buy-out on a like-for-like basis, considering all relevant factors including Policy on departing directors the form of the awards ie cash or equity, performance conditions The committees approach to determining any payment for loss of office attached to the awards, the likelihood of such conditions being met and should an executive director leave employment will be based on the the time frame of the awards.
following principles: In structuring the buy-out, the committee retains discretion to grant The committee will satisfy any contractual obligations agreed with the awards under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 which allows for the granting of awards, departing executive director, providing that such obligations are not in specifically to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of an contradiction with the policy set out in this report, or if so, having not executive director without seeking prior shareholder approval.
The value been entered into on a date later than 27 June 2012. of buy-outs is excluded from the maximum variable remuneration on The committee will apply mitigation where appropriate, for example by recruitment.
However, the committee will determine the value of buy-out making payment in lieu of notice in the form of monthly instalments, to arrangements within the principle of not paying more than is necessary be reduced should the individual secure alternative employment before to facilitate the recruitment of the preferred candidate.
the end of the notice period.
On the appointment of a new chairman or non-executive director, The committee will use its discretion as to the treatment of any remuneration arrangements will normally be consistent with the policy outstanding share awards at cessation, in accordance with the rules of set out in this report.
The rationale for any changes to policy will be clearly each plan.
The policy for leavers is summarised in the table overleaf.
explained in the remuneration report following the appointment.
The normal treatment is as follows: PSP: Awards would normally be released at the normal vesting date Service contracts and letters of appointment and pro-rated for time served during the vesting period, and subject Executive directors service contracts to achievement of any performance conditions that apply.
Both Terry Duddy and Richard Ashton were appointed as executive Deferred Bonus Plan: Unvested awards under the Deferred Bonus directors on 5 July 2006.
Terry Duddy had a service contract dated 27 July Plan will normally be delivered to the individual in full at the normal 1999 and Richard Ashton has a contract dated 1 March 2005.
John Walden vesting date, subject to the underlying financial performance of the was appointed as an executive director on 14 March 2014 following his Group, and any other performance conditions that may apply.
promotion to the Board as Chief Executive.
John Walden has a contract dated 15 January 2014.
The committee will consider the specific circumstances of the cessation of Both of the executive directors may be invited to participate in employment, including the manner of departure and performance to date, the Groups incentive arrangements as and when determined by the with any payments made on an individual case by case.
All outstanding awards will be treated in accordance with payment of bonus or vesting of awards would not normally be exercised the relevant plan rules.
where the director has resigned and would never be used where Group policy is that service contracts for an executive director may be employment was terminated for cause.
terminated with 12 months notice by the Group or six months notice by the individual.
The Group may make a payment in lieu of notice based on the value of base salary and benefits including pension during the unexpired period of notice.
This may be paid in instalments.
Home Retail Group 60 Annual Report 2015 Directors remuneration report continued The table below sets out the specific policy in relation to each element of remuneration: Element Policy Base pay and benefits The policy in relation to base pay and benefits is as described in relation to the executive directors service contracts on page 59.
The committee may make a payment under the annual bonus in respect of the financial year of cessation, subject to the Short-term achievement of the performance targets that apply to the bonus.
However, the committee is not under any obligation to make incentive annual bonus such a payment and any such payment will typically take into consideration the manner of departure and individual performance up to the date of cessation.
Discretion would not normally be exercised where the director has resigned and would never be used where employment was terminated for cause.
PSP awards will typically lapse if the executive director ceases to hold office and employment before they vest.
However, awards Long-term may continue in effect if the participant ceases to hold office and employment for any of the following reasons and is therefore incentive PSP considered a good leaver: Ill-health, injury or permanent disability Retirement with the agreement of the Group Sale of the Company or business the director works for out of the Group Redundancy Death Outstanding awards will normally vest at the end of the performance period, subject to the extent the relevant performance conditions have been satisfied.
However, the committee retains discretion to allow awards to vest at the date of cessation subject to the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied at this date.
Unless the committee decides otherwise, awards for leavers in these circumstances are pro-rated calculated on a monthly basis to reflect the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed on cessation of employment or, in relation to a  award, the vesting period.
The committee may also apply this treatment if the director leaves for any other reason if exceptional circumstances are deemed to exist or if it terminates a directors employment other than for cause within six months of the change of control of the Group.
If a participant dies, awards vest at the date of death.
Unless the committee determines otherwise, relevant performance conditions do not apply.
Awards will be pro-rated for time, unless the committee determines otherwise.
Sharesave Options are exercisable for a limited period from the date of leaving using savings made to the date of exercise.
Outstanding awards will vest at the original vesting date subject to the satisfactory underlying financial performance of the Deferred Bonus Plan Group up until the date of vesting.
Deferred shares will normally be released in full at the usual vesting date except in the case of death, injury, disability, ill-health and redundancy when awards may vest wholly or in part on cessation.
To the extent that awards do not vest, they will continue in effect.
Awards will lapse where an individual leaves for reasons of misconduct, malfeasance or any other reason at the committees discretion.
The committee may also at its discretion approve the provision of reasonable outplacement benefits to a departing executive.
Other Financial additional Home Retail Group Strategic report Governance StatementS inFormation Annual Report 2015 61 Where an individual is transferred overseas and is likely to suffer a tax Corporate events disadvantage in relation to their award or become restricted in their ability Change of control to hold shares, the committee may, in exceptional circumstances, allow In the event of a takeover or if shares are acquired by scheme of awards to vest.
arrangement, PSP awards would normally vest to the extent that any Where the committee considers it appropriate awards may be settled performance conditions, as determined by the committee, have been in the form of cash.
satisfied up to that date.
Such awards would be reduced by reference to the performance period that has elapsed at the time of the relevant event.
External appointments Alternatively, the committee may determine that awards be exchanged Executive directors and members of senior management may be invited to for awards in the acquiring company similarly, a participant may accept become non-executive directors of other companies subject to the an offer to exchange awards if one is made by the acquiring company.
These appointments provide an opportunity to In the event of a change of control, Deferred Bonus Plan awards would normally vest at the date of the change of control unless the committee gain broader experience outside Home Retail Group and therefore benefit determines that the underlying financial performance of the Group up until the Group.
Providing that appointments are not likely to lead to a conflict the event has not been satisfactory.
Unless the committee determines of interest, executive directors may accept non-executive appointments otherwise, such awards would not be reduced on a time pro-rata basis.
and retain the fees received.
Alternatively, the committee may determine that awards be exchanged Individuals are limited to holding one external PLC board appointment, for awards in the acquiring company similarly, a participant may accept other than at the discretion of the committee.
Other external an offer to exchange awards if one is made by the acquiring company.
appointments, such as school governor appointments or appointments Sharesave options will become exercisable for a limited period to to the boards of charities, are at the discretion of the committee.
the extent of savings made to the date of exercise or can be exchanged for shares in the company which acquires control of the Group or a Employment considerations elsewhere in the group related company.
The committee does not consult with colleagues when formulating the Any cash received for shares held for a director in the Share Incentive remuneration policy for executive directors.
However, it recognises that Plan SIP as a result of the transaction will be paid to the participant and there is a need to understand the wider context of remuneration across securities received will normally continue to be held in the SIP on broadly the Group when setting levels of pay for executive directors.
The committee considers budgeted salary increases for the wider broadbanded colleague group which covers a range of roles, both Other corporate events management and non-management when determining increases for the If other corporate events occur such as a demerger, delisting, distribution executive directors.
Additionally, the committee reviews and approves all other than an ordinary dividend, or any other significant corporate event LTIP awards and reviews bonus outcomes for a range of colleagues below which, in the opinion of the committee, would affect the current or future executive director level.
value of any awards, the committee may allow PSP awards to vest to the extent that any performance condition has been satisfied to that date as Consideration of shareholder views determined by the committee and subject to any other conditions the The committee is committed to engaging in an open dialogue with the committee may decide to impose.
The committee may also decide to time Companys shareholders and will seek views and opinions on significant pro-rate such awards.
matters relating to the remuneration of the executive directors as The committee may also allow Deferred Bonus Plan awards to vest appropriate.
During the year, the committee chair met with a number unless it is determined that the underlying financial performance of the of investors to discuss the proposed changes to the executive director Group up until the corporate event has been unsatisfactory.
Unless the remuneration arrangements and took their views into account when committee decides otherwise, such awards would not be time pro-rated.
Adjustments may be made to the number or kind of shares subject to awards and options and or the exercise price of options if there is a demerger, distribution, special dividend, any variation of capital or Signed on behalf of the Board any other corporate event that might affect the current or future value of awards.
Cath Keers Chair Remuneration Committee 29 April 2015
