Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Remuneration Report Audit & Risk Committee Report Remuneration Report Internal audit The Committee considers and approves the internal audit plan which is based on an assessment of the key risks faced by the Group.
Progress in respect of the plan is monitored throughout the year and care is taken to ensure that the internal audit function has sufficient resource to complete the plan.
The audit plan may be reviewed during the year as a result of the ongoing assessment of the key risks or in response to the needs of the business.
The Assurance, Risk and Best Practice Director reports ultimately to the Chairman of the Stella David Committee although he reports on a day-to-day basis to the Chief Financial Officer.
He attends Chairman of the Remuneration Committee all meetings of the Committee and reports regularly to the Group Risk Committee.
A quarterly report on completed internal audits is presented to the Committee and, where appropriate, action plans are reviewed.
In addition, all grade 1 audit reports are circulated to the Committee as soon as they are finalised so any issues can be addressed in a timely manner.
Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2015, having been During the year, the effectiveness of the internal audit function was assessed by the Assurance, appointed as Chairman of the Committee on 1 April 2015.
Risk and Best Practice Director and the Committee.
Performance and reward On behalf of the Audit & Risk Committee The Group has returned to profit growth this year having stabilised the UK business and continued to invest more for future partner and customer growth in the USA.
We have added Mark Morris 12 new utility partners in the USA and agreed a long-term affinity partnership with Lyonnaise des Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee Eaux in France.
Our established businesses are progressing in line with our expectations and we 19 May 2015 are confident of further growth in FY16.
Customer satisfaction has once again increased in all of our businesses.
There has also been pleasing progress in respect of complaints.
As a result, the stretching commercial and customer targets for FY15 have been met.
In respect of longer-term performance, the LTIP awards granted in 2011 did not vest but, based on total shareholder return TSR performance to 31 March 2015, which is 97% above the FTSE 250 Total Return Index, it is expected that the awards granted in 2012 will vest in full.
The Committee is satisfied that the remuneration paid to the Executive Directors in the year fairly reflects both corporate and individual performance during the year.
Remuneration policy FY15 The remuneration policy was approved at the 2014 AGM and payments made in FY15 were in line with the policy.
The Committees activities during the year are described in more detail later in this report.
