Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Governance Remuneration Report Remuneration Report Element Purpose and link Performance Operation including performance measures and Summary of components of Executive Directors remuneration to strategy Period maximum limits The table below summarises the Committees policy for the remuneration of Executive Directors Long-term To drive longThree years Awards of performance and matching shares are which was approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
incentives term delivery granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan which was of the Groups approved by shareholders in 2008.
Element Purpose and link Performance Operation including performance measures and objectives, to The maximum limit is 200% of salary for performance to strategy Period maximum limits align Directors share awards currently, awards of 150% of salary are interests with made to the Executive Directors and a maximum 2:1 Basic salary To reflect the Usually Individual pay is determined by the Committee taking those of the match on voluntary investment of bonus into shares.
particular skills reviewed into account the role, responsibilities, performance Companys The maximum amount of bonus that may be invested and experience annually, with and experience of the individual and market data on shareholders is set at 75% of the maximum bonus potential i. e. of an individual any changes comparable roles.
Consideration is also given to overall and to 75% of salary.
If the bonus earned is less than 25% of and to provide a normally taking business performance and pay and employment encourage salary, then the executive may invest the equivalent competitive base effect from 1 conditions elsewhere in the Company when exceptional of 25% of salary, from their own money, in shares to salary compared July each year.
determining any increases to base salary levels for the performance.
In determining the number with similar Executive Directors.
of matching awards to be granted, the investment is roles in similar deemed to be made gross of tax.
When reviewing salary increases, the Committee also takes into account the impact of any increase to base Both performance and matching awards are subject salaries on the total remuneration package.
to the same performance condition which was relative Total Shareholder Return in FY15 subject to satisfactory Details of the current salaries of the Executive Directors underlying earnings performance.
Performance is are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
measured over a performance period of at least three years.
Performance The annual Annual Annual bonuses are determined by reference to related bonus bonus is determined performance against a mix of customer, commercial Changes to operation in FY16 designed to after the year and personal objectives.
Before any bonus is payable An Earnings Per Share performance condition will be drive and reward end a minimum level of both customer and financial reintroduced for performance and matching share the short-term performance must be achieved.
awards in FY16 and performance share awards will operating Bonuses are based on group performance and, if be granted at the policy maximum of 200% of salary.
performance of relevant, the specific territory for which an Executive Further details are provided later in this report.
the Company Director is responsible.
Individual performance accounts and encourage Pension To provide N A Richard Harpin participates in the Water Companies for no more than 20% of the overall bonus opportunity.
the delivery of benefits Pension Scheme a defined benefit scheme which is consistently comparable closed to new members.
The other Executive Directors The maximum potential quantum is 100% of salary and good customer with similar receive a 20% contribution to the HomeServe Money assuming their personal objectives are met in full, the outcomes.
roles in similar Plan a defined contribution scheme.
The key features normal on-target bonus is 60% of basic salary.
of these schemes are set out later in this report.
Bonuses are payable in cash but may be deferred into Retirement benefits under both schemes are restricted shares under the matching element of the LTIP.
by a notional earnings cap 130,867 for FY15.
An unapproved pension contribution equal to 20% of the amount by which basic salary exceeds the notional cap is paid annually.
Executives may choose to have this amount paid directly into their pension or may receive it as cash.
As an alternative to the above arrangements, the Committee may also permit the pension allowance up to 20% of salary to be taken solely as a cash allowance.
