Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Report of the Remuneration Committee INTRODUCTION BY THE COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP 47 On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Report Tiffany Hall Chairman of the Remuneration Committee for 2015, prepared in Mark Allen compliance with the reporting requirements of the Large and Andrew Cripps From 1 December 2015 Medium-sized Companies and Groups Regulations 2013.
Geoff Drabble From 3 July 2015 Richard Pennycook Alongside approval of the Annual Report on Remuneration, at Michael Wemms the AGM on 5 May 2016 we will also be seeking shareholder approval for a revised Executive Director Remuneration Policy, In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code which we set out in full on pages 49 to 57. and the Committees terms of reference, during the year the Remuneration Committee comprised wholly Our existing policy was approved by shareholders at the of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Subject to 2014 AGM and therefore would ordinarily expire at our AGM successful annual re-election to the Board, appointments in 2017.
However, the Committee wishes to ensure that our to the Remuneration Committee are for a period of three remuneration framework retains maximum alignment with years which may be extended by the Committee provided the strategic needs of the Company, and supports succession the Director remains independent.
planning and recruitment at the Executive Committee level.
As such, we believe that the introduction of a revised policy one MEETING ATTENDANCE year ahead of the normal cycle is appropriate.
The Committee meets at least three times a year and at any other such time as the Chairman of the Committee 2015 reward outcomes requires.
Only the attendance of members of this 2015 was another successful year for Howdens.
The executive Committee is shown in the table below, although other team continue to implement our strategic plans, delivering Directors, where appropriate, have often also attended improvements in the depot network and investing in our at the invitation of the Committee Chair.
capacity and capabilities across manufacturing, distribution and infrastructure as well as continuing to explore the Attendance No.
of meetings international development potential of the Company.
Tiffany Hall 4 4 Another year of strong cash generation has enabled us to meet Mark Allen 4 4 our stated intention of an earnings per share dividend cover of Geoff Drabble 2 2 2.5 3.0 times, with one-third of the previous years dividend Richard Pennycook 4 4 being paid as an interim dividend in the following year.
Michael Wemms 4 4 Howdens has also achieved another year of strong profit There were no Remuneration Committee meetings following growth.
Stretching PBT and cash flow targets were set under the Andrew Cripps appointment on 1 December and therefore bonus, against which the business has delivered exceptional he did not attend any meetings during the year.
performance 2015 PBT of 220m and cash flow of 234m.
Bonus outcomes reflect this, with payouts of 112% of salary.
TERMS OF REFERENCE This performance is mirrored by that achieved over the last To view the Remuneration Committee full terms of three-year period with share price growth of 28% per annum reference please refer to the Companys website: a total of 207% and PBT growth of 17% per annum.
com this very strong performance, the Co-Investment Plan shares awarded under the 2013 grant will vest at their maximum potential two matching shares for each one invested.
Our revised policy from 2016 The Committee has undertaken a comprehensive review of the remuneration framework used for Executive Directors and the Executive Committee who share a common incentive structure.
The outcome of this review is a number of revisions to our remuneration policy, better aligning the way we reward our leaders with the future needs of the business and its strategic ambitions.
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued The core change in our revised policy is a shift from the use of on PBT growth, with the bonus based on a combination of PBT 48 a Co-Investment Plan, which supported and incentivised our and cash flow performance.
business well through the rapid growth of the last few years, to a Performance Share Plan PSP.
However, we do recognise feedback from our shareholders around the variety of measures we use, and are comitted to The maximum opportunity for our Executive Directors under an annual review of the measures used under incentive plans the PSP will be 270% of salary compared to the historic to ensure these remain appropiate for the business as it maximum of 300% available under the Co-Investment Plan.
As such, we have introduced increased flexibility with Whilst we recognise that this maximum opportunity under the regards to our ability to change the performance measures PSP is positioned at upper quartile when compared to the under our policy to enable us to make these changes as market, our remuneration policy is and has historically been required in the future.
one of above-market levels of reward for above-market levels of performance.
The 20% per annum PBT growth requirement, To ensure shareholders are comfortable with the level of rigour which will operate for 2016 awards, exceeds brokers forecasts in the assessment of performance over time, all measures and represents a very stretching PBT growth ambition when under the PSP, and at least 70% of measures under the Annual considered against market expectations and long-term Bonus, will be based on financial targets.
If the Committee incentive target ranges for profit and earnings measures believes that changes to measures are appropriate, we will across the FTSE 250.
Targets will be reviewed annually to discuss the proposed new measures to be used with our ensure that the level of performance required to achieve the largest shareholders in advance of implementation.
maximum level of opportunity continues to require this level of strong performance by the business.
Shareholder views As part of the development of this policy, I wrote to our largest The new PSP will have an additional two year post-vest holding shareholders together with the Investment Association and period, increasing the total time from grant to final release to ISS in order to seek their views on our proposals.
This is in line with emerging market practice, and strong positive feedback, with particular praise around the supports the continued strength of shareholder alignment that simplicity of our arrangements, the consistency of our cascade was delivered through significant levels of shareholding under through the business and the reduction in quantum in both the the co-investment structure.
We have also reduced the maximum opportunity under the During consultation, our investors also indicated that they bonus to 150% of salary to support alignment with market were keen to see an increased shareholding requirement for practice.
The Committee will, however, retain the flexibility our Deputy CEO and CFO, and we have therefore amended our in exceptional circumstances to use the historic maximum shareholding guidelines such that all Executive Directors are of 200% - although we do not currently expect to use this required to hold at least 200% of salary in the Companys shares flexibility over the life of this policy, and would consult with note that the CEO and Deputy CEO and CFO hold 3,537% and shareholders before doing so.
For the avoidance of doubt, 2,246% of salary respectively in the Companys shares.
this additional flexibility would never be used retrospectively.
Salary and fee changes Performance measures Executive Directors will not receive a salary increase for 2016.
The Committee does not consider any change in performance measures to be appropriate at this time.
Sustainable profit The Board has also reviewed the fees paid to the Chairman growth is at the heart of the Howdens entrepreneurial culture.
and Non-Executive Directors through consideration of FTSE It is a simple metric that is easily understood by our employees 250 market benchmarks, and the increased size of the from depot managers to the senior managers, and we believe Company and time commitment required for these roles since by having a profit sharing approach that extends deep into the fees were last revised in 2013.
The fee paid to the Company organisation we are able to support the motivation and wellChairman will rise to 250,000 from 190,000.
This will take being of our workforce.
PBT is also a key performance indicator effect when Richard Pennycook takes over as Chairman from for the Company, and is directly correlated to the value we are the AGM.
The NED base fee and Committee Chairmanship fees able to deliver to our shareholders.
Therefore for 2016 the PSP will rise to 55,000 and 10,000 from 45,000 and 8,000 will in line with the previous CoInvestment Plan be based respectively.
The Senior Independent Director fee will increase from 3,000 to 10,000.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 I would like to thank my fellow Committee members and the other individuals who have supported the Committee through 49 the year, and particularly with the remuneration review process.
The Committee is committed to an open and transparent dialogue with our investors, and therefore I would welcome your views on any part of this report or our revised policy.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Howdens Remuneration Policy, as set out in our 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, was approved by shareholders at our 2014 AGM with the intention that it apply for 3 years from that date.
It is also available in full on our website, at www.
In order to ensure continued alignment between remuneration and the evolving strategic direction of our business, the Committee has deemed it appropriate that a new policy be proposed to shareholders for approval.
This policy is set out below, with the intention that it apply for three years from the date of the 2016 AGM.
Future policy table Executive Directors The table below sets out the key components of Executive Directors pay packages, including why they are used and how they are operated in practice.
Remuneration is benchmarked against rewards available for equivalent roles in a suitable comparator group.
In addition to benchmarking, the Committee considers general pay and employment conditions of all employees within the Group and is sensitive to these, to prevailing market conditions, and to governance requirements.
Element and how it supports our Performance strategy Operation Opportunity Measures Base salary Salaries are reviewed annually, and Increases will normally be only for None.
are effective from 1 January each year.
inflation and or in line with the wider Recognises the Salaries will not be changed outside employee population.
market value of of the annual review, except for in the executives Salaries are set within a range defined exceptional circumstances, such as a role, skill, by a market benchmark derived from mid-year change in role.
responsibilities, companies of a comparable size performance and operating in a similar sector policy is experience.
The peer group used is reviewed whenever benchmarking is performed, and the Committee applies judgement in identifying appropriate peer group constituent companies.
The individuals level of total remuneration against the market is considered at the same time.
Reviews will also take into account the performance of the individuals, any changes in their responsibilities, pay increases for the wider workforce and internal relativities.
2015 and 2016 salary levels are detailed in the Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2016 section on page 64.
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Element and how 50 it supports our Performance strategy Operation Opportunity Measures Benefits Howdens pays the cost of providing Benefits are based upon market rates None.
the benefits on a monthly basis or as and include receipt of a car allowance: Provides a required for one-off events.
non-exclusive use of a driver: health competitive level insurance and death-in-service of benefits.
insurance payable by the Company.
Annual Bonus Performance is assessed annually The maximum opportunity under the For 2016 the annual against cash flow and PBT targets.
annual bonus is 150% of salary.
bonus will be based Incentivises annual on PBT and cash performance over Any bonus earned in excess of 100% of The Committee has the flexibility flow measures.
salary is deferred into shares.
Shares to apply a maximum opportunity of are paid out in equal tranches on the up to 200% of salary in exceptional The Committee Deferral links bonus first and second anniversary of deferral circumstances.
retains the flexibility payout to share date.
Payment is subject to continued to use alternative price performance If the Committee considers it employment.
measures during over the medium appropriate to use a maximum the life of this policy, term.
Malus provisions apply for the duration opportunity of over 150% of salary, we subject to at least of the performance period and to shares will notify our largest shareholders in 70% of the bonus held under deferral.
advance, and discuss with them the being based on rationale for such an exceptional award.
Clawback provisions apply to cash The exceptional maximum would not amounts paid for two years following be used on a retrospective basis, and payment, and to vested deferred shares would be based on pre-determined and under the first tranche for one year stretching performance targets.
Therefore clawback and or malus will operate on the award for a total period of up to two years after the performance period.
Clawback may be applied in the following scenarios: material misstatement of accounts: erroneous assessment of a performance target: where the number of plan shares under an award was incorrectly determined: or gross misconduct by a Director.
No dividend equivalents accrue on deferred shares.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Element and how 51 it supports our Performance strategy Operation Opportunity Measures Performance Executives have the opportunity to The maximum opportunity under the 2016 awards will be Share Plan PSP participate in the PSP on an annual PSP is 270% of salary.
based in full on PBT basis.
The PSP operates over a threegrowth.
management The Committee on longer-term Under the PSP, awards will be retains the financial growth granted towards the beginning of the flexibility to use than addressed by performance period and vest based alternative financial the annual bonus.
on performance over the following performance Long-term financial three-year performance period.
Malus measures during the growth is key to provisions apply for the duration of the life of this policy.
the generation of vesting period.
Vested awards are subject to a two-year holding period following vesting, during which no performance measures apply.
Clawback provisions apply for the duration of the holding period, through which vested awards may be reclaimed in the event of: material misstatement of accounts: erroneous assessment of a performance target: where the number of plan shares under an award was incorrectly determined: or gross misconduct by a Director.
No dividends accrue on unvested shares.
Pension The Howden Joinery Group Pension Plan is a hybrid defined benefit, occupational None.
Provides competitive The defined benefit pension accrues on a Career Average Revalued Earnings CARE long-term savings basis at the rate of 1 50th of actual pensionable pay in each year currently capped opportunities.
at 144,000: the cap increases annually in line with CPI.
In addition, the Company will match any voluntary member contribution made to the defined contribution top-up section to a maximum of 8% of pensionable pay.
Alternatively, a participant may receive a salary supplement of 8% of salary in lieu of this defined contribution opportunity.
A pension supplement system operates concurrently with the Plan which recognises that pension entitlement in respect of the CARE part of the Plan is capped.
This supplement is 30% of basic salary above the Plan Cap to reflect competitive market practice.
The CEO has chosen to opt out of membership of the Plan and consequently receives a salary supplement of 30% of salary in lieu of pension.
This plan is now closed to new entrants.
If an Executive Director joins who is not already a member of the Plan, they will be able to participate in the new autoenrolment defined contribution scheme or to receive a supplement payment of 30% of total basic salary.
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Element and how 52 it supports our Performance strategy Operation Opportunity Measures All-employee share Executive Directors are able to The maximum participation levels will None.
incentive scheme participate in HMRC approved share be set based on the applicable limits set plans available to all employees of the by HMRC.
Shareholding Executive Directors are expected to Executive Directors are expected to None.
Requirement retain vested shares from deferred build up a holding of 200% of base bonus and long-term incentive awards salary.
Strengthens net of income tax and national alignment of insurance contributions until they reach interests between the minimum requirements.
Unvested deferred bonus and long-term incentive shares are not taken into account.
PSP shares within a holding period are counted towards the requirement.
Elements of previous policy under which unvested awards are still outstanding Executives had the opportunity to The CEO could invest up to the lesser of PBT performance Co-Investment participate in the CIP on an annual 650,000 shares or 150% of salary.
measured over a Plan CIP basis.
The CIP operates over a threethree-year period.
Previous long-term The Deputy CEO and CFO was able year cycle.
The investment was funded incentive plan.
to invest an equivalent proportion of by Executive Directors themselves Awards under the salary.
The CIP were granted matching shares vest after a three-year Each invested share is matched by in 2014 and 2015 vesting period subject to performance the Group with up to two shares, and these vest in against PBT growth targets.
For threshold 2017 and 2018 performance, 0.3 matching shares vest respectively.
The Company has the ability to vary per invested share.
the performance conditions if events No awards will be happen which cause the Committee to made under this consider that they have ceased to be a plan in future.
fair measure of individual or Company performance.
No dividend equivalents accrue on matching shares.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Performance measures and targets 53 As part of the Committees review of our remuneration arrangements, we have considered the appropriateness of the performance measures we have historically used, as well as the potential merits of incorporating measures which deliver increased focus on other elements of our financial performance.
The Committee believes that the current measures continue to be appropriate for our business, and therefore no change in performance measures will be made for 2016 awards, which are cascaded across the Executive Directors, Executive Committee and senior management.
Sustainable profit growth is at the heart of the Howdens entrepreneurial culture.
It is a simple metric that is easily understood by our employees from depot managers to the CEO, and we believe that by having a profit-sharing approach that extends deep into the organisation we are able to support the motivation and wellbeing of our workforce.
PBT is also a key performance indicator for the Company, and is directly correlated to the value we are able to deliver to our shareholders.
Cash flow also continues to be a key internal metric for Howdens.
We believe that the incorporation of this measure in the bonus focuses our leadership on strong working capital management, supports strong sustainable profit growth and the delivery of returns to our shareholders.
Reflecting shareholder feedback, we recognise that during the life of this policy it may become appropriate to amend the performance measures used for our incentives.
It is for this reason that we have added the flexibility into our policy to change performance measures, subject to 70% of the bonus and 100% of the PSP being based on financial metrics.
Each year we will carefully consider our strategy and the challenges facing the business, and will review measures to ensure that they continue to drive strong alignment with the delivery of value to shareholders.
Annual bonus 2016 The table below sets out additional information on performance conditions relating to the 2016 annual bonus: Measure Definition How targets are set PBT Pre-exceptional profit before tax from continuing Set by the Remuneration Committee in light of Howdens operations.
budget, brokers forecasts and prior year PBT.
Cash flow Net cash flow from operating activities, taking into Cash flow targets generated by Howdens financial model, account the efficiency with which working capital is based on modelled scenarios under which threshold, used, and adjusted for exceptional items.
target and outperformance levels of PBT are achieved.
Commercial sensitivity precludes the advance publication of bonus targets but targets will be disclosed retrospectively in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
For 2015 targets please see the annual bonus targets and outcomes table on page 59.
Performance Share Plan 2016 The PSP has replaced the Co-Investment Plan and will also be based solely on nominal PBT performance for the 2016 award.
Targets are considered by the Remuneration Committee to provide a range which represents long-term success for Howdens, and are kept under review in light of brokers forecasts and inflation forecasts.
In the event that inflation significantly increases, the Committee will reconsider the operation of this measure to ensure that the use of nominal targets is appropriate.
The intended targets for 2016 PSP grants are detailed in the Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2016 section on page 64.
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Remuneration policy for other employees 54 The remuneration policy described above applies specifically to Executive Directors of the Group.
However, the Remuneration Committee believes it is appropriate that all reward received by senior management is directly linked to the performance of the Company and aligned with shareholder value.
Accordingly, Executive Committee members a further six individuals participate in the same incentive schemes as the Executive Directors at a reduced level to ensure alignment between the leadership team with each other and with our shareholders.
Below this level, a system of profit-sharing and the encouragement of share ownership is cascaded through all tiers of management.
Individuals within the upper tiers of the organisation participate in a similar bonus plan that is linked to PBT and cash flow.
These individuals also participate in a PSP, which vests dependent on the same performance measures as the PSP awarded to Executive Directors.
Share grants are made at a reduced level to a wider population within Howdens that do not use performance conditions.
These awards are made in order to encourage share ownership throughout the Company.
NED fee policy The Groups policy on Non-Executive Director NED and Chairman fees is set out below.
Element and how it Performance supports our strategy Operation Opportunity Measures Fees for NonThe fees for the Non-Executive Directors Fees for Non-Executive Directors are set NEDs are not eligible Executive Directors are determined by the Chairman and out in the statement of implementation to participate in any Chief Executive.
of policy in the following financial year performance related To attract NEDs who section on page 64. arrangements.
have a broad range The fee for the Chairman is determined of experience and by the Remuneration Committee while The fees reflect the time commitment skills to oversee the the Chairman is absent.
and responsibilities of the roles.
implementation of Accordingly, committee chairmanship No other services are provided to the our strategy.
and Senior Independent Director SID Group by Non-Executive Directors.
fees are paid in addition to the NEDs basic fee.
Committee chairmanship fees apply only to the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Chairman receives no fees in addition to the Chairmans fee.
Fees may be reviewed every year, and are set within a range defined by a market benchmark of comparably sized companies.
Benchmarking is typically undertaken every three years.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 2016 remuneration scenarios 55 The remuneration package for the Executive Directors is designed to provide an appropriate balance between fixed and variable performance-related components, with a significant proportion of the package weighted towards long-term variable pay.
The Committee is satisfied that the composition and structure of the remuneration packages is appropriate, clearly supports the Companys strategic ambitions and does not incentivise inappropriate risk-taking and reviews this on an annual basis.
The composition and value of the Executive Directors remuneration packages in a range of performance scenarios are set out in the charts below.
These show that the proportion of the package delivered through long-term performance is in line with our remuneration policy and changes significantly across the performance scenarios.
As a result, the package promotes the achievement of superior long-term performance and aligns the interests of the Executive Directors with those of other shareholders.
A brief description of each remuneration scenario is set out below the charts.
Value of package 000 Matthew Ingle Mark Robson Maximum 24% 27% 49% 3,164 Maximum 27% 26% 47% 2,409 On-target 36% 27% 36% 2,106 On-target 39% 26% 35% 1,630 Minimum 100% 763 Minimum 100% 641 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 Fixed elements Annual Bonus PSP of remuneration Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group When making decisions on executive reward, the Remuneration Committee considers the wider economic environment and conditions within the Company.
In particular, the Committee considers pay conditions for the wider workforce when reviewing base salaries for Executive Directors.
For 2016, salary increases for the wider workforce are around 3% of salary.
The Company considers no further remuneration comparison measurements.
Additionally, some of the Companys workforce are unionised or belong to a works council.
Howdens maintains open lines of communication with these bodies and the Committee is always made aware of any relevant information in relation to remuneration policy.
Notwithstanding that the Committee does not specifically invite employees to comment on the Directors remuneration policy, it does take any comments made by employees into account.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Committee remains committed to maintaining an ongoing and transparent dialogue with its shareholders.
This Executive remuneration policy was shared with our major shareholders and shareholder representation bodies in advance of the publication of this report, and the Chair met with key representatives from each in order to invite comment.
Feedback received was carefully considered by the Committee and incorporated where appropriate into the proposed policy.
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Approach to recruitment remuneration 56 The treatment and design of the various elements of remuneration paid to new recruits is set out in the table below.
The Committees policy is to pay no more than is necessary to attract appropriate candidates to the role.
However, in unusual circumstances, an arrangement may be established specifically to facilitate recruitment of a particular individual.
Any such arrangement would be made only where critical to the recruitment of an exceptional candidate, and within the context of minimising the cost to the Company.
Component Policy General The Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract appropriate candidates to the role.
Any new Executive Directors ongoing package would be consistent with our remuneration policy as set out in this report.
Base salary and benefits The salary level will be set taking into account the responsibilities of the individual and the salaries paid to similar roles in comparable companies policy is to pay median.
In certain circumstances the Committee may initially position the Executive Directors salary below the market level and increase it to market levels through exceptional increases over an appropriate period of time.
The Executive Director will be eligible to receive benefits in line with Howdens benefits policy as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Should relocation of a newly recruited Executive Director be required, reasonable costs associated with this relocation will be met by the Company.
Such relocation support could include but not be limited to payment of legal fees, removal costs, temporary accommodation hotel cost, a contribution to stamp duty, replacement of non-transferable household items and related taxes incurred.
In addition, and in appropriate circumstances, the Committee may grant additional support in relation to the payment of school fees and provision of tax advice.
Pension The Executive Director will be able to participate in the new auto-enrolment defined contribution scheme or to receive a supplement payment of up to a maximum of 30% of basic salary.
Annual bonus The Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus scheme as set out in the remuneration policy table.
The maximum potential opportunity under this scheme is 150% of salary, although in exceptional circumstances the Committee may choose to apply a maximum of up to 200% of salary.
Long-term incentives The Executive Director will be eligible to participate in the PSP set out in the remuneration policy table.
Accordingly, the Executive Director may be offered a maximum opportunity under the PSP of the 270% of salary in performance shares.
Replacement awards The Committee may grant the Executive Director awards to replace awards from a previous employment that are forfeited.
Should replacement awards be made, any awards granted would be no more generous overall in terms of quantum or vesting period than the awards due to be forfeited.
In determining the quantum and structure of these commitments, the Committee will take into account the fair value and, as far as practicable, the timing and performance requirements of remuneration foregone.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Service contracts and letters of appointment 57 All Executive Directors employment contracts have twelve months notice of termination on both sides.
In the event of termination by the Company, there will be no compensation for loss of office due to misconduct or normal resignation.
In other circumstances, Executive Directors may be entitled to receive compensation for loss of office which will be paid monthly for a maximum of twelve months.
Such payments will be equivalent to the monthly salary that the Executive would have received if still in employment with the Company.
Executive Directors will be expected to mitigate their loss within a twelve-month period of their departure from the Company.
In their service contracts, Executive Directors have the following remuneration-related contractual provisions: Receipt of a salary, which is subject to annual review Receipt of a car allowance and non-exclusive use of a driver Health insurance and death-in-service insurance payable by the Group Eligibility to participate in any bonus scheme or arrangement which the Company may operate from time to time, subject to the plans rules Participation in the Companys pension plan, subject to the approval of the Board Non-Executive Director appointments are for an initial period of three years.
They are subject to re-appointment annually in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any form of compensation in the event of early termination for whatever reason.
Policy on payment for loss of office The treatment of the various elements of remuneration payable to Executive Directors in a loss of office scenario is set out in the table below.
In exceptional circumstances an arrangement may be established specifically to facilitate the exit of a particular individual, however any such arrangement would be made within the context of minimising the cost to the Company.
The Committee will only take such a course of action where it considers it to be in the best interests of shareholders.
Full disclosure of any payments will be made in accordance with the new Remuneration Reporting regulations.
Component Policy General When determining any loss of office payment for a departing individual, the Committee will always seek to minimise cost to the Company whilst seeking to reflect the circumstances in place at the time.
As an overriding principle there should be no element of reward for failure.
Base salary and In the event of termination by the Company, there will be no compensation for loss of office due to misconduct benefits or normal resignation.
Pension An enhanced pension is payable in the event of retirement through ill-health.
There is no scope for enhancements to individuals accrued pension entitlements for other loss of office scenarios.
Annual bonus Where an Executive Directors employment is terminated after the end of a performance year but before the payment is made, the Executive may be eligible for an annual bonus award for that performance year subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
No award will be made in the event of gross misconduct.
Where an Executive Directors employment is terminated during a performance year, a pro-rata annual incentive award for the period worked in that performance year may be payable subject to an assessment based on performance achieved over the period.
Long-term The treatment of outstanding deferred annual bonus is governed by written agreements with individuals and incentives and the treatment of long-term incentive awards by the rules of the relevant plan.
Individuals are defined as either deferred annual a good or bad leaver for the purposes of outstanding incentive awards.
Good leavers are those leaving under bonus pre-specified circumstances such as retirement, ill-health or disability or those deemed by the Committee at its absolute discretion as a good leaver given the circumstances surrounding the loss of office.
All other leavers are bad leavers.
If an individual is a good leaver or dies then they will either continue to hold the award which will vest on the normal vesting date based on Howdens performance where applicable, or the Committee may exercise discretion to accelerate vesting of the award, pro-rated to reflect the extent to which the performance targets have been met allowing for the curtailed performance period.
In both scenarios, the amount vesting is pro-rated for the proportion of the period elapsed when the individual leaves.
If an individual is a bad leaver then all awards to which they are conditionally entitled will lapse in full.
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 58 This annual report on remuneration outlines remuneration-related activities and outcomes over the past year.
The report represents the implementation of the Companys remuneration policy, with historic information based on the policy approved at the 2013 AGM and forward-looking information on that set out in the policy section of this report subject to approval by shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
Those sections of this report which have been audited are indicated in the title to the section.
Single total figure of remuneration subject to audit The table below sets out the aggregate remuneration received by Directors for 2014 and 2015.
Further details on the pension, annual bonus and Co-Investment Plan figures are contained in following sections.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee agreed that the permanent place of work for tax purposes for the Chief Executive should be changed to reflect the increased requirement on him to attend the Companys London office on a more regular basis.
As a result of this, the Committee agreed that the costs of travel between his home and the London office, as well as related subsistence, would continue to be met by the Company as a taxable benefit.
As reported in the 2014 Remuneration Report, due to a clerical payroll error Mr Robson was not paid a component of his benefits package in 2012 or 2013.
The amounts not paid to Mr Robson in 2012 or 2013, which totalled 27k were paid to him as part of his 2015 benefits package to ensure that his overall remuneration position was up to date.
The aggregate Directors remuneration, including salary, bonus, benefits and cash pension allowances is 3,100k.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Additional requirements in respect of single figure table subject to audit 59 Annual bonus targets and outcomes The table below sets out the 2015 annual bonus targets and performance outcomes which underlie the bonus figures shown in the single total figure of remuneration table for 2015.
These targets were set in February 2015 in line with the policy on annual bonus.
As incentive targets they are designed to be stretching for participants, and do not represent the Groups budget figures for last year.
The Remuneration Committee was satisfied that the payments fairly reflected Group performance for 2015.
PBT Cash flow Overall Above Threshold Target target Achieved Threshold Target Maximum Achieved Total Cash Deferred Performance 188.8m 212.5m Profit share 219.6m 194m 218m 249m 233.6m Payment 0.246% of PBT CEO % of salary 10% 85% 94% 8% 15% 20% 18% 112% 100% 12% unless 0.181% of PBT Deputy otherwise CEO and CFO stated Outcomes for Matthew Ingle 640 572 68 Executive Directors 000 Mark Robson 471 421 50 Co-Investment Plan The table below sets out the details of the Co-Investment Plan targets and performance outcomes which underlie the Co-Investment Plan figures shown in the single total figure of remuneration table for 2015.
These awards vest on 26 March 2016.
3 year PBT growth Threshold Maximum Achieved Performance 6% p. a.
17% Vesting matching shares per invested share 0.5 2 2 Given the performance achieved as set out above, the table below sets out the value of this award for participants.
This is based on a share price of 5.03, being the three-month average share price to 26 December 2015.
Number of awards Total value at 5.03 vesting 000 per share 000 Matthew Ingle 721 3,625 Outcomes for Executive Directors Mark Robson 506 2,543 Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Total pension entitlements subject to audit 60 Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Howden Joinery Group Pension Plan the Plan, details of which are provided in the future policy table on page 51.
The plan is not open to new joiners.
The table below sets out the accrued pension for both Executive Directors, with pension values calculated using the HMRC method.
No additional benefits become receivable if Executive Directors retire early.
Matthew Ingle had a fully funded pension position in 2006 and hence has chosen to opt out of membership of the Plan.
Mr Ingle therefore receives a salary supplement of 30% of salary in lieu of pension 172k in 2015.
Accrued Pension value in the Pension value in the Pension value pension at year from defined year from defined in year from Normal 28 Dec 2015 benefit component contribution component cash allowance Total retirement Name 000 date 000 000 000 000 Matthew Ingle 54 28 09 2014 172 172 Mark Robson 32 16 01 2019 58 34 83 175 Loss of office payment or payments to past directors subject to audit No loss of office payments or payments to past Directors were made in the year under review.
Scheme interests awarded during the financial year subject to audit During 2015, the Executive Directors were invited to participate in the Co-Investment Plan.
The plan operated on the same basis as the awards which were granted in 2014, as follows: The CEO was able to invest up to the lesser of 650,000 shares and 150% salary of his own shares into the plan for three years.
At the time of award, 150% of salary equated to 185,416 shares based on a closing share price of 4.63 on the day prior to grant.
The Deputy CEO and CFO was able to invest up to the same proportion of salary as the CEO.
Both the CEO and Deputy CEO and CFO invested the full amount.
Under the plan, each invested share is matched by up to two additional shares which vest subject to the achievement of stretching PBT growth targets.
In setting the performance targets, the Remuneration Committee aims to align managements reward with longer-term PBT growth which is central to the achievement of the Groups strategy.
The table below provides further details of this award.
Nature of award Restricted shares awarded under the Co-Investment Plan Maximum potential Executive Number of invested shares Face value of CIP award matching shares Level of award CEO 185,416 370,832 1,716,952 Deputy CEO 136,541 273,081 1,264,365 Number of matching shares that PBT growth performance condition would vest per invested share 20% p. a.
2.0 PBT component vesting schedule Straight-line vesting between these points Straight-line vesting between these points 8% p. a.
Performance period Performance measured from FY2015 to FY2017 inclusive Vesting date 26 March 2018 Based on a share price of 4.63, being the closing price on the 25 March 2015 source: Datastream.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Statement of directors shareholding and share interests subject to audit 61 In order that their interests are aligned with those of shareholders, Executive Directors are expected to build up and maintain a personal shareholding in the Company.
Under the share ownership guidelines, the Chief Executive is required to hold a personal shareholding equal to twice his basic salary.
Other Executive Directors are required to hold a personal shareholding equal to their basic salary.
Shares deferred under the deferred bonus plan and unvested incentive shares are not counted towards this requirement.
There are no shareholding guidelines for Non-Executive Directors.
The table below sets out the total shares in the Group held or potentially held by Directors and the extent to which the Executive Directors have met the shareholding guidelines.
Owned Shareholding outright Share awards Options Shareholding requirement including subject to subject to Vested but Current requirement number of connected Subject to performance performance unexercised shareholding Guideline Director % shares persons deferral conditions conditions options % of salary met?
Matthew Ingle 200% 227,316 4,020,583 28,372 1,544,593 3,537% Y Mark Robson 100% 83,698 1,879,589 18,967 1,096,377 2,246% Y Will Samuel n a n a 40,000 Mark Allen n a n a 3,000 Andrew Cripps n a n a Geoff Drabble n a n a Tiffany Hall n a n a 3,000 Richard Pennycook n a n a 3,000 Michael Wemms n a n a 42,000 Based on a share price of 5.03, being the three-month average share price to 26 December 2015 source: Datastream.
This is calculated using those shares owned outright by the Executive Directors only.
The table above highlights the significant investment held by Executive Directors in the shares of Howden Joinery Group plc, which is well in excess of that required under their shareholding guidelines.
Neither of the Executive Directors exercised any options in the Company during the period under review and nor did they have any vested but unexercised options at 26 December 2015.
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Performance graph and table 62 2 2 3 4 5 6 7 Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 1 CEO single figure 000s 1,399 1,458 6,083 3,401 5,168 6,223 5,225 Annual bonus % of maximum 63% 69% 66% 51% 63% 64% 56% LTI vest % of maximum 100% 100% 89% 100% 100% 700 FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts Howdens 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 December 2009 December 2010 December 2011 December 2012 December 2013 December 2014 December 2015 The graph above illustrates the Companys TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 index excluding investment companies of which the Company is a constituent.
It shows that over the past six years Howden Joinery Group has generated significantly higher returns than the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts.
Above the graph is a history of the CEO single figure and incentive payout levels.
It shows that the bonus has recognised consistently strong annual performance, and that long-term incentives have reflected the challenges that faced the Company after 2008 and recognised the turnaround delivered by the Group since then.
These figures are buoyed by significant share price increases over the periods, as illustrated by the graph.
E ach CEO single figure has been prepared as per the prescribed methodology, and includes base salary, benefits, pension and annual bonus payments.
The figures also include long-term incentive vests where relevant.
No long-term incentive vested which relate to the 2009 and 2010 CEO single figures.
T he 2011 CEO single figure includes the vesting of the 2009 premium priced option awards.
This comprised two equal tranches of options, one with a premium exercise price of 25p and the other with a premium exercise price of 50p share price at grant was 18.75p.
The awards vested in full as cumulative PBT in the 3 financial years ending in 2009, 2010 and 2011 exceeded the target set of 90 million.
The value shown in the single figure reflects the significant increase in share price over the period to 1.188 at the date of vest a growth of 81% p. a.. 4.
T he 2012 CEO single figure includes the vesting of the 2010 market-priced option award, which had an exercise price of 87p.
The share options vested in full as the Groups 2012 PBT exceeded the maximum growth target of RPI 8% p. a. on 2009 PBT.
The value shown in the single figure reflects the significant increase in share price over the period to 2.38 at the date of vest a growth of 43% p. a.. 5.
T he 2013 CEO single figure includes the partial vesting of the 2011 CIP award.
89% of the matching shares vested as the Groups 2013 PBT had grown at 11% p. a. on 2010 PBT.
The value shown in the single figure reflects the significant increase in share price over the period to 3.19 the 3 month average to 28 December 2013, source: Datastream from 1.10, a growth of 43% p. a.
T he 2014 CEO single figure includes the full vesting of the 2012 CIP award.
100% of the matching shares vested as the Groups 2014 PBT had grown at 20% p. a. on 2011 PBT.
The value shown in the single figure reflects the significant share price over the period to 3.64 the 3 month average to 27 December 2014, source: Datastream from 1.31, a growth of 41% p. a.
T he 2015 CEO single figure includes the full vesting of the 2013 CIP award.
100% of the matching shares vested as the Groups 2015 PBT had grown at 17% p. a. on 2012 PBT.
The value shown in the single figure reflects the significant share price over the period to 5.01 the 3 month average to 26 December 2015, source: Datastream from 2.42, a growth of 28% p. a. Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Percentage change in remuneration of director undertaking the role of chief executive officer 63 The table below sets out the change in short-term pay from 2014 to 2015 of the CEO compared to all employees on a per capita basis.
Salary Taxable Benefits Bonus 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 % % inc % inc 000s 000s increase 000s 000s dec 000s 000s dec CEO 572 572 216 19 1,137% 640 728 14 % All full time employees per capita 23 23 2.46% 1 1 1.76 % 8 8 2.71% As previously reported in the notes to the single total figure of remuneration table on page 58, the significant increase in relation to the CEOs taxable benefits is exclusively the result of the decision of the Remuneration Committee during the year to agree to change his place of work to the Companys London office.
The decrease in the average taxable benefits of all full time employees reflects the impact of a significant number of new recruitments during the year.
These recruitments were typically into roles that do not attract a high level of taxable benefits.
For 2016, the CEO will receive no salary increase, compared to a typical wider workforce increase of c. 3% of salary.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below sets out the change in total remuneration spend of the Group from 2014 to 2015 compared to: the total dividend paid by the Group: the total remuneration spend of the Group as a percentage of revenue: and the two incentive performance measures PBT and cash flow.
The figures are shown in m, unless otherwise specified.
Total remuneration Total shareholder Total remuneration spend returns PBT Cash flow spend as a % Year m m of revenue m m 2014 286.5 40.3 26% 189 218 2015 323.4 105.0 27% 220 234 % increase 13% 161% 4% 16% 7% Net cash flow from operating activities, being the definition used for the annual bonus scheme.
The figures above reflect continuing growth in terms of financial performance, progression of the Companys dividend policy and a significant increase in our workforce.
It is pleasing to note that despite the fact that new recruits have typically been at more junior roles in the business, total remuneration as a percentage of revenue has increased.
External appointments It is recognised that Executive Directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies and that exposure to such duties can broaden their experience and skills, which will benefit the Company.
Howden Joinery Group allows Executive Directors and other appropriate senior employees to accept a maximum of one non-executive appointment outside the Company, subject to permission from the Committee, provided this is not with a competing company nor likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
No such appointments are currently in place.
Executive Directors may retain the fees paid to them in respect of their nonexecutive duties.
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2016 64 Remuneration policy will be implemented from 2016 as follows.
Base salaries and fees Base salary increases from 2015 are set out in the table below.
2015 2016 Percentage increase Percentage increase Salary from 2014 Salary from 2015 Matthew Ingle 572 572 Mark Robson 421 5% 421 Increase applied from 30 May 2014, being the date Mr Robson took on the responsibilities of his new role as Deputy CEO and CFO.
Non-Executive Director fees As provided in the Chairmans letter, the Board has reviewed the fees paid to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors through consideration of FTSE 250 market benchmarks, and the increased size of the Company and time commitment required for these roles since fees were last revised in 2013.
The fee paid to the Company Chairman will rise to 250,000 from 190,000.
This will take effect when Richard Pennycook takes over as Chairman at the AGM in May 2016.
2015 2016 Percentage increase Percentage increase Fee from 2014 Fee from 2015 Chairman fee 190,000 225,000 18% Basic NED fee 45,000 55,000 22% Additional SID fee 3,000 10,000 333% Committee Chair fee 8,000 10,000 25% Annual bonus measures The table below sets out annual bonus measures for 2016, which are the same measures as for 2015.
As set out in the policy section of this report, targets for these measures are considered commercially sensitive by the Committee and so are not disclosed here.
The profit share percentages for CEO and Deputy CEO have been reduced from 0.246% and 0.181% respectively to reflect increased performance expectations for 2016.
Performance targets, together with achievement against them, will be set out in full in the 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Definition Performance level Payout level PBT Pre-exceptional profit before tax Threshold 10% of salary from continuing operations Target 85% of salary Above target Profit share for the CEO: 0.210% of PBT Profit share for the Deputy CFO: 0.155% of PBT Subject to aggregate bonus payout cap of 150% of salary Cash flow Net cash flow from operating Threshold 8% of salary activities, taking into account Target 15% of salary the efficiency with which working Maximum 20% of salary capital is used, and adjusted for exceptional items Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Performance Share Plan measure and targets 65 The table below sets out PSP performance measures and targets for awards to be made in 2016.
PBT component vesting schedule PBT growth performance condition Payout level 20% p. a.
270% of salary 100% of maximum Straight-line vesting between these points 8% p. a.
40.5% of salary 15% of maximum Less than 8% p. a.
Consideration by the directors of matters relating to directors remuneration Membership of the Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises six independent Non-Executive Directors who are listed at the beginning of this report and who have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided.
Under its terms of reference, which are reviewed on an annual basis, the Committee is responsible for determining the broad policy and specific remuneration packages for Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and other members of the Executive Committee, including pension rights and, where applicable, any compensation payments.
The Committee is also regularly updated on pay and conditions applying to other employees in the Company.
The Committee met four times during 2015.
The meetings covered the following key areas: Review of executive remuneration and development of the revised policy proposed in this report.
Approve salaries for the Executive Board members and Executive Committee.
Review the developments in corporate governance best practice and competitive market practice trends during the course of the year, including the provisions of the revised Corporate Governance Code.
Review and approve the remuneration report to shareholders.
Review and approve the Chairmans fees.
Review and approve the terms and conditions of the annual bonus and long-term incentives awarded in 2015, including determining the appropriate performance targets.
Review and approval of annual bonus payouts and share based awards vesting in 2015. Review and approve the terms of reference of the Committee.
Initial review of the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy and incentives for 2015. Review of the balance between risk and reward to ensure that the incentives are compatible with the Companys risk policies and systems.
The Committee concluded that the incentives did not expose the Company to any excessive risk and were appropriately managed.
Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Advice to the Committee 66 The Committee regularly consults with the Chief Executive on matters concerning remuneration, although he is never present when his own reward is under discussion.
The Company Chairman attends the Remuneration Committee by invitation except when his own remuneration is determined.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee but is never present when his own reward is determined.
The Committee also has access to detailed external information and research on market data and trends from independent consultants.
 LLP PwC is the Committees retained independent advisor and provided advice to the Committee during the year.
PwC has been independent advisor to the Committee since 2007, and was appointed by the Committee as the result of a tender process.
Work undertaken by PwC for the Committee included updating the Committee on trends in compensation and governance matters and advising the Committee in connection with benchmarking of the total reward packages for the Executive Directors and other senior members of staff.
A representative from PwC attends each meeting of the Remuneration Committee.
Fees paid to PwC in relation to remuneration services provided to the Committee in 2015 totalled 177,400, with fee levels based on the quantity and complexity of work undertaken.
PwC also provided internal audit advice to the Company during 2015.
The Committee reviews the objectivity and independence of the advice it receives from PwC at a private meeting each year.
It is satisfied that PwC is providing robust and professional advice.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group which operates a code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Statement of voting at general meeting The table below shows the voting outcome at the May 2015 AGM for the approval of the 2015 Remuneration Report and Policy.
1 Remuneration Report For Against Votes 97.46% 2.54% Note 1: 221,756 votes 1% of all votes were withheld.
The Committee was pleased with the strong vote in favour which the Group received from shareholders.
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE IN 2016 The Remuneration Committee is scheduled to meet at least three times during 2016.
It will continue to consider the ongoing appropriateness of executive remuneration: review developments in corporate governance best practice and competitive market practice trends: review and approve the remuneration report to shareholders: review and approve the terms and conditions of the annual bonus and long-term incentives, including determining the appropriate performance targets: and review the balance between risk and reward to ensure that the incentives are compatible with the Companys risk policies and systems.
By order of the Board Tiffany Hall Remuneration Committee Chairman 24 February 2016
