56 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Structure of the report Directors Annual Statement pages 56 and 57 Directors Remuneration Report at a glance pages 58 to 60 Directors Remuneration Policy pages 61 to 73 Remuneration Annual Report on Remuneration pages 74 to 78 Our core principles of remuneration Report To ensure senior executives are attracted, retained and motivated to drive the next stage of development in the Company post-IPO: Remuneration Committee To incentivise the management team in extending the Chairs Annual Statement Companys position in the building products industry: and To deliver long-term sustainable growth.
Company highlights for the 2015 financial period 2015 was a transitional year for the Group as a result of the publiclisting of the Company on 27 October.
Extensive work wasundertaken by the senior management team in preparation forthe IPO to ensure its success.
Throughout the transition and post IPO, the CEO, the CFO and thesenior management team have continued to drive the Groups strategy to extend its position in the building products industry and to be its customers partner of choice by providing consistent high quality, reliable and innovative products with a constant focus on strong customer service and value.
The effectiveness of the senior management team in implementing this strategy has been substantiated in the level of satisfaction of the Companys KPIs.
A number of the Companys KPIs Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Operating Cash Flow and operational goals were reflected in the bonus targets for 2015.
Full details of the strategy and KPIs are contained on pages 22 to 25.
For 2015 Dear Shareholder, maximum bonuses were earned by the Executive Directors.
As the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to Remuneration Committee decisions and activity present the report of the Board covering the Remuneration Policy followingthe IPO the Policy and practice for the first time as a listed company.
The Groups Remuneration Policies and practices were reviewed Work on the Policy was started following the initial share offering extensively in preparation for the IPO to ensure appropriate on 27 October 2015.
In February of 2016, I was appointed to the remuneration arrangements were in place to support Company Board and asChair of the Remuneration Committee.
Tracey strategy following the listing of the Company.
Graham was alsoappointed to the Committee in February.
Since then, the Committee has reviewed and built on the remuneration The Remuneration Policies and practices that were outlined in the work doneby the Board in the lead up to the IPO and published in prospectus at the time of the Companys listing in October 2015 the prospectus.
Having been a member at the time of Admission, have been largely maintained.
However, we have taken the Mr Sheppard stepped down from the Committee in February.
opportunity to review all the key components of remuneration sincethe IPO to ensure that the proposed Remuneration Policy is Our goal is to have a Remuneration Policy which supports the fit-for-purpose as a listed Company and aligns with the Companys Groups goals to extend its position in the building products strategic objectives and shareholder expectations.
industry and to deliver long-term sustainable growth.
In our new Remuneration Policy, we are striving to incentivise and motivate the In addition, we have undertaken the following activity as a leadership team to implement the Companys strategic goals and Remuneration Committee: to also ensure they are aligned with shareholder expectations.
This determined the Committees Terms of Reference: has guided our thinking and actions in our work.
This report lays formulated the Companys Remuneration Policy as a listed out the core principles of our Remuneration Policy and our practice company: and over the past year.
In our Policy description we have worked to completed the Companys first Remuneration Report as a provide the transparency and clarity to enable our shareholders listedcompany.
tounderstand the intent of our remuneration.
We shared our Policy with our top shareholders and the main Remuneration Committee members shareholder bodies in March prior to its formal publication.
Lynn Minella Chair Itwasavaluable opportunity to receive feedback on our Tracey Graham Remuneration Policy.
Jonathan Nicholls Jamie Pike IBSTOCK 16 REM Statement DRF2.
indd 56 12 04 2016 13:01 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 57 Two resolutions will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
Notes This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to The Large andMedium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations We will first seek approval for the Remuneration Policy 2008 as amended in 2013, the provisions of the current Corporate Governance Report Part A: pages 61 to 73.
This outlines the Companys Code and taking into account the new UK Corporate Governance Code Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors effective from the applying for financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2014 the Code and the Listing Rules.
The report consists of three sections: 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM.
The vote is binding on the The Annual Statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman and Remuneration Committee and has a duration of up to three years.
associated at a glance section: The Remuneration Policy Report which sets out the Companys The second is seeking approval for the Annual Report on Remuneration Policy for Directors and the key factors that were taken into account in setting the Policy.
This Policy will apply for three years from its Remuneration Part B: pages 74 to 78.
It details decisions and dateof approval at the 2016 AGM: and actions taken by the Committee based on the performance of the The Annual Report on Remuneration which sets out payments made to Company and remuneration consequences.
This section of the theDirectors and details the link between Company performance and report is subject to an annual advisory vote.
remuneration for the 2015 financial period.
The Chairs Annual Statement and the Annual Report on Remuneration willbe Our goal has been to be thoughtful and clear in the layout of subject to an advisory vote at the AGM.
The Remuneration Policy will besubject bothparts of the report and I look forward to your support on both to a binding vote.
I welcome any feedback from the Companys shareholders.
Lynn Minella Chair of the Remuneration Committee 10 March 2016 IBSTOCK 16 REM Statement DRF2.
indd 57 12 04 2016 13:01 58 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued At a glance Introduction In this section, we set out the remuneration outcomes for the 2015 financial period and an overview of our proposed Remuneration Policy for 2016 subject to a binding vote by shareholders at our 2016 AGM.
2015 financial period: Remuneration outcomes 2015 was a transitional year for the Company as we successfully floated in October 2015 to become a listed company.
This marks a significant change for the Company and for the roles of our Executive Directors.
Despite the backdrop of changes for the Company in 2015, the Company delivered strong operational performance in the period.
Our 2015 results and the associated bonus outcomes outlined below reflect the performance measures and targets put in place during our 2015 financial period and their level of satisfaction.
2015 bonus outcomes 1 Percentage of Bonus value achieved Threshold Maximum maximum performance performance Actual performance Wayne 2 3 Performance condition Weighting required required performance achieved Sheppard Kevin Sims Adjusted EBITDA 33% 68.2m 85.3m 107.0m 100% 84,080 50,389 Adjusted Operating Cash Flow 33% 39.3m 52.6m 119.3m 100% 84,080 50,389 Personal objectives 33% Personal objectives for 2015 met in full.
Under the terms of the 2015 bonus, 0% for each element is payable for achieving the threshold performance increasing to 100% for achieving maximum performance.
Achievements between these points are calculated on a straight line basis.
Bonus opportunity of 60% of salary pre-IPO and 125% of salary post-IPO.
Bonus payment based on base salary of 308,100 pre-IPO and 425,000 following the IPO.
Bonus opportunity of 50% of salary pre-IPO and 125% of salary post-IPO.
Bonus payment based on base salary of 200,265 pre-IPO and 290,000 following the IPO.
The detail of the outcomes can be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 74 to 78.
The 2015 bonus will be paid in cash.
The only incentive arrangement operated in 2015 was the bonus plan.
The first awards under the LTIP adopted prior to the IPO will be in2016.
indd 58 12 04 2016 13:01 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 59 Equity exposure of the Executive Directors As a result of the IPO, both of the Executive Directors have significant shareholdings in the Company as set out below, providing them with a material stake in the business.
The following chart sets out all subsisting interests in the equity of the Company held by the Executive Directors at 31 December 2015.
Both Executive Directors have shareholdings substantially in excess of the Companys minimum shareholding requirements which are currently 200% of base salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 150% for the Chief Financial Officer.
Shareholding requirements as % of salary Wayne Sheppard 200% Shareholding requirement 5,907% Value of bene cially owned shares Value of gain on interests over shares 0% i. e. unvested unexercised awards Kevin Sims Shareholding requirement 150% Value of bene cially owned shares 5,627% Value of gain on interests over shares 0% i. e. unvested unexercised awards The number of shares of the Company in which current Directors had a beneficial interest as at 31 December 2015 are set out in detail onpage 76.
indd 59 12 04 2016 13:01 60 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued 2016 financial year: Our proposed Remuneration Policy for implementation in 2016 On the IPO, the remuneration arrangements for the Group were updated to reflect the Groups new public status and to align with Group strategy as it transitioned into a listed environment as a FTSE 250 company, as outlined in the IPO prospectus.
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed and considered the key components of remuneration since the IPO to ensure that the proposed Remuneration Policy is fit-for-purpose and aligned with the expectations of a listed Company.
Our proposed Remuneration Policy summarised below has been designed to align remuneration of our Executive Directors with Group strategy and to drive continued success within a remuneration framework that meets the shareholder and governance expectations of aFTSE 250 company.
Key elements and time period Year 1 2 3 4 5 Overview of Remuneration Policy for 2016 For 2016 base salaries for the CEO and CFO will be 425,000 and 290,000 respectively.
The Executive Directors Service Agreements specify that a base salary review will take place Base salary with effect from 1 January 2016 and each anniversary thereafter.
Both Executive Directors declined a January 2016 review and any further review until 1 January 2017.
The maximum contribution into the defined contribution plan Pension or a salary supplement in lieu of pension will be 20% of gross basic salary.
Standard benefits will be provided.
See Remuneration Policy Benefits for further details.
The Committee can determine the proportion of the bonus earned under the ABP provided as an award of deferred shares.
For 2016 the maximum bonus opportunity will be 125% of salary for the CEO and CFO.
Annual and Deferred Bonus The performance conditions and their weightings for the Plan ABP 2016annual bonus are as follows: Adjusted EBITDA 20% : Cash Adjusted Operating Cash Flow 20% : ROCE 20% : Deferred award NPS Net Promotor Score 10% : LTAs Lost Time Accidents 10% : and Personal objectives 20%.
The level of deferral in shares will be one-third of the bonusearned.
The performance conditions for awards will be equally weighted between Adjusted Earnings per Share EPS growth and comparative Total Shareholder Return TSR assessed over a three-year performance period.
For the achievement of threshold performance, 25% of theelement will vest with straight line vesting in between LTIP tomaximum performance.
In 2016 the maximum annual LTIP award of 100% of salary will be awarded to the CEO and CFO.
The Committee is in the process of determining the targets in respect of the above performance conditions for the first LTIP grant at the date of this report.
The detail of the performance targets will be disclosed at the date of grant.
The Committee proposes to implement the policy for the 2016 financial year, subject to shareholder approval at our 2016 AGM.
Further details of the Remuneration Policy and how our proposed Remuneration Policy aligns to Group strategy is set out in the following section.
indd 60 12 04 2016 13:01 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 61 Part A Directors Remuneration Policy Introduction In accordance with the remuneration reporting regulations, the Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy as set out below will become formally effective at the AGM on 26 May 2016 on the basis of shareholder approval and will apply for the period of three years from the date of approval.
The Companys core principles of remuneration are: to ensure top executives are attracted, retained and motivated to drive the Company in its next stage of development post-IPO: to incentivise management in extending the Companys position in the building products industry: and to deliver long-term sustainable growth.
The Committee will review annually all elements of the remuneration including the base salary, annual bonus levels, proportion of bonus to be deferred in shares and the annual and long-term incentive performance conditions for the Executive Directors and the selected members of the senior management team drawing on trends and adjustments made to all employees across the Group and taking intoconsideration: our business strategy: overall Ibstock performance: market conditions: views of key stakeholders of the business: corporate governance considerations: and changing views of institutional shareholders and their representative bodies.
Our Remuneration Policy and its link to our Group strategy The Groups strategy is laid out on pages 22 to 23.
Ensuring the alignment of the proposed Remuneration Policy to the Company strategy was key for the Remuneration Committee in developing the proposed Policy below.
The key elements of the Companys strategy and how its successful implementation is linked tothe Companys remuneration are set out in the following table.
indd 61 12 04 2016 13:00 62 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Strategic priorities Continuing to focusona safe Evaluate opportunities working environment Retain and Invest in new capacity to expand existing that hasthe Equity reward Remuneration Policy and optimise output Penetrate markets product portfolio developmentof ownership Executive from the date of totake advantage of further through either through employees and and team to shareholder structural imbalances innovative organicinvestment customer service retention deliver the approval in the Groups market products oracquisitions atits core of shares strategy Annual bonus metrics ROCE, Adjusted ROCE, Adjusted ROCE, Adjusted NPS and LTA The maximum bonus EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted These measures including any part of Cash Flow Cash Flow, NPS Cash Flow target customer the bonus deferred The success The efficient An incentive to satisfaction and into an ABP Award inmaximising development of grow in the core health and safety in deliverable under operational innovative products markets is provided the workplace and theABP will not excellence will be measured through through the therefore support exceed 125% of a reflected through ROCE and NPS Adjusted EBITDA this objective.
participants annual increased performance and Adjusted Cash base salary.
profitability and willbe reflected low targets.
cash flow and the inincreased efficiency of any profitability investment made andcash flow.
LTIP metrics Maximum annual Adjusted EPS, TSR TSR Adjusted EPS award is normally The success The generation An incentive to 100% of salary.
inmaximising ofcash and profit grow this market in operational growth targeted by the longer term is Awards will vest excellence will the annual bonus provided through atthe end of bemeasured will help enhance Adjusted EPS threeyears.
through the the value of the growth targeted long-term Adjusted Company which bythe LTIP.
The For 2016 the EPS growth will be measured success of this performance targeted by the through the element of the conditions for awards LTIP.
In addition, success of the strategy should are equally weighted sustained value Companys TSR bereflected in between: generation will be performance long-term TSR Adjusted Earnings reflected in the against its performance.
per Share growth: share price of the comparators and Company which aperformance comparative will be measured condition under TotalShareholder through the the LTIP.
Companys TSR performance under the LTIP.
Share Incentive Plan SIP The Sharesave Plan Minimum shareholding requirements Chief Executive Officer 200% ofsalary Chief Financial Officer 150% ofsalary See Note 25c v on page 120.
indd 62 12 04 2016 13:00 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 63 Remuneration Policy table Element of How it supports the Companys short remuneration and long-term strategic objectives Operation Maximum opportunity Base salary Provides a base level of remuneration An Executive Directors base salary The Committee ensures that tosupport recruitment and retention of isset on appointment and reviewed maximum salary levels are Executive Directors with the necessary annually or when there is a change positionedin line with companies experience and expertise to deliver the inposition or responsibility.
ofasimilar size to Ibstock, validated Groups strategy.
against companies operating in a When determining an appropriate level similar sector.
of salary, the Committee considers: remuneration practices within The companies in the comparator theGroup: group are organisations in the FTSE the general performance of 250 excluding financial services, real theGroup: estate and equity investment trusts.
salaries within the ranges paid by the companies in the comparator The Committee intends to review the group used for remuneration comparator groups each year and benchmarking: may add or remove companies from any change in scope, role and the group as it considers appropriate.
responsibilities: and Any changes to the comparator the economic environment.
group will be in the section headed Implementation of Remuneration Individuals who are recruited or Policy, in the following financial year.
promoted to the Board may, on occasion, have their salaries set In general, salary increases for belowthe targeted policy level until Executive Directors will be in line they become established in their role.
In such cases subsequent increases insalary may be higher than the The Company will set out in the general rises for employees until section headed Implementation of thetarget positioning is achieved.
Remuneration Policy, in the following financial year, the salaries for that year for each of the Executive Directors see page 60.
Benefits Provides a benefits package in line The Executive Directors receive a See description of benefits in the with practice relative to its comparator company car or car allowance, private previous column.
group to enable the Company to health cover, death in service cover recruit and retain Executive Directors and income protection.
with the experience and expertise to deliver the Groups strategy.
The Committee recognises the need tomaintain suitable flexibility in the benefits provided to ensure it is able to support the objective of attracting and retaining personnel in order to deliver the Group strategy.
Additional benefits may therefore be offered such as relocation allowances on recruitment.
The maximum will be set at the cost ofproviding the benefits described.
indd 63 12 04 2016 13:00 64 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy table continued Element of How it supports the Companys short remuneration and long-term strategic objectives Operation Maximum opportunity Pensions Provides a pension provision in line The Company operates a defined The maximum contribution into the with practice relative to its comparator benefit DB pension scheme, which is defined contribution plan or a salary group to enable the Company to closed to new members and a defined supplement in lieu of pension will be recruit and retain Executive Directors contribution DC scheme in the UK.
Where the Executive Director is in The Company will set out in the theDB scheme, they are entitled to section headed Implementation receive, in addition, annually a cash ofRemuneration Policy, in the lump sum payment equal to 20% of following financial year the pension the difference between the pensions contributions for that year for earnings cap and actual salary.
In the event that any Executive Director ceases to be a member of the Ibstock Pension Scheme defined benefit scheme they will be entitled to receive a maximum employer contribution into the defined contribution scheme or a salary supplement in lieu of pension of20% of his basic salary per annum.
indd 64 12 04 2016 13:00 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 65 How it supports the Element of Companys short and remuneration long-term strategic objectives Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Annual and The ABP provides a The maximum bonus including Percentage of bonus An award under the ABP is subject to satisfying financial Deferred significant incentive to the any part of the bonus deferred maximum earned for andstrategic operational Bonus Plan Executive Directors linked into an ABP Award deliverable levels of performance: performance personal ABP toachievement in delivering under the ABP will not exceed Threshold: 0% performance conditions and goals that are closely aligned 125% of a participants annual On-target: 50% targets measured over a with the Companys strategy base salary.
Maximum: 100% periodof one financial year.
and the creation of value forshareholders.
The Board will determine The annual bonus will A minimum of 50% of the thebonus to be delivered be paid in cash and targets shall be financial.
In particular, the ABP following the end of the deferred shares.
TheBoard will determine supports the Companys relevantfinancial year.
thebonus to be delivered objectives allowing the following the end of the setting of annual targets The Company will set out in the relevant financial year.
based on the businesses section headed Implementation strategy at the time, of Remuneration Policy, in the The Committee is of the opinion meaning that a wider range following financial year, the that given the commercial of performance metrics can nature of the targets and their sensitivity arising in relation to be used that arerelevant weighting for each year see the detailed financial targets and achievable.
page 60. used for the annual bonus, disclosing precise targets for the ABP in advance would not The Committee has Details of the performance be in shareholder interests.
discretion to defer part of conditions, targets and their Actual targets, performance the annual bonus earned in level of satisfaction for the year achieved and awards made shares under the ABP.
The being reported on will be set will be published at the end of advantage of deferral is: out in the Annual Report on the performance periods so increased alignment Remuneration.
shareholders can fully assess between Executives the basis for any pay-outs andshareholders created The Committee can determine under the annual bonus.
through deferral and that part of the bonus earned theincreased equity under the ABP is provided as In exceptional circumstances stake of management an award of deferred shares.
the Committee retains the inthe Company: and discretion to: amounts deferred in The maximum value of change the performance shares are subject to deferredshares is 50% measures and targets and aDirectors continuing ofthebonus earned.
theweighting attached to the employment, which performance measures and provides an effective The main terms of these targets part-way through a lock-in.
awards are: performance year if there is a minimum deferral period significant and material event ofthree years, during which which causes the Committee no performance conditions to believe the original will apply: and measures, weightings the participants continued andtargets are no longer employment at the end of appropriate: and the deferral period.
make downward or upward movements to the amount The Committee may award of bonus earned resulting dividend equivalents on those from the application of the shares to plan participants to performance measures, the extent that they vest.
ifthe Committee believe that the bonus outcomes The Committee has are not a fair and accurate thediscretion to apply a reflection of business holdingperiod of two years performance.
Any adjustments or discretionapplied by the Committee willbe fully disclosed in the following years Remuneration Report.
The ABP contains clawback and malus provisions.
indd 65 12 04 2016 13:00 66 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy table continued How it supports the Element of Companys short and remuneration long-term strategic objectives Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Long-Term The purpose of the LTIP is Awards are granted annually to Normal maximum The performance conditions Incentive toincentivise and reward Executive Directors in the form value of 100% of salary forthe 2016 LTIP awards are Plan Executive Directors in relation of a conditional share award, p. a. based on the Adjusted EPS growth and LTIP to long-term performance nilcost option or restricted market value at the comparative TSR.
and achievement of share award.
date of grant set in GroupStrategy.
accordance with the The Committee may change Details of the performance rules of the LTIP.
thebalance of the measures, This will better align conditions for grants made oruse different measures Executive Directors interests inthe year will be set out In exceptional forsubsequent awards, with the long-term interests intheAnnual Report on circumstances the asappropriate.
of the Group and act as a Remuneration and for Committee may retention mechanism.
futuregrants in the section grantan award with No material change will headed Implementation of amaximum of 150% bemadeto the type of The use of comparative Remuneration Policy, in the ofsalary.
performance conditions without TSRmeasures the success future financial year see prior shareholder consultation.
25% of the award theCompanys strategy in willvest for threshold In exceptional circumstances delivering an above market These will vest at the end of a performance.
the Committee retains the level of return.
three-year period subject to: discretion to: the Executive Directors 100% of the award vary, substitute or waive the The use of Adjusted EPS continued employment at willvest for maximum performance conditions ensures Executive Directors the date of vesting: and performance.
There applying to LTIP Awards if the are focused on long-term satisfaction of the isstraight line vesting Board considers it appropriate financial performance to performance conditions.
and that the new performance ensure this flows through conditions are deemed tolong-term sustainable The Committee may award reasonable and are not Adjusted EPS growth.
dividend equivalents on awards materially less difficult to satisfy to the extent that these vest.
than the original conditions: make downward or upward The Committee has the movements in the vesting of discretion to apply a holding the LTIP resulting from the period of two years postapplication of the performance vestingfor the LTIP.
measures if the Committee believe that the outcomes are not a fair and accurate reflection of business performance.
The LTIP contains clawback and malus provisions.
Share The SIP is an all-employee The Company operates a The maximums set The Company in accordance Incentive share ownership plan SIP in which the Executive bylegislation from with the legislation may Plan SIP whichhas been designed Directors are eligible to timeto time.
imposeobjective conditions toencourage all employees participate which isin line with onparticipation in the SIP to become shareholders in HMRC legislation and is open foremployees.
the Company and thereby to all eligible staff.
The Executive Directors shall beentitled to participate in any other all employee arrangement implemented by the Company.
The The Sharesave Plan is an The Company operates a The maximums set by The Company in accordance Sharesave all-employee savings related Sharesave Plan in which the the UK legislation from with the legislation may impose Plan share option plan which has Executive Directors are eligible time to time.
objective conditions on been designed to enable to participate which is in line participation in the Sharesave UKemployees to acquire with UK legislation and is Plan for employees.
aninterest in the Company opento all eligible staff.
and thus align their interests withshareholders.
indd 66 12 04 2016 13:00 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 67 Minimum The Committee has adopted formal shareholding guidelines that will encourage the Executive Directors to build up over shareholding afive-year period and then subsequently hold a shareholding equivalent to a percentage of base salary.
Adherence to requirement these guidelines is a condition of continued participation in the equity incentive arrangements.
This policy ensures that theinterests of Executive Directors and those of shareholders are closely aligned.
The following table sets out the minimum shareholding requirements: Role Shareholding requirement percentage of salary Group Chief Executive Officer 200% Group Chief Financial Officer 150% The Committee retains the discretion to increase the shareholding requirements.
Illustrations of the application of the Remuneration Policy The charts below illustrate the remuneration that would be paid to each of the Executive Directors, based on salaries at the start of the 2016 financial year, under three different performance scenarios: i minimum: ii on-target: and iii maximum.
The table below these charts sets out the assumptions used to calculate the elements of remuneration for each of these scenarios.
The elements of remuneration have been categorised into three components: i fixed: ii annual bonus deferred bonus : and iii LTIP.
Executive Directors performance scenarios Chief Executive Of cer Wayne Sheppard 100% 553,874 Minimum On-target 53% 26% 21% 1,031,999 Maximum 37% 35% 28% 1,510,124 Chief Financial Of cer Kevin Sims 100% 378,467 Minimum On-target 53% 26% 21% 704,717 Maximum 37% 35% 28% 1,030,967 Fixed elements Bonus LTIP Element Description Minimum On-target Maximum 1 2 Fixed Salary, benefits and pension.
Annual bonus Annual bonus including deferred shares.
50% of maximum 100% of maximum Maximum opportunity of 125% of salary.
LTIP Award under the LTIP.
No multiple year 50% of the maximum 100% of the maximum Maximum annual award of 100% of salary.
Based on 2015 benefits payments and pension values as per the Single total figure of remuneration table.
The actual benefits and pension contributions for 2016 will only be known at the end of the financial year.
See page 74 for the Single total figure of remuneration table and the accompanying notes.
In accordance with the regulations share price growth has not been included.
In addition, dividend equivalents have not been added to the deferred share bonus and LTIP share awards.
indd 67 12 04 2016 13:00 68 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Pay at risk The charts below set out the single figure of each Executive Director based on whether the elements remain at risk.
For example: payment is subject to continuing employment for a period deferred shares and LTIP awards : performance conditions have still to be satisfied LTIP awards : or elements are subject to clawback or malus for a period, over which the Company can recover sums paid or withhold vesting: further details of what triggers clawback or malus are set out below.
Figures have been calculated based on on-target performance fixed elements plus 50% of maximum annual bonus and 50% of the maximum LTIP.
The charts have been based on the same assumptions as set out above for the illustrations of the application of the Remuneration Policy.
Pay at risk Chief Executive Of cer Wayne Sheppard Annual bonus 425,000 265,625 478,125 LTIP 212,500 128,874 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Chief Financial Of cer Kevin Sims Annual bonus 181,250 290,000 326,250 LTIP 145,000 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 88,467 At risk Pension and bene ts Salary Subject to malus Subject to clawback Malus and clawback The ABP and the LTIP include best practice malus and clawback provisions.
Malus is the adjustment of unpaid bonus and deferred share awards under the ABP and outstanding LTIP awards as a result of the occurrence of one or more circumstances listed below.
The adjustment may result in the value being reduced to nil.
Clawback is the recovery of payments or vested awards under the ABP and vested LTIP awards as a result of the occurrence of one or more circumstances listed below.
Clawback may apply to all or part of a participants award and may be effected, among other means, by requiring the transfer of shares, payment of cash or reduction of awards or bonuses.
indd 68 12 04 2016 13:00 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 69 The circumstances in which malus and clawback could apply are as follows: discovery of a material misstatement resulting in an adjustment in the audited accounts of the Group or any Group company: the assessment of any performance condition or condition in respect of an ABP and LTIP Award was based on error, or inaccurate ormisleading information: the discovery that any information used to determine the cash payment under the ABP or the number of shares subject to an ABP orLTIP Award was based on error, or inaccurate or misleading information: action or conduct of a participant which amounts to fraud or gross misconduct: or events or the behaviour of a participant have led to the censure of a Group company by a regulatory authority or have had a significant detrimental impact on the reputation of any Group company provided that the Board is satisfied that the relevant participant was responsible for the censure or reputational damage and that the censure or reputational damage is attributable to the participant.
Annual bonus Deferred bonus Long-Term Incentive Plan Malus Up to the date of payment of a cash bonus To the end of the 3-year deferral period To the end of the 3-year vesting period Clawback 3 years post the bonus determination n a 2 years post-vesting The Committee believes that the rules of the plans provide sufficient powers to enforce malus and clawback where required.
Discretion The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out in this report.
The Committee may also exercise operational and administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders as set out in those rules.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
It is the Committees intention that commitments made in line with its policies prior to Admission will be honoured, even if satisfaction of such commitments is made post the Companys first AGM following Admission and may be inconsistent with policy.
Recruitment policy The Companys principle is that the remuneration of any new recruit will be assessed in line with the same principles as for the Executive Directors, as set out in the Remuneration Policy table above.
The Committee is mindful that it wishes to avoid paying more than it considers necessary to secure a preferred candidate with the appropriate calibre and experience needed for the role.
In setting the remuneration for new recruits, the Committee will have regard to guidelines and shareholder sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced short-term or long-term incentive payments as well as giving consideration for the appropriateness of any performance measures associated with an award.
The Companys detailed policy when setting remuneration for the appointment of new Directors is summarised in the table below: Remuneration element Recruitment policy Salary, benefits and pension These will be set in line with the policy for existing Executive Directors.
Annual bonus Maximum annual participation will be set in line with the Companys policy for existing Executive Directors and will not exceed 125% of salary.
LTIP Maximum annual participation will be set in line with the Companys policy for existing Executive Directors and will not exceed 100% of salary in normal circumstances and 150% of salary in exceptional circumstances.
Maximum variable The maximum variable remuneration which may be granted in normal circumstances is 225% remuneration ofsalary 275% of salary if the maximum LTIP grant is made.
Buyout of incentives Where the Committee determines that the individual circumstances of recruitment justifies the forfeited on cessation provision of a buyout, the equivalent value of any incentives that will be forfeited on cessation of ofemployment anExecutive Directors previous employment will be calculated taking into account the following: the proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Executive Directors cessation of employment: the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of thembeing satisfied: and any other terms and conditions having a material effect on their value lapsed value.
The Committee may then grant up to the same value as the lapsed value, where possible, under the Companys incentive plans.
To the extent that it was not possible or practical to provide the buyout within the terms of the Companys existing incentive plans, a bespoke arrangement would be used.
indd 69 12 04 2016 13:00 70 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the policy set out above would apply from the date of promotion but there wouldbe no retrospective application of the policy in relation to subsisting incentive awards or remuneration arrangements.
Accordingly, prevailing elements of the remuneration package for an existing employee would be honoured and form part of the ongoing remuneration of the person concerned.
These would be disclosed to shareholders in the Remuneration Report for the relevant financial year.
The Companys policy when setting fees for the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors is to apply the policy which applies to current Non-Executive Directors.
Payment for loss of office The Committee will honour Executive Directors contractual entitlements.
Service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
Ifa contract is to be terminated, the Committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each case.
There isno agreement between the Company and its Executive Directors or employees, providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an Executive Directors office or employment.
Remuneration element Treatment on cessation of employment Salary, These will be paid over the notice period.
The Company has discretion to make a lump sum payment in lieu.
benefits and pension 1 Good leaver reason Other reason Discretion ABP cash Performance No bonus payable for The Committee has the following elements of discretion: awards conditions will be year of cessation.
to determine that an executive is a good leaver.
It is the measured at the bonus Committees intention to only use this discretion in circumstances measurement date.
where there is an appropriate business case which will be Bonus will normally be explained in full to shareholders: and pro-rated for the period to determine whether to pro-rate the bonus to time.
The worked during the Remuneration Committees normal policy is that it will pro-rate financial year.
It is the Remuneration Committees intention to use discretion to not pro-rate in circumstances where there is anappropriate business case which will be explained in full toshareholders.
ABP share All subsisting deferred Lapse of any unvested The Committee has the following elements of discretion: awards share awards will vest.
It is the Committees intention to only use this discretion in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: to vest deferred shares at the end of the original deferral period orat the date of cessation.
The Remuneration Committee will make this determination depending on the type of good leaver reason resulting in the cessation: and to determine whether to pro-rate the maximum number of sharesto the time from the date of grant to the date of cessation.
The Remuneration Committees normal policy is that it will not pro-rate awards for time.
The Remuneration Committee will determine whether or not to pro-rate based on the circumstances of the Executive Directors departure.
indd 70 12 04 2016 13:00 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 71 1 Good leaver reason Other reason Discretion LTIP Pro-rated to time Lapse of any unvested The Committee has the following elements of discretion: andperformance LTIP awards.
It is inrespectof each theCommittees intention to only use this discretion in subsisting LTIP award.
circumstanceswhere there is an appropriate business casewhich will be explained in full to shareholders: to measure performance over the original performance period orat the date of cessation.
The Committee will make this determination depending on the type of good leaver reason resulting in the cessation: and to determine whether to pro-rate the maximum number of shares to the time from the date of grant to the date of cessation.
The Remuneration Committees normal policy is that it will pro-rate awards for time.
It is the Remuneration Committees intention touse discretion to not pro-rate in circumstances where there isan appropriate business case which will be explained in full toshareholders.
Other There are no other contractual provisions other than those set out above agreed prior to 27 June 2012. contractual obligations 1.
A good leaver reason is defined as cessation in the following circumstances: death: ill-health: injury or disability: redundancy: retirement: employing company ceasing to be a Group company: transfer of employment to a company which is not a Group company: and at the discretion of the Committee as described above.
Cessation of employment in circumstances other than those set out above is cessation for other reasons.
Change of control The Committees policy on the vesting of incentives on a change of control is summarised below: Name of incentive plan Change of control Discretion ABP cash awards Pro-rated to time and performance The Committee has discretion regarding whether to pro-rate tothedate of the change of control.
The Committees normal policy is that it will pro-rate the bonus for time.
It is the Committees intention to use itsdiscretion to not pro-rate in circumstances only where there isanappropriate business case which will be explained in full toshareholders.
ABP share awards Subsisting deferred share awards The Committee has discretion regarding whether to pro-rate willveston a change of control.
The Committees normal policy is that it will notpro-rate awards for time.
The Committee will make this determination depending on the circumstances of the change ofcontrol.
LTIP The number of shares subject to The Committee will determine the proportion of the LTIP Award subsistingLTIP awards will vest on a which vests taking into account, among other factors, the period change of control, pro-rated to time oftime the LTIP Award has been held by the participant and the andperformance.
extent to which any applicable performance conditions have beensatisfied at that time.
indd 71 12 04 2016 13:00 72 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Non-Executive Director remuneration How it supports the Companys Element of short and long-term strategic Performance remuneration objectives Operation Opportunity metrics Non-Executive Provides a level of fees to The Board is responsible for The fees for Non-Executive None.
Director and support recruitment and setting the remuneration of Directors and the Chairman Chairman fees retention of Non-Executive theNon-Executive Directors.
areset at broadly the median Directors and a Chairman The Remuneration Committee ofthe comparator group.
withthe necessary experience isresponsible for setting the to advise and assist with Chairmans fees.
In general the level of fee establishing and monitoring the increase for the Non-Executive Groups strategic objectives.
Non-Executive Directors are paid Directors and the Chairman an annual fee and additional fees willbe set taking account of for chairmanship of committees.
anychange in responsibility The Chairman does not receive andwilltake into account the any additional fees for generalrise in salaries across membership of committees.
Fees are reviewed annually The Company will pay based on equivalent roles in reasonable expenses incurred thecomparator group used by the Non-Executive Directors toreview salaries paid to the and Chairman and may settle Executive Directors.
Fees are any tax incurred in relation setat broadly the median of tothese.
Non-Executive Directors and theChairman do not participate in any variable remuneration orbenefits arrangements.
Executive Director contracts and letters of appointment for Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors Notice periods Compensation Date of Nature of provisions for Name service contract contract From Company From Director early termination Wayne Sheppard 22 October 2015 Rolling 12 months 12 months None Kevin Sims 22 October 2015 Rolling 12 months 12 months None Non-Executive Directors Name Date of letter of appointment Jamie Pike 22 September 2015 Jonathan Nicholls 22 September 2015 Lynn Minella 3 February 2016 Tracey Graham 3 February 2016 Michel Plantevin 22 October 2015 Matthias Boyer Chammard 22 October 2015 The Committees policy for setting notice periods is that a 12-month period will apply for Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors of the Company including the Chairman do not have service contracts.
The Non-Executive Directors areappointed by letters of appointment.
Each independent Non-Executive Directors term of office runs for a three-year period.
The initial terms of the Non-Executive Directors positions are subject to their re-election by the Companys shareholders at the AGMandto re-election at any subsequent AGM at which the Non-Executive Directors stand for re-election.
All Directors will be put forward for re-election by shareholders on an annual basis.
indd 72 12 04 2016 13:00 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 73 Statement of considerations of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company The Remuneration Policy for all employees is determined in terms of best practice and ensuring that the Company is able to attract and retain the best people.
This principle is followed in the development of our Policy.
The remuneration strategy of the Company has been designed to ensure all employees share in its success through performance-related remuneration and share ownership.
On IPO a number of new remuneration arrangements were introduced: the LTIP for Executive Directors and other selected members of the senior management team and a Share Option Plan for selected Senior Managers.
Awards under both these Plans will provide alignment between senior leaders and our shareholders based on overall corporate performance of the business.
For all employees, the Company has adopted an SAYE Scheme and Share Incentive Plan with local equivalents in other jurisdictions intended.
Under the new Plans, all employees will have the opportunity to purchase shares in the Company subject to certain restrictions.
The Company does not use remuneration comparison measurements nor have employees been consulted directly on the Policy.
Insetting the Remuneration Policy for Directors, the pay and conditions of other employees of Company are taken into account, includingany base salary increases awarded.
The Committee is provided with data on the remuneration structure for management level tiers below the Executive Directors, and uses this information to ensure consistency of approach throughout the Company.
Link to objectives The following table demonstrates how key objectives are reflected consistently in plans operating at all levels within the Company.
Objectives Long-term valuecreation Strategic and encouraged Financial operational through equity Share Plan Purpose Eligibility performance goals retention ownership SAYE SIP To broaden share All employees.
ownershipand share in corporate success over themedium term.
Annual Incentivise and reward shortExecutive Directors, bonus term performance.
At senior Senior Executives, level an element of bonus is Senior Managers deferred in shares.
Share Broaden share ownership, Senior Managers.
Option alignment, retention, longPlan term performance.
LTIP Incentivise and reward Executive Directors long-term performance.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Committee takes the views of the shareholders seriously and these views are taken into account in shaping Remuneration Policy andpractice.
Shareholder views are considered when evaluating and setting the remuneration strategy and the Committee commits toconsulting with key shareholders prior to any significant changes to its Remuneration Policy.
The Committee consulted with the Companys key shareholders along with the Investment Association IA and the Institutional Shareholder Services ISS on the proposed Policy set out in this report.
indd 73 12 04 2016 13:00 74 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Part B Annual Report on Remuneration Single total figure of remuneration Audited Executive Directors Audited The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Executive Director in respect of the 2015 financial period from 26 February 2015 to 31 December 2015.
Comparative figures for the 2014 financial year have not been provided as the Company did not exist in this form during the year.
Further the Committee does not believe that the remuneration payable in its earlier years as a private company bears comparative value to that which will be paid post-IPO.
In the 2016 Remuneration Report comparative information will be provided.
Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the new UK disclosure requirements: the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations2013 Schedule 8 to the Regulations.
Salary of 308,100 from appointment as Executive Director in February 2015 to IPO and 425,000 following the IPO to the end of the financial period.
Of this sum, 123,188 related to the period 3 September 2015 to 31 December 2015.
Salary of 200,265 from appointment as Executive Director in February 2015 to IPO and 290,000 following the IPO to the end of the financial period.
Of this sum, 82,747 related to the period 3 September 2015 to 31 December 2015.
See section below setting out details of the benefits provided.
The amounts shown above include 4,344 and 3,804 for Wayne Sheppard and Kevin Sims, respectively, in respect of the period 3 September 2015 to 31 December 2015.
Details of the bonus targets, their level of satisfaction and the resulting bonus earned is set out below.
The amounts shown above include 127,649 and 83,681 forWayne Sheppard and Kevin Sims, respectively, in respect of the period 3 September 2015 to 31 December 2015.
No deferral of bonus was applicable in 2015.
The first grant of LTIP awards will be made in 2016.
Comprises of the value of DB accruals and salary supplements in lieu of pension.
See note on following page for further details.
The amounts shown above include45,287 and 30,265 for Wayne Sheppard and Kevin Sims, respectively, in respect of the period 3 September 2015 to 31 December 2015.
SAYE grants made during the period under the Ibstock plc Sharesave Plan.
11,842 SAYE options granted on 9 December 2015 with an exercise price of 152pence awarded at a discount of 20% to the IPO offer price of 190 pence.
Contractual payment for retention of services.
Wayne Sheppard and Kevin Sims owned ordinary shares immediately prior to the IPO offer of 13,227,213 and 8,597,688, respectively.
Taxable benefits Audited Benefits in the period comprised of a company car allowance, fuel allowance and private medical insurance.
Bonus Audited In respect of the 2015 financial period, the bonus awards payable to Executive Directors were agreed by the Committee having reviewed the Companys results.
Details of the targets used to determine bonuses in respect of the 2015 financial period and the extent to which they were satisfied are shown in the table below.
These figures are included in the single figure table.
1 Percentage of Bonus value achieved Threshold Maximum maximum performance performance Actual performance Wayne 2 3 Performance condition Weighting required required performance achieved Sheppard Kevin Sims Adjusted EBITDA 33% 68.2m 85.3m 107.0m 100% 84,080 50,389 Adjusted Operating Cash Flow 33% 39.3m 52.6m 119.3m 100% 84,080 50,389 Personal objectives 33% See following page objectives outlined 100% 84,080 50,389 met in full for 2015 Total 100% 100% 100% 100% Total 100% 100% 252,240 151,167 Notes: 1.
Under the terms of the 2015 ABP, 0% for each element is payable for achieving the threshold performance increasing to 100% for achieving maximum performance.
Bonus payment based on base salary of 308,100 pre-IPO and 425,000 following theIPO.
Bonus payment based on base salary of 200,265 pre-IPO and 290,000 following theIPO.
indd 74 12 04 2016 12:59 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 75 Personal objectives for the CEO and CFO for 2015: Name Personal objectives Wayne Sheppard Strategic operational objectives and delivery of key projects Development of strategic plans for divisional operations Succession planning for the Senior Executive Team Successful completion of the IPO Kevin Sims Lead and deliver the implementation of a key internal systems project Successful financial compliance and risk management Strategic operational review of the Finance function and delivery of key projects Successful completion of the IPO The Remuneration Committee discussed the above personal objectives with the Chairman in respect of the CEO, and the CEO in respect of the CFO.
Following this feedback and an evaluation of the performance against the objectives the Committee determined that they had been met for both Executive Directors and therefore the maximum under this element of the bonus was earned.
No discretion was exercised by the Committee in relation to the outcome of the bonus awards.
Long-term incentives awarded in 2015 No awards were made under the LTIP in 2015.
The Committee is intending to grant the first LTIP awards in 2016.
Pension entitlements Audited The following table provides the information required by the Regulations and gives details for each Executive Director of: the annual accrued pension payable on retirement calculated as if he she had left service at the year-end: the normal retirement ages: the value of the pension benefits at the start and end of the year: the value of the pension benefits earned over the year, excluding any Directors contributions and any increases for inflation: and any payments in lieu of retirement benefits.
None of the Executive Directors has made additional voluntary contributions.
Extra information disclosed under 2013 Directors Remuneration Accrued pension Single figure numbers Regulations Value x 20 over year Pensionable net of Total Normal Age at service at Salary Directors pension retirement Executive Directors 31 12 2015 31 12 2015 26 02 2015 31 12 2015 supplement contribution benefits age Wayne Sheppard 56 22 85,157 89,393 32,874 84,720 117,594 60 Kevin Sims 54 29 64,448 67,317 21,208 57,380 78,588 60 Non-Executive Directors Audited The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Non-Executive Director.
For similar reasons to the above no comparative information has been provided for 2014.
Non-Executive Directors 2015 fees Roles Jamie Pike 57,211 Independent Non-Executive Chairman Jonathan Nicholls 19,038 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Lynn Minella n a Non-Executive Director appointed in 2016 Tracey Graham n a Non-Executive Director appointed in 2016 1 Michel Plantevin 0 Non-Executive Director 1 Matthias Boyer Chammard 0 Non-Executive Director Note: 1.
Michel Plantevin and Matthias Boyer Chammard represent one of the Companys shareholders and are not remunerated by the Company.
Annual fees 2016 annual fee Chairman 175,000 Board fee including committee membership 50,000 Committee Chairmanship per committee 10,000 IBSTOCK 19 REM Annual Report DRF2.
indd 75 12 04 2016 12:59 76 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Payments to past Directors payments for loss of office Audited There were no payments in the financial period.
Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests Audited Other Shares held directly shares held Options Deferred LTIP shares not interests Shareholding Current subject to subject to Outstanding Shareholding requirement shareholding Beneficially performance performance SAYE requirement 1 Director % salary % salary owned conditions conditions Vested Unvested awards met?
Executive Directors Wayne Sheppard 200% 5,907% 11,307,827 n a n a n a 11,842 Yes Kevin Sims 150% 5,627% 7,350,087 n a n a n a Yes Non-Executive Directors Jamie Pike n a 26,000 n a n a n a n a n a n a Jonathan Nicholls n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Lynn Minella n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Tracey Graham n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Michel Plantevin n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Matthias Boyer Chammard n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a Notes: 1.
This is based on a closing share price of 2.221 at 31 December 2015 and the year-end salaries of the Executive Directors.
Values not calculated for Non-Executive Directors as they are not subject to shareholding requirements.
SAYE grants made during the year under the Ibstock plc Sharesave Plan.
Awards granted on 9 December 2015 with an exercise price of 152 pence awarded at adiscount of 20% to the IPO offer price of 190 pence.
The SAYE options are first exercisable on 1 February 2019.
Fees retained for external Non-Executive Directorships Executive Directors may hold positions in other companies as Non-Executive Directors and retain the fees.
Wayne Sheppard is Principal of the Construction Products Association, a Director of the British Ceramic Confederation, and a Director of the Brick Development Association.
He receives no fees for these appointments.
Kevin Sims does not hold any external directorships.
indd 76 12 04 2016 12:59 OVERVIEW STRATEGY & PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 77 Comparison of overall performance and pay The graph below shows the value of 100 invested in the Companys shares since listing compared with the FTSE 250 index.
The graph shows the Total Shareholder Return generated by both the movement in share value and the reinvestment over the same period of dividend income.
The Committee considers that the FTSE 250 is the appropriate index because the Company has been a member of this since listing.
This graph has been calculated in accordance with the Regulations.
It should be noted that the Company listed on 27 October 2015 and therefore only has a listed share price for the period of 27 October 2015 to 31 December 2015.
Total Shareholder Return 100 invested in the Companys shares since listing compared with the FTSE 250 index 130 120 110 100 90 80 70 27 Oct 1 Nov 6 Nov 11 Nov 16 Nov 21 Nov 26 Nov 1 Dec 6 Dec 11 Dec 16 Dec 21 Dec 26 Dec 31 Dec 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 Ibstock FTSE 250 Chief Executive Officer historic remuneration The table below sets out the total remuneration delivered to theChief Executive Officer over the period 26 February 2015 to 31 December 2015 valued using the methodology applied to the single total figure of remuneration.
The Committee does not believe that the remuneration payable inits earlier years as a private company bears any comparative value to that which will be paid post-IPO, therefore the Remuneration Committee has chosen to disclose remuneration only for the 2015 financial period.
Chief Executive Officer 2015 Single total figure 762,927 Annual bonus payment level achieved % of maximum opportunity 100% LTIP vesting level achieved % of maximum opportunity n a Note: No award has currently been made under the LTIP which was adopted on IPO.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below sets out the relative importance of spend on pay in the 2015 financial period.
The Company did not exist in its current form in 2014 and therefore there are no relevant comparators for 2014.
All figures provided are taken from the relevant Company Accounts.
Disbursements from profit in 2015 financial year m Profit distributed by way of dividend 0 Overall spend on pay including Executive Directors 75.2 IBSTOCK 19 REM Annual Report DRF2.
indd 77 12 04 2016 12:59 78 IBSTOCK PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 Advisers to the Remuneration Committee Directors Following a selection process carried out by the Board prior to Remuneration Report theIPO of the Company, the Committee has engaged the services of  LLP PwC as independent continued remuneration adviser.
During the financial period, PwC advised the Committee on all aspects of the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and selected members of the senior management team.
PwC also Change in the Chief Executive Officers remuneration provided the Company with tax and accountancy advice during compared with employees theperiod, including support of the IPO.
The Committee is The Company cannot provide this information for 2014 as it did not satisfiedthat no conflict of interest exists or existed in the exist in its current form nor were the current Executive Directors provisionof these services.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and thevoluntary code of conduct of that body is designed to ensure Statement of implementation of the remuneration policy objective and independent advice is given to remuneration infinancial year 2016 committees.
Fixed fees of 12,000 2014: none were provided to See table on page 60.
PwC during the period in respect of remuneration advice received.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Statement of voting at general meeting Directors remuneration The 2016 AGM will be the first AGM of the Company and The Board has delegated to the Committee, under agreed terms thereforethere is no historic voting information.
ofreference, responsibility for the Remuneration Policy and for determining specific packages for the Executive Directors and Lynn Minella other selected members of the senior management team.
Prior to Chair of the Remuneration Committee the establishment of the Remuneration Committee, remuneration 10 March 2016 decisions were made by the Board of the Company.
The Company consults with key shareholders in respect of Remuneration Policy and the introduction of new incentive arrangements.
The terms of reference for the Committee are available on the Companys website, www.
com investors, and from the Company Secretary at the registered office.
Our main responsibilities are: To determine and agree with the Board the broad Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors and other selected members ofthe senior management team: To review the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the Remuneration Policy: and To review any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Company or Group and to administer all aspects of any share scheme.
The Committee receives assistance from the Group HR Director and Company Secretary, who will attend meetings by invitation, except when issues relating to their own remuneration are being discussed.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer attend by invitation on occasions.
