OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Committee Remuneration Summary The Committees aim Our remuneration policy incentivises management to deliver our strategy, building on its track record of delivering significant returns to our shareholders.
Our remuneration packages comprise Fixed elements: Variable elements: salary annual bonus pension long term incentive plan benefits See a summary of our remuneration policy on page 51.
Balance of elements Packages are weighted towards performance related variable elements with targets aligned to the key performance indicators we use to measure the progress we make in delivering our strategy.
David Haines Chairman The potential reward opportunity for Alison Cooper, our Chief Executive in the current financial year, is: Our remuneration policy supports 7,126 7,000 50% our strategy and incentivises 6,000 management to maximise 5,000 opportunities for long-term sustainable growth.
4,000 xx% 3,582 3,429 16% 29% 26% Members 3,000 43% David Haines Chairman Karen Witts 30% 2,000 Ken Burnett Malcolm Wyman 1,516 Michael Herlihy Trevor Williams 100% 44% 21% 41% 1,000 Committee Secretary 0 Other regular attendees Minimum Target Max Actual FY15 1 Board Chairman Group Reward Director Salary, pension and benets Annual bonus LTIP 1 Chief Executive New Bridge Street, the 2 Committees principal advisor Company Secretary See the full scenario analysis on page 53.
1 Group Human Resources Director 1 Specifically excluded when their own remuneration or conditions of service Summary of Total Remuneration for each Executive Director are under discussion.
Share Share- 2 Appointed by the Committee.
Taxable Annual plans save Pension Focus in 2015 000 Salary benefits bonus vesting vesting benefits Total implementing the revised remuneration policy following Executive shareholder approval comprising: Directors consolidating all long term awards into a single LTIP.
The LTIP Alison is a five year plan, having a three year performance period and Cooper 965 16 1,544 571 6 480 3,582 an additional two year holding period for vested awards: Oliver Tant 630 16 1,008 163 1,817 implementing mandatory deferral of bonus to require 50 per cent of bonus paid to be deferred into shares and released after Matthew Phillips 478 23 705 169 4 296 1,675 three years: and 2,073 55 3,257 740 10 939 7,074 strengthening claw back and malus provisions Read the full details in our Remuneration Report on page 56. review of Matthew Phillips remuneration package in light of his significantly increased responsibilities consideration and review of performance conditions following the acquisition of assets in the USA Focus for 2016 no changes to the remuneration policy are proposed for 2016 following the acquisition of assets in the USA, ongoing monitoring of performance conditions to ensure incentive pay-out levels appropriately reflect the intentions of the Committee and the remuneration policy at the time of grant review of reward strategy and positioning in light of the changed profile of the business following the USA acquisition Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 49 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued interests of our investors, but targets for 2016 have been set based Dear Shareholder on the higher performance expectations of the enlarged business.
To maintain alignment with the Groups long-term strategic priorities we have, over recent years, made a number of changes to our remuneration policy, including further increasing the focus of our executives pay towards the long-term.
We aim to ensure that executive remuneration is not excessive but is fair and competitive, David Haines and enables the Group to attract and retain the talented individuals Chairman of the Remuneration Committee needed to drive our large and complex business forward.
The changes we proposed to our remuneration policy last year, Governance which included the consolidation of two long-term incentive The role of the Remuneration Committee arrangements, were approved by shareholders at our AGM on The Board recognises that it is ultimately accountable for executive 28 January 2015 and I was pleased with the 94 per cent vote remuneration but has delegated this responsibility to the Committee.
The Committees principal function is to support the Groups strategy The 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code places greater by ensuring its delivery is incentivised by the remuneration policy.
It emphasis on ensuring that remuneration policies are designed to also determines the specific remuneration package, including service promote each companys long-term success.
It also emphasises contracts and pension arrangements, for each Executive Director that arrangements should be in place to enable withholding or and our most senior executives.
recovery of variable pay, when appropriate, and holding periods for deferred remuneration.
The Committee held three meetings during the financial year.
I am confident that the strong links between our performance targets The Committees responsibilities include: and key performance indicators used to measure the progress in ensuring remuneration arrangements support our strategy, align delivering our strategy, the deferral and holding periods we have with our values and drive performance: introduced and the robust malus and clawback provisions within the maintaining a competitive remuneration policy appropriate to annual bonus and LTIP fully meet the Codes enhanced provisions.
the business environment of the countries in which we operate, We are not proposing any changes to the policy for the year ahead thereby ensuring we can attract and retain high calibre individuals: and have, therefore, set out a short summary of our policy on aligning senior executives remuneration with the interests of longpage 51 with the full policy contained within our 2014 Annual term shareholders whilst ensuring that remuneration is fair but Report and Accounts available on our website, http: ar14.
com assessing the output from the Board evaluation process insofar Whilst the external environment remained challenging, we continued to as it relates to the Committee: deliver against strategy: of particular note we drove our Growth Brands making recommendations to the Board in respect of our to outperform the market by 14.4 per cent enabling us to stabilise Chairmans fees: market share and exceed earnings expectations.
Strong financial setting targets for performance related elements: discipline also enabled us to increase cash conversion to 97 per cent.
oversight of our overall policy for senior management remuneration Delivery against strategy resulted in an annual bonus pay-out for and of our employee share plans: and Executive Directors of 80 per cent.
This continued progress has yet to be reflected in the outcomes of the long-term plans: there will be ensuring appropriate independent advisors are appointed to only partial vesting of LTIP awards made in December 2012 and provide advice and guidance to the Committee.
no vesting of SMS awards made in February 2013.
The Committees full terms of reference provide further details of During the year we delivered a major acquisition of USA cigarette and the role and responsibilities of the Committee and are available on e-cigarette brands from Reynolds American.
This increases our share our website.
of the USA market to approximately 10 per cent and will be earnings All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive accretive and delivers return on invested capital of approximately Directors which we consider fundamental in ensuring Executive 10 per cent in the first year.
In light of this change to the profile of the Directors and senior executives remuneration is set by people who business, the Committee will commence a review of remuneration are independent and have no personal financial interest, other than strategy and positioning in 2016, ensuring remuneration continues as shareholders, in the matters discussed.
to support the creation of a stronger, more agile business and enhances our ability to generate sustainable shareholder returns.
To reinforce this independence, a standing item at each Committee meeting allows the members to meet without any Executive Director Following the acquisition we realigned management responsibilities or other manager being present.
including appointing Matthew Phillips to the new role of Chief Development Officer.
In this role he assumed responsibility for This Report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Group strategy, corporate development and our standalone the Companies Act 2006 the Act and The Large and Medium-sized Fontem Ventures business including blu, whilst retaining his Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment existing responsibilities for corporate, legal and regulatory affairs.
It also meets the requirements Subsequent to informing our major shareholders, the Committee of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and the Disclosure and reviewed his remuneration detailed on page 59.
In this Report we describe how the principles of good governance relating to directors remuneration, as set out in In light of the positive impact of the acquisition on Group net revenue, the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 the Code, are applied in the Committee will use its powers of discretion to increase net practice.
The Committee confirms that throughout the financial year revenue targets for existing LTIPs as necessary to ensure the the Company has complied with these governance rules and best appropriateness of future vesting levels.
The Committee continues to review incentive measures annually.
For The Regulations require our Auditors to report to shareholders on financial year to 30 September 2016 it does not intend to amend the the audited information within this Report and to state whether, measures, as these continue to be aligned with our strategy and the in their opinion, the relevant sections have been prepared in accordance with the Act.
The Auditors opinion is set out on page 68 and we have clearly marked the audited sections of the Report.
50 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 50 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Summary Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors There are no changes proposed to the policy approved by shareholders at our 2015 AGM, a summary of which is set out below.
It does not replace or override the full approved policy, which is available on the Groups website http: ar14.
Purpose and Link Element to Strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity Salary Attract and retain Reviewed, but not necessarily increased, annually by the Committee No prescribed high performing taking into account each Executive Directors performance together maximum annual individuals, reflecting with changes in role and responsibility, general increases for the increase.
market value of role UK wider management population and with reference to external and the Executive market comparators.
Directors skills, Salary increases, if any, are generally effective from 1 October.
Benefits Competitive benefits Benefits include provision of company car, health insurance, life The level of benefit taking into account insurance and permanent health insurance which are provided directly provision is fixed.
market value of role or through the Company pension scheme.
and benefits offered Opportunity to join the Sharesave Plan.
to the wider UK Provision of relocation assistance upon appointment if when applicable.
Annual Incentivise delivery At least 60% of the annual bonus is linked to key financial metrics 200% of base salary Bonus of Group strategic and no more than 15% will be linked to individual measures.
or such lower sum objectives as determined by Plan Performance below the threshold results in zero payment.
Payments and enhance the Committee.
rise from 0% to 100% of the maximum opportunity for levels of performance.
performance between the threshold and maximum targets.
Half of any annual bonus is paid in deferred shares which must be held for a minimum of three years.
The other half is paid in cash.
Malus provisions apply before payment and claw back provisions are in place for the three years following payment of annual bonus.
Long-Term Incentivise long-term Awards have a performance period of three financial years starting at Chief Executive Officer: Incentive Group financial the beginning of the financial year in which the award is made and are 350% of base salary.
Plan performance in line based 20% on relative total shareholder return TSR vs a peer group Other Executive with the Groups and 80% on financial measures.
Directors: 250% of base strategy and longIn respect of each performance element, performance below the salary or such lower term shareholder threshold target results in zero vesting.
Vesting of each performance sum as determined by returns.
Align element starts at 25% and rises to 100% for levels of performance the Committee.
Executive Directors between the threshold and maximum targets.
Plus shares equivalent interests with those There is no opportunity to re-test.
to the value of the of long-term dividend roll-up.
Claw back and malus provisions are in place.
Dividends accrued on vested shares are paid at the time of vesting.
Any awards which vest will be subject to a further two year holding requirement.
Pensions Attract and retain Pension provision for Executive Directors is provided in line with other Current policy is for a high performing employees through the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund in the UK the defined contribution and Executive Directors.
Executive Directors who joined the Fund prior to 1 October cash supplement limit of 2010 are members of the defined benefit section whereas Executive 26% of salary.
Directors joining the Fund on or after this date are offered membership Existing members of the of the defined contribution section.
Members of the defined benefit defined benefit section th th section of the fund accrue pension at a rate between 1 47 and 1 60 have a cash in lieu of of pensionable salary.
Further detail is provided on page 58. pension accrual limit Executives have the option to receive a cash supplement in lieu of of 35% of salary.
membership of the Fund, or in lieu of accrual on pensionable salary above the Funds earnings cap, or in lieu of future service accrual.
Note: Legacy awards In accordance with the Remuneration Policy, subject to the achievement of applicable performance conditions, Executive Directors remain eligible to receive payments, and existing awards may vest, in accordance with the terms of any such award including the Share Matching Scheme made prior to its implementation.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 51 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Committee discretions relating to variable pay schemes The Committee operates each of the Companys incentive plans for which it has responsibility according to their respective rules and, where relevant, in accordance with the Listing Rules.
The Committee has discretion, consistent with market practice, in respect of, but are not limited to: participants: the timing of grant of an award and or payment: the size of an award subject to the maxima set out in our policy : the performance measures and targets: the determination of vesting and confirmation that the calculation of performance is made in an appropriate manner, with due consideration of whether and, if so, how adjustments should be made subject to the provision that any adjustments to targets set should result in the revised target being no less challenging than the original target : discretion required when dealing with a change of control and any adjustments required in special circumstances eg rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : and determination of a good bad leaver for plan purposes based on the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen.
In relation to the Annual Bonus, LTIP and legacy SMS awards, the Committee retains the ability to adjust the targets set if events occur which cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy than was intended.
Adjustment may also be made for any changes to accounting policy over the performance period.
Any use of discretion beyond the normal operation of the plan would be justified in the Annual Report on Remuneration and, if appropriate, be subject to consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
The use of discretion in relation to the Companys Sharesave plan is as permitted under HMRC rules.
Performance Measure Selection The measures used under the annual bonus plan are selected annually to reflect the Groups key strategic initiatives for the year and reflect both financial and non-financial objectives.
The Committee reviews the performance measures annually and considers the combination of measures in the LTIP, ie adjusted EPS, net revenue and relative TSR, remain the most appropriate measures of long-term performance for the Group.
TSR aligns with the Companys focus on shareholder value creation and rewards management for out performance of sector peers.
EPS provides strong line-of-sight for Executive Directors and supports the Groups long-term strategy.
Net revenue supports the Companys focus on organic growth.
Performance measures are set to be stretching and achievable, taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and the economic environment.
Remuneration Policy for Other Employees The Companys approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the scope of the role, level of experience, responsibility, individual performance and pay levels in comparable companies.
All managers are eligible to participate in an annual bonus plan with similar metrics to those used for the Executive Directors.
Other employees are eligible to participate in performance led annual bonus plans.
Opportunities and specific performance conditions vary by organisational level with business area-specific metrics incorporated where appropriate.
Senior executives are eligible to participate in the LTIP c. 60 individuals and the majority of members of the Corporate Management Group are eligible to participate in the SMS c. 1,100 individuals.
52 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 52 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Total remuneration of the Executive Directors for a minimum, target and maximum performance is presented in the chart below.
Assumptions made for each scenario are as follows: Minimum: fixed remuneration only ie salary, benefits and pension.
Target: fixed remuneration plus half of maximum annual bonus opportunity plus 25 per cent vesting of LTIP awards.
Note that Imperial Tobacco does not have a stated target for either its financial measures or incentive pay-outs.
Maximum: fixed remuneration plus maximum annual bonus opportunity plus 100 per cent vesting of LTIP awards.
Executive Directors Service Agreements and Loss of Office Payments The Companys policy is that Executive Directors service agreements normally continue until their agreed retirement date or such other date as the parties agree, are terminable on no more than one years notice and contain no liquidated damages provisions nor any other entitlement to the payment of a predetermined amount on termination of employment in any circumstances.
In addition, in some limited cases career counselling may be provided after the cessation of employment for a defined period.
Under the terms of our Articles of Association, all Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Executive Directors service agreements contain provisions for payment in lieu of notice in respect of base salary, pension contributions and 5 per cent of base salary in respect of other benefits but these are at the Committees sole discretion.
The Company is unequivocally against rewards for failure.
The circumstances of any termination including performance and an individuals duty and opportunity to mitigate losses would be taken into account in every case: our policy is to stop or reduce compensatory payments to former Executive Directors to the extent that they receive remuneration from other employment during the compensation period and any such payments would be paid monthly in arrears.
For Executive Directors leaving employment for specified reasons including death, redundancy, retirement, ill health and disability, the business or company in which they are employed ceasing to be part of the Group or on a change of control annual bonus awards will be based on performance, adjusted for time served, and paid at the same time as for other employees.
The Committee has discretion to adjust the timing and pro-rating to take account of any prevailing exceptional circumstances.
Under the rules of both the LTIP and the legacy SMS, outstanding awards vest if an Executive Director leaves for the specified reasons as detailed above.
In these circumstances awards vest as the Committee determines having regard to the time the award has been held and the achievement of the performance criteria.
Awards will vest either on termination of employment or, for awards granted under the policy approved by shareholders in 2014 or later, at the normal vesting date, as the Committee determines in its absolute discretion.
If the termination of employment is not for one of the specified reasons and the Committee does not exercise its discretion to allow an award to vest, awards lapse entirely.
Executive Directors service agreements Executive Directors Date of contract Expiry date Compensation on termination following a change of control Alison Cooper 1 July 2007 Terminable on 12 months notice No provisions Oliver Tant 1 October 2013 Terminable on 12 months notice No provisions Matthew Phillips 31 May 2012 Terminable on 12 months notice No provisions Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 53 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Recruitment of Executive Directors The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would be set in accordance with the terms of the approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment.
The Committee may offer additional cash and or share-based elements when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and, therefore, shareholders.
Any such buyout awards would be based solely on remuneration lost when leaving the former employer and would reflect the delivery mechanism ie cash, shares, options, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to that remuneration.
Shareholders will be informed of any such awards at the time of appointment.
The Committee may need to avail itself of the current Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R if required in order to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment or retention of the relevant individual.
The Committee confirms that this provision would only be used to compensate for remuneration lost.
In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay-out according to its terms on grant.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue, provided that they are put to shareholders for approval at the first AGM following their appointment.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses, as appropriate and within the limits set by the Committee.
Shareholding Guidelines Whilst placing significant weight on our annual performance, our policy aligns the interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders with those of management by incentivising the growth in the value of the business over the long-term.
To support this alignment, we have share ownership guidelines as we believe Executive Directors and other senior managers should be encouraged to hold a substantial portion of their personal wealth in our shares.
Over a period of five years from appointment, Executive Directors are expected to build a holding in the Groups shares to a minimum value broadly equivalent to three times their respective base salary.
Other senior management are expected to invest at a level equivalent to between once and twice base salary, dependent upon grade.
Failure to meet the minimum shareholding requirement is taken into account when determining eligibility for LTIP awards.
Non-Executive Directors do not have a shareholding requirement but are required to invest a minimum percentage of their fees in shares which they are required to retain for the duration of their appointment.
Consultation with Employees Although the Committee does not consult directly with employees on the remuneration policy, the Committee does consider the general basic salary increase, remuneration arrangements and employment conditions for the broader employee population when determining the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
Differences in Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors Compared to Other Employees The remuneration policy for Executive Directors is designed having regard to the remuneration policy for employees across the Group.
However, there are some differences in the structure of the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and other senior employees, which the Committee believes are necessary to reflect the different levels of responsibility.
The key difference is the increased emphasis on long-term performance related pay for Executive Directors.
Consideration of Shareholder Views The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year at its first meeting following the AGM.
This feedback, as well as any additional feedback received during any other meetings with shareholders, is considered as part of the Companys annual remuneration policy review.
The Committee notes that shareholders do not speak with a single voice, but we engage with our largest shareholders to ensure we understand the range of views which exist on remuneration issues.
When any material changes are made to the remuneration policy the Committee chairman will inform major shareholders in advance, and will offer a meeting to discuss these.
Policy in Respect of External Board Appointments We recognise that external non-executive directorships are beneficial for both the Executive Director concerned and the Company.
Each serving Executive Director is restricted to one external non-executive directorship and may not serve as the chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
At the discretion of the Board, Executive Directors are permitted to retain fees received in respect of any such non-executive directorship.
Alison Cooper is a Non-Executive Director of Inchcape PLC and was permitted to retain the 55,000 fee received from this position in the financial year.
Summary of Policy for Non-Executive Directors Purpose and Link Element to Strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity Fees Attract and retain high Reviewed, but not necessarily increased, annually by the Board No prescribed performing after recommendation by the Committee in respect of the Chairman.
Fee increases, if applicable, are normally effective from 1 October.
fees applied to Aggregate annual fees The Board and, where appropriate, the Committee considers pay purchase of shares to limited to 2.0 million by data at comparator companies of similar scale.
align interests with Articles of Association.
The Senior Independent Director and the chairmen of the Audit those of shareholders.
and Remuneration Committees receive additional fees.
No eligibility for annual bonus, retirement benefits or to participate in the Groups employee share plans.
Benefits Travel to the Travel to the Companys registered office is recognised as a Grossed-up costs Companys registered taxable benefit.
54 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 54 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements but the terms of their appointment, including the time commitment expected, are recorded in letters of appointment which are available for viewing at our registered office during normal business hours and both prior to and at the AGM.
In line with our annual review policy, the Chairmans and Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment were reviewed and confirmed by the Board on 27 January 2015.
There are no provisions regarding notice periods in their letters of appointment which state that the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will only receive payment until the date their appointment ends and, therefore, no compensation is payable on termination.
Under the terms of our Articles of Association, all Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Annual report on remuneration How the Committee implemented the Remuneration Policy for Financial Year Ended 30 September 2015 Linking Remuneration with Strategy.
We focus on delivering high quality sustainable sales growth whilst effectively managing our costs and cash flows.
Ensuring that our sales growth drivers and key enablers are supported and their delivery incentivised by our remuneration policy is key to maximising long-term returns to shareholders.
Alignment with our Strategy Sustainable growth is at the heart of our strategy.
This is supported by the inclusion of the drivers of growth within our variable remuneration both the annual bonus and LTIP.
Stretching performance targets incentivise the delivery of sales and the creation of shareholder value.
Managing our costs and cash flows are the other elements of our strategic focus.
Profitability, mainly in the form of earnings per share, forms a major part of the measurement in both the annual bonus and LTIP whilst cash conversion forms a measure for the annual bonus.
Alignment with our Shareholders To align their interest with shareholders, employees at all levels are encouraged to have an interest in the Companys shares through both direct shareholdings supported by shareholding requirements for senior executives and through our share plans, with the value of the Corporate Management Groups overall remuneration being heavily influenced by the performance of our share price.
Attracting and Retaining the Our Remuneration Policy is designed to ensure a high quality pool of talented employees at all levels who Right People are engaged and incentivised to deliver our strategy through clear links between reward and performance, without encouraging them to take undue risks.
We believe it is important to ensure that management is competitively rewarded in relation to peers and the other opportunities available to them whilst ensuring we neither pay more than necessary nor reward failure.
Our policy is, therefore, significantly weighted towards performance based elements.
Implementing Executive Policy and Practice In implementing the Companys Remuneration Policy as summarised on page 51 and detailed on pages 48 to 53 of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts 2014 available on our website, the Committee recognises that striking the right balance in finding a fair outcome in setting a competitive level of total remuneration is a matter of judgement.
In forming this judgement, the Committee considers pay data at comparator companies of similar scale and operating in a similar sector.
Comparisons with other companies, however, do not determine what remuneration the Company offers but, at most, serve to define a playing field within which an individuals rewards need to be positioned.
In determining that positioning, the primary factors taken into account are the scale of the challenges intrinsic to that individuals role, their ability, experience and performance.
We align the interests of long-term shareholders and employees at all levels by, wherever possible, giving our employees the annual opportunity to build a shareholding in the Company through our employee share plans, with over 30 per cent of eligible employees participating in one or more plans.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 55 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Single Total Figure of Remuneration for each Director Audited 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Share Share ShareShare- 2015 2014 Salary Salary Taxable Taxable Annual Annual plans plans save save Pension Pension 2015 2014 1 2 3 3 4 5 000 and fees and fees benefits benefits bonus bonus vesting vesting vesting vesting benefits benefits Total Total Executive Directors Alison Cooper 965 920 16 16 1,544 1,270 571 165 6 480 293 3,582 2,664 Oliver Tant 630 575 16 16 1,008 595 163 150 1,817 1,336 Matthew Phillips 478 435 23 22 705 375 169 28 4 296 134 1,675 994 2,073 1,930 55 54 3,257 2,240 740 193 10 939 577 7,074 4,994 Non-Executive Directors 6 Mark Williamson 450 338 4 3 454 341 Ken Burnett 75 73 29 28 104 101 7 David Haines 100 86 5 11 105 97 7 Michael Herlihy 100 96 4 3 104 99 8 Karen Witts 75 47 3 1 78 48 7 Malcolm Wyman 100 98 9 5 109 103 900 738 54 51 954 789 1 Taxable benefits principally include an allowance 15,000 in respect of Alison Cooper and Oliver Tant in lieu of or the provision of a company car 21,376 in respect of Matthew Phillips, fuel and health insurance.
Benefits in kind for the Non-Executive Directors relate to the reimbursement of travelling expenses to meetings held at the Companys registered office.
2 Annual bonus earned for performance over the financial year ending 30 September 2015.
In line with policy half of the net value is deferred in shares for three years: no further performance conditions apply.
3 Share plans vesting represent the value of SMS and LTIP awards where the performance period ends in the year and are based on a share price of 32.647 being the three months average to 30 September 2015.
The 2014 estimated figure has been restated to reflect actual share price at the date of vesting.
4 Gains made on exercise are calculated as the difference between the option price and the market price on the date of exercise.
These sharesave options were the only options exercised in the year: 440 shares in respect of Alison Cooper and 264 shares in respect of Matthew Phillips.
5 Further details are contained in the Executive Directors pension section on page 58.
6 Mark Williamson succeeded Iain Napier as Chairman on 5 February 2014.
7 Includes payment in respect of Senior Independent Director fee of 25,000 per annum and chairmanship of Board Committees at an annual rate of 25,000 in respect of the Remuneration Committee and 25,000 in respect of the Audit Committee.
8 Karen Witts was appointed to the Board on 6 February 2014.
All expense payments made to Directors were made on the basis of reimbursement of expenses incurred grossed up for tax where expenses represent a taxable benefit.
No payments were made by way of taxable expenses allowances.
No Directors waived their fees.
No payments were made to former directors nor were any payment made for loss of office during the year.
Additional Notes to the Single Total Figure of Remuneration Audited This section sets out supporting information for the single total figure columns relating to annual bonus, share plans and pension benefits.
In particular, it details the extent to which performance conditions have been satisfied for the annual bonus and for each share plan, namely the SMS and LTIP.
Determination of 2015 Annual Bonus Management delivered a good performance in the year to 30 September 2015, strengthening our brands and market footprint and increasing cash conversion.
As a result, we are a stronger business and continued to deliver a 10 per cent increase in annual dividend.
The annual bonus payment, determined with reference to performance over the financial year ending 30 September 2015, is 80 per cent of maximum opportunity 2014: 69 per cent.
The Committee believes this to be an appropriate reflection of the performance and progress made through the year.
56 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 56 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Performance against individual measures is set out below.
Maximum Actual percentage percentage Performance target Assessment of bonus of bonus Adjusted EPS growth Performance is measured based on EPS growth at constant currency.
Increases 35 35 KPI constant currency in top line revenues together with a strong focus on cost and cash opportunities provided growth in EPS of 8.2 per cent against a maximum target of 6.8 per cent.
KPI Performance is measured as cash flow as a percentage of adjusted operating profit.
Cash conversion 25 25 Instilling a more cost conscious culture, efficiently managing our cost base and our commitment to capital discipline enabled Cash Conversion of 97 per cent against a maximum target of 92 per cent.
Performance is measured based on volume growth of our growth brands relative Volume growth in 15 11 KPI to the market.
Growth Brands Consistent focus on developing our Growth Brands, through investments, migrations and choices in market has enabled us to further optimise our brand portfolio and build the strength of our key brand assets.
Growth Brand volumes increased by 14.4 per cent relative to the market against a maximum target of 18 per cent relative growth.
Non-financial measures consisted of an aggregate market share target.
Non-financial 15 0 We showed strong results across a broad spread of markets, with resilience in Returns markets and positive performance across Growth markets.
However, the threshold target was not met.
Individual objectives 10 9 Achievement of bonus for 2015 100 80 KPI Key performance indicator used to measure the progress we make in delivering our strategy see how we measure our performance on page 12.
No element of the annual bonus is guaranteed.
Annual bonuses for Executive Directors and certain key executives are subject to malus provisions before payment and claw back during the three years following the end of the financial year in which they are earned.
Claw back may be applied in the event of gross misconduct by the employee or misstatement of results where this had the effect of increasing the level of bonus that would otherwise have been paid.
Share Matching Scheme SMS awards were made to Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips in February 2013 which will vest in February 2016 based on an EPS performance condition measured over the three financial years to 30 September 2015 as set out below.
Threshold Maximum Actual Actual vesting level of percentage Performance target performance of award vesting vesting KPI Adjusted EPS 3% 6% average annual growth over UK 0.5% 50% 100% 0 inflation Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards were made to Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips in December 2012 which will vest in December 2015 based on performance conditions, measured over the three years, as set out below.
Threshold Maximum Actual Actual vesting percentage percentage performance of award of award of award Performance target KPI Adjusted EPS 3% 10% average annual growth over 0.5% 6.25 50 0 UK inflation 1 TSR against comparator group Threshold exceeds bottom 6 companies 6 companies 7.5 25 7.5 exceeded Maximum exceeds bottom 9 companies KPI TSR against FTSE 100 Threshold exceeds 50% of companies 62% of 7.5 25 16.25 companies Maximum when 75% of companies exceeded exceeded Achievement of LTIP for 2015 100 23.75 1 The companies comprising the comparator group are: Anheuser-Busch NV InBev Altria Group Inc. British American Tobacco PLC Carlsberg A S Diageo PLC Heineken NV Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Japan Tobacco Inc. Philip Morris International Inc. Pernod Ricard SA Reynolds American SABMiller PLC KPI Key performance indicator used to measure the progress we make in delivering our strategy see how we measure our performance on page 12.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 57 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued The TSR calculations, performed independently by Alithos Limited, use the share prices of each comparator group company, averaged over a period of three months, to determine the initial and closing prices.
Dividend payments are recognised on the date shares are declared ex dividend.
The Committee considers this method gives a fairer and less volatile result as improved performance has to be sustained for several weeks before it effectively impacts on the TSR calculations.
PwC performs agreed upon procedures in respect of the EPS performance conditions for both the SMS and LTIP performance assessments.
Sharesave Plan We believe that our Sharesave Plan is a valuable way of aligning the interests of a wide group of employees with those of our long-term shareholders.
Annually we offer as many employees as practicable, together with our Executive Directors, the opportunity to join the Sharesave Plan.
Options over shares are offered at a discount of up to 20 per cent of the closing mid-market price of our shares on the day prior to invitation.
The Sharesave Plan allows participants to save up to 250 per month over a period of three years, and in the UK only three or, for grants in 2013 and earlier, five years, and then exercise their option over shares.
In common with most plans of this type, no performance conditions are applied.
In the financial year ending 30 September 2015, Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips had Sharesave plans vesting 2014: nil and details are included in the single figure table on page 56.
Total Pension Entitlements Audited The Executive Directors who served during the financial year are all members of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund the Fund, which is the principal retirement benefit scheme operated by the Group in the UK.
Members who joined before 1 October 2010 are included in the defined benefit section of the Fund.
For members who joined prior to 1 April 2002 the Fund is largely non-contributory with a normal retirement age of 60.
New members of the Fund after 30 September 2010 accrue pension benefits in the Fund on a defined contribution basis, in the defined contribution section of the Fund.
Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips are in receipt of a salary supplement.
Prior to 6 April 2006 their pension benefits were limited by the effect of HMRCs earnings cap.
Although this cap was removed as from 6 April 2006, the Fund did not disapply it in respect of past pensionable service but maintained its own earnings cap going forward.
For service from 6 April 2006 onwards and for pensionable salary in excess of the Funds earnings cap, the standard Fund benefit is a pension at the lower accrual rate of 1 60th with a 50 per cent spouses pension, and member contributions of 5 per cent of this top slice of salary are payable.
As an alternative to extra pension accrual on this top slice of salary through an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS, Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips each receive a salary supplement of 12 per cent of this amount.
Oliver Tant is also in receipt of a salary supplement equal to 12 per cent of his basic salary.
In addition, under the rules of the defined contribution section of the Fund, Oliver Tant has opted to limit total contributions Member and Company to the Fund to a level which should not result in him incurring an Annual Allowance charge.
As a result, any additional Company contribution which would have been due to be paid to the Fund, had Oliver Tant not opted to cap contributions, is paid to him as a salary supplement and is included in the figures in the table on page 59.
In each case these salary supplements have been calculated by the independent actuaries to reflect the value of the benefits of which they are in lieu and are discounted for early payment and for employers national insurance contributions.
The supplements are non-compensatory and non-pensionable.
Matthew Phillips elected to use the Funds scheme pays facility to settle his Annual Allowance charge for the 2011 12, 2012 13 and 2013 14 tax years.
His accrued pension was reduced by 11,428.63 a year including revaluation to offset these Annual Allowance charge payments.
This reduction to pension is reflected in the accrued pension figure as at 30 September 2015 it is also reflected in the value of the benefits as at 30 September 2015.
The following table provides the information required by Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations and gives details for each Executive Director of: the annual accrued pension payable on retirement calculated as if he she had left service at the year-end any potential UURBS entitlement is included : the normal retirement ages: the value of the pension benefits at the start and end of the year, as calculated in accordance with the Regulations: the value of the pension benefits earned over the year, excluding any directors contributions and any increases for inflation, calculated in accordance with the Regulations: and any payments in lieu of retirement benefits.
None of the Executive Directors has made additional voluntary contributions.
58 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 58 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Executive Directors Pension Disclosures Audited Extra information to be disclosed under 2013 Directors Single Figure numbers Remuneration Regulations Payment in lieu of retirement Value x 20 benefits over year net Total Value x 20 Value x 20 Pensionable ie pension of directors pension Normal at start at end Accrued pension Age at service at supplement contributions benefits retirement of year of year 000 30 09 2015 30 09 2015 01 10 2014 30 9 2015 000 000 000 age 000 000 Alison Cooper 49 16 168 192 91 386 480 60 3,360 3,840 Matthew Phillips 44 15 86 98 32 264 296 60 1,720 1,960 1 Oliver Tant N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A 1 Oliver Tant is a member of the defined contribution section of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund.
He received a pension contribution into the defined contribution section of 40,000 made up of 363 Company contribution plus 39,637 in respect of a salary sacrifice by Mr Tant in lieu of his personal contribution.
In addition a salary supplement of 75,600, representing 12 per cent of Mr Tants basic salary, was paid to him together with an additional supplement of 87,836 in lieu of Company pension contributions which were not made to the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund in order to maintain Mr Tants total contributions within the Annual Allowance for pensions savings.
Management Changes on Completion of Acquisition of USA Assets In June 2015 we completed the acquisition of a number of cigarette and e-cigarette brands and assets in the USA.
This acquisition transforms our position in the USA and increases our opportunity for leadership and international expansion in e-cigarettes through blu.
Following completion of the acquisition we made a number of key management changes to ensure we had the right management structure in place to lead the enlarged Group including the appointment of Matthew Phillips to the role of Chief Development Officer.
As well as retaining his responsibilities for group legal, corporate affairs, communications, market regulation and countering illicit trade, Matthew became responsible for corporate and strategic development and for the enlarged Fontem Ventures, including blu.
In this new role, he will provide a focus on the Groups ongoing international development.
The Remuneration Committee changed Matthews remuneration to reflect this new role and significantly increased responsibilities, with a base salary of 525,000 and a bonus and LTIP opportunity of 200 per cent and 250 per cent respectively.
This provides a remuneration opportunity, subject to performance, that is at the median when compared to similar roles in comparable organisations.
Statement of Change in Pay of Chief Executive Compared With Other Employees 1 Chief Executive All Employees to Percentage Percentage 30 September change change 2015 2015 vs 2014 2015 vs 2014 Salary 965,000 4.9 3.3 Benefits 16,000 0 0 Bonus 1,544,000 21.6 5.0 1 Based on members of our Corporate Management Group.
Relative Importance of Spend on Pay The table below shows the expenditure and percentage change in overall spend on employee remuneration and dividend plus share buybacks.
Percentage million unless otherwise stated 2015 2014 change 1 R Overall expenditure on pay 811 899 9.8 Dividend paid in the year 1,259 1,149 9.6 2 Share buyback 0 341 N A 1 Excludes employers social security costs.
2 Share buybacks were stopped in July 2014.
R Restated on adoption of IFRS 11: joint arrangements.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 59 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Share Interests and Incentives Audited All Executive Directors who served in the financial year currently meet the Companys shareholding policy by either holding shares in excess of their requirement or being within five years of appointment.
Current shareholdings are summarised in the following table: Shares held Options held Unvested Vested but and Unvested subject to subject to and subject Vested Shareholding Current Owned holding performance to continued but not required shareholding 1 2 outright period conditions employment exercised % salary % salary Requirement met Executive Directors Alison Cooper 161,708 7,150 339,783 354 300 565 Yes Oliver Tant 829 389 88,275 441 300 7 In role for less than five years Matthew Phillips 43,765 105 103,179 407 300 277 In role for less than five years Non-Executive Directors Mark Williamson 9,237 N A Ken Burnett 2,772 N A David Haines 843 N A Michael Herlihy 4,956 N A Karen Witts 312 N A Malcolm Wyman 3,767 N A 1 Based on a share price of 34.13 being the closing price on 30 September 2015.
2 Non-Executive Directors do not have a shareholding requirement but are required to invest a minimum percentage of their fees in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC shares which they are required to retain for the duration of their appointment.
Variable Award Grants Made During the Year Audited Following shareholder approval of the revised Remuneration Policy, no further awards to Executive Directors under the SMS will be made and the historic award levels have been consolidated into the Groups LTIP.
To allow for the changes to be considered by shareholders the award which would normally have been granted in November 2014 was delayed and granted during February 2015.
It is intended that future LTIP awards will be made in February each year in order for any change in policy to be considered by shareholders immediately prior to grant.
The resulting number of LTIP shares and the associated performance conditions are set out below.
Number of nil Amount of Threshold Weighting 1 2, 3 cost options Face value base salary End of performance period vesting of award Performance condition Alison Cooper 111,652 3,377,500 350% 30 September 2017 25% 50% 3 year adjusted EPS growth 25% 30% 3 year net revenue growth 25% 20% TSR relative to bespoke comparator group Oliver Tant 52,066 1,575,000 250% 30 September 2017 25% 50% 3 year adjusted EPS growth 25% 30% 3 year net revenue growth 25% 20% TSR relative to bespoke comparator group Matthew 31,586 955,500 210% 30 September 2017 25% 50% 3 year adjusted EPS growth Phillips 25% 30% 3 year net revenue growth 25% 20% TSR relative to bespoke comparator group 1 Valued using the share price at the date of grant 15 February 2015 being 30.25 per share.
2 Vesting occurs as per the vesting schedule below.
3 Key performance indicators used to measure the progress we make in delivering our strategy see how we measure our performance on page 12.
Performance Criterion EPS Element This criterion is used for 50 per cent of the LTIP award.
Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the following vesting schedule.
Compound annual adjusted EPS growth Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 3% per annum nil 3% per annum 25% 3% to 8% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 8% per annum or higher 100% 60 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 60 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Performance Criterion Net Revenue Growth Element The net revenue growth criterion is used for 30 per cent of the LTIP award.
Compound annual growth in net revenue Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 1% per annum nil 1% per annum 25% 1% to 4% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 4% per annum or higher 100% Performance Criterion TSR Element The performance criterion for the TSR element is based on a single comparator group of companies across a broadly defined consumer goods sector and is applied to 20 per cent of the LTIP award.
Any outstanding awards would vest on a time pro rata basis subject to the achievement of the applicable performance criteria.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 61 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Remuneration decisions taken in 2014 15 Salary The Committee sets base salaries having regard to individual and Company performance, changes to the individuals role and market data for each position based on several comparator groups which reflect the Companys size, sector and global reach.
Consideration is given to the effect any amendment to an individuals base salary would have on their total remuneration package.
Base salary is the only element of the package used to determine pensionable earnings.
An above inflation increase has been awarded to Alison Cooper reflecting the Groups strong performance in the year.
As previously communicated, on her appointment Alisons salary was set significantly below market levels with the intention to increase it over time: the increase is consistent with this approach.
An increase of 3 per cent, in line with other UK management, is awarded to the other Executive Directors.
There was no increase in Non-Executive Directors fees, with the exception of the Chairman whose fee was brought closer to market levels through an increase from 450,000 to 500,000.
This being the first increase in Chairmans fees since 1 October 2011.
Percentage Salary 2014 15 Salary 2015 16 Change Alison Cooper 965,000 1,020,000 5.7 Oliver Tant 630,000 649,000 3.0 1 Matthew Phillips 525,000 541,000 3.0 1 Salary following significant increase in responsibilities.
Matthew Phillipss base salary for his previous role was 455,000.
Annual Bonus Our shareholders and other stakeholders place significant weight on our annual performance.
We, therefore, think it is appropriate to have a major element of Executive Directors remuneration targeted at incentivising delivery of the Groups annual objectives and enhancing performance against key financial and non-financial targets.
Following Matthew Phillips appointment as Chief Development Officer, his maximum bonus opportunity was increased to 200 per cent.
Revised Former maximum maximum percentage percentage of salary of salary Alison Cooper 200 200 Oliver Tant 200 200 Matthew Phillips 200 175 Fifty per cent of net bonus paid will be in the form of the Groups shares deferred for a three year period: the remaining fifty per cent will be paid in cash.
For the next financial year the performance measures have been set out in the table below.
Maximum Performance target of bonus Adjusted EPS growth Commercially confidential 35% Cash conversion Commercially confidential 25% Volume growth in Growth Brands Out-performance of market growth 15% Non-financial Market share targets 15% Individual objectives Commercially confidential 10% At this point, the above performance targets are considered commercially confidential but, to the extent that any bonuses are paid, further details will be provided retrospectively in the 2016 Annual Report.
The Committee is not of the view that such targets will necessarily always be confidential but will review this on a year-by-year basis.
62 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 62 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Share Plan Awards Following Matthew Phillips appointment as Chief Development Officer, his maximum LTIP opportunity was increased to 250 per cent.
Revised Former maximum maximum opportunity opportunity percentage percentage of salary of salary Alison Cooper 350 350 Oliver Tant 250 250 Matthew Phillips 250 210 The awards will be subject to performance criteria as summarised below.
Weighting Performance criteria in LTIP Adjusted EPS growth 50% TSR 20% Net revenue growth 30% When setting the performance criteria the Committee takes account of the Groups long-term plans and analysts forecasts.
Performance Criterion EPS Element This criterion is used for 50 per cent of the LTIP awards.
Vesting of awards on this element would occur in accordance with a vesting schedule agreed by the Committee on an annual basis.
The proposed vesting schedule for the awards to be granted in February 2016 is set out below.
The EPS target for this award has been exceptionally increased to reflect the positive impact of the USA acquisition on EPS growth in 2016.
Compound annual adjusted EPS growth Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 5% per annum nil 5% per annum 25% 5% to 10% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 10% per annum or higher 100% Performance Criterion TSR Element The performance criterion for the TSR element will be based on a single comparator group including 40 companies across a broadly defined consumer goods sector and will be applied to 20 per cent of the LTIP.
Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the vesting schedule below.
This year the net revenue growth target for this award has been exceptionally increased to reflect the positive impact of the USA acquisition on net revenue growth in 2016.
Compound annual net revenue growth Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 3% per annum nil 3% per annum 25% 3% to 6% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 6% per annum or higher 100% Under the rules of the LTIP, should the Company be acquired the performance period would end on the date of acquisition.
Voting on the Remuneration Report at the 2015 AGM At the 2015 AGM a small number of shareholders expressed concerns with various aspects of our remuneration.
These concerns included the performance criteria used for our variable remuneration and above inflation increases in executive remuneration.
Some shareholders also raised their expectation that incentive targets should be adjusted following the USA acquisition.
Shareholder views were taken into account by the Committee when reviewing remuneration and adjusting and setting LTIP targets.
The targets within our LTIPs have been adjusted in line with policy to ensure that they are no more materially difficult to achieve than originally intended.
Votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors remuneration were as follows: Votes for including Total votes Total votes discretionary Percentage cast excluding cast including Resolution votes Percentage for Votes against against votes withheld Votes withheld votes withheld Directors Remuneration Report 711,696,277 94.5241,277,055 5.48752,973,332 9,694,951762,668,283 Directors Remuneration Policy 704,892,593 93.57 48,447,661 6.43 753,340,254 9,328,030762,668,284 Votes withheld are not included in the final figures as they are not recognised as a vote in law.
Advice Provided to the Committee New Bridge Street NBS is retained, having been appointed following a tendering process, by the Committee as its principal, and only material, external advisor.
NBS advises on all aspects of our remuneration policy and practice and reviews our structures against corporate governance best practice.
NBS also presented a review of developments in UK corporate governance, remuneration developments and reporting regulations to keep Committee members up-to-date with new developments and evolving best practice.
NBS is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and complies with its Code of Conduct which sets out guidelines to ensure that its advice is independent and free of undue influence.
NBS parent companies, Aon Hewitt Limited and Aon plc, provide other human resources and insurance services respectively to the Group.
Having reviewed the structures in place to ensure the independence of NBS advice to the Committee, it is satisfied that the other work provided by the wider Aon group does not impact on NBS independence.
During the year NBS was paid fees of 152,000.
Other companies which provided advice to the Committee are as follows: Alithos Limited undertakes total shareholder return TSR calculations and provided advice on all TSR related matters.
During the year it was paid fees of 19,500.
Alithos Limited provided no other services to the Group: Allen & Overy LLP is available to provide legal advice to the Committee as and when required.
It was not used for remuneration-related advice during the financial year.
Allen & Overy LLP also provided other legal services to the Group: Pinsent Masons LLP provided legal advice in respect of the operation of the Groups employee share plans:  LLP PwC, our Auditors, perform agreed upon procedures on earnings per share EPS calculations used in relation to our employee share plans performance criteria.
During the financial year PwC was paid 1,800 in respect of services to the Committee: and Towers Watson provided market pay data to ensure the consistent application of our Remuneration Policy for executives.
During the year it was paid fees of 54,000 for these services.
Towers Watson also provided actuarial services to the Group.
All of these advisors were appointed by the Committee which remains satisfied that the provision of those other services in no way compromises their independence.
They are all paid on the basis of actual work performed rather than on a fixed fee.
The Group Human Resources Director and the Group Reward Director also attended and provided internal support and advice on market and regulatory developments in remuneration practice and on our employee share plans.
Their attendance ensured the Committee was kept fully abreast of pay policies throughout the Group, which it then takes into account when determining the remuneration of the Executive Directors and our most senior executives.
64 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 64 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Other Information Our middle market share price at the close of business on 30 September 2015, being the last trading day of the financial year, was 34.13 and the range of the middle market price during the year was 25.02 to 35.14.
Full details of the Directors share interests are available for inspection in the Register of Directors Interests at our registered office.
Award Dates Our policy is to grant awards under all our employee share plans on predetermined dates based on an annual cycle.
Review of Past Performance The chart below shows the value of 100 invested in the Company on 1 October 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index for each of our financial year ends to 30 September 2015.
We have chosen the FTSE 100 Index as it provides the most appropriate and widely recognised index for benchmarking our corporate performance over a seven year period.
Total Return Indices Imperial Tobacco and FTSE 100 300 250 200 150 100 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Imperial Tobacco FTSE 100 Change in Chief Executive Remuneration 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2010 2009 1 1 1 2,3 Alison Cooper Alison Cooper Alison Cooper Alison Cooper Alison Cooper Alison Cooper Gareth Davis Gareth Davis Total remuneration 000 3,582 2,686 2,011 2,793 2,737 1,347 5,453 5,099 Annual Bonus as a percentage of maximum 80 69 34 51.2 33.1 84.7 84.7 85.2 Shares vesting as a percentage of maximum 15.8 5.8 nil 58.0 71.6 80.8 46.93 74.5 1 Total remuneration includes value of share plans vesting that were granted prior to appointment as Chief Executive.
2 Total remuneration includes value of share plans vesting on retirement.
3 Based on performance conditions applicable on date of retirement.
Operating Executive excluding Executive Directors 000 2015 2014 Base salary 2,221 2,143 Benefits 189 160 Pension salary supplement 261 218 Bonus 2,572 1,291 1 LTIP annual vesting 402 90 2 SMS annual vesting nil nil 5,645 3,902 1 Value of LTIP shares vesting in the year based on the prevailing closing share price on the day of exercise.
2 Value of SMS shares vesting on maturity based on the prevailing closing share price on the day of vesting.
Note: aggregate remuneration paid to or receivable by Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and members of the Operating Executive for qualifying services in accordance with IAS 24, which includes National Insurance and similar charges, was 14,526,087 2014: 11,073,194.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2015 65 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Key Management Compensation for the Year Ended 30 September 2015 Audited 000 2015 2014 Short-term employee benefits 11,681 9,575 Post-employment benefits 1,182 1,186 Other long-term benefits Termination benefits Share-based payment in accordance with IAS 24 2,722 833 15,585 11,594 Key management includes Directors, members of the OPEX and the Company Secretary.
Employee Benefit Trusts Our policy is to satisfy options and awards under our employee share plans from either market purchased ordinary shares or ordinary shares held in treasury, distributed through our employee benefit trusts: The Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Employee and Executive Benefit Trust the Executive Trust and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Benefit Trust the 2001 Trust together the Employee Benefit Trusts.
As at 30 September 2015, we held 78,909,137ordinary shares in treasury which can be used to satisfy options and awards under our employee share plans either directly or by gifting them to the Employee Benefit Trusts.
Options and awards may also be satisfied by the issue of new ordinary shares.
Details of the ordinary shares held by the Employee Benefit Trusts are as follows: Ordinary shares Balance at Acquired Distributed Balance at under award at Surplus 01 10 2014 during year during year 30 09 2015 30 09 2015 shortfall Executive Trust 698,894 nil 23,431 675,463 829,281 153,818 2001 Trust 3,458,219 nil 968,327 2,489,892 4,296,501 1,806,609 Share Plan Flow Rates The Trust Deeds of the Employee Benefit Trusts and the rules of each of our employee share plans contain provisions limiting options and awards to 5 per cent of issued share capital in five years and 10 per cent in 10 years for all employee share plans, with an additional restriction to 5 per cent in 10 years for executive share plans.
Currently, an aggregate total of 0.5 per cent of the Companys issued share capital including shares held in treasury is subject to options and awards under the Groups executive and all employee share plans.
