STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 73 REMUNERATION REPORT In March 2015, Executive Directors were each granted a Performance Share Award PSA based on performance over the three financial years to 31 December 2017.
As we explained in our 2014 Remuneration report, we introduced strategic objectives as a performance measure in 2015 as all elements of those objectives are key drivers to our future success.
These awards will vest to the extent that challenging EBITDA, relative total shareholder return TSR and strategic targets are achieved over the period.
Half of the share award made under the 2013 PSA vested on performance to 31 December 2015: full payout against the TSR target reflects the strong performance of the Company against the benchmark index over that period.
The EBITDA target was not achieved principally as a consequence of US Government sequestration and its impact on our government business, and delays outside our control impacting the timing of our Global Xpress satellites from their SIMONBAX original launch dates.
CHAIRMAN,  For 2016, the financial element of the annual bonus representing 70% of the total bonus will continue to be measured by reference to EBITDA and revenue.
The element on individual performance and contribution will not be weighted more than 30% of the total bonus, as now.
The Bonus Share Award BSA will ANNUAL STATEMENT operate on a similar basis to 2015: performance will relate to achievement of EBITDA 60% of total award and revenue 30% targets, and additionally a DEARSHAREHOLDER non-financial metric related to the management of a strategic contract 10%.
I was appointed Chairman of this Committee in May 2015 and am therefore No changes are proposed to the Performance Share Award PSA for 2016, pleased to present, on behalf of the Board, my first Directors Remuneration which will continue to be based on relative TSR, EBITDA and strategic report, covering the year ended 31 December 2015. objectives.
Further detail on the implementation of policy for 2016 is included on page 87.
Similar to last year, this Report is split into three sections: the Chairmans Annual Statement, the Remuneration Policy, and the Annual Report on The Committee will continue to monitor market trends throughout 2016 in Remuneration.
Our Remuneration Policy, detailed on pages 74 to 81, remains order to assess ongoing requirements for the Companys remuneration consistent with that approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, and is practices, and will consult with shareholders ahead of making significant reproduced in full for both ease of reference and in order to provide context to changes to the remuneration structure.
The appropriateness of a longer PSA the decisions taken by the Committee during the year.
time horizon will be considered by the Committee in time for our next policy vote at our 2017 AGM.
During 2015 we have continued the delivery of our strategic objectives which saw significant progress for our aviation business with the European Aviation A resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration which is subject Network initiative and also the introduction of global service of our Global to an advisory vote will be put to shareholders at the AGM in May.
We have also delivered good financial results and returns for shareholders.
As was my predecessor, I am available to meet and discuss our Remuneration Policy with shareholders.
In July 2015, the Committee undertook the annual review of our Executive Directors salaries.
This review took into account a number of factors including SIMONBAX external benchmarking against the FTSE 50-150 excluding Investment Trusts, Chairman, Remuneration Committee comparable companies in our sector, an assessment of individual experience 3 March 2016 and performance, and pay conditions across the Group.
Following this review, the Committee agreed to award an increase of 9% to the CEO and of 3% to the CFO, effective July 2015.
This compares with an average salary increase of 3% across the Group.
As set out in this years, and previous years reports, our CEO was appointed at a below-market salary and we committed to moving him up gradually to the appropriate level to reflect his demonstrated development in the CEO role and the performance of the business.
2015 is the last year we anticipate making a material adjustment to his salary.
For 2015, Executive Directors will receive bonuses of 90.6% CEO and 103.1% CFO of their respective salaries.
The bonuses reflect both the good financial performance of the Company and the exceptional individual contributions made by each of the Executive Directors over the last year.
A summary of performance against targets is included on pages 83 and 84.
74 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This section of the report sets out the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors which shareholders approved at the 2014 AGM.
The report below is as disclosed in the 2013 Directors Remuneration report save a number of minor changes as follows: References to financial years have been updated where appropriate: Share awards made after the 2014 AGM have been renamed BSAs and PSAs following shareholder approval of the Executive Share Plan ESP at the 2014 AGM: Minor revisions have been made to the performance metrics for BSA and PSA awards, and the annual bonus, from 2015 and details are shown on pages 87 and 88: and Pay-for-performance scenario charts have been updated to reflect 2016 salaries, benefits and pension contributions.
The Groups Remuneration Policy is designed to deliver rewards that enable it to attract, retain and motivate talent of the highest appropriate quality, linking rewards to the achievement of financial and strategic goals of the Group.
When determining Remuneration Policy, we take into account all factors which we deem necessary, including the Groups overall business strategy, business performance in the current year and expectations for future years as incorporated into our Long Range Business Plan LRBP, pay arrangements in the wider Inmarsat workforce, and the global economic situation.
Where appropriate, we will consult with shareholders in advance of major changes in the Remuneration Policy or where we consider there are material changes to individual remuneration arrangements.
The Committee is committed to the principle that the Company should pay at the appropriate level to recruit and retain executives, and incentivise them to achieve the Companys objectives which will create value for shareholders.
Component How does this link to strategy What happens in practice What amounts can be paid How do we assess performance BASIC Paying market-competitive Salaries are reviewed annually with Salary increases will be applied in not applicable SALARY base salaries, commensurate any increase usually made in July or line with the outcome of an annual with the individuals role, following a material change in salary review.
The Committee will experience allows us to determine any increases to The maximum annual salary recruit and retain Executive be made.
increase will normally be in line with Directors of the calibre the average increase applied to the required to implement our Any increase is determined by a UK workforce.
formal appraisal by the Committee, increases may be awarded in certain taking into account market pay circumstances including, but not levels, a review of salaries against limited to, an increase in scope or companies of similar size, responsibility of the role: to apply complexity and type, Group salary progression for a newly performance, as well as the appointed Director: where the remuneration arrangements Directors salary has fallen behind operated throughout the Group, market positioning.
Where increases with reference to UK-based are awarded in excess of that for the employees in particular for pay UK employee population, the comparison levels.
Committee will provide the rationale in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
As previously disclosed to shareholders, 2015 is the last year where it is anticipated that the CEOs salary will increase at a greater level than that for the general employee population as his salary was intentionally set below market rates on appointment because he was new to the role as CEO.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 75 Component How does this link to strategy What happens in practice What amounts can be paid How do we assess performance BENEFITS We provide cost-effective Provision of death, disability and The benefits provided may vary by not applicable INKIND benefits which support the medical insurance cover which can role and levels of cover provided wellbeing of employees.
include spouse and dependents reflect market practice and the cover.
Life assurance of 4 x salary, individual circumstances of the paid holiday and medical check-ups Executive Directors.
It is not anticipated that the current If required, the Company would cost of benefits as set out in the provide access to independent Annual Report on Remuneration financial and legal advice on a would increase materially over the case-by-case basis.
period for which this policy will apply.
Cash in lieu of a company car The Committee retains the was previously provided to one discretion to approve a higher cost Director although it is not in exceptional circumstances eg anticipated this will be offered relocation or in circumstances generally to Executive Directors.
where factors outside the Companys control have changed These benefits are nonmaterially eg market increases in pensionable.
PENSION We provide defined The Executive Directors are eligible Maximum employer contributions not applicable contribution pension to participate in the Companys are currently 12.5% of the capped arrangements, or cash in lieu defined contribution pension plan salary under the terms of the UK of pension.
arrangements or other similar pension plan.
pension plans as appropriate to the Executive Directors nationality or The Committee may review pension location.
The Company also contribution levels in the future as operates an auto-enrolment benchmarking reflects that the pension scheme which an Executive current contribution levels and Director could participate in instead method of calculation are of the main pension plan.
Any increase in contributions would not result in a Contributions are based on a pension contribution in excess of percentage of salary which is 20% of the uncapped basic salary.
currently limited to a pensions cap.
ANNUAL We provide an annual bonus Bonus payment levels are Maximum opportunity: Bonus is based on CASHBONUS to incentivise the determined by the Committee 125% of salary.
achievement of annual achievement of annual annually by reference to financial and financial and operational performance against targets set at Target opportunity: personal objectives.
goals in line with the start of the financial year.
Personal objectives are set annually The personal element will not by the Committee.
be weighted more than 30% Performance metrics are of the total in any year selected to support the In exceptional circumstances, the annual business strategy Committee has the ability to Details of the measures and which we believe also lead to exercise discretion to override the weightings applicable for the enhancement of shareholder formulaic bonus outcome within the financial year under review value.
limits of the scheme where it are provided in the Annual believes the outcome is not truly Report on Remuneration.
reflective of performance, and to The Committee may change reflect the actual delivery of value the measures used if other to shareholders.
Any discretionary measures are deemed more adjustments will be detailed in the suitable to allow delivery of following years Annual Report the Companys strategy.
The Committee may exercise its discretion to clawback bonuses in certain exceptional circumstances which may include but are not limited to gross misconduct, fraud or a significant downward revision of the financial results of the Group.
76 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Component How does this link to strategy What happens in practice What amounts can be paid How do we assess performance BONUS We provide the opportunity We make annual monetary awards Maximum opportunity for all The Committee sets annual SHARE to participate in the BSA as it which convert to a number of shares Executive Directors is up to 200% of performance measures AWARD BSA links the delivery of subject to achievement of agreed salary 300% in exceptional currently based on the same short-term financial and annual financial targets.
financial objectives as for the operational performance to resulting shares vest over the annual cash bonus plan and sustained shareholder value subsequent three years, subject to The Committees current intention is may change these for future creation.
to make awards of up to 200% and awards as it considers 175% of salary for the CEO and appropriate.
Participation in the BSA Additional shares in lieu of accrued CFO, respectively.
reinforces continued delivery dividends over the vesting period of the LRBP.
are awarded only on the number of Threshold performance results in shares that vest.
60% conversion of the monetary award into shares.
Unvested awards and vested awards that have not yet been transferred to the Executive Director are subject to adjustment for malus and clawback, ie forfeiture or reduction in exceptional circumstances.
Such circumstances may include but are not limited to gross misconduct, fraud or a significant downward revision of the previously reported financial results of the Group.
PERFORMANCE We believe the PSA aligns We make annual awards of shares, Maximum opportunity for all The performance measures SHAREAWARD executives interests with which vest after at least three years Executive Directors is up to 200% and respective weightings PSA long-term shareholder value subject to performance over a of salary 300% in exceptional may vary year-on-year to creation through rewarding three-year period.
reflect strategic priorities, and the delivery of a mix of will include a financial market financial measures and Additional shares in lieu of accrued Threshold performance will result measure.
dividends over the vesting period in the vesting of 30% 0% 0% of outstanding PSPs include an are awarded only on the number of the maximum award under the element for relative TSR and The financial performance shares that vest.
TSR EBITDA strategic EBITDA, and PSAs from 2015 measures in the PSA reflect performance elements.
include a third element linked the value drivers in the LRBP.
Unvested awards are subject to to strategic performance.
adjustment for malus and clawback, The intended award levels are ie forfeiture or reduction in included in the Annual Report on Details of the measures and exceptional circumstances.
Such Remuneration on page 88. weightings applicable for the circumstances may include but are financial year under review not limited to gross misconduct, are provided in the Annual fraud or a significant downward Report on Remuneration.
revision of the previously reported Changes to weightings and financial results of the Group.
performance targets will be retrospectively explained to shareholders.
EMPLOYEE To encourage share We operate employee share savings Participation levels set by HMRC or not applicable SHAREPLANS ownership across all plans for our global workforce where, relevant local laws from time to time.
employees as allowed by depending on location, savings HMRC and relevant local periods of between two and three laws.
We will look at opportunities to offer other employee share plans in the future.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 77  In general, the Remuneration Policy and principles which apply to other senior The Inmarsat plc Executive Share Plan ESP was approved by shareholders at executives is consistent with that set out in this Report for Executive Directors.
the 2014 AGM and replaced the previous Executive Share Plans.
Share awards All employees participate in bonus schemes.
Group senior executives are since May 2014 have been made in accordance with the new share plan rules.
eligible to participate in the BSA and some also participate in the PSA.
The BSA may operate with division-specific targets for some participants, Under the ESP the Company can grant BSAs and PSAs, which replicate the as appropriate.
previous Bonus Share Plan and Performance Share Plan awards.
The Company will also be able to grant Restricted Share Awards under the ESP.
Restricted Share All employees are eligible to participate in employee share plans which are Awards will not be subject to performance conditions, and will not be granted to generally the UK Sharesave Scheme or an equivalent international plan.
Executive Directors except on recruitment, as explained below in the approach to Generally, participation is on the same terms subject to local regulations.
 The Company also received shareholder approval at its 2014 AGM for the The guideline for Executive Directors is that they hold five times base salary in Inmarsat plc 2014 Sharesave Plan and the Inmarsat plc 2014 Share Incentive beneficially owned ordinary shares.
Plan, replacing the previous Sharesave Plan and Share Incentive Plan which had expired.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in these plans.
For new Executive Directors, we would expect the individual to build up a shareholding to the five times guideline over a period of time, generally within  five to seven years.
Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to the approval and implementation in May 2014 of the Remuneration Policy.
PAYSCENARIOCHARTS Any commitment made which is consistent with the Remuneration Policy in force The following charts provide an estimate of the potential future reward at the time the commitment was made will be honoured, even when it is not opportunities for the two current Executive Directors CEO and CFO, and the consistent with the policy prevailing at the time such commitment is fulfilled.
potential split between the different elements of pay under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, Target and Maximum.
Potential reward Details of outstanding share awards to Executive Directors are provided in the opportunities are based on Inmarsats current Remuneration Policy, applied to Annual Report on Remuneration.
salaries, benefits and pensions as at 1 January 2016.
Note that the projected values exclude the impact of any share price movement.
 Our incentive plans excluding restricted share awards and all-employee share Each element of remuneration reflects the following assumptions: plans all include financial performance requirements.
Performance targets are Minimum:includes fixed remuneration only, ie base salary, taxable benefits set to be stretching, taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and and pension or cash allowance.
the economic environment in which the Company operates.
Targets are set Target: includes fixed remuneration plus the amounts for on-target taking into account a range of reference points including the Group and performance under the annual cash bonus plan 60% of maximum and BSA Business Units LRBP, broker forecasts, and latest forecasts.
Achievement of 60% of maximum monetary value of 185% and 175% of salary for the CEO these targets delivers to shareholders the value inherent in the LRBP.
and CFO respectively, and threshold performance under the PSA 30% 0% 0% of maximum under the TSR EBITDA strategic performance The annual cash bonus plan and BSA reflect the financial targets which the elements, based on maximum opportunities of 185% and 175% of salary for Board believes are key to driving the business.
Revenue and EBITDA reflect the the CEO and CFO respectively.
underlying financial success of the business and support the annual business Maximum:includes fixed remuneration and maximum payment under all strategy as well as value creation for Inmarsats shareholders.
The PSA currently has three performance requirements, which are EBITDA PAY FOR PERFORMANCE $000s growth, the Companys TSR performance against the FTSE 50-150 excluding investment trusts, and strategic objectives.
All three performance metrics are CEO CFO linked to our long-term business strategy, and support shareholder value creation.
3,390 62% The Committee retains the ability to adjust and or set different performance 2,687 measures following a corporate event such as a change in strategy, a material 60% acquisition and or divestment of a Group business or a change in prevailing 1,736 1,392 market conditions which causes the Committee to determine that the 42% 40% 21% measures are no longer appropriate and that amendment is required so that 22% 589 24% 485 25% they achieve their original purpose.
100% 34% 17% 100% 35% 18% Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum  Remuneration arrangements throughout the Inmarsat Group are determined Fixed salary Annual bonus LTIP on the same principle as for remunerating Executive Directors, in that reward should support our business strategy.
It should be sufficient to attract and retain high-performing individuals.
As a global business we accept that there may be different local arrangements that are appropriate to apply but, overall, this principle applies across the different geographies in which we operate.
Employees receive variable pay which gives them incentives appropriate to their role in the organisation and is reflective of how we deal with Executive Directors too.
78 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED  EXTERNALAPPOINTMENTS In the event of hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will typically align the remuneration package with the approved Remuneration Policy.
In determining appropriate remuneration arrangements on hiring a new Executive Director, we will take into consideration all relevant factors including but not limited to external market data, current remuneration, the type of remuneration arrangements for other Inmarsat executives and the jurisdiction the candidate was recruited from to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both our Company and its shareholders without paying more than is necessary.
The Remuneration Policy in place will apply to the new appointment unless there are variables to the appointment which are noted below and are agreed by the Committee as appropriate to offer.
The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to buy-out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, we will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted for example, cash or shares, the time over which they would have vested and the share price at the time of buy-out.
Generally buy-out awards will be made on a comparable basis.
The Committee has the discretion to determine whether such buy-outs shall be granted as BSAs, PSAs or Restricted Share Awards under the ESP.
The Committee may also avail itself of the provision in the Listing Rules Chapter 9.4.
2 regarding long-term incentive awards in relation to the buy-out of awards forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
Component Approach Maximum annual value Basicsalary To be determined by reference to relevant market pay levels, experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities and the current salary of the incumbent in the role.
Pensionand To be eligible to receive benefits in line with the current policy, and as well as any expatriation allowances benefits and any necessary expenses relating to an Executive Directors relocation on appointment.
Sharesave To be entitled to participate on identical terms to other employees.
Scheme Annualcash The scheme as described in the policy table will apply to new appointees.
The Committee will determine on a 125% of salary bonus case-by-case basis whether the executive will receive the full annual payment or a pro-rata amount.
BonusShare To participate in annual awards on the same terms as other Executive Directors, as described in the Up to 200% of salary 300% Awards policy table.
in exceptional circumstances Performance To participate in annual awards on the same terms as other Executive Directors, as described in the Up to 200% of salary 300% ShareAwards policy table.
in exceptional circumstances Restricted To make awards of shares which vest in accordance with a schedule which will be agreed by the Committee, Up to 200% of salary 300% ShareAwards subject to continued employment only.
Awards will typically be made to facilitate the buy-out of awards in exceptional circumstances forfeited on leaving a previous employer, and the vesting schedule will typically match that of the awards forfeited.
Additional shares in lieu of accrued dividends over the vesting period are awarded only on the number of shares that vest.
INTERNALAPPOINTMENTS Any individual who is promoted to become an Executive Director will be treated on the same basis as if they were an external hire in respect of the elements of remuneration and benefits.
Where the new appointee has an initial salary set below market, any shortfall will be managed with phased increases over a period of several years, subject to the executives development in the role.
Such individuals are also eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to their appointment to the Board.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 79  For the recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director, the individual will receive a letter of appointment which will summarise the time requirement expected of them and set out details of their fees base fee and committee membership fee.
Fees will be the same level as for other Non-Executive Directors, except where the Nominations Committee determines that a different level is appropriate based on individual contribution.
Reasonable expenses will also be paid and cover will be provided to all Directors, Executive and Non-Executive, under the Companys Directors and Officers insurance policy.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Non-Executive To attract and retain The Non-Executives are paid a basic fee.
To avoid setting Directorfees high-calibre Nonexpectations, there is no andCommittee Executive Directors by The Committee Chairmen and other members of the Board Committees Audit, maximum fee level.
fees offering a market Remuneration, Nominations, and the newly created Telecoms Regulatory competitive fee level.
Committee and the Senior Independent Director are paid supplements to reflect Aggregate fees were their additional responsibilities.
increased to 1m following approval by shareholders at The Chairman of the Board will be paid a single fee for all his responsibilities, and the 2014 AGM.
The fees paid to NonNon-Executive Director fee levels are reviewed periodically by the Chairman and Executive Directors in Executive Directors with reference to market levels in comparably sized FTSE respect of the year under companies and a recommendation is then made to the Board.
The Chairmans fee review and for the following is reviewed by the Committee taking into account fee levels at the same set of year are disclosed in the companies, and is then approved by the Board.
If any changes are to be made, Annual Report on they are usually effective in July.
 Executive Director Date of service contract Term of office Notice period Rupert Pearce 18 January 2012 Indefinite until termination by either party 12 months written notice by Company or Director Tony Bates 21 February 2014 Indefinite until termination by either party 12 months written notice by Company and 6 months written notice by the Director The Company in its absolute discretion may agree a shorter notice period with the departing Director.
All Directors have a clause to allow a payment in lieu of notice to be made.
For the Executive Directors, the Company may make such payments monthly up to 12 months and these payments shall be reduced if the executive finds alternative employment.
Severance payments in relation to the service contract are limited to no more than one years base salary plus other benefits, which may include annual bonus subject to performance conditions being fulfilled and pro-rated for time and payable at the normal annual bonus payment date, unless the Committee believes this is unreasonable given the circumstances for departure or unless dictated by applicable law.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith: in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors office or employment.
The Committee retains discretion to determine appropriate bonus amounts and vesting of share-based awards, as well as the timing of vesting, taking into consideration the circumstances in which an Executive Director leaves.
The rationale for any discretion exercised will be provided in the following years Annual Report on Remuneration.
80 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Reason for leaving Timing of vesting Treatment of awards ANNUALBONUS Good leaver see below for definition Normal payment date Performance against targets will be assessed at the end of the year in the normal way and any resulting bonus will be pro-rated for time served during the year All other reasons Awards lapse not applicable BSAANDBSP Good leaver see below for definition Normal vesting date, although the Any earned but not yet transferred shares will be retained.
The Committee has discretion to accelerate treatment of unvested shares is at the Committees discretion All other reasons Awards lapse not applicable PSAANDPSP Good leaver see below for definition Normal vesting date, although the Any outstanding awards will be pro-rated for time and subject to Committee has discretion to accelerate performance conditions being met All other reasons Awards lapse not applicable RSA Good leaver see below for definition Normal vesting date, although the Any outstanding awards will be pro-rated for time Committee has discretion to accelerate All other reasons Awards lapse not applicable EMPLOYEESHAREPLANS Good leaver see below for definition Share options can be exercised for a The individual will be entitled to exercise his share options in certain period of time after departure accordance with HMRC approved rules or local equivalent rules All other reasons Awards lapse not applicable A good leaver is the departure of an Executive Director for reasons of  ill-health, redundancy, retirement, death or any other reason which the Committee in its absolute discretion permits.
Termination for cause is regarded Name Date of appointment letter Date of appointment as a bad leaver and no awards shall vest.
Simon Bax 28 May 2013 18 June 2013 Upon a change of control of the Company, share awards may be transferred to Sir Bryan Carsberg 18 April 2005 22 June 2005 participants within such period as the Committee may permit based on the Stephen Davidson 16 June 2005 22 June 2005 extent to which the Committee determines that the performance conditions Kathleen Flaherty 9 May 2006 9 May 2006 have been met.
Alternatively, participants shall be required to give up existing General C. Robert Kehler Rtd 13 March 2014 6 May 2014 share awards and receive shares in the new company being equivalent to the Janice Obuchowski 6 May 2009 5 May 2009 original award.
For the annual bonus, the Committee will assess performance Dr Abraham Peled 10 May 2013 18 June 2013 against targets at the point of change of control and any resulting bonus will be Robert Ruijter 16 December 2014 1 February 2015 pro-rated for time and paid immediately.
The final treatment for the annual 1 bonus remains subject to the Committees discretion.
Andrew Sukawaty 16 September 2014 1 January 2015 Dr Hamadoun Tour 16 December 2014 1 March 2015 In the event that the Company terminates an Executive Directors service contract other than in accordance with the terms of his contract, the 1 Andrew Sukawaty became Non-Executive Chairman with effect from 1 January 2015.
He was previously Executive Chairman.
Committee will act in the best interests of the Company and ensure there is no reward for failure.
When determining what compensation, if any, is to be paid to the departing Executive Director, the Committee will give full consideration to the circumstances of the termination, the Executive Directors performance, Appointments are initially for three years and unless agreed by the Board, they the terms of the service contract relating to notice and payments in lieu of may not remain in office for a period longer than six years, or two terms in notice, and the obligation of the Executive Director where it is in the service office, whichever is the shorter.
The UK Corporate Governance Code has special agreement to mitigate any loss which he may suffer as a result.
provisions regarding determination of the independence of Directors when they have served for more than nine years.
Although the Company would seek to minimise termination costs, the Committee may in appropriate circumstances provide other elements in a leaving Executive Directors termination package, including without limitation compensation for the waiver of statutory rights in exchange for him executing a settlement agreement, payment of the departing Executive Directors legal fees in connection with his termination arrangements, and payment of outplacement fees.
In addition, the Committee may determine that the Director should continue to be engaged by the Company on a consultancy arrangement or other terms following cessation of his directorship.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 81 Non-Executive Directors do not have contracts of service and their ANNUAL REPORT ON appointment will normally terminate on: REMUNERATION a Director choosing to resign voluntarily: a Director being prohibited from serving by law, bankruptcy or illness: The following section provides details of how Inmarsats Remuneration Policy if the Nominations Committee does not approve the extension of was implemented during the financial year ending 31 December 2015 and how the appointment: the Committee intends to implement the policy in 2016. a Director is found guilty of misconduct: or a Director is not re-elected by the shareholders following retirement at The Regulations require our external auditors to report to shareholders on the an AGM.
audited information within this Report and to state whether, in their opinion, the relevant sections have been prepared in accordance with the Act.
The external Non-Executive Directors do not receive an annual bonus and do not auditors opinion is set out on pages 95 to 99 and we have clearly marked the participate in any of the Companys incentive plans.
They receive no benefits, audited sections of the Report.
except that healthcare cover is provided for the Chairman, as a continuation of the cover provided to him previously.
The Company reimburses the reasonable  expenses the Non-Executive Directors incur in carrying out their duties The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
had four scheduled meetings during the year to discharge our responsibilities.
Committee membership and attendance are set out in the table below: EXTERNALAPPOINTMENTS Executive Directors serving as Non-Executive Directors on the board of other companies are permitted to retain all remuneration and fees earned from Number of scheduled meetings in 2015 Attendance outside directorships subject to a maximum of two external board Simon Bax Committee Chairman since 6 May 2015 4 4 appointments.
Directors accepting such positions shall take into account any Stephen Davidson Committee Chairman until 6 May 2015 4 4 guidelines for external directorships as contained in the Corporate Governance Sir Bryan Carsberg 4 4 Code, subject at all times to pre-authorisation of the appointment by the Chairman, or in the case of the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director.
Kathleen Flaherty 4 4 General C. Robert Kehler Rtd 4 4  Although we do not consult directly with employees on executive remuneration policy, the Committee takes into consideration the remuneration During the year, the Committee operated to a forward agenda which ensured arrangements for the wider employee population in making its decisions on that items were discussed at the appropriate time during the year.
Its key remuneration for senior executives.
This relates to philosophy around levels of activities included: base salary, operating bonus plans for all employees, pension entitlement and benefit provision also being available across the Group.
annual review of Executive Director salaries: review of performance outcomes for the annual bonus, BSA and PSA in The Group consults with its employees on general employment policies in a respect of performance to 31 December 2014 and anticipated award levels range of ways, including formal consultation forums in some countries where it for schemes maturing in 2015 as these are finalised in the March meeting operates.
Our staff are encouraged to provide feedback directly to their line following the year end: managers or to the HR team or to a confidential email address which will receive review of potential changes to the operation of the BSA and PSA: queries on all issues including anti-bribery.
calibration of award levels and targets for the 2015 BSA and PSA awards for the Executive Directors:  review of incentive plans across the Group: When determining remuneration, the Committee considers shareholder views review of the Non-Executive Chairmans fee: and the guidelines of investor bodies.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman, preparation of the Directors Remuneration report: Senior Independent Director SID, and Company Secretary engage proconsideration of shareholder views on issues which may have arisen during actively with major shareholders and shareholder representatives whenever the year and comments from those who were contacted ahead of the 2015 appropriate.
The Committee is always open to feedback from shareholders on AGM: and Remuneration Policy or individual arrangements, and is committed to preparation for the 2015 AGM.
consulting shareholders in advance of major changes.
Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last years Remuneration report are ADVISERS provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration section of this Report.
During 2015, the Committee was advised internally by Andrew Sukawaty Chairman, Rupert Pearce CEO, Tony Bates CFO, Debbie Jones Chief People Officer, Alison Horrocks Chief Corporate Affairs Officer and Company Secretary and Matt Smith Head of Reward.
John Rennocks, the Companys former Deputy Chairman and SID, also attended meetings, as has Dr Abe Peled who became SID in November 2015.
No member of management is present at a Committee meeting when their own arrangements are being discussed.
82 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Kepler a brand of Mercer was appointed by the Committee after consultation with the Board in September 2012 following a tendering process, and has continued to act as the Committees independent external adviser during the year.
Keplers responsibilities include a mandate to review our remuneration principles and practices against corporate governance best practice.
Kepler reports directly to the Committee Chairman and is a signatory of the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants which can be found at www.
Kepler provides no  services to the Company and is therefore considered independent.
Keplers parent, Mercer, provides unrelated services to the Company in the areas of pension investment advice and actuarial services to the Trustee to the Inmarsat UK Pension Plan.
During 2015, Keplers fees were based on time and materials, and fees excluding VAT and expenses totalled 51,150 2014: 36,300.
 The following table shows the results of the advisory shareholder vote on the Annual Report on Remuneration of the 2014 Directors Remuneration report at the 2015 AGM: Annual Report on Remuneration Total number of votes % of votes cast For including discretionary 233,600,610 71.61% Against 92,600,415 28.39% Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 326,201,025 100% Votes withheld 30,166,200 n a The current Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders with a 97% vote for at the 2014 AGM.
The Annual Report on Remuneration was approved by shareholders with a 72% vote for.
The Committee is mindful of some shareholders who voted against, and understand that this largely reflected some shareholders views on the introduction of strategic measures within the PSA from 2015.
The Committee takes seriously shareholders voting on the Directors Remuneration report, and consulted with the Companys major shareholders in early 2015 in advance of introducing strategic measures in the PSA, and we had further discussions with shareholders later in the year.
Whilst many shareholders were in favour of the strategic measures, others preferred to use purely financial objectives.
The Committee considered these views when finalising its plans for the structure for the 2015 PSA.
The Committee continued to believe that the strategic measures are focused on the long-term operational future of the business and will ultimately drive shareholder value and it was appropriate therefore to include them as a performance measure.
The Company continues to commit to retaining an element of the PSA based on financial performance.
The Committee will continue to engage with shareholders to facilitate their understanding of the Company, the environment in which it operates and how this translates into our executive Remuneration Policy.
 AUDITED The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2015 and the prior year: Rupert Pearce Tony Bates 000 2015 2014 2015 2014 Basic salary 542 485 457 263 1 Taxable benefits 9 8 6 3 2 Pension 16 16 16 9 3 Annual bonus 491 622 471 563 4 Bonus Share Award 1,037 677 787 450 5 Long-term incentives 510 786 Total 2,605 2,594 1,737 1,288 1 The taxable benefits received by the Executive Directors include healthcare benefits and benefits relating to staff entertaining.
The tax due in respect of the staff entertainment benefit is settled by the Company.
The Company also reimburses the travel costs incurred by Directors for travel to Board meetings where these do not take place in the country in which they are domiciled.
These travel expenses are subject to a specific deduction under HMRC rules and are not taxable.
2 Represents the pension payment made by the employer to the individual Director as cash in lieu of pension see page 86 for details.
3 Represents the annual bonus payment in relation to the financial years ended 31 December 2015 and 2014 see pages 83 and 84 for details.
4 Represents the face value of the shares as at March 2015 to be awarded under the Bonus Share Award in relation to the financial year ended 31 December 2015 and awarded under the Bonus Share Award in relation to the financial year ended 31 December 2014 see pages 84 and 85 for details.
5 PSA granted in 2012, which vested in March 2015 based on performance to 31 December 2014, is valued using the share price on the date of vesting of 9.41.
This amount has been revised from last years report to reflect the actual share price on vesting plus reinvested dividends on vested shares.
50% of the 2013 award will vest in March 2016 based on performance.
As the share price on the date of vesting is currently unknown the value shown is estimated using the average market value over the last quarter of 2015 of 10.36.
Mr Sukawaty was included in the table in 2014 as an Executive Director.
His 2014 remuneration comprised a basic salary of 615k, taxable benefits of 38k, pension of 88k, and annual bonus of 738k.
His Bonus Share Award totalled 1,181k and long-term incentives of 1,222k.
His total remuneration was 3,882k for 2014.
In 2015, he received a fee as Non-Executive Chairman, detailed on page 83.
Details of benefits he received from share awards that vested are shown on page 85.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 83  AUDITED The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2015 and the prior year: 1 Base fee Additional fees Taxable benefits Total 000 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2 Andrew Sukawaty 299.1 20.0 319.1 Simon Bax 52.2 50.8 8.1 4.5 0.2 60.5 55.3 Sir Bryan Carsberg 52.2 50.8 10.1 9.0 0.8 1.0 63.1 59.8 Stephen Davidson 52.2 50.8 17.4 19.0 1.2 1.0 70.8 69.8 Kathleen Flaherty 52.2 50.8 4.5 4.5 56.7 55.3 General C. Robert Kehler 3 Rtd 105.1.
1 The taxable benefits received by the Non-Executive Directors were associated with accommodation costs incurred with attendance at two-day Board meetings.
The tax due in respect of these benefits is settled by the Company.
The Company also reimburses the travel costs incurred by the Non-Executive Directors for travel to Board meetings where these do not take place in the country in which they are domiciled.
These travel expenses are subject to a specific deduction under HMRC rules and are not tax deductible.
2 As set out in the 2014 Directors Remuneration report, Mr Sukawaty continues to receive healthcare cover as a continuation of the cover provided to him over the last 10 years.
Mr Sukawatys outstanding PSA awards made to him when he was Executive Chairman will also vest to him on a time pro-rata basis on their respective normal vesting dates, subject to performance and continued employment see page 85 for vesting details.
Mr Sukawatys salary as Executive Chairman is shown immediately above this table.
3 The fees for General C. Robert Kehler Rtd include a fee of 52,942 as a Non-Executive Director of Inmarsat Inc, a wholly owned subsidiary in the US.
4 Dr Peled was appointed as Senior Independent Director as of 6 November 2015.
5 Mr Ruijter was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 February 2015.
6 Dr Tour was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 March 2015.
In addition to the fees reported in the table above, a consultancy firm which used the services of Dr Tour during 2015 charged the Company a fee of $30,000 for 30 days consultancy, and other costs including travel, entertaining and hotel accommodation of approximately $9,700.
This work was not undertaken by Dr Tour in his capacity as a Non-Executive Director and related to a specific project which required focused time commitment.
It is not expected that he will provide consultancy services on a regular basis.
7 Mr Rennocks retired from the Board on 6 November 2015.
  In 2015, the annual cash bonus was based on the achievement of Group financial targets and individual performance objectives.
As part of a process of refocusing on Group performance and more closely aligning the bonus schemes across the Group, 2015 performance was measured by reference to revenue 33% and EBITDA targets 67%.
Revenue and EBITDA are two measures which have strong line-of-sight, are easily understood and are two of our key reporting metrics to shareholders.
The same performance metrics are used in the annual bonus plan for all employees.
The Committee has the ability to apply up to 30% of the maximum bonus opportunity potential in consideration of the achievement of personal objectives.
In line with the previous approach, the Committee will disclose the 2015 financial targets in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
We believe the targets used are commercially sensitive if made public in the same reporting period as to which they apply.
Examples of the personal objectives for the Executive Directors for 2015 are noted below.
Some have been excluded where we believe they may be commercially sensitive if published.
CEO: Deliver on the 2015 financial budget as to revenues and EBITDA performance.
Ensure the on-time launch and deployment of Inmarsat-5 F2 and F3.
Maintain the Global Xpress Ka-band programme to enable global service launch on time and to budget.
Manage the Companys position regarding LightSquared while it is in bankruptcy.
Make meaningful progress for the aviation opportunity in Europe.
CFO: Deliver on the 2015 financial budget as to revenues and EBITDA performance.
Complete SAP financial system roll-out on time and to budget.
Ensure new internal and external financial reporting is in place and operating well.
Establish a Group-wide procurement strategy and capability to deliver cost savings to the business.
84 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED In 2015, revenues were $1,274m, which exceeded target performance but fell short of stretch.
EBITDA was $726m, which exceeded stretch performance.
However, in considering the underlying performance of the business, the Remuneration Committee felt that contributions from a strategic contract should be only partially applied as a fair reflection of the performance of the Company overall.
On a formulaic basis, the bonus payout in respect of financial performance is 92.5% of maximum.
However, the Committee used its discretion to adjust downwards the payout to be 75% of that element which translates into 65.6% of salary for each of the Executive Directors out of a maximum of 87.5% of salary linked to financial performance.
The Committee also considered the Executive Directors achievement of personal objectives during the year, and payout in respect of personal performance was 25% and 37.5% of salary for the CEO and the CFO, respectively.
The maximum and target annual bonus amounts that could be made and actual cash bonus which will be awarded to each Executive Director are set out in the next table.
Actual bonus outcome for 2015 Bonus paid for the Target bonus Maximum bonus financial year 2014 financial year Executive Director % of salary % of salary % of salary % of salary Rupert Pearce 75% 125% 90.6% 120% Tony Bates 75% 125% 103.1% 125%  Last year, the Company committed to disclosing the 2014 bonus financial targets in this years Annual Report on Remuneration.
The targets and actual performance against them are set out below.
Performance targets $m Actual Payout Weighting performance % of financial Measure % of financial element On-target Stretch $m element Revenue 50% 1,109 1,192 1,286 50% Opex 35% 394 375 372 35% Capex 15% 610 581 425 15% TOTAL 100% 100% EBITDA Underpin for ABP $619m $619m $701m Underpin met In determining the final bonus outcome, the Committee also considered broader Company performance.
Taking into account the Companys outperformance of stretch targets for all the financial measures and its achievement of the EBITDA underpin, and the wider performance and contributions of the CEO and CFO in 2014, the overall bonus outcomes were 120% and 125% of salary for the CEO and CFO, respectively.
The Committee believes these outcomes are warranted and reflect strong Company and individual performance in 2014.
Examples of the personal objectives for the Executive Directors for 2014 were provided in last years Annual Report on Remuneration.
 Details of the financial targets and actual performance against targets in respect of the 2014 BSP award are provided in the Annual cash bonus in respect of 2014 performance section above.
 An allocation of shares was made on 27 March 2015 at a share price of 9.3375 in respect of the March 2015 BSA monetary awards.
The confirmation of these awards is based on Company performance for the financial year ended 31 December 2015.
The performance targets were achieved in full and the full number of shares originally allocated in March 2015 will be awarded in March 2016.
Under the BSA, the maximum number of shares is awarded for target performance and does not increase for outperformance.
The performance measures, weightings and actual performance against target were as follows: Performance measure Weighting % of maximum Actual performance against target Revenue 33% Revenues were $1,274m, which exceeded threshold and target performance, and therefore the full allocation is made EBITDA 66% EBITDA was $726m, which exceeded threshold and target performance, and therefore the full allocation is made Based on performance achieved against each of the measures, 100% of the allocated shares will be awarded and will vest in March 2017, 2018 and 2019.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 85 The table below shows the confirmation of the number of shares awarded for the 2015 BSP Award.
Conversion rate based on Share price on date Number of shares performance for Confirmed number Maximum of allocation allocated in year ended of shares awarded Executive Director monetary award 27 March 2015 March 2015 31 December 2015 in March 2016 Rupert Pearce 1,037,294 9.34 111,089 100% 111,089 Tony Bates 787,496 9.34 84,337 100% 84,337 2013PSPVESTING On 19 March 2013, the then Executive Chairman and CEO received PSP awards of 201,262 and 98,435 shares.
Vesting of the awards was dependent on three-year TSR vs. the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and three-year EBITDA growth, both measured over the three years to 31 December 2015 and weighted equally.
There was no re-testing of performance.
Performance targets for these awards are as follows: Performance measure Weighting % of maximum award Performance targets 3-year TSR vs. 50% Below median: nil vesting FTSE 350 excluding Median: 30% vesting investment trusts Upper quartile: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between median and upper quartile 3-year EBITDA growth pa 50% Less than 1%: nil vesting 1%: 0% vesting 3.5%: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between 1% and 3.5% The EBITDA target was not achieved for the three-year period, and therefore there is no vesting due for 50% of the total award.
As explained in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans Annual Statement, EBITDA was not achieved because of some specific factors, including the effect of US sequestration on our government business and the delay of the launches of our Inmarsat-5 satellites which were beyond our control.
In respect of relative TSR, the Companys performance was at the 75th percentile vs. the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts, which gave a vesting outcome of 50% of the total award.
The total amount that will vest on 19 March 2016, subject to continued employment, will therefore be 50% of the maximum award.
The then Executive Chairmans now Non-Executive Chairman 2013 PSA award is reduced on a time pro-rata basis for the period he served as an Executive Director, ie 19 March 2013 to 31 December 2014.
Therefore, 59,819 shares, plus shares added in lieu of accrued dividends, will vest to the Chairman on 19 March 2016.
 AUDITED  An allocation of shares was made in respect of the March 2014 BSP monetary awards based on Company performance for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The share award was based on the mid-market closing price of the Companys ordinary shares following the announcement of the Preliminary Results in March 2015.
As advised in the 2014 Annual Report the conversion rate was 100% of the monetary amount into an award of shares which vest in equal tranches in March 2016, 2017 and 2018, subject to continued employment.
Market price at Maximum Date of share Awards made date of award in Face value at Executive Director monetary award Conversion rate award during the year March 2015 date of award Rupert Pearce 676,500 100% 6 March 2015 75,947 8.91 676,500 Tony Bates 450,000 100% 6 March 2015 50,519 8.91 450,000 The then Executive Chairman now Non-Executive Chairman, received a monetary award of 1,181,148 in March 2014 which was converted into 132,601 shares in March 2015, with a face value at date of award of 1,181,148.
The Chairman is eligible to receive these shares when they vest as he was an Executive Director during the entire performance period.
2015PSA In March 2015, the Executive Directors received PSA share awards which will vest subject to performance over the three years to 31 December 2017.
Awards made Market price at Face value at Award as % of Executive Director Date of grant during the year date of award date of award salary Vesting date Rupert Pearce 30 March 2015 111,089 9.34 1,037,294 200% 30 March 2018 Tony Bates 30 March 2015 84,337 9.34 787,497 175% 30 March 2018 86 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The award levels fall within the normal maximum permitted under the Remuneration Policy, and were determined taking into account the overall market pay data, the performance of the Company and the individuals strong personal performance and contribution to shareholder value creation over the year.
Vesting of the awards will be dependent on three-year TSR vs. the FTSE 50-150 excluding investment trusts, three-year EBITDA growth and achievement of specific strategic objectives.
As discussed in the 2014 Annual Report, 2015 was the first year we introduced the use of strategic objectives as a performance measure in our long-term share plan.
The Company believes that it is important for management to be focused on delivering critical strategic programmes which will drive long-term shareholder value creation.
The strategic objectives described below are the ones identified to deliver this value.
The targets will be measured over the three years to 31 December 2017 and weighted 30% 30% 40% respectively.
There will be no re-testing of performance.
Performance targets for these awards, and part-cycle updates on achievement against the strategic objectives, are as follows: Weighting Performance measure % of maximum award Performance targets 3-year TSR vs. 30% Below median: nil vesting FTSE 50-150 excluding Median: 30% vesting investment trusts Upper quartile: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between median and upper quartile 3-year EBITDA 30% Less than 4%: nil vesting growth pa 10%: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between 4% and 10% Strategic objectives 40% The key areas are: Global Xpress: Completion of the successful launch and market entry for next generation of Inmarsat-5 satellites Part-cycle update: at the end of 2015, three Inmarsat-5 satellites had been successfully launched and global service was announced.
S-band: Putting in place all key building blocks of the aviation business case which will support material revenues beyond 2017 Part-cycle update: we have received 28 MSS licenses and 18 ACGC licenses.
We also announced the European Aviation Network which included a partnership with Deutsche Telekom and a flight trial by Lufthansa of the system in 2017.
L-band: Sustaining L-band revenues despite migration of services from L-band to Global Xpress Ka-band, through a re-orientation, expansion and globalisation of L-band services Part-cycle update: at the end of 2015, we had continued our focus on L-band product and solution development such as a smaller maritime terminal for fishing vessels, continued development of a core module to be used in chip sets and developing our offering for the machine-to-machine market.
Achievement against strategic objectives will be considered as a whole.
There are specific objectives within each area, and further details of the objectives and key achievements will be disclosed in detail at the end of the performance period.
PENSION AUDITED The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys defined contribution pension plan arrangements.
None participate in the defined benefit plan.
An Executive Director can become a deferred member of the pension plan or not join the pension plan and receive a capped employer contribution paid as additional salary.
An amount of 12.5% of capped salary is the highest amount that could be paid under the existing arrangements.
The capped salary level increases nominally each year.
Pensionable salary is currently limited to basic salary and subject to a specific earnings cap which we apply for participants in our UK Pension Plan.
Neither Mr Pearce nor Mr Bates is a member of the UK defined contribution pension plan.
The normal retirement date under the UK pension plan is age 65 with an employee able to retire from age 55.
The current employer contributions subject to the cap of 145,200 for the 2014 15 tax year and 147,600 for the 2015 16 tax year are 12.5% of capped salary.
This amount is reduced for the cost to the Company of the employer national insurance.
The effect of which is that the Executive Directors receive an equivalent 11% of capped salary: Rupert Pearce 16k, equivalent to 2.8% of salary, was paid in 2015 Tony Bates 16k, equivalent to 3.4% of salary, was paid in 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 87  AUDITED There were no exit payments made in 2015.
 AUDITED No payments were made to past Directors.
EXTERNALAPPOINTMENTS The Executive Directors do not currently hold positions in other companies as Non-Executive Directors.
 BASESALARY The table below shows the Executive Directors salaries as at July 2014 and July 2015.
Salaries will next be reviewed in July 2016, which is the same time for the general workforce.
Salary at 1 July 2015 Salary at 1 July 2014 Executive Director 000 % change 000 Rupert Pearce 566 9% 519 Tony Bates 464 3% 450 We have already indicated to shareholders that the Committee expected to increase Mr Pearces salary gradually over a period of time to reflect his demonstrated development in the CEO role and the performance of the business.
Mr Pearce was appointed as CEO in 2012 on a salary that was significantly below the median level for a FTSE 50-150 CEO.
Mr Pearce received no increase in 2013, in line with the salary freeze for the wider employee population.
We made an initial increase in 2014 which reflected Mr Pearces continued strong performance in his role and significant contribution to the business, and took into account the 2013 salary freeze.
A salary of 519,000 remained bottom quartile for a FTSE 50-150 CEO: in this context, the Committee made an increase in July 2015 of 9% to 565,710.
This salary level remains significantly behind the median salary for a FTSE 50-150 CEO.
The salary increase applied across the business in 2015 excluding that for the Executive Directors was 3%.
Mr Bates, our CFO, received an increase of 3% in July 2015, which was in line with the awards made across the UK employee base which was 2%.
Salary increases across the Group averaged 3%, and averaged 4% for non-UK employees.
Both the CEO and CFOs salaries will next be reviewed in July 2016, taking into account market pay levels and pay increases for the wider employee population.
PENSION Cash payments in lieu of employer pension contributions for 2016 will be made in accordance with the Remuneration Policy table set out on pages 74 to 76, and will be on the same basis as those made in 2015.
ANNUALCASHBONUS The maximum annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors in 2016 will remain unchanged from the opportunity in 2015, and will be 125% of salary.
The Annual Bonus will continue to have a financial element and an element linked to personal performance.
The financial element of the bonus, totalling 70% of maximum bonus opportunity, will continue to be measured by reference to EBITDA 67% of the maximum award and revenue 33%.
As in 2015, the Committee will have the ability to apply up to 30% of the maximum bonus opportunity potential in consideration of the achievement of personal objectives.
2016SHAREAWARDS: BSA In March 2016, a monetary BSA award will be made and nominally converted to shares immediately as happened in 2015.
As in previous years, the level of award will not be confirmed until the results for 2016 have been determined and may be lower but not higher than the initial award.
There is no change to the vesting timetable: the shares will vest in equal tranches in March 2018, 2019 and 2020, subject to continued employment.
With the nominal conversion of the shares at the outset, this more closely aligns the value delivered to participants under this award with the value created for shareholders over the same period.
It is expected that the level of award in March 2016 will be 185% and 175% of salary for Mr Pearce and Mr Bates, respectively.
The performance measures will include the same as the financial metrics used in the 2016 annual bonus.
60% of the award will be linked to EBITDA and 30% to revenue.
Additionally, there will be a new non-financial measure 10% of the award linked to the management of a strategic contract.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the award levels and believe they are appropriate in the context of the Companys ambitions for growth and how each of the Executive Directors will contribute personally towards overall Group performance.
The award levels are in line with market benchmark levels for FTSE 50-150 companies excluding investment trusts when considered as part of a total package.
88 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PSA A PSA award will be made in March 2016, and it is expected that the level of award will be 185% of salary for Mr Pearce and 175% for Mr Bates.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the award levels, and believe they are appropriate in the context of Companys ambitions for growth and how each of the Executive Directors will contribute personally towards overall Group performance.
The PSA awards in 2016 will operate on the same basis as they did in 2015.
Awards vest after three years based upon the same three performance conditions, measured over the three years to 31 December 2018.
The targets are as follows: Weighting Performance measure % of maximum award Performance targets 3-year TSR vs. 30% Below median: nil vesting FTSE 50-150 excluding Median: 30% vesting investment trusts Upper quartile: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between median and upper quartile 3-year EBITDA 30% Less than 5%: nil vesting growth pa 11%: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between 5% and 11% Strategic objectives 40% The key areas are: Global Xpress: Complete successful market entry for next generation Inmarsat-5 satellites Aviation: Putting in place all key building blocks of the aviation business case which will support material revenues beyond 2017 L-band: Aggressively work to sustain L-band revenues despite migration of services from L-band to Global Xpress Ka-band, ongoing US sequestration and increasing competition Strategic contract: Maximise the near and medium term income opportunities from this key strategic contract Achievement against strategic objectives will be considered as a whole.
The Committee will be considering the appropriateness of a five-year PSA horizon in a comprehensive remuneration review later in 2016, and any such changes will be reflected in the policy to be put to shareholders at the May 2017 AGM, to take effect from awards to be made in March 2018.
 Fees paid as follows for a Non-Executive Director Amount Basic fee 52,942 Chairman of the Audit Committee 10,000 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 10,000 Chairman of the Nominations Committee 5,000 Chairman of the Telecoms Regulatory Committee 5,000 Committee membership per Committee 4,500 SID inclusive of all additional Committee fees 99,621 Non-Executive Chairman inclusive of any Committee Chairmanship member fees 303,261 Fees will next be reviewed in July 2016 and any increases will be for the decision of the Board, excluding the Non-Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Chairman also receives healthcare cover 14.6k in 2015.
The Telecoms Regulatory Committee is a new Committee of the Board established in 2015 and details about this can be found in the Corporate governance report on page 67.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 89  The following graph shows the Companys performance over the last seven years, measured by total shareholder return on a holding in the Companys shares compared to a hypothetical holding of shares in the FTSE 350 index excluding investment trusts.
The FTSE 350 index has been selected as it provides a view of our performance against a broad equity market index, and Inmarsat is a constituent of the index.
The Committee will review the appropriateness of the comparator group used in future reports to shareholders.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 Inmarsat FTSE 250 xIT index Source: Datastream  AUDITED The total remuneration of the Chief Executive for each of the previous seven financial years is shown in the following table.
The information shows single figure remuneration, the annual bonus outcome as a percentage of the maximum, the short-term share award and the long-term share award vesting outcomes as a percentage of the maximum.
For the years 2009-2011, the Chairman and Chief Executive Andrew Sukawaty AS was the same individual and received a salary for the combined role.
Rupert Pearce RP became Chief Executive on 1 January 2012.
2 We are only required to show the single figure remuneration for each year for the Chief Executive but as in 2012, 2013 and 2014 Mr Sukawaty was the highest paid Director as Executive Chairman, we have also included the single figure for his remuneration.
90 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED  The data for other employees relates to the average pay across staff based in the UK, which is deemed to be the most appropriate employee group.
The data is based on all Inmarsat UK employees, including Executive Directors apart from the CEO and the senior management team.
Change in remuneration from 2014 to 2015 Other UK CEO employees 2015 2014 000 000 % change % change 1 4 Salary 542.0 484.8 11.9% 2% 2 Taxable benefits 1.9 1.9 1.7% 4% 3 5 Short-term incentives 1,528.7 1,298.9 17.7% -30.1% Total 2,073.0 1,785.6 16.1% -8.1% 1 The CEOs salaries shown relate to the average salaries paid in respect of each of the financial years.
The actual salary increase the CEO received at 1 July 2015 was 9%.
2 Taxable benefits include healthcare benefits: for the CEO it is different compared to the single remuneration figure as the amount here excludes costs for staff entertainment.
3 Represents the annual bonus payment for the financial year just ended plus the monetary value of the shares to be awarded under the Bonus Share Award corresponding to the financial year just ended.
4 The number of employees is based on those who were in employment for the whole year.
Effective July 2015, salary increases of approximately 2% to the eligible Other UK employee workforce were awarded with 4% awarded on average to non-UK employees and 3% awarded on average across all employees.
5 The short-term incentive result for UK employees does not reflect the result for Group employees generally, which show a percentage change of 9% for global employees, excluding the UK workforce.
The CEOs results are more aligned with the result for the Group as a whole.
The re-alignment of the CEOs salary in 2014 and 2015 discussed previously in this Report, also impacts both the salary and bonus levels.
The reporting periods are 1 January to 31 December 2014 and 2015.
 To assist in understanding the relative importance of spend on pay, the below shows remuneration for all employees in comparison to distributions to shareholders dividends and share buy-back and other significant spend.
Capital expenditure has been presented as a measure of significant spend as it shows the investment being made in the Companys future growth.
Our business model creates value that is distributed in the form of remuneration to employees, returns to shareholders and funds which are reinvested in the business.
We have invested significantly in recent years in the business while at the same time reviewing pay levels to be competitive and securing good returns to shareholders through increasing capital value in the share price and increasing dividend payments.
We are focused on putting in place a sound platform for the long-term success of the Group.
RELATIVE SPEND ON PAY US$m 497.1 424.7 260.4 237.3 224.6 213.1 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 Total employee pay 10% Dividends and share buy-back 5% Capital expenditure on an accruals basis 17% STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 91  AUDITED The table below shows the shareholding of each Director against their respective shareholding requirement as at 31 December 2015 based on a share price of 11.38 as at 31 December 2015: Shares held Unvested and 3 Sharesheld Sharesheld Unvested and subject to Shareholding Current asat asat subject to performance required shareholding Requirement 1 2 31Dec2015 31Dec2014 deferral conditions % salary % salary met?
Rupert Pearce 747,046 660,252 334,969 306,478 500% 2,177% Yes 4 Tony Bates 139,262 143,253 500% 342% No Andrew Sukawaty 937,228 937,228 414,889 23,005 Simon Bax 7,000 7,000 Sir Bryan Carsberg 16,327 16,327 Stephen Davidson 1,500 1,500 Kathleen Flaherty 3,073 3,073 General C. Robert Kehler Rtd 1,000 Janice Obuchowski 7,000 7,000 Dr Abraham Peled 10,000 10,000 Robert Ruijter Dr Hamadoun Tour 10,000 1 The unvested and subject to deferral column includes 50% of the 2013 PSA as performance has been tested.
2 The unvested and subject to performance conditions column includes PSP PSA awards made in 2014 and 2015.
3 Includes the unvested and subject to deferral shares under the BSP BSA.
4 Mr Bates joined the Company in June 2014.
The shareholding guideline of 5x salary is to be achieved over a five to seven-year period.
Several of our Non-Executive Directors have share interests in excess of 1x salary, although there is no formal shareholding requirement.
There were no changes in Directors interests from 31 December 2015 to 3 March 2016.
 AUDITED This information is accurate as at 31 December 2015.
 2012AWARD Options Options held at Granted Exercised heldat 1 January during during 31December Option price Date from which Expiry 2015 the year the year 2015 per share exercisable date Rupert Pearce 1,960 1,960 4.59 February 2016 July 2016 The Chairman, Andrew Sukawaty, held 1,960 options over shares under the Inmarsat 2005 Sharesave scheme at an option price of 4.59.
These options are exercisable between 1 February 2016 and 31 July 2016.
The award was made when Mr Sukawaty was an executive.
92 INMARSATPLCANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED  Reinvested Shareawards Share awards Awarded dividends Vested heldat held at during during during 31December 1 2 1 January 2015 the year the year the year 2015 Award price Vesting date RupertPearce Share award made in March 2012 21,584 21,584 4.55 Fully vested: 2015 last vesting date Share award made in March 2013 68,428 1,117 34,212 35,333 6.50 May 2014, March 2015 and March 2016 Share award made in March 2014 74,557 1,623 24,851 51,329 6.89 March 2015, March 2016 and March 2017 Share award made in March 2015 75,947 8.91 March 2016, March 2017 and March 2018 TonyBates Share award made in March 2015 50,519 1,650 52,169 8.91 March 2016, March 2017 and March 2018 3 AndrewSukawaty Share award made in March 2012 122,468 122,468 4.549 Fully vested: 2015 last vesting date Share award made in March 2013 174,107 2,845 87,052 89,900 6.50 May 2014, March 2015 and March 2016 Share award made in March 2014 178,325 3,885 59,439 122,771 6.89 March 2015, March 2016 and March 2017 Share award made in March 2015 132,061 4,333 136,934 8.91 March 2016, March 2017 and March 2018 Mr Pearce and Mr Bates received conditional BSA awards in March 2015 of 111,089 and 84,337 shares in respect of the allocation made in March 2015 respectively.
The 2015 BSA share awards will be converted in full as the performance conditions have been met.
1 The number of shares subject to the award increases by the number of shares that the Executive Director could have purchased with the value of dividends they would have received on their award, based on the share price on the ex-dividend date.
2 On 20 March 2015, Mr Pearce sold sufficient shares to cover tax and national insurance and retained the balance at a price of 9.31 per share, representing a monetary value of vested shares of 1,104,604.
Mr Sukawaty disposed of all the vested shares, representing a monetary value of 2,504,008 at the same price.
3 Mr Sukawaty, as Non-Executive Chairman, remains entitled to receive the shares when they vest as they were awarded and earned while he was an Executive Director.
 Shareawards Share awards Awarded Reinvested Vested Lapsed heldat held at during dividends during during during 31December 1 1 January 2015 the year the year the year the year 2015 Award price Vesting date RupertPearce 3 Award made in 2012 135,462 17,804 83,483 69,783 4.54 May 2015 4 Award made in 2013 98,435 98,435 6.87 March 2016 Award made in 2014 96,954 96,954 6.98 March 2017 Award made in 2015 111,089 111,089 9.34 March 2018 TonyBates Award made in 2014 58,919 58,919 7.64 March 2017 Award made in 2015 84,337 84,337 9.34 March 2018 2 AndrewSukawaty 3 Award made in 2012 304,663 40,049 187,763 156,949 4.54 May 2015 4 Award made in 2013 201,262 201,262 6.87 March 2016 Award made in 2014 176,207 176,207 6.98 March 2017 1 The number of shares subject to the award increases by the number of shares that the Executive Director could have purchased with the value of dividends they would have received on their award, based on the share price on the ex-dividend date.
2 Mr Sukawatys outstanding PSA awards made to him when he was Executive Chairman will vest to him on a time pro-rata basis on their respective normal vesting dates, subject to performance and continued employment.
APPROVAL This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 3 March 2016 and signed on its behalf by: SIMONBAX Chairman, Remuneration Committee
