56 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report KEITH LUDEMAN Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The targets for up to 100 per cent of basic annual salary were CHAIRMANS SUMMARY STATEMENT designed to provide a balance between incentivising profitable Dear Shareholder 1 growth, through targeting improved normalised EPS up to 80 per cent of the maximum, and the efficient use of capital On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the employed up to 20 per cent of maximum.
Remuneration Committees annual report on directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2015 which sets Offering sustainable solutions and services to our customers out the amounts earned by the directors under the revised has become increasingly important and thus your Remuneration Remuneration Policy approved by just over 98 per cent of Committee considered it appropriate, for the first time, to shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
include the achievement of sustainability objectives for half of the personal Variable Pay targets of Adrian Ringrose and Our Remuneration Policy encourages achievement of our Tim Haywood.
We also took the opportunity to reflect how corporate goals, through an annual bonus linked to achieving important health and safety is to our corporate culture by profitable growth and meeting specific strategic objectives, making the other half of Adrian Ringroses personal Variable Pay where appropriate and long-term incentive awards that only dependent upon the Groups performance against its 2015 health reward for delivering long-term earnings growth and achieving and safety targets.
The other half of Tim Haywoods personal above median sector-based total shareholder returns.
Variable Pay target was dependent upon the achievement of As described in the Strategic Report, 2015 has been another improved financial process and management targets.
year of continued progress and growth, with revenue and The percentage of basic annual salary paid to the executive headline earnings per share EPS increasing by 10 per directors under the Annual Variable Pay scheme was 77.83 per cent and 15 per cent, respectively, despite the difficult year cent for Adrian Ringrose, 68.96 per cent for Tim Haywood experienced by our UK Construction business.
and 58.52 per cent for Steven Dance, Bruce Melizan and 2015 REMUNERATION PAYMENTS Dougie Sutherland.
Variable Pay at these levels largely reflected outperformance of our budgeted headline EPS target for the Base salaries year by 7 per cent with year-on-year growth of 15 per cent Following the adjustment of salaries in 2014 to take into achieved, and delivering a number of our targeted strategic account the increased scale, breadth and sophistication of the objectives for the year including a reduced accident incidence business, cost of living increases were made to the directors rate and progress against our 2016 SustainAbilities targets.
base salaries broadly in line with those awarded to the general salaried workforce.
Long-term variable pay 2015 was also the final year of our five-year ambition to double Annual Variable Pay EPS.
Whilst we did not achieve this in its entirety for the reasons In line with the Remuneration Policy approved at last described by the Group Chairman in the Strategic Report, we years AGM, the maximum Annual Variable Pay potential nonetheless increased headline EPS by 68 per cent and achieved for Steven Dance, Bruce Melizan and Dougie Sutherland was between median and upper-quartile total shareholder return 100 per cent of basic annual salary, with Adrian Ringrose and over the financial years 2013 to 2015, which is reflected in the Tim Haywood having an additional opportunity to earn up to 44.5 per cent vesting in April 2016 of awards granted in 2013 a further 25 per cent of basic annual salary for delivery of under the 2006 Performance Share Plan.
Keith Ludeman Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 1 Headline EPS adjusted to exclude IAS 36 Impairment of assets and IAS 39 Financial instruments and any unbudgeted one-off contributions to EPS which the Committee exercises its discretion to exclude.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 57 REMUNERATION POLICY In this section we set out our Remuneration Policy for executive and non-executive directors which was approved by shareholders for up to three years at the AGM on 12 May 2015.
The policy remains unchanged and therefore does not require a shareholder vote in 2016.
Our Remuneration Policy continues to be underpinned by remuneration packages which are designed to retain and motivate stable leadership teams who understand and are able to apply the core skills and control framework of the business into adjacent markets in order to grow the business.
A copy of our remuneration strategy and the full Remuneration Policy is set out on pages 76 to 86 of the Companys Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014, available on the Companys website at www.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY APPROVED ON 12 MAY 2015 The following table summarises the main elements of the executive directors remuneration policy, the key features of each element, their purpose and linkage to our strategy.
Details of the remuneration arrangements for the non-executive directors are set out on pages 63 and 64.
Element of pay Purpose and link to strategy How operated in practice including framework for assessing performance Maximum opportunity Base salary To recruit and retain Reviewed annually with any changes generally taking effect from There is no prescribed maximum executives of a suitable 1 July.
The Committee calibre for the role and is guided by the general increase Salaries are determined taking into account: duties required.
for the broader workforce but recognises that higher increases the experience, responsibility, effectiveness and market value Reflects the market rate may be appropriate where an of the executive: for the individual and individual is promoted, changes their role.
the pay and conditions in the workforce: role, where the size, composition and or complexity of the Group pay relativities within the Group: changes or where an individual broadly the median position in light of remuneration within is materially below market other similar companies and the rest of the Company: and comparators or is appointed on a below market salary with the affordability, given the profits of the Company.
expectation that his her salary will Normally paid monthly in cash.
increase with experience and performance.
Benefits To provide benefits Car cash allowance and or company car and fuel or fuel The value of benefits may vary commensurate to the allowance.
from year to year depending on market in which the the cost to the Company.
Company operates Additional benefits may be and or the market in Permanent health insurance.
provided and the range of those which the director is benefits may vary taking into Life assurance.
based and in line with account market practice, the policies applicable to Relocation expenses, allowance for disruption and ongoing relevant circumstances and the all other senior expatriate benefits.
Directors and officers liability insurance.
Reasonable personal use of mobile telephone.
Small tokens with a value not exceeding 1,000 to mark significant events e. g. long service, retirement etc.
58 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Element of pay Purpose and link to strategy How operated in practice including framework for assessing performance Maximum opportunity Pension To provide benefits A Company contribution calculated at up to 15% of base salary Employers defined contribution commensurate to the for executive directors provided they are making the maximum and or pension cash supplement market in which the 8% employee contribution.
up to a total maximum of 15% of Company operates.
Employees whose pension provision exceeds HMRC limits are permitted to opt out of making pension contributions and instead receive the Company contribution as a non-enhanceable salary supplement.
Employees who elect to take the cash allowance still benefit from the life cover of four times base salary provided to members of the pension scheme and death-in-service cover.
Employees who have not chosen to opt out of making pension contributions are eligible to participate in the Companys SMART Pensions arrangement.
SMART Pensions is a salary sacrifice arrangement set up by the Company providing an option for employee pension contributions to be met by their employer following a corresponding sacrifice in their contractual pay.
This scheme affords the Company a saving in employers National Insurance contributions.
Annual To incentivise the Targets are set by the Committee with reference to stretching Maximum opportunity: Variable Pay achievement of annual targets that are set annually by the Board.
125% of basic salary for the Chief targets, rewarding Executive and Group Finance For Variable Pay earned up to 100% of salary, a majority if not strong operational Director and 100% of basic salary all of the Variable Pay will be based on financial targets and performance in line for the remaining executive a minority if at all of the Variable Pay may be based on other with and in excess of directors.
performance metrics linked to the business strategy.
targeted performance Entry level performance: and which promote For Variable Pay above 100% of salary i. e. for the Chief Executive No more than 10% of basic salary the long-term success and Group Finance Director, in order to maintain a common set in relation to financial targets.
of targets across the executive team, supplementary stretching non-financial targets are applied to the additional Variable Pay A graduated scale of targets opportunity beyond 100% of salary.
operates between entry level and maximum performance.
Although Annual Variable Pay is deliverable in cash, an element of any payment in excess of 25% of basic salary is required to be Where non-financial targets are invested in Company shares in accordance with the arrangements set, it may not always be possible stated below: to set a graduated scale of targets with some elements requiring a for the balance of any Annual Variable Pay received between subjective assessment of the level 25% and 50% of basic salary, 30% of the net Variable Pay must of performance achieved.
be invested in Company shares and 70% may be retained: and for the balance of any Annual Variable Pay received between 50% and 100% of basic salary or, in the case of the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, between 50% and 125% of basic salary, 50% of the net Variable Pay must be invested in Company shares and 50% may be retained.
Company shares so acquired must be held for three years and dividends will accrue on deferred shares.
The Committee has the overriding discretion to adjust the Variable Pay outcome up or down subject to the overall maximum set out in the adjacent column to ensure the payment is fair and appropriate in all the circumstances.
The Annual Variable Pay arrangements include provisions that enable the Committee to recover value overpaid clawback or to withhold future Variable Pay awards malus in the event of misstatement, error or misconduct for a period of two years after the date on which a payment is made.
Annual Variable Pay is not pensionable.
O OV five ER RV VIIE EW W S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 59 Element of pay Purpose and link to strategy How operated in practice including framework for assessing performance Maximum opportunity Performance To provide a longerPSP awards may be granted each year to senior executives.
Maximum: 150% of basic salary Share Plan term incentive to at the date of grant for the Awards will be made in the form of nil-cost options.
PSP incentivise the executive directors, save in executive directors to exceptional circumstances The awards will usually vest no earlier than the third anniversary achieving the Groups in relation to recruitment or of the date of grant, provided that the performance conditions longer-term objectives retention where an award of up have been satisfied over a three-year period commencing on and promote the longto 200% of basic salary at the 1 January in the year of the award.
term success of date of grant may be made.
Post-tax vested shares must be retained for at least a two-year the Company.
No more than 25% of any part holding period after vesting.
To provide alignment of a performance condition can Dividends notionally accrue on awards from the date of award with shareholders vest for achieving the threshold up to the earlier date of exercise of the nil-cost option or the and provide a performance level.
conclusion of a holding period of up to two years from vesting retention tool.
and an equivalent cash sum will become payable on settlement to the extent that the shares ultimately vest.
The PSP includes provisions that enable the Committee to recover value overpaid on vesting clawback or to withhold future variable pay awards malus in the event of misstatement, error or misconduct for a period of two years after the date on which an award vests.
Long-term incentive awards vest based on three-year performance against a challenging range of EPS and, separately, relative TSR performance targets.
EPS performance targets are set after having due regard to internal planning and market expectations for the Companys performance and relative TSR performance is measured against an appropriate comparator group.
No more than 25% of each part of an award may vest for achieving the threshold performance levels with full vesting for achieving the maximum performance targets under each element e. g. upper quartile TSR performance with graduated scales operating between performance points.
No awards vest for below threshold performance levels.
The Committee will review the performance conditions each year prior to awards being made e. g. to determine whether the TSR comparator group continues to remain appropriate, whether the range of EPS performance targets remains appropriate and, more generally, in light of the Companys long-term strategy and growth aspirations and may make appropriate revisions in light of developments in the Companys strategy.
Should there be a material change in the proposed performance conditions e. g. introducing an additional performance metric appropriate dialogue with the Companys major shareholders would take place along with a full explanation in the Annual Report on Remuneration to support any such change.
60 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E Directors remuneration report continued Element of pay Purpose and link to strategy How operated in practice including framework for assessing performance Maximum opportunity All-employee To support and The Company currently provides two all-employee HMRC The executive directors are share encourage share tax-advantaged share schemes for its employees, the Interserve entitled to participate in both schemes ownership by Sharesave Scheme 2009 the Sharesave Scheme and the schemes on the same terms as employees at Interserve Share Incentive Plan 2009 the SIP.
Maximum opportunity is the same Under the Sharesave Scheme, eligible employees may enter into for all participants as defined a savings contract for a minimum fixed term of three years and within the terms of the scheme at the end of the savings period they have the option to buy and prescribed by HMRC.
shares in the Company at an exercise price fixed at the start of the savings contract.
Under the SIP, eligible employees are offered the opportunity to invest pre-tax earnings subject to HMRC limits per tax year in Company shares under a regular monthly share purchase plan or by up to two lump sum payments per tax year or a combination of the two.
Shares so purchased are placed in trust.
The shares can be released from the trust to participants at any time, but income tax and national insurance contributions are payable on their value should they be released within five years of their purchase date.
The SIP rules also provide for matching shares and free shares up to certain prescribed limits to be given to participants.
Dividend payments on SIP shares are reinvested in dividend shares and must be held in the trust for three years.
Shareholding Under the Shareholding Guidelines executive directors are expected to build up over time a shareholding equivalent to 200% Guidelines of their base salary.
Shares purchased under the Annual Variable Pay arrangements, the 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme, vested awards under the PSP whether or not exercised, the Sharesave Scheme and the SIP also count toward this limit.
Share options, whether or not vested, do not count towards satisfying these Guidelines.
The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to adjust the requirement to invest Annual Variable Pay in Company shares and retain share awards on vesting in appropriate circumstances.
Notes to the table With regards to performance conditions, the Committee will continue to select financial and, if appropriate, non-financial strategic measures as targets for Annual Variable Pay that are key performance indicators for the business over the short term.
For the long-term incentives, the Committee will continue to select a combination of measures that provide a good focus on the outcomes of the Companys strategy together with sustainable improvements in long-term profitability together with appropriate and demanding targets in the context of the Companys trading environment and strategic objectives.
There are no performance conditions for the Sharesave Scheme and SIP as they are all-employee share plans aimed at encouraging wider employee share ownership.
The Remuneration Policy for the executive directors is designed with regard to the policy for employees across the Group as a whole.
There are some differences in the structure of the Remuneration Policy for executive directors and other senior employees, such as the higher Variable Pay maxima for the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director and Variable Pay targets weighted 70 per cent on divisional and 30 per cent on Group performance, which the Committee believes is necessary to reflect the different levels of responsibility of employees across the Group.
In particular, as remuneration levels overall are higher, performance-linked Variable Pay comprises a much higher proportion of remuneration at more senior levels and there is more of a focus on Group results, rather than business unit or individual performance.
This provides a stronger alignment of interest between senior executives and investors.
Specifically, benefits provided to executive directors with the provision of a cash allowance and or company car benefit the element that is considered significant in value terms and limited to 30,000 are aligned with those provided to senior managers across the Group, as is participation in the PSP, which is limited to the top 130 or so senior employees.
Senior employees below Executive Board level are provided with lower levels of awards that may only have an EPS-based performance condition.
The Shareholding Guidelines are not applicable other than to the executive directors.
O OV five ER RV VIIE EW W S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 61 When approving this directors Remuneration Policy, authority was given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors such as the payment of a pension or the vesting or exercise of past share awards that have either been set out in the previously approved Remuneration Policy or remuneration reports or disclosed to and approved by shareholders and in respect of outstanding share awards as detailed on pages 73 to 76 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Details of any payments to former directors will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.
DISCRETION RETAINED BY THE COMMITTEE Remuneration payments can only be made if they are consistent with the approved Remuneration Policy, the relevant plan rules or are otherwise approved by ordinary resolution of the members of the Company.
Annual Variable Pay and long-term incentive plan flexibility The Committee will operate the Companys incentive plans according to their respective rules and consistent with normal market practice, the Listing Rules and HMRC rules, where relevant, including flexibility and discretion in a number of respects and as set out in the respective plan rules.
In particular, but without limitation, the Committee has flexibility regarding: the testing of a performance condition over a shortened performance period: how to deal with a change of control or restructuring of the Group as set out in more detail on page 62 : determination of a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes: and adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, events and special dividends.
The Committee also retains the discretion to: adjust the targets and or set different measures and alter weightings for the Annual Variable Pay arrangements and PSP, or to remove the effects of one-off events in relation to the PSP, if events occur that cause it to determine that the metrics are no longer appropriate and amendment is required so they can achieve their original intended purpose: and waive some or all of the shareholding guidelines or the requirement to invest Annual Variable Pay in Company shares and retain share awards on vesting in exceptional circumstances.
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND POLICY ON PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE Service contract policy All newly-appointed executive directors will have contracts terminable at any time on up to one years notice.
Under the terms of the contract, should notice be served by either party, the executives can continue to receive basic salary, benefits and pension for the duration of their notice period during which time the Company may require the individual to continue to fulfil their current duties or may assign a period of garden leave.
Contracts also contain the ability, at the Companys discretion, to make a payment in lieu of notice of up to of one years basic annual salary.
Details of the current executive directors service contracts are summarised below.
Each contract has an indefinite unexpired term and a notice period of one year.
Name Date of contract S L Dance 10 January 2008 T P Haywood 30 November 2010 B A Melizan 10 January 2008 A M Ringrose 13 December 2001 D I Sutherland 1 January 2011 Copies of the service contracts are available for inspection by shareholders at the AGM.
The Committee will continue to keep under review the terms of executive directors service contracts.
The table below summarises the policy on payments to executive directors for loss of office.
The overriding principle will be to honour contractual remuneration entitlements and determine on an equitable basis the appropriate treatment of deferred and performance-linked elements of the package, taking account of the circumstances.
Payments for loss of office can only be made if they are consistent with the approved Remuneration Policy or are otherwise approved by ordinary resolution of the members of the Company.
Failure will not be rewarded.
62 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued 1 2 3 Element Resignation Departure on agreed terms Good leaver Salary after cessation Nil For existing directors up to one years basic Nil of employment salary.
Newly-appointed executive directors can continue to receive basic salary for the duration of their notice period of one year.
The Company will have the discretion to make a payment in lieu of notice PILON comprising up to 12 monthly instalments of base salary which would be mitigated proportionate to income received through alternative employment.
Pension and benefits Nil For existing directors up to one years benefits Nil and pension.
For newly-appointed directors up to one years benefits and pension as part of the PILON as detailed above.
Annual Variable Pay Nil if the executive May be payable at the discretion of the May be payable at the discretion departs before the Committee based upon performance and proof the Committee based on payment date unless rated for the proportion of the financial year performance pro-rated for the the Remuneration worked.
No payment will be made in respect of proportion of the financial Committee any period of notice not worked.
Performance Share Plan All awards, including Awards will lapse upon cessation of employment Awards may be exercised within those which have unless the Committee decides otherwise in which 12 months of the vesting date.
vested but are case awards may be exercised within 12 months Where employment ends before unexercised will of the vesting date.
the vesting date, awards may only lapse immediately Where employment ends before the vesting date, be exercised to the extent that upon cessation of awards may only be exercised to the extent that the performance conditions have employment.
the performance conditions have been satisfied, been satisfied, but will be reduced but will be reduced pro-rata based upon the pro-rata based upon the period period of time after the grant date and ending of time after the grant date and on the date of cessation of employment relative ending on the date of cessation of to the three-year performance period unless the employment relative to the threeCommittee, acting fairly and reasonably, decides year performance period unless that such a reduction is inappropriate in any the Committee, acting fairly and particular case.
reasonably, decides that such a reduction is inappropriate in any particular case.
All-employee share schemes In accordance with the scheme rules.
Sharesave and SIP Other payments Nil Depending upon circumstances the Committee Nil may consider payments in respect of any statutory entitlements, outplacement support and assistance with legal fees.
1 For example, normal resignation from the Company or termination for cause e. g. gross misconduct.
2 This may cover a range of circumstances such as business reorganisation, changes in reporting lines, change in need for the role, termination as a result of a failure to be re-elected at an AGM.
3 For compassionate reasons such as death, injury or disability, retirement with the agreement of the employer.
Should a compromise agreement be reached with an individual, in terms of quantum it will be within the maximum amounts set out above.
There are no provisions in executive directors service agreements entitling them to terminate their employment or receive damages in the event of a change in control of the Company.
The Annual Variable Pay scheme does not include any provision entitling early or any payment to be made on a change in control of the Company.
In the event of change of control, PSP awards would be eligible to vest based on i the extent to which performance targets had been met, as assessed by the Committee, over the shortened performance period and ii subject to a pro-rata reduction for time which the Committee retains discretion to disapply if it considers it appropriate to do so.
As an alternative, and in agreement with an acquiring company, the awards may be replaced with equivalent awards in the acquiring companys shares.
The Sharesave Scheme provides that if a change in control of the Company occurs, any options may be exercised within a month or such longer period as the Board may permit up to a maximum of six months.
There are also rollover provisions similar to those under the PSP explained above.
O OV five ER RV VIIE EW W S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 63 RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION In cases where the Company recruits a new executive director, the Committee will follow the policy set out below to determine his her ongoing remuneration package.
In arriving at a total package and in considering quantum for each element of the package, the Committee will take into account the skills and experience of the candidate, the market rate for a candidate of that experience as well as the importance of securing the preferred candidate.
The remuneration package for a new executive director would be set in accordance with the terms of the Companys approved Remuneration Policy in force at the time of appointment.
Element General policy Specifics Salary At a level required to attract the most Discretion to pay a lower basic salary with increases at a rate above appropriate candidate.
inflation over two to three years as the new appointee becomes established in the role.
Pension and benefits In line with Company policies.
Where appropriate, relocation expenses arrangements may be provided.
Annual Variable Pay In line with existing schemes.
Specific targets could be introduced for an individual where necessary for the first year of appointment if it is appropriate to Maximum opportunity 100% of base salary or in do so to reflect the individuals responsibilities and the point in the the case of a Chief Executive or Group Finance year in which they joined the Board.
Performance Share Plan In line with Company policies and PSP rules.
An award may be made in the year of joining or, alternatively, the award can be delayed until the following year.
Targets would be the Maximum award up to 200% of basic salary same as for other directors.
at the date of grant may be made.
Other share awards or The Committee may make an incentive award Awards would, where possible, take into account the awards 1 remuneration to replace remuneration forfeited on an forfeited in terms of vesting periods, expected value and executive leaving a previous employer, where performance conditions.
to do so would be in the commercial interests For unvested performance-related awards, awards of broadly of the Company.
similar quantum allowing for the impact of any performance targets, with appropriate performance conditions.
1 The Committee may make use of the flexibility provided in the Listing Rules to make such awards if deemed appropriate in terms of replacing forfeited variable pay.
In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms on grant, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue as appropriate.
EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS The Board is comfortable with the principle of executive directors sitting on another company board as a non-executive in order to assist with their development, subject to the prior approval of the Chief Executive and the Board.
Any fees earned in that capacity may be retained by the executive director.
TERMS OF APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION POLICY FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Non-executive directors are appointed initially until the first AGM of the Company following appointment, when they are required to stand for election by shareholders.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts, they are engaged by letters of appointment which are terminable upon one months notice by either party, without compensation, save for the Group Chairman whose appointment is terminable upon six months notice by either party, without compensation.
The dates of appointment of the non-executive directors are set out below: Name Date first appointed Date last elected re-elected 1 G A Barker 1 January 2016 n a Lord Blackwell 1 September 2005 12 May 2015 2 L G Cullen 1 October 2005 n a A K Fahy 1 January 2013 12 May 2015 R J King 1 September 2014 12 May 2015 K L Ludeman 1 January 2011 12 May 2015 N R Salmon 1 August 2014 12 May 2015 1 Glyn Barker will be proposed for election by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM on 10 May 2016.
2 Les Cullen resigned on 12 May 2015.
64 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued REMUNERATION POLICY FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS APPROVED ON 12 MAY 2015 The following table summarises the non-executive directors Remuneration Policy.
Element Purpose and link to strategy How operated in practice Maximum opportunity Fees To recruit and maintain The Group Chairmans fee is reviewed by the Committee without the There is no prescribed non-executives of Group Chairman present.
a suitable calibre The Committee is guided The Remuneration Policy for the non-executive directors, other than for the role and by the general increase in the Group Chairman, is determined by a sub-committee of the Board duties required.
the non-executive director comprising the Group Chairman and the executive directors.
market and for the broader employee population but Non-executive directors receive a fee for carrying out their duties, on occasions may need to together with additional fees for the Senior Independent Director recognise, for example, and for those non-executive directors who chair the primary Board an increase in the scale, committees i. e. Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Other fees scope or responsibility of may be introduced if considered appropriate, for example in the the role.
event of exceptional levels of additional time being required, or new responsibilities being assigned in response to corporate developments.
The non-executive directors and the Group Chairman do not currently receive benefits, but the Board retains a discretion to introduce such benefits if considered appropriate e. g. paying reasonable travel expenses incurred undertaking Company business to keep individuals whole on a net of tax basis.
Small tokens with a value not exceeding 1,000 may be made to mark significant events e. g. long service, retirement etc.
The fees of the non-executive directors are determined by the Board taking into account amounts paid by other similar-sized listed companies, the time commitment of the individual, role and responsibilities.
Fees are reviewed in detail biennially with an annual interim review.
Annual Variable Pay ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The maximum Annual Variable Pay potential for the year ending The Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an advisory 31 December 2016 will remain at 100 per cent of basic salary vote at the AGM on 10 May 2016. for Steven Dance, Bruce Melizan and Dougie Sutherland.
For Adrian Ringrose and Tim Haywood there is an additional HOW THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY WILL BE opportunity to earn up to a further 25 per cent of basic annual APPLIED FOR THE YEAR ENDING 31 DECEMBER 2016 salary for delivery of personal targets in relation to specific The directors Remuneration Policy was approved by strategic areas which the Board is targeting for 2016. shareholders at the AGM on 12 May 2015.
The targets to apply to Annual Variable Pay earned up to There will be no significant changes to the implementation of 100 per cent of salary are designed to provide a balance between the directors Remuneration Policy for 2016 compared to how it incentivising profitable growth, through targeting improved was implemented in 2015.
1 normalised EPS up to 80 per cent of the maximum and the efficient use of capital employed up to 20 per cent of maximum.
2016 application of Remuneration Policy We believe the policy introduced at the 2015 AGM continues to The EPS targets will operate on a broadly consistent basis to support the strategy set out in the Remuneration Committee 2015, with performance measured against a challenging sliding Chairmans introductory letter and as a result no changes 1 scale of normalised EPS growth targets 10 per cent of salary in application of the policy compared to 2015 are to be is earned for achieving the threshold target through to 100 per implemented for 2016. cent of salary for achieving the maximum target.
With regard to the capital-employed targets, these will be measured based A summary of how the policy will be applied during the year on capital-employed days compared against the Companys ending 31 December 2016 is set out below.
internal targets 33 per cent of this part of the Variable Pay is earned for delivering the threshold targeted improvement with Salaries for executive directors a sliding scale operating through to earning a maximum payment Salaries are reviewed annually with increases effective from for achieving the targeted improvement in full.
1 Normalised EPS is headline EPS adjusted to exclude IAS 36 Impairment of assets and IAS 39 Financial instruments and any unbudgeted one-off contributions to EPS which the Committee exercises its discretion to exclude.
O OV five ER RV VIIE EW W S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 65 Since disclosure in advance of the specific EPS numbers, This sliding scale of EPS performance and vesting is shown capital-employed targets and personal targets included in graphically below: the Annual Variable Pay scheme are considered commercially sensitive, disclosure of performance against the targets set will 100% be set out in full retrospectively in the 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration subject to any price sensitivity considerations in 80% respect of the capital-employed and personal targets.
65% The personal targets include: 60% Position Metric Chief Executive 1.
Deliver the Boards SustainAbilities agenda 40% up to 50% of this part of the additional Variable Pay.
Achievement of Group Annual Safety Plan targets up to 50% of this part of the 16.7% 37% 65% additional Variable Pay.
Deliver the Boards SustainAbilities agenda Adjusted EPS growth over performance period Director up to 50% of this part of the additional Variable Pay.
Achievement against personal objectives Growth in normalised EPS will be determined by the Committee relating to improved financial processes after verifying calculations made internally.
and financial management up to 50% of this part of the additional Variable Pay.
The Boards strategy continues to focus on delivering longterm profitable growth and generating above-market long-term This additional Variable Pay is to be earned based on clearly returns to our shareholders.
The ongoing use of EPS growth defined targets for each metric.
In relation to any payment in targets and relative TSR targets is considered to provide connection with the above targets, the Committee will retain alignment between the Boards strategy and the executives discretion to reduce these elements of Variable Pay to zero long-term reward.
The targets are weighted towards EPS if it considers it appropriate to do so in light of the Companys performance since this is the key metric targeted internally for overall financial performance achieved during the year.
growth and supports our objective of continuing to operate a progressive dividend policy.
Performance Share Plan Awards will be made in 2016 to executive directors over shares Total shareholder return worth 150 per cent of basic salary as at the date of grant, Vesting of the other third of an award will be dependent upon subject to the following performance conditions: the Companys performance in terms of TSR, as measured against the TSR of each company in the FTSE 250, excluding Earnings per share growth investment trusts.
1 Normalised EPS growth of the Company Vesting percentage of two-thirds of shares subject over the performance period to the award TSR is calculated as the percentage change in the net return Less than 16.7% 0% index from the start to the end of the three-year performance 16.7% to 37% 25% to 65% pro-rated period commencing on the first day of the 2016 financial 1 year.
This measures the return to an investor on a holding of 37% to 65% 65% to 100% pro rated Interserve shares.
Greater than 65% 100% 1 The TSR performance conditions are set out in the table below: Normalised EPS is headline EPS adjusted to reflect growth in underlying value created by a removing the impact of IAS 36 Impairment of assets and IAS 39 Financial instruments: and b recognising or removing one-off TSR ranking of the Company compared to the Vesting percentage of one-third of shares events at the judgement of the Committee.
For the 2016 awards vesting in Comparator Group over the performance period subject to the award 2019, the Committee intends to exercise discretion such that the award will reflect the underlying earnings growth, in line with our strategic ambitions.
Below median ranking 0% In setting the above targets, the Committee considered the Median ranking top 50% 25% Companys internal planning expectations alongside current Median to upper quartile ranking 25% to 100% pro-rated consensus market expectations.
Having given due regard to Upper quartile ranking top 25% 100% these factors, the Committee is comfortable that the targets are 1 appropriately demanding, no less challenging than in previous The return index at the start of the performance period is the average of the net return index over the three months preceding the start of the years, and provide a realistic incentive at the lower end of the performance period.
The return index at the end of the performance performance range, but with full vesting requiring exceptional period is the average of the return index over the last three months of outperformance given the current commercial environment.
Percentage vesting for two-thirds of award 66 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued This sliding scale of TSR performance and vesting is shown Non-executive director fees graphically below: The fee levels for the non-executive directors for 2016 are set out in the table below: 100% 100% vesting at Upper Quartile Fee effective Fee effective 1 January 2016 1 January 2015 Percentage Element change 75% Fee paid to Group Chairman 170,000 165,000 3.0 Base fee paid to other 50% non-executive directors 51,400 50,000 2.8 Supplementary fees: Senior Independent Director 7,000 7,000 nil 25% vesting at Median 25% Audit Committee Chairman 10,000 10,000 nil Remuneration Committee 10,000 10,000 nil Chairman 0% Median Upper Quartile Nomination Committee TSR ranking of the Company 1 1 Chairman See note See note n a 1 The Group Chairman is Chairman of the Nomination Committee and receives no supplementary fee for chairing this committee.
Post-tax vested shares must be retained for at least a two-year holding period after vesting see policy table on page 59.
The increase in the Chairmans fee level and the base nonexecutive director fee was the result of a review of the current fee levels in light of increased time commitments required of the roles, and cost of living increases.
HOW THE REMUNERATION POLICY WAS APPLIED FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2015 The salaries for the executive directors are set out in the table below: Salary as at 1 January 2016 Salary as at 1 January 2015 Percentage Name change S L Dance 307,500 300,000 2.5 T P Haywood 369,000 360,000 2.5 B A Melizan 348,500 340,000 2.5 A M Ringrose 563,750 550,000 2.5 D I Sutherland 307,500 300,000 2.5 Cost of living increases were made to the executive directors base salaries broadly in line with those awarded to the general salaried workforce, with the increases effective as at 1 July in line with the Remuneration Policy.
Tim Haywood is a non-executive director of Tarsus Group plc for which he receives a fee of 52,500 per annum.
Bruce Melizan is an unremunerated director of Safer London.
Percentage vesting for one-third of award O OV five ER RV VIIE EW W S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 67 The table below shows the remuneration paid to each director.
Further detail is included in the additional tables overleaf.
2 Russell King was appointed on 1 September 2014.
3 Nick Salmon was appointed on 1 August 2014.
4 The share price used to calculate the value of shares for the 2013 PSP awards which will vest on 9 April 2016 was 551.58p, being the three-month average to 31 December 2015.
This will be adjusted in the 2016 report to reflect the actual value once the share price on the date of vesting is known.
The values above also include a dividend equivalent of 68.8p per vested share inclusive of the final dividend for 2015 which is subject to shareholder approval at the 2016 AGM.
5 The share price used to calculate the value of shares for the 2012 PSP awards that vested on 11 April 2015 was the market value on the previous business day 10 April 2015, being 580.50p.
The values above also include a dividend equivalent payment of 65.0p per vested share.
For the amount realised on exercise, please refer to the PSP table on page 73.
6 15 per cent salary supplement in lieu of pension.
7 Includes Company contributions excluding SMART contributions : Steven Dance and Tim Haywood received 10,399 and 8,174 in Company contributions respectively, prior to becoming deferred members of the defined contribution scheme with effect from 5 April 2014 and 28 February 2014 respectively.
8 Gains made on the exercise of options under the Sharesave Scheme see table on page 76.
9 David Paterson retired on 30 April 2013.
He received no payment for loss of office.
His 2012 PSP awards were scaled back in accordance with the rules of the scheme and with the good leaver provisions set out in the policy for payments for loss of office on pages 61 and 62.
68 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Additional notes to the directors remuneration table audited information 1.
Determination of 2015 Annual Variable Pay The table below in relation to non-financial targets provides disclosure of the targets that are not considered commercially sensitive and actual performance against them.
We do not expect to provide any further disclosure in relation to 2015 non-financial performance in future years as certain targets are expected to remain commercially sensitive.
The Annual Variable Pay for 2015 was determined with reference to performance over the financial year ending 31 December 2015.
The performance measures and targets, as well as performance against them, are set out on the following page.
O OV five ER RV VIIE EW W S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 69 Actual Maximum award award as Performance target as percentage percentage Metric of salary Percentage of salary Extent of achievement of salary Targets applicable to all executive directors 1 Normalised EPS 80% Less than 58.8p 0% 67.9p per share growth of 15.48%, 58.52% 1 58.8p to 63.5p 8% to 40% pro rata 7% ahead of budgeted normalised EPS, 63.5p to 73.03p 40% to 80% pro rata triggering 73.15% of this target.
Above 73.03p 80% Average capital 20% Less than 50% improvement 0% 19.8 days - less than 50% improvement in Nil employed days 50% improvement 6.6% capital employed days.
This reflects very 50% to 100% improvement 6.6% to 20% pro rata demanding targets having been set, with the Above 100% improvement 20% actual target being 22% ahead of the budget for the year.
Personal targets applicable to Adrian Ringrose Chief Executive SustainAbilities 12.5% Progress against the 2016 targets for the Good progress made against the 2016 7.31% five high-level outcomes of: SustainAbilities targets a score of 18.5 out of a maximum of 33 on a balanced scorecard.
Places that benefit people One project has been financially structured Public service in the public interest to enable community groups to own, manage More skills more opportunities and operate it: 30% of contracts over Positive environmental impact: and 25 million now include social capital KPIs: Sustainable growth 30% of public-sector projects offer open-book accounting: our supplier code of conduct, including ethnical and social conditions, is applied to 25% of our suppliers: the number of apprenticeships, trainee and graduate training opportunities increased by over 25%: over 33% of the forest products we use are now certified sustainable: construction waste reduced by 16%: business travel emissions reduced by 9%: methodology introduced to track top ten materials usage: and two of our projects include co-designed solutions to increase energy security.
Health and safety 12.5% Progress against nine health and safety targets Seven out of nine targets achieved in their 12.00% set annually by the Board entirety, two targets achieved between 50% and 100%.
Reportable injury incidence rate reduced by 30%: overall accident rate for all lost-time injuries reduced by 13%: 92% of employees worldwide working under safety management systems certified to OHSAS 18001: 126 site safety visits made by Executive Board members: and 2,700 management safety tours recorded across the Group.
Personal targets applicable to Tim Haywood Group Finance Director SustainAbilities 12.5% As above As above 7.31% Financial processes 6.25% No more than a given percentage of Internal No red reports, with partial achievement of 3.13% and management Audit reports to be red amber and no actions remainder overdue for longer than six months 6.25% No variance in the monthly working capital in Not met Nil excess of a given percentage from the current forecast or no variance greater than a set amount 1 Normalised EPS is headline EPS adjusted to exclude IAS 36 Impairment of assets and IAS 39 Financial instruments and any unbudgeted one-off contributions to EPS which the Committee exercises its discretion to exclude.
70 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued 3.
Determination of Performance Share Plan payments for 2015 The analysis below explains how the PSP payments for the performance period ending 31 December 2015 were determined.
The PSP awards granted on 9 April 2013 were based on performance over the three-year period from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2015 and were subject to the following performance conditions: The EPS Performance Condition for two-thirds of the 2013 Awards 1 Normalised EPS growth of the Company over the performance period Vesting percentage of two-thirds of shares subject to the award Less than 49% 0% 49% to 58% 25% to 50% pro-rated 58% to 75% 50% to 100% pro-rated Greater than 75% 100% 1 Normalised EPS is defined as headline EPS adjusted to reflect growth in underlying value created by a removing the impact of IAS 19 and IAS 19R Pensions, IAS 36 Impairment of assets and IAS 39 Financial instruments: and b recognising or removing one-off events at the discretion of the Committee.
In testing the performance condition, the headline EPS did not require adjustment to remove any impact of IAS 36 Impairment of assets or IAS 39 Financial instruments.
An adjustment was made to take into account the change from IAS 19 to IAS 19R Pensions, which ensured the target was no more or less challenging than the target originally set allowing for this factor, but no adjustment was made for any one-off events.
Following adjustment, growth in normalised EPS from 45.3 pence per share to 67.9 pence per share over the three-year performance period for the 2013 award was 49.89 per cent.
Accordingly, 27.45 per cent of the EPS element of those awards 18.3 per cent of the total award will vest.
The TSR Performance Condition for one-third of the 2013 Awards This condition is determined by comparing the Companys TSR performance to the TSR of each of a defined list of comparator companies drawn from the Construction and Materials, and Support Services sectors comprising Atkins WS, Babcock International, Balfour Beatty, Capita Group, Carillion, Costain Group, Kier Group, MITIE Group, Morgan Sindall, Rentokil Initial, RPS Group and Serco.
TSR ranking of the Company compared to the Comparator Group over the performance period Vesting percentage of one-third of shares subject to the award Below median ranking 0% Median ranking top 50% 30% Median to upper quartile ranking 30% to 100% pro-rated Upper quartile ranking top 25% 100% Growth in TSR was 66.4 per cent over the three-year performance period, which was between median 33.6 per cent and upper quartile 80.8 per cent, meaning that 78.6 per cent of the TSR element of the awards 26.2 per cent of the total award will vest.
The 2013 PSP awards were granted in the form of nil-cost options, exercisable between 9 April 2016 and 8 April 2018.
The 2013 PSP awards will therefore vest as follows: Dividend equivalent 1 Number of Number of Number of on shares to vest Executive director shares granted shares to lapse shares to vest S L Dance 85,770 47,603 38,167 26,259 T P Haywood 103,761 57,588 46,173 31,767 B A Melizan 85,770 47,603 38,167 26,259 A M Ringrose 144,094 79,973 64,121 44,115 D I Sutherland 85,770 47,603 38,167 26,259 1 The dividend equivalent of 68.8p per share includes a final dividend equivalent of 16.4p per share for the financial year ended 31 December 2015, the corresponding dividend of which is subject to approval by shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
Accordingly, payment of this part of the dividend equivalent will not be made until after the AGM.
O OV five ER RV VIIE EW W S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 71 4.
Directors pension entitlements Defined Contribution Scheme During 2015 none of the executive directors were active participants of the Defined Contribution section of the Interserve Pension Scheme and, as at 31 December 2015, all had transferred their deferred benefits out of this section of the Scheme.
All the executive directors receive 15 per cent salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions.
Non-executive directors fees are not pensionable.
Defined Benefit Scheme Following the benefit changes to the Interserve Pension Scheme, Adrian Ringrose ceased to accrue any further benefits in the Defined Benefit section of the Scheme from 31 December 2009.
His accrued pension at that date was 72,337 per annum and his pension will increase up to the point he draws his benefits broadly in line with price inflation.
Performance graph The graph below shows the value, on 31 December 2015, of 100 invested in Interserve Plc on 31 December 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the companies comprising the Support Services sector of the FTSE All-Share Index.
This was chosen for comparison because it is considered to be the relevant benchmark against which to compare our performance.
500 Historical TSR Performance 400 Interserve Plc FTSE All-Share Support Services 300 200 100 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream Change in Chief Executive remuneration The table below provides a summary of the Chief Executives remuneration over the last seven years: 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Total remuneration 000 1,502 1,797 2,054 1,928 1,318 543 943 Annual Variable Pay % of maximum 77.83% 62.6% 58.7% 100.0% 100.0% 30.0% 98.0% PSP vesting % of maximum 44.5% 54.2% 100.0% 100.0% 50.0% nil 50.0% The data for this table was taken from the Directors Remuneration Reports for the relevant years and adjusted to take account of the actual share price on the date of vesting for the PSP.
Value of hypothetical holdings 72 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued Percentage change in Chief Executives remuneration compared to employees The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief Executives salary, benefits and annual bonus between the financial years ending 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015, compared to the percentage increase for UK Senior Management on a per capita basis : Percentage change Salary Chief Executive 2.5 1 Senior Management 2.9 Benefits Chief Executive 2.5 1 Senior Management 2.5 Annual bonus Chief Executive 27.5 1 2 Senior Management 2.7 1 The comparator group relates to UK Senior Management rather than all Group employees.
We have chosen this group because the Committee believes that it provides a sufficient comparator group to give a reasonable understanding of underlying increases based on similar remuneration constituents applicable to Senior Management whilst reducing the distortion that would otherwise arise from the changing mix between UK and overseas employees, the increase during the year in the white-collar salaried workforce resulting from the Initial Facilities acquisition and the mix of contract wins and losses.
2 This figure is an estimate only of the 2015 bonus.
The actual amount will only be known once the March 2016 payroll has been run.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below illustrates the change in expenditure by the Company on remuneration paid to all the employees of the Group against other significant distributions and payments from the financial year ending 31 December 2014 compared to the financial year ending 31 December 2015: 2015 2014 Percentage million million change Overall expenditure on pay 1,117.4 997.6 12.0 1 Dividends paid 35.2 33.0 6.7 1 Including the final dividend for 2015 of 16.4p per share which is subject to shareholder approval at the AGM.
Performance Share Plan audited information The following grants were made to the executive directors under the PSP 2015 during the year: 1 Executive Number of Face value End of director shares performance period S L Dance 71,784 444,702 31 December 2017 T P Haywood 86,140 533,637 31 December 2017 B A Melizan 81,355 503,994 31 December 2017 A M Ringrose 131,604 815,287 31 December 2017 D I Sutherland 71,784 444,702 31 December 2017 1 Valued using the share price at the date of grant 1 June 2015, being 619.50p per share.
Awards were made in the form of nil-cost options equivalent to 150 per cent of base salary, exercisable between 1 June 2018 and 31 May 2020.
The performance conditions attached to these awards are set out on page 74.
Achievement of the minimum performance over the performance period would result in 25 per cent of the awards vesting on 1 June 2018 together with the corresponding dividend equivalent.
This figure also includes a dividend equivalent payment of 65.0p per vested share.
The maximum number of shares that could be receivable by the executive if performance conditions set out below are fully met: 1 The EPS Performance Condition for the 2012 Awards PSP 2006 Normalised EPS growth of the Company over the performance period Vesting percentage of two-thirds of shares subject to the award Less than 20% 0% 20% to 40% 20% to 50% pro-rated 40% to 60% 50% to 100% pro-rated Greater than 60% 100% The 2012 PSP awards were granted in the form of nil-cost options, exercisable between 11 April 2015 and 10 April 2017.
These awards measuring performance over the three years to 31 December 2014 partially vested on 11 April 2015.
In testing the performance condition, basic EPS was adjusted to take into account the change from IAS 19 to IAS 19R Pensions and for the treatment of exceptional items and intangible asset amortisation, the majority of which related to the Initial Facilities acquisition thus ensuring that the condition was tested on a consistent basis.
Following this adjustment, growth in normalised EPS over the three-year performance period was 27.6 per cent resulting in 31.34 per cent of the EPS element vesting.
Growth in the Companys TSR performance was 111.6 per cent over the three-year period upper quartile which resulted in the TSR element of the awards vesting in full.
74 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE D DIIR RE EC CT TO OR RS S R RE EM MU UN NE ER RA AT TIIO ON N R RE EP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE D Diir re ec ct to or rs s r re em mu un ne er ra at tiio on n r re ep po or rt t c co on nt tiin nu ue ed d 2 The EPS Performance Condition for the 2013 Awards PSP 2006 Normalised EPS growth of the Company over the performance period Vesting percentage of two-thirds of shares subject to the award Less than 49% 0% 49% to 58% 25% to 50% pro-rated 58% to 75% 50% to 100% pro-rated Greater than 75% 100% The 2013 PSP awards were granted in the form of nil-cost options, exercisable between 9 April 2016 and 8 April 2018.
3 The EPS Performance Condition for the 2014 Awards PSP 2006 Normalised EPS growth of the Company over the performance period Vesting percentage of two-thirds of shares subject to the award Less than 40.46% 0% 40.46% to 83% 25% to 100% pro-rated Greater than 83% 100% The 2014 PSP awards were granted in the form of nil-cost options, exercisable between 13 May 2017 and 12 May 2019.
123 The TSR Performance Condition for the 2012, 2013 and 2014 Awards PSP 2006 This condition is determined by comparing the Companys TSR performance to the TSR of each of a defined list of comparator companies drawn from the Construction and Materials, and Support Services sectors comprising Atkins WS, Babcock International, Balfour Beatty, Capita Group, Carillion, Costain Group, Kier Group, May Gurney Integrated Services not after 2013, MITIE Group, Morgan Sindall, Mouchel Group not after 2012, Rentokil Initial, RPS Group, Serco and WSP Group not after 2012.
TSR ranking of the Company compared to the Comparator Group over the performance period Vesting percentage of one-third of shares subject to the award Below median ranking 0% Median ranking top 50% 30% Median to upper quartile ranking 30% to 100% pro-rated Upper quartile ranking top 25% 100% 4 The EPS Performance Condition for the 2015 Awards PSP 2015 Normalised EPS growth of the Company over the performance period Vesting percentage of two-thirds of shares subject to the award Less than 18% 0% 18% to 32% 25% to 65% pro-rated 32% to 58% 65% to 100% pro-rated Greater than 58% 100% 4 The TSR Performance Condition for the 2015 Awards PSP 2015 This condition is determined by comparing the Companys TSR performance to the TSR of each company in the FTSE 250, excluding investment trusts.
TSR ranking of the Company compared to the Comparator Group over the performance period Vesting percentage of one-third of shares subject to the award Below median ranking 0% Median ranking top 50% 25% Median to upper quartile ranking 25% to 100% pro-rated Upper quartile ranking top 25% 100% The 2015 PSP awards were granted in the form of nil-cost options, exercisable between 1 June 2018 and 31 May 2020.
O OV five ER RV VIIE EW W S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE D DIIR RE EC CT TO OR RS S R RE EM MU UN NE ER RA AT TIIO ON N R RE EP PO OR RT T 75 Share options audited information The number of options over shares in the Company pursuant to the 2002 Executive Share Option Scheme held by each person who served as an executive director of the Company during the financial year, is shown below.
All options are fully vested, having achieved the respective performance conditions in previous financial periods.
No further grants will be made under this Scheme.
Balance Market price Market price Amount Balance as at Granted at date of Exercise Exercised at date of Lapsed realised on as at Date 1 January during award price during exercise during exercise 31 December Executive director granted 2015 year pence pence year pence year 2015 Exercise period S L Dance n a n a n a n a n a n a T P Haywood n a n a n a n a n a n a B A Melizan 14.03.05 75,140 358.25 359.33 75,140 625.00 199,624 14.03.0813.03.15 A M Ringrose 14.03.05 150,280 358.25 359.33 150,280 625.00 399,249 14.03.0813.03.15 D I Sutherland n a n a n a n a n a n a No options were granted during the year 2014: nil.
The aggregate gain made on the exercise of options was 598,873 2014: nil.
The market price of the shares as at 31 December 2015 was 520.50p.
The highest and lowest market prices of the shares during the financial year were 663.00p and 495.90p respectively.
Sharesave Scheme audited information The following grants were made to the executive directors under the Interserve Sharesave Scheme 2009 during the year: Exercise price Face value Executive director Number of shares pence Exercise period S L Dance n a n a 1 T P Haywood 385 467.00 2,281 01.12.1831.05.19 1 B A Melizan 385 467.00 2,281 01.12.1831.05.19 A M Ringrose n a n a D I Sutherland n a n a 1 Valued using the share price at the date of grant 14 October 2015, being 592.50p per share.
76 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE D DIIR RE EC CT TO OR RS S R RE EM MU UN NE ER RA AT TIIO ON N R RE EP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE D Diir re ec ct to or rs s r re em mu un ne er ra at tiio on n r re ep po or rt t c co on nt tiin nu ue ed d All eligible employees are entitled to apply for options under the Sharesave Scheme.
The maximum monthly savings amount is set annually by the Remuneration Committee within HMRC limits.
There are no performance conditions attached to these options.
The difference between the market price on the grant date and the exercise price is that, under the scheme rules, the exercise price is calculated by taking the average of the mid-market closing share price for the five dealing days immediately preceding the invitation date less a discount set by the Remuneration Committee of between 0 per cent and a maximum of 20 per cent.
Further details of the shareholding guidelines are set out in the executive directors remuneration policy table on page 60.
O OV five ER RV VIIE EW W S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE D DIIR RE EC CT TO OR RS S R RE EM MU UN NE ER RA AT TIIO ON N R RE EP PO OR RT T 77 Shareholdings of directors audited information The beneficial interests of each person who served as a director of the Company during the financial year in the ordinary share capital of the Company, together with interests held by his connected persons, are shown below, together with details of the extent to which the executive directors have met the requirement to hold shares to the value of 200 per cent of salary: 31 December 2015 31 December 2015 31 December 2014 Outstanding % shareholding % actual Beneficially Beneficially vested requirement shareholding 2 owned owned PSP awards % of salary fee % of salary fee Executive directors S L Dance 102,082 101,710 200% 183% T P Haywood 115,643 54,143 200% 173% B A Melizan 104,157 104,050 200% 165% A M Ringrose 510,525 434,579 200% 500% D I Sutherland 144,758 104,467 200% 260% Non-executive directors Lord Blackwell 10,995 10,995 n a n a 1 L G Cullen 12,582 12,582 n a n a A K Fahy 8,000 8,000 n a n a R J King 3,000 3,000 n a n a K L Ludeman 4,990 4,990 n a n a N R Salmon 5,000 5,000 n a n a 1 As at 12 May 2015, when Les Cullen retired from the Board.
2 Using a share price of 551.58p, being the three-month average to 31 December 2015.
The above figures include shares held in trust pursuant to the SIP.
Between the year end and the date of this report Steven Dance, Tim Haywood, Bruce Melizan and Adrian Ringrose have each purchased additional shares pursuant to the SIP, as shown below: Beneficial Purchase price Number of shares holding as at Director Date of purchase pence acquired 24 February 2016 S L Dance 13.01.2016 507.50 25 09.02.2016 420.00 30 102,137 T P Haywood 13.01.2016 507.50 30 09.02.2016 420.00 35 115,708 B A Melizan 13.01.2016 507.50 29 09.02.2016 420.00 36 104,222 A M Ringrose 13.01.2016 507.50 25 09.02.2016 420.00 30 510,580 Glyn Barker, who was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 January 2016, holds 5,670 shares in the Company.
There have been no further changes in the shareholdings of the directors who held office at the year end.
78 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report continued No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest OTHER INFORMATION in the Company other than as a shareholder, any conflict of Dilution limits interest arising from cross-directorships, or any day-to-day Under present dilution limits the Company is permitted to involvement in running the business.
No individual is present allocate a rolling ten-year aggregate of up to 10 per cent of its when matters relating directly to their own remuneration ordinary share capital 14,520,748 shares under all its share are discussed.
At 31 December 2015 there remained headroom equivalent to 3,849,926 shares over which options may be Advisers granted under the Companys share schemes.
In determining the executive directors remuneration, the Committee consulted with and received recommendations It is currently anticipated that all exercises of options and from Adrian Ringrose, the Chief Executive.
The Committee also awards made under the PSP 2006 and PSP 2015 will be satisfied received advice from New Bridge Street NBS, a trading name by newly-issued shares.
of Aon Hewitt a subsidiary of Aon plc, and Trevor Bradbury, the Company Secretary, which materially assisted the Committee in GOVERNANCE AND OPERATION OF relation to the 2015 financial year.
Executives are not present THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE when matters affecting their own remuneration arrangements Role and membership are decided.
The Committee is responsible for determining, on behalf of the Board, the remuneration of all executive directors, the Group Aon plc also provides insurance broking services to the Company Chairman and the Company Secretary.
The terms of reference through a separate business division to Aon Hewitt.
The of the Committee are available on the Companys website at Committee has been advised that NBS operates as a distinct www.
business within the Aon Group and that there is a robust separation between the business activities and management of The Committees role is, after consultation with the Group NBS and all other parts of Aon Hewitt and the wider Aon Group.
Chairman and or the Chief Executive except when determining The Committee is satisfied that these additional services in no their own remuneration, to set the remuneration policy and way compromised the objectivity and independence of advice determine the individual remuneration and benefit packages provided by NBS.
of the Group Chairman, the Chief Executive and the senior management team comprising the executive directors, the The terms of NBSs appointment and their performance is Company Secretary and the other senior executives below reviewed regularly by the Committee.
the Board who report to the Chief Executive.
This includes NBS meets either on a one-to-one basis with the Committee formulating for Board approval long-term incentive plans which Chairman, or with the Company Secretary present, as necessary, require shareholder consent and overseeing their operation.
The to discuss matters such as topical issues in remuneration which Committee also monitors the terms of service for, and level and are of particular relevance to the Company or if there are remuneration structure of, other senior management.
specific pieces of work which the Committee requires to The table below lists the members of the Committee who be undertaken.
served during the year and who are regarded as independent by The fee paid to NBS in respect of its services to the Committee the Board.
Their attendance at the meetings of the Committee during the year was 29,718 2014: 122,989.
The fees relate was as follows: to sundry ongoing advice in line with NBSs role of providing Number of meetings attended out of ongoing support and advice to the Committee over the entire Name potential maximum remuneration year.
This included: K L Ludeman Committee Chairman 9 9 Lord Blackwell 9 9 performance monitoring of the TSR element of the 1 L G Cullen 4 4 2012 PSP awards: A K Fahy 9 9 review of vesting documentation for the PSP: R J King 8 9 assistance with the drafting of the PSP 2015 rules: N R Salmon 8 9 assistance with the drafting of the Directors Remuneration Report: and 1 Les Cullen resigned on 12 May 2015. the provision of updates on developments in remuneration practice.
The Committee meets as often as is necessary to discharge its duties and met nine times during the year ended 31 December 2015.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director may be invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
O OV five ER RV VIIE EW W S ST TR RA AT TE EG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 79 An additional fee of 6,728 2014: nil was paid to NBS in respect of its services to the Company during the year, the majority of which related to assisting the Company with a remuneration review for senior managers and providing an IFRS 2 valuation of the 2015 long-term incentive awards.
Any fees for major projects would normally be negotiated in advance of such a project being undertaken.
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct and has confirmed its compliance with the Code.
Statement of shareholder voting at AGM At the AGM held on 12 May 2015, the directors Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration received the following votes from shareholders: Total votes cast including votes Resolution Votes for % for Votes against % against withheld Votes withheld Directors Remuneration Policy 97,513,211 98.3 1,696,496 1.7 99,222,202 12,495 Annual Report on Remuneration 94,734,663 95.5 3,289,448 3.3 99,222,202 1,198,091 Shareholder engagement During the year the Committee consulted with shareholders as a follow-up to a meeting in 2014 on the proposed replacement of the PSP 2006 with the PSP 2015 and on matters concerning directors Annual Variable Pay targets.
APPROVAL This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 24 February 2016 and signed on its behalf by: Keith Ludeman Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 February 2016
