Governance Directors Remuneration Report The Committee keeps under review the remuneration policy Annual Statement and specific remuneration packages for the Executive Directors and Senior Managers.
The Committee is mindful that our Dear Shareholder Group operates in a highly competitive retail environment and The Remuneration Committee Committee has focused on we seek to ensure that our remuneration policy is appropriate ensuring that our policies and actions are appropriate for our to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and Senior business and that they balance the rewards to our Executive Managers of the right calibre to ensure the success of the Directors for delivering first class financial performance with our Company into the future.
medium long term strategic goals to create long term value Summary of Activity for our shareholders.
Devising and drafting the Remuneration P olicy which was put We believe in rewarding our Executives based on their individual to shareholders in 2014 and approved at the 2014 AGM: and team performance and on the value created for the shareholders.
Our annual bonus scheme combines financial Agreeing the settlement arrangements for the former Chief targets with medium long term strategic objectives.
A new Executive Barry Bown who stood down in May 2014: Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP was approved at the Annual Agreeing bonus awards for the Executive Directors and General Meeting on 26 June 2014 which is based on the Senior Managers in relation to the period 2014 2015: achievement of earnings based financial targets over a three Granting cash LTIP awards to the Executive Chairman and year period.
The first awards under the LTIP were made to the the Chief Financial Officer: Executive Chairman and the Chief Financial Officer in 2014.
Reviewing the basic salary of the Executive Chairman and the This Directors Remuneration Report Report is on the activities Chief Financial Officer to ensure these are appropriate for of the Committee for the period to 31 January 2015.
It sets the market in which we operate.
With effect from 1 April out the remuneration policy and remuneration details for the 2015, the Committee has agreed that the basic salary Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
There reviews detailed on page 75 will be implemented.
are three sections: The salary increases equate to a 2% increase for the Executive - This Annual Statement.
Chairman and the Chief Financial Officer which is in line with the general increase for our Head Office employees : - The Policy Report setting out the Directors remuneration policy: and Reviewing the annual bonus awards for the year to 31 January 2015, which are set out on page73, and setting - The Annual Report on Remuneration providing details on appropriate targets for the 2015 16 financial year.
These how the Directors remuneration policy will be operated for are based on a combination of financial and non-financial 2015 2016 and the remuneration earned in the year to 31 Key Performance Indicators KPIs linked to key strategic January 2015.
This Annual Report on Remuneration objectives which are intended to reward our Executive together with the Annual Statement will be subject to an Directors for performance and provide alignment with advisory shareholder vote at the 2015 AGM.
shareholder interests: This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of Establishing a new annual bonus and long term incentive The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts plan for Senior Managers for 2015 and future years.
and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in August 2013 Regulations.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditor to report to the shareholders on certain parts of the Report and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
The parts of the Annual Report on Remuneration that are subject to audit are indicated in that report.
Andrew Leslie Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 15 April 2015 67 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Directors Remuneration Policy Unaudited This Directors remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 26 June 2014 and will, subject to any amendment, remain in force for a period of three years.
Remuneration payments and payments for loss of office can only be made to Directors if they are consistent with the approved Directors remuneration policy.
However, commitments made before the Directors remuneration policy came into effect and commitments made before an individual became a director will be honoured even if they are inconsistent with the policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled.
Policy Overview The Group operates in a highly competitive retail environment and the Committee seeks to ensure that the level and form of remuneration is appropriate to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the right calibre to ensure the success of the Company into the future.
Remuneration should be aligned with the key corporate metrics that drive earnings growth and increased shareholder value with significant emphasis on performance related pay measured over the longer term.
Incentive arrangements for Executive Directors should provide an appropriate balance between fixed and performance related elements and be capable of providing exceptional levels of total payment if outstanding performance is achieved.
Set out below is the Remuneration Policy as approved at the 2014 AGM.
Future Policy Table Executive Directors Element of Purpose and link Performance Remuneration to strategy Operation Maximum targets Base Salary To provide competitive fixed level Base salaries for the Executive The policy of the Committee is that Not applicable remuneration to attract and retain Directors are reviewed annually by the the salaries of the Executive Directors Executive Directors of the necessary Committee.
should be reviewed annually, although calibre to execute the Groups strategy it reserves the right to review salaries The following factors are taken into and deliver shareholder value.
on a discretionary basis if it believes an account when determining base adjustment is required to reflect market salary levels: rates or performance.
Remuneration levels at comparable There is no prescribed maximum annual quoted UK retail companies increase.
The Committee is guided by The need for salaries to be the general increase for the broader competitive employee population but on occasions The performance of the individual may need to recognise, for example, Executive Director an increase in the scale, scope or Experience and responsibilities responsibility of the role as well as market rates.
Pay for other employees in the Group The total remuneration available to the Executive Directors and the components thereof and the cost to the Company.
Benefits To ensure the overall package is Current benefits provision is detailed The Committee determines the Not applicable competitive for Executive Directors.
on page 73. appropriate level taking in account market practice and individual Other benefits may be provided where circumstances.
appropriate including health insurance, life insurance death in service, travel expenses and relocation.
Pension To provide post-retirement benefits for Payments are made into a defined The rates are set at a level which the Not applicable Executive Directors.
contribution scheme with company Committee considers is appropriate.
contributions set as a percentage of Current company contribution rates base salary.
for Executive Directors are shown on The Committee has the discretion to page 73. pay a cash amount in lieu of a pension contribution any such payment would not count for the purposes of calculating bonus and LTIP awards.
68 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Continued Element of Purpose and link Performance Remuneration to strategy Operation Maximum targets Annual Bonus Executive Directors have the The bonus is paid annually in cash and is 100% of salary, however, the The targets are set by the opportunity to earn performance non-pensionable.
Committee has the discretion to award Committee each year and are related bonuses based on the bonuses of up to 200% of salary for based on a combination of No claw back provisions apply.
achievement of financial targets and exceptional performance.
financial and strategic KPIs, key performance indicators which with target and maximum incentivise the achievement of the levels.
At least two thirds business strategy.
of the annual bonus will be linked to financial targets.
The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the targets in the event of significant corporate activity during the year.
The Committee will review the Groups overall performance before determining final bonus levels.
The Committee may in exceptional circumstances amend the bonus payout should this not, in the view of the Committee, reflect the overall business performance or individual contribution.
Targets will be disclosed in the following years Annual Report.
Long Term To provide the Executive Directors A new LTIP was approved at the 150% to 200% of base salary.
The LTIP will measure Incentive Plans with the opportunity to earn 2014 AGM.
The level of any awards under the financial performance over competitive rewards.
LTIP remains under the consideration a 3 year period with targets Key features of the LTIP are: of the Committee.
based on headline earnings To align the Executive Directors Cash awards not shares.
interests more closely with those of Three year performance period.
25% of any award will vest The performance condition can be at threshold performance To focus the Executive Directors amended or substituted if events increasing on a straightline on sustaining and improving the occur which cause the Committee basis to 100% for maximum long-term financial performance to consider that an amended or performance.
of the Company and reward them substituted performance target appropriately for doing so.
Targets will be disclosed would be more appropriate.
in the annual accounts for Any amended or substituted target the year following a would not be materially more or performance period.
Malus provisions apply to unvested awards.
The Committee can reduce, cancel or impose further conditions on the awards where it considers such action is appropriate.
This includes where there has been a material misstatement of the Companys audited financial results, a serious failure of risk management or serious reputational damage.
69 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Non-Executive Directors Element of Purpose and link Performance Remuneration to strategy Operation Maximum targets Non-Executive Set at a level which the Committee Cash fee paid.
Additional fees based The policy of the Committee is that the None.
Director Fees considers reflects the time commitment on additional responsibilities, such as fees paid to Non-Executive Directors and contributions that are expected from acting as Senior Independent Director should be reviewed annually, although the Non-Executive Directors.
or serving as Chairman of Board it reserves the right to review fees Committees, may be paid.
on a discretionary basis if it believes an adjustment is required to reflect Fees are reviewed on an annual basis.
market rates, scope of responsibilities The Non-Executive Directors do not or performance.
There is no prescribed participate in the Companys incentive maximum annual increase.
arrangements and no pension contributions are made in respect of them.
Reasonable travel and subsistence expenses may be paid or reimbursed by the Company.
Share Ownership Guidelines nor count for the purposes of calculating bonus and LTIP awards.
The Committee retains the right to exercise the discretion The Company does not have a minimum share ownership available under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 where necessary to put in requirement for the Executive Directors.
Given our narrow place an arrangement established specifically to facilitate, shareholder base, the Committee considers it impractical to in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of a new Executive set realistic shareholding targets.
Where appropriate the Company will offer to pay Consideration of Shareholder Views reasonable relocation expenses for new Executive Directors.
The Committee engages directly with major shareholders on key In respect of an internal promotion to the Board, any aspects of the remuneration policy and will take into consideration commitments made before the promotion will continue to be feedback received in relation to the AGM or otherwise when honoured even if they would otherwise be inconsistent with the next reviewing the policy.
Directors remuneration policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled.
Consideration of Employee Conditions Elsewhere in the Group Service Contracts and Payments for Loss of Office Remuneration arrangements are determined throughout the Details of the contracts currently in place for Executive Directors Group based on the same principle that reward should be are as follows: achieved for delivery of our business strategy and should be Date of Notice Period Unexpired sufficient to attract and retain high calibre talent, without paying Contract Months Term more than is necessary.
P Cowgill 16 March 2004 12 Rolling 12 months Senior Managers below Board level with a significant ability to influence company results may participate in an annual bonus B Small 10 March 2004 12 Rolling 12 months plan and deferred bonus plan which reward both performance and loyalty and are designed to retain and motivate.
It is the Companys policy that notice periods for Executive Director service contracts are no more than 12 months.
Approach to Recruitment Remuneration In the event of early termination, the Company may make In the event that a new Executive Director was to be appointed, a termination payment not exceeding one years salary and a remuneration package would be determined consistent with benefits.
Incidental expenses may also be payable where the Directors remuneration policy.
In particular, new Executive appropriate.
It is in the discretion of the Committee as to Directors will participate in variable remuneration arrangements whether departing Directors would be paid a bonus.
In exercising on the same basis as existing Executive Directors.
In the event its discretion on determining the amount payable to an Executive that a new Non-Executive Director was to be appointed, the fees Director on termination of employment, the Board would payable would be determined consistent with the Directors consider each instance on an individual basis and take into remuneration policy.
account contractual terms, circumstances of the termination If it were necessary to attract the right candidate, due consideration and the commercial interests of the Company.
would be given to making awards necessary to compensate for When determining whether a bonus or any other payment forfeited awards in a previous employment.
In making any such should be made to a departing Director, the Committee will award, the Committee will take into account any performance ensure that no reward for failure is made.
The Committee conditions attached to the forfeited awards, the form in which may make a payment to a departing Director for agreeing to they were granted and the timeframe of the forfeited awards.
enter into enhanced restrictive covenants following termination The value of any such award will be capped to be no higher on where it considers that it is in the best interests of the Company recruitment than the forfeited awards and will not be pensionable to do so.
70 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Continued In the event of gross misconduct, the Company may terminate which the performance target is satisfied at the end of the the service contract of an Executive Director immediately and performance period or, as appropriate, on the date on which with no liability to make further payments other than in respect employment ceases.
The period of time that has elapsed since of amounts accrued at the date of termination.
the start of the performance period to the date of cessation of employment will also be taken into account unless the The current Executive Director service contracts permit the Committee determines otherwise.
Company to put an Executive Director on garden leave for a maximum period of three months.
The Company may adjust such In the event of a change of control, LTIP awards will vest at the period as deemed appropriate for any new Executive Directors.
date of change of control other than in respect of an internal reorganisation unless the Committee determines otherwise.
The Executive Director service contracts contain a change of control provision whereby if 50% of more of the shares in the Non-Executive Directors Company come under the direct or indirect control of a person The Non-Executive Directors have entered into letters of or persons acting in concert, an Executive Director may serve appointment with the Company which are terminable by the notice on the Company, at any time within the 12 month period Non-Executive Director or the Company on not less than three following a change of control, terminating his employment.
Upon termination in these circumstances, an Executive Director will be entitled to a sum equal to 112% of his basic salary less Non-Executive Directorships deductions required by law and such Executive Director waives The Board recognises that Executive Directors may be invited any claim for wrongful or unfair dismissal.
The Company does to become Non-Executive Directors of other businesses and not envisage such a provision being contained in any service that the knowledge and experience which they gain in those contracts for any new Executive Directors.
appointments could be of benefit to the Company.
The service contracts and letters of appointment are available Prior approval of the Board is required before acceptance for inspection by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM and of any new appointments.
during normal business hours at the Companys registered During the year to 31 January 2015, only Peter Cowgill held office address.
Mr Cowgill resigned from his office as a Non-Executive Director of MBL Group Plc on LTIP 17 June 2014.
He remains as a Non-Executive Chairman of Where cessation of employment is due to ill-health, injury, United Carpets Group Plc.
Peter Cowgill has aggregate disability or the sale of the employing entity out of the group, the retained earnings of 53,909 2014: 72,500 in respect unvested LTIP award will continue.
It will continue to vest in of these offices.
accordance with the original vesting date unless the Committee determines that it should vest as soon as reasonably practicable Illustrations of Application of Remuneration Policy following the date of cessation.
The chart overleaf illustrates the level of remuneration that would Where cessation of employment is due to death, the LTIP award be received by the Executive Directors in accordance with the will, unless the Committee determine otherwise, vest as soon Directors remuneration policy in the year to 30 January 2016. as reasonably practicable following death.
Where the Executive Each bar gives an indication of the minimum amount of Director is dismissed lawfully without notice, the LTIP award will remuneration payable at target performance and remuneration lapse on the date of cessation.
payable at maximum performance to each Director under the In all other circumstances the LTIP award will lapse on the date policy.
Each of the bars is broken down to show how the total of cessation of employment unless the Committee determines under each scenario is made up of fixed elements otherwise, in which case it will determine the extent to which of remuneration and variable remuneration.
the unvested LTIP award vest taking into account the extent to 71 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Fixed elements of remuneration Variable element of remuneration LTIP LTIP scheme approved by the shareholders at the 2014 AGM 2,500 2,250 1,984k 2,000 1,750 24% 1,500 1,245k 1,250 10% 38% 1,000 30% 749k 750 699k 18% 473k 500 311k 7% 37% 100% 60% 38% 27% 250 100% 66% 45% 0 Minimum On target Maximum Minimum On target Maximum P. Cowgill Executive Chairman B.
Small Chief Financial O cer The scenarios in the above graphs are defined as follows: On Target Maximum Performance Minimum Performance Fixed Elements of The base salary is the salary as at 1 April 2015.
Remuneration The benefits are taken as those in the single figure table on page 73.
The pension is taken as shown in the single figure table on page 73.
Annual Bonus 1 0% 50% 100% Long Term Incentive 0% 25% 150% to 200% Plan 2 Note 1 the maximum annual bonus has been based on the usual maximum award of 100% of salary Note 2 The new LTIP was adopted at the 2014 AGM.
On target performance is 25% of salary.
Maximum performance is 150% of salary in the case of Brian Small and 200% of salary in the case of Peter Cowgill.
One third of the award would be earned in the year to 30 January 2016 subject to the performance conditions being met and the rules of the scheme.
2 Barry Bown stepped down as Chief Executive on 30 May 2014.
3 Salary reviews effective 1 April annually.
4 In accordance with the remuneration policy 23,000 of the pension contribution shown above for Brian Small has been paid as a cash amount.
5 Represents the third tranche of the Executive Chairman Special Retention Scheme award tranche as disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 1 February 2014.
The full award for all three tranches was subsequently paid in April 2014.
The taxable benefits received by the Executive Directors are car benefits and healthcare insurance.
Pension contributions are: - Peter Cowgill 0% of salary - Barry Bown 8% of salary contribution ended May 2014 - Brian Small 12% of salary Statement of Directors Shareholding Audited The interests of the Directors who held office at 31 January 2015 and their connected persons in the Companys ordinary shares are shown below: Ordinary Shares of 1.25p each 31 January 1 February 2015 2014 P Cowgill 1,641,052 1,641,052 B Small 95,800 95,800 1,736,852 1,736,852 There has been no change in the interests of the Directors or their connected persons between 31 January 2015 and the date of this report.
The holdings stated above are held directly by the Directors and are not subject to any performance targets.
The Directors have no other interests in Company shares.
As stated in the Directors remuneration policy, the Company does not have a minimum share ownership requirement for Directors.
Given our narrow shareholder base, the Committee considers it impractical to set realistic shareholding targets.
73 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Directors Remuneration Report Continued Scheme Interests Awards During the Year Audited JD Sports Fashion PLC Following approval of the LTIP at the 2014 AGM, Peter Cowgill FTSE All Share General Retailers Index was granted a cash award of up to 1,463,700 being 200% of base salary subject to satisfaction of annual audited 1,200% earnings based performance targets for the Group over a three year period.
Brian Small was granted a cash award of up to 1,000% 382,500 being 150% of base salary on the same basis.
The target for the period 2014 2015 was 80m threshold earnings with a maximum payment being achieved where earnings of 800% 88m are achieved with straight line vesting in-between.
Threshold earnings are the consolidated earnings on a normalised basis pre-exceptional and goodwill as represented 600% in the audited accounts for the period.
In the interests of commercial confidence the targets for subsequent years based 400% on threshold earnings will be disclosed one year in arrears.
Payments to Past Directors Audited 200% Barry Bown stepped down as Chief Executive Officer on 30 May 2014.
The Company entered into a consultancy agreement with BCB Retail Consultancy Limited and Mr Bown on the same 0% date to provide the consultancy services of Mr Bown to the 31 01 09 31 01 10 31 01 11 31 01 12 31 01 13 31 01 14 31 01 15 Company and the wider Pentland Plc group of companies Consultancy Agreement.
The Consultancy Agreement is for a fixed term of three years from 1 June 2014.
An annual fee of Executive Chairmans Remuneration Over Past 100,000 is paid pursuant to this agreement.
5 years Audited The total remuneration figures for the Executive Chairman Loss of Office Payments Audited during each of the last 5 financial years are shown in the table Under the terms of a settlement agreement of May 2014, below.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual Barry Bown received the sum of 383,000 in relation to the bonus based on that years performance and LTIP awards termination of employment and any claims in relation thereto, based on three year performance periods ending in the together with 2,500 plus VAT towards legal fees.
A further sum relevant financial year.
The annual bonus payout and LTIP of 500,000 was paid to Mr Bown in consideration of additional vesting level as a percentage of the maximum opportunity restrictive covenants provided by Mr Bown to the Company.
are also shown for each of these years.
Total Shareholder Return January January January January January The following graph shows the Total Shareholder Return TSR Year Ended 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 of the Group in comparison to the FTSE All Share General Retailers Index over the past six years.
The Committee consider Total remuneration 1,810 2,293 2,045 3,137 1,951 the FTSE All Share General Retailers Index a relevant index for Annual bonus % 120 75 37 100 100 total shareholder return comparison disclosure required under LTIP vesting % 100 100 100 n a n a the Regulations as the index represents the broad range of UK quoted retailers.
The Committee exercised its discretion in 2011 to award TSR is calculated for each financial year end relative to the base bonuses of 120% of salary as the Groups performance date of 31 January 2009 by taking the percentage change of the was considerably above market expectations early in that market price over the relevant period, re-investing any dividends financial year.
Whilst the L TIP performance target for the first year has been achieved, final vesting is dependent on the performance measured over the three year period to 28 January 2017.
Subject to the performance criteria being achieved over the full three year period, the award will vest on 30 October 2017.
Percentage Change in Executive Chairmans Remuneration Unaudited The table below shows the percentage change in the Executive Chairmans salary, benefits and annual bonus between financial years 1 February 2014 and 31 January 2015 compared to UK Head Office employees in the JD and Size?
businesses, being deemed by the Board as the most appropriate comparator group.
74 Governance Directors Remuneration Report Continued Consideration by Directors of Matters Relating to Directors % Change Remuneration Unaudited Salary The Committee comprises two independent Non-Executive Directors, being Andrew Leslie and Martin Davies.
Andrew 2 Executive Chairman Leslie was appointed as the Chairman of the Committee on 4 UK Head Office Employee Average 1 October 2013.
Benefits The Committee assists the Board in determining the Groups policy on Executive Directors remuneration and determines the Executive Chairman - specific remuneration packages for Senior Executives, including UK Head Office Employee Average - the Executive Directors, on behalf of the Board.
Peter Cowgill, Annual Bonus the Executive Chairman and Brian Small, the Chief Financial Officer, have assisted the Committee when requested with Executive Chairman Includes Special Retention Bonus 70 regards to matters concerning key Executives below Board level.
UK Head Office Employee Average 47 The Committee can obtain independent advice at the Companys expense where they consider it appropriate and in Comparator group as defined above.
There are circa 791 order to perform their duties.
No such advice was obtained employees within this group.
Relative Importance of Spend on Pay Unaudited The Committee is formally constituted with written Terms of The following table shows the Groups actual spend on pay for Reference, which are available on the Companys corporate all employees relative to dividends, tax and retained profits: website www.
The Committee engages with the major shareholders or other representative groups where 2015 2014 % Change appropriate concerning remuneration matters.
Staff costs 000 237,620 213,653 11.2 The Committee is mindful of the Companys social, ethical and Dividends 000 13,260 12,871 3.0 environmental responsibilities and is satisfied that the current remuneration arrangements and policies do not encourage Tax 000 20,741 18,897 9.8 irresponsible behaviour.
Retained profits 000 53,971 41,486 30.1 The Committee has met six times during the year under review with each member attending all the meetings.
Details of Implementation of Directors Remuneration Policy in attendance at the Committee meetings are set out on page 63.
2015 16 Unaudited Statement of Voting at General Meeting Unaudited Salaries At last years AGM, the Directors Remuneration Report Following this years review, the Committee has determined that received the following votes from shareholders.
salaries for the current year will be revised as follows with effect 2014 AGM % from 1 April 2015: Votes Cast For 33,849,462 86.39 Previous New Position Against Votes Cast Against 5,333,955 13.61 Salary Salary Percentage Comparator Total Votes Cast 39,183,417 000 000 Increase Group Votes Withheld 254,811 P Cowgill 732 747 2% Upper Quartile B Small 255 260 2% Lower Quartile This report has been prepared on behalf of the Board The Comparator Group for these purposes is the FTSE 350 companies.
The salary increases for P Cowgill and B Small are in line with the general salary increase for Head Office employees.
Annual Bonus Performance Targets The targets in respect of the annual bonus for the financial year to 31 January 2015 were 80 million threshold earnings with Andrew Leslie Chairman of the Remuneration Committee a maximum payment being achieved where earnings are 88 million.
The Board considers that the targets for the financial 15 April 2015 year to 31 January 2016 are commercially sensitive and so will be disclosed in the 2016 Annual Report.
75 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 JDs unique and often exclusive sports and fashion premium brand offer continues to enthuse and excite both customers and suppliers.
