Directors Remuneration Report The Directors Remuneration Report DRR is the Letter from the Boards report to shareholders on directors remuneration Chair of the for year ending December 2015 and is in three main sections: Remuneration Committee The Boards Report includes the Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee reflecting on the activities of the Remuneration Committee for the year ending December 2015 and future application of the Groups Directors Remuneration Policy.
This section also provides details of the Remuneration Dear Shareholder Committee and the statement of shareholder voting.
Our well established remuneration policy continues to support our Part 1: Policy Report, contains the agreed Directors objective to provide a compensation package that promotes the Remuneration Policy, and long-term success of the Group.
We do this through a balance of fixed and variable pay, which we intend will result in competitive total Part 2: Annual Statement on Remuneration contains the remuneration packages that attract and retain key executives while annual report on remuneration, which includes a summary of the creating an appropriate alignment between incentivised executive key considerations and decisions taken by the Committee on performance and the interest of shareholders.
Directors remuneration during the year ending December 2015.
During 2015, our focus has been on setting plan targets which adequately incentivise and reward while reflecting Group performance.
Contents We determined the remuneration packages for the newly appointed 32 Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Group Chief Executive and Group CFO and arrangements for their departing predecessors and consulted key shareholders on these 34 Remuneration Committee proposals.
We continued efforts to simplify and standardise the 35 Statement of shareholder voting variable pay structure for executive directors and senior managers and to improve presentation and disclosure in the Directors 36 Part 1 Policy Report Remuneration Report.
36 Part 2 Annual Statement on Remuneration Conditions in oil and gas markets remained very challenging throughout 36 2.1 Single figure of remuneration for each director 2015 and the financial performance of the Group reflects this.
Against the continued market backdrop of low oil prices, increased focus on 40 2.2 Pension related benefits efficiency by oil & gas operators, generally, and the consequential 41 2.3 Long Term Plan interests awarded during the year reduction in investment in certain areas, Group EBITA was down 15% 41 2.4 Payments to past directors on 2014, which resulted in significantly reduced annual bonuses of between 37% and 40% of maximum being awarded to executive 41 2.5 Payments for loss of office directors.
The 2015 Group performance also contributed to a low 42 2.6 Statement of directors shareholding and share interests long-term incentive plan LTIP pay-out for the performance period 2013 2015 as a result of a reduction of AEPS over the three year 44 2.7 TSR performance summary & CEO remuneration period and TSR second quartile performance against selected peer 44 2.8 Percentage change in CEO remuneration companies at 6 out of 16.
Our relative performance against the TSR 45 2.9 Relative importance of spend on pay peer group reflects the Groups commitment to cost discipline and the resilience and flexibility of our business model.
2.10 Statement of implementation of Remuneration Policy in the 45 following financial year As part of our effort to simplify and standardise the variable pay structure for executive directors and senior managers, Group targets Audited were applied to all participants in the long-term incentive plan for the Unless otherwise noted, the remaining sections of the performance period commencing 2015 with the performance measures Directors Remuneration Report are not subject to audit.
In conjunction with a general review of arrangements for 2016, and consistent with feedback received from shareholders, we decided to adjust the balance of performance measures for long-term incentive plan performance periods commencing in 2016 and beyond to 50% AEPS and 50% TSR.
32 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
