Corporate Governance Report of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present our Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Company performance This has been a strong year for JUST EAT, driven by disciplined implementation of the Groups strategy.
A total of ten targeted transactions were completed during the year and a significant transaction has been announced post the year end.
The year-on-year increase in all of our KPIs for 2015 as presented on page 18 demonstrates how strong ourperformance has continued to be.
In particular, revenues increased by 58% year-on-year to 247.6 million.
The 2015 Directors annual bonus plan was based around strong financial performance reflecting revenue growth and growth in profits, as well as personal strategic objectives.
The out-turn of the 2015 annual bonus is confirmed at 99.7% of the maximum level, representing 149.5% of base salary for David Buttress and 96.0% of the maximum level, representing 115.2% of base salary for Mike Wroe.
In line with best practice, we are committed to transparency in remuneration reporting and have therefore provided details of the performance targets for theannual bonus financial metrics on page 51.
The pre-IPO share awards continue to operate on their agreed terms, with the performance condition for tranche 3 of our Joint Share Ownership Plan JSOP being satisfied in full Underlying EBITDA target of 15.5 million for 2015.
Remuneration policy for 2016 This has been a strong year At the 2015 AGM we were pleased to achieve over 99% for JUST EAT, driven by support for our Directors remuneration policy.
Consistent with that approved policy, in 2015: disciplined implementation of The first post-IPO long-term incentive awards for our the Groups strategy.
Executive Directors were made under the Companys Gwyn Burr Performance Share Plan PSP.
These 2015 awards were Chairman made at 50% of the ongoing policy level.
The first full Remuneration Committee policy level awards, which are 200% of base salary for David Buttress and 160% of base salary for Mike Wroe, will be made in 2016.
indd 48 06 03 2016 20:57 Corporate Governance The changes made to the Executive Directors Annual Consistent with the approved remuneration policy, the Bonus Plan for 2016 will better align the Executive share ownership guidelines for all JUST EAT Executive Directors arrangements with the structure of annual Directors were extended, and now require the holding of bonuses throughout the wider business and with key shares worth 400% of base salary.
Clawback provisions were introduced and will apply to the Companys annual financial and operational KPIs.
bonus plan from 2015 onwards and to all awards made The Committee has, reflecting both time commitments under the PSP.
Furthermore, the Committee was pleased and market rates, agreed to increase the Chairmans fee to oversee the launch of the Companys first employee to 220,000 per annum 2015: 100,000 per annum.
It is important to the However, consistent with how increases to Executive Committee that as many JUST EAT colleagues as possible Directors base salaries have been made, this increase will are given the opportunity to participate in our continued be phased such that in 2016 the Chairmans fee will be development and to share in the returns which our 180,000 per annum, and further moving assuming the business has delivered to our shareholders.
Committee considers it appropriate to do so at the relevant The first of the staged adjustments in Executive time to 220,000 per annum in 2017.
Directors base salaries was made in January 2015, with Shareholder approval the second tranche taking effect in January 2016.
The At the AGM on 27 April 2016, shareholders will be invited Executive Directors base salaries are now 465,000 for to approve the 2015 Directors remuneration report as David Buttress and 320,000 for Mike Wroe.
No further set out in the following pages.
For ease of reference, the benchmarking of base salaries was undertaken in 2015, Directors remuneration policy approved at the 2015 AGM although the Companys market capitalisation has isalso set out as an Appendix to the Directors remuneration continued to grow during the year.
Should performance report, although we are not seeking further approval from continue to progress in 2016, the Committee intends shareholders for our Directors remuneration policy at the toreview base salaries to ensure that the positioning 2016 AGM.
remains correct for the business.
This may, if the Committee considers it appropriate, result in further The Committee continues to seek to reflect developments potentially above inflationary increases to base salaries.
in practice as deemed appropriate for JUST EAT, and Ihope that we can continue to rely onthesupport of our For 2016s Annual Bonus Plan, the Committee in line with shareholders for the resolution on the 2015 Directors its approved policy has made certain changes: remuneration report which will be proposed at the The balance between financial and personal strategic 2016AGM.
measures has been re-calibrated to 70% financial On behalf of the Remuneration Committee and Board and30% personal strategic 2015: 80% financial, 20%personal strategic.
The increased weighting to the personal strategic measures reflects the introduction of quantifiable, customer focused metrics 10% total weighting.
Gwyn Burr Within the financial metrics, the split is still made Chairman, Remuneration Committee equally between Revenues 35% weighting and a 29 February 2016 profits-based measure 35% weighting.
To better align the profits-based measure with the Groups KPIs, for 2016s Annual Bonus Plan this performance measure will be based on Underlying EBITDA.
The Committee will ensure the measurement of financial performance against the Underlying EBITDA metric is consistent with wider Group performance.
indd 49 06 03 2016 20:57 Corporate Governance Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Introduction Illustrations of application of remuneration policy We have presented this Directors remuneration report to 2,229 reflect the UKs Large and Medium-sized Companies and 2,250 Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2,000 2013.
The Directors remuneration report also describes howthe Board has complied with the provisions set 1,750 out in the UK Corporate Governance Code relating to 1,500 remuneration matters.
1,287 1,250 1,136 At our 2016 AGM we will be holding an advisory vote onthe Directors remuneration report.
1,000 685 The Groups auditors have reported on certain parts of 750 601 the Directors remuneration report and stated whether, 500 391 intheir opinion, those parts of the Directors remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with 250 the Companies Act 2006.
Those sections of the Directors 0 remuneration report which havebeen subject to audit Min Target Max Min Target Max areclearly indicated.
CEO CFO Directors remuneration policy PSP Annual Bonus Total Fixed Remuneration The Directors remuneration policy was approved by theCompanys shareholders at the Companys AGM on 13May 2015 and has been in effect for all payments made Minimum C onsists of base salary, benefits and pension.
B ase salary is the salary to be paid in 2016.
For information and ease of reference, the Directors B enefits are measured as benefits paid in the remuneration policy is included in the Appendix to this year ending 31 December 2015 as set out in Directors remuneration report.
The information in the single total figure table.
the Appendix is not subject to the advisory vote on the P ension is measured as the defined Directors remuneration report at the 2016 AGM.
contribution or cash allowance in lieu of Company contributions of 5% of salary.
The Illustrations of application of remuneration policy as required under the Directors remuneration policy has, Salary Total 000 Base Benefits Pension Fixed however, been updated to reflect the current salaries of the David Buttress 465 113 23 601 Executive Directors from 1 January 2016 and 2016 LTIP Mike Wroe 320 55 16 391 award levels, and accordingly is re-presented to the right.
Target Based on what the Director would receive if performance was on-target excl.
share price appreciation and dividends : Annual Bonus: consists of the on-target bonus of 50% of maximum opportunity.
PSP: consists of the threshold level of vesting 20% vesting.
Maximum Based on the maximum remuneration receivable excl.
share price appreciation and dividends : Annual Bonus: consists of maximum bonus of 150% of base salary for the CEO and 120% for the CFO.
PSP: consists of the face value of awards of 200% of base salary for the CEO and 160% for the CFO.
indd 50 06 03 2016 20:57 000 Corporate Governance Annual Report on Remuneration Summary of implementation of Directors remuneration policy in 2016 unaudited Element of remuneration policy Detail of implementation of policy for 2016 Base Salary Base salaries for Executive Directors in 2016 are as follows: David Buttress 465,000 Mike Wroe 320,000 Benefits There are no proposed changes to the benefits offered to Executive Directors in 2016.
Pension No changes to the pension arrangements for Executive Directors are anticipated for 2016.
Pension contributions of 5% of base salary are paid into the Groups defined contribution pension plan.
Ifimpacted by HMRC limits on contributions, amounts can be paid as a cash supplement in lieu of pensions contributions reduced for the impact of employers NICs.
Annual Bonus Plan The Annual Bonus Plan for 2016 will operate on a basis that is consistent with how the Annual Bonus Plan operated in 2015.
The Annual Bonus Plan maximum potential levels for 2016 remain unchanged at 150% of base salary for DavidButtress and 120% of base salary for Mike Wroe.
The weightings between financial and personal strategic performance measures for the Annual Bonus Plan in2016 are as follows: Revenues 35% Underlying EBITDA 35% Personal strategic objectives 30% The Committee selected these performance measures for the Annual Bonus Plan for 2016 as they represent abalanced approach to recognising success against defined objectives.
Given the competitive nature of the Companys sector, the specific performance targets for the 2016 Annual Bonus Plan are considered to be commercially sensitive and accordingly are not disclosed.
The Committee currently intends to disclose the financial performance targets for the year ended 31 December 2016 on a retrospective basis in the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report.
Annual Bonus Plan outcomes for 2016 will be paid in cash following the determination of achievement against performance measures and targets.
The Committee remains of the view that at present it is not appropriate to defer any element of bonus given the Executive Directors current shareholdings, the PSP awards and the high share ownership guidelines, all of which ensure a close alignment of interests between investors and the Executive Directors.
Long-term PSP award levels for Executive Directors for 2016 are to be as follows: incentives provided David Buttress 200% of base salary under the JUST EAT Mike Wroe 160% of base salary Performance Share 1 Plan PSP A holding period applies so that any PSP awards for which the performance vesting requirements are satisfied will not be released for a further two years from the third anniversary of the original award date.
Dividend accrual for PSP awards will continue until the end of the holding period.
The performance measures for PSP awards to be made in 2016 will be based on EPS growth 50% of award andrelative Total Shareholder Return TSR 50% of award.
The relative TSR measure is calculated against the constituents of the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts, with vesting commencing at median 20% of this part of the award and with full vesting at upper quintile levels.
The EPS growth measure will require adjusted fully diluted EPS for financial year ended 31 December 2018 of11.0 pence 20% vesting of this part of the award and with full vesting at 13.75 pence.
All-Employee Executive Directors have the opportunity to participate in the HMRC tax advantaged Sharesave and Share Share Plans Incentive Plans SIP on the same basis as all other UK employees.
Shareholding Guideline levels are 400% of base salary level for all Executive Directors.
Guidelines Executive Directors are expected to retain 50% of the ordinary shares vesting under all share plans, after any disposals for the payment of applicable taxes, until they have achieved the required level of shareholding.
indd 51 06 03 2016 20:57 Corporate Governance Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Element of remuneration policy Detail of implementation of policy for 2016 Chairman and As further detailed in the Committee Chairman letter, the Chairmans fee has been increased to 180,000 per Non-executive annum for 2016.
Directors fees A breakdown of Non-executive Directors current annual fees is provided below.
Committee Senior independent Base fee chair fee Director fee Total Andrew Griffith 50,000 7,500 5,000 62,500 Gwyn Burr 50,000 7,500 57,500 Diego Oliva 50,000 50,000 1.
All incentive plans are subject to clawback provisions as more fully explained in the Directors remuneration policy.
The clawback provisions would also allow the Company to withhold payment of any sums unpaid malus.
Single total figure table audited The remuneration for the Executive and Non-executive Directors of the Company who performed qualifying services during the year is detailed below.
The Non-executive Directors, with the exception of the Chairman, received no remuneration other than their annual fee during the financial year and the reimbursement for travel expenses incurred during their appointment, as detailed in the notes to the table below.
The bonus numbers above represent the outcomes for the Executive Directors under the Annual Bonus Plan as more fully detailed on page 51.
The long-term incentive column includes interests granted under the 2014 JSOP tranche 3 which were granted prior to the Companys IPO.
These interests have performance conditions attached to vesting, along with continued employment, as detailed within the JSOP section on page 54.
These interests have been included in the single total figure table in the year for which the performance condition is measured and valued at the average share price during the last quarter of 2015, which was determined to be 440.5 pence, less the hurdle price.
The pension numbers represent employer contributions to the defined contribution pension plan.
Henri Moissinac stepped down from his position as Non-executive Director on 31 July 2015.
Non-executive Director appointed with effect from 24 September 2015.
During the year, no payments were made to Non-executive Directors for expenses other than those incurred wholly and directly in the course of their appointments and the benefits disclosed in the table above for Non-executive Directors relate to the reimbursement of travel expenses in attending Board meetings at the Companys London office.
The gross value has been disclosed.
The Executive Directors receive payment in respect of travel expenses plus further sums to cover the tax arising.
Further details of Executive Director taxable benefits are provided in the taxable benefits sections on the following page.
The other column details the potential gain on the Sharesave options the Executive Directors have elected to participate in: calculated at the discount which the awards have been granted 20% discount to market value.
Non-executive Director appointed with effect from 12 March 2014.
Non-executive Director appointed with effect from 1 August 2014.
The bonus numbers above include the Executive Director Annual Bonus Plan and cash bonuses paid to cover the tax arising on the reimbursement of taxable expenses relating to ordinary commuting.
The long-term incentives column includes interests granted under the 2014 JSOP tranche 2 which were granted prior to the Comapnys IPO.
These interests have been included in the single total figure table in the year for which the performance condition is measured.
In 2014, as no interests had commenced vesting, they were valued at the average share price during the last quarter of 2014, which was determined to be 306.0 pence, less the hurdle price.
As required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations, this has been revalued for 2015 to be based on the share price during 2015 when they commenced vesting, which was 309.7 pence for David Buttress 1 January 2015 and 417.0 pence for John Hughes and Mike Wroe 1 July 2015, less the hurdle price.
The pension numbers represent employer contributions to the defined contribution pension plan which was introduced during 2014.
The other column includes interests granted under the 2014 JSOP tranche 1 which were granted prior to the Companys IPO.
This interest has no performance conditions other than continued employment and is therefore reported at the date of grant.
The interest has been valued at the share price at the date of grant as agreed with HMRC less the hurdle price.
As the Company listed in April 2014, part of the 2014 remuneration relates to when JUST EAT was a privately owned group.
The three non-independent Non-executive Directors, Frederic Coorevits, Benjamin Holmes and Michael Risman, received no remuneration during 2015 or 2014.
Taxable benefits audited Until the Joint Ownership Awards are sold, the Company makes annual payments to participants, the net amount of which will reimburse the participants for the annual income tax charge that arises on such proportion of the outstanding beneficial loan amount as is attributable to the remaining jointly-owned shares.
The annual payment made to the Chairman and Executive Directors and the taxable benefit arising on the outstanding loan amount are included within the taxable benefits column in the single total figure table.
The taxable benefit arising on the outstanding loan amounts is detailed below: Taxable benefit arising on the JSOP loans 2015 2014 John Hughes 13,546 14,358 David Buttress 42,084 43,199 Mike Wroe 21,110 22,410 Further detail on the Joint Ownership Awards is provided on page 54.
The Executive Directors are reimbursed for commuting costs plus the related tax liabilities and David Buttress receives a car allowance of 7,900 perannum.
The Executive Directors are non-contributory members of the Companys private health scheme which provides cover for them and their immediate family, currently defined as their spouse partner and dependent children aged under 21.
Although not a taxable benefit, the Executive Directors participate in the Companys life assurance scheme which pays their dependants a sum equal to four times salary if they die during their term of employment by the Company.
indd 53 06 03 2016 20:57 Corporate Governance Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Short-term incentives audited Annual Bonus Plan During the year, the Remuneration Committee decided bonuses were payable based on certain personal strategic and financial performance targets which had been agreed at the start of the year.
David Buttress Mike Wroe Weighting % achieved Total bonus Weighting % achieved Total bonus as % of bonus in 2015 earned as % of bonus in 2015 earned Personal strategic measures 20% 98% 123,896 20% 80% 57,600 Financial measures: Revenue targets 40% 100% 252,000 40% 100% 144,000 Adjusted PBT targets 40% 100% 252,000 40% 100% 144,000 Total bonus achieved 100% 99.7% 627,896 100% 96.0% 345,600 Against the specific financial measures, out-turns were as follows: Maximum performance Performance level level for 2015 attained for 2015 % of the maximum Performance measure Annual Bonus Annual bonus potential achieved Revenues 217.4m 242.4m 100% Adjusted PBT 39.3m 48.4m 100% In calculating the outcomes against these measures, the Remuneration Committee has, in accordance with the Directors remuneration policy, used its judgement to exclude the impacts of the Groups 2015 SinDelantal Mexico and Menulog acquisitions and the impact of the sale of Achindra, the Groups associated undertaking in India.
The adjustments removed from the financial measures include both the positive and negative impacts of these actions so as to ensure the integrity of measuring performance against the initially set targets, within which these actions were not envisaged.
In line with market best practice, the Company has disclosed both the actual performance targets for the specific financial performance measures used for the 2015 Annual Bonus Plan and the relevant levels of attainment for those targets.
Specific performance measures and targets for the personal strategic performance elements of the 2015 Annual Bonus Plan are not disclosed as these are regarded as commercially sensitive by the Committee and are likely to remain so.
Long-term incentives audited Awards granted under long-term incentive plans with performance conditions attached are included in the single total figure table within the long-term incentive column in the year for which performance conditions are measured.
The figures included in the 2015 single total figure table for long-term incentives represent the 2014 JSOP tranche 3.
Asdetailed on the following page, the vesting of these awards was conditional on achieving Underlying EBITDA of greater than 15.5 million for the year ended 31 December 2015.
This was achieved Underlying EBITDA of 59.7 million for the year ended 31December 2015 and accordingly a value is included for these awards in the 2015 single total figure table.
Actual vesting for these awards commenced on 1 January 2016 for David Buttress and will commence on 1 July 2016 for John Hughes and Mike Wroe.
Joint Share Ownership Plan JSOP Joint Ownership Awards have been made under the JSOP consisting of a joint interest in the shares subject to certain terms and conditions.
The Ordinary shares subject to Joint Ownership Awards are already in issue and are held by an Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
Under the terms, the participants interest in the jointly owned shares entitles the participant to share in the proceeds of sale of the jointly owned shares up to the aggregate of the participants subscription amount and the value in excess of a set hurdle.
Each participant was required to pay a subscription amount for the jointly owned shares equal to the market value of the participants interest as determined by HMRC.
In accordance with the terms of the JSOP, such amount was leftoutstanding as a liability to the Company.
indd 54 06 03 2016 20:57 Corporate Governance As a preparatory step to Admission in April 2014, the Company called for all outstanding subscription amounts on the jointly-owned shares to be paid up in full.
In order to facilitate this, the Company has made a loan to the Chairman, Executive Directors and other participants, the amount of which was equal to their outstanding subscription.
The loans become due for repayment at the latest by the date on which the jointly owned shares are disposed of and termination of continued employment.
When the shares vest, if the value of the participants interest is less than the outstanding beneficial loan amount, the balance remaining on the loan once the participants interest has been deducted is no longer payable.
Asdetailed in the taxable benefits section on page 53, the Company makes annual payments to reimburse participants for the income tax charge that arises on the outstanding loan amount each year.
The Joint Ownership Awards vest over time, with 25% on the specified date established on grant and then equally on a quarterly or monthly basis until becoming fully vested on the fourth anniversary of the vest start date.
Once vested, the participant can require the shares subject to the Joint Ownership Award to be sold and the net amount they receive will equal the proportion of the sale proceeds that exceeds the hurdle amount for their shareholding.
The 2014 JSOP tranches have the following vesting conditions: Amount vesting if minimum performance 1 Scheme Vesting period Vesting performance conditions achieved 2014 JSOP tranche 1 25% one year after the vesting start None 100% date and then equally on a monthly basis for remaining three years 2014 JSOP tranche 2 As above Underlying EBITDA must be greater than 13.5 100% million for the year ended 31December 2014 2014 JSOP tranche 3 As above Underlying EBITDA must be greater than 15.5 100% million for the year ended 31December 2015 1.
Underlying EBITDA is defined as excluding any costs of fundraising including an IPO and excluding any costs associated with acquisitions.
Dividends payable on the jointly owned shares are split between the participant and the EBT, in proportion to the value oftheir respective interests at such time.
There are currently no dividends accrued.
Total of unvested and vested interests excluding those sold.
The number of interests sold during the year for John Hughes JSOP 2011 includes 30,000 shares transferred out of the JSOP.
JSOP interests were sold by the Chairman and Executive Directors on 9 April 2015, at an average price of 434.4 pence per share, resulting in a total gain on sale of 7,004,492.
indd 55 06 03 2016 20:57 Corporate Governance Report of the Remuneration Committee continued Performance Share Plan PSP On 15 April 2015, the Executive Directors received awards under the PSP, which in line with normal practice are nil cost options, as detailed in the table below: As at Awards Awards Awards Awards As at Face value of 1 January granted vested exercised lapsed 31 December awards granted Earliest exercise Latest exercise 1 2015 Number Number Number Number 2015 in 2015 date date David Buttress 95,545 95,545 419,997 15.04.2020 14.04.2025 Mike Wroe 54,597 54,597 239,997 15.04.2020 14.04.2025 1.
The face values for the PSP awards made in 2015 have been calculated using the grant price in accordance with the plan rules.
For the awards granted on 15 April 2015, the grant share price was 439.6 pence which is the average share price over five days immediately preceding the grant date.
Details of the performance measures for the PSP awards granted on 15 April 2015 can be found beneath this table.
The minimum share price in 2015 was 318.3 pence and the maximum share price in 2015 was 496.1 pence.
The closing share price on 31 December 2015 was 493.7 pence.
The performance measures and targets for the PSP awards made in 2015 were based on adjusted EPS and relative TSRperformance.
2017 EPS adjusted as set out below, 50% of award % of that part of the award that vests 10.5 pence or more 100% Between 8.5 pence and 10.5 pence Pro-rata on straight-line basis between 20% and 100% 8.5 pence 20% Less than 8.5 pence 0% TSR 50% of award relative to the constituents, as at 1 January 2015, of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts % of that part of the award that vests Upper quintile or more 100% Between median and upper quintile Pro-rata on straight-line basis between 20% and 100% Median 20% Below median 0% The performance conditions for 2015s PSP will be measured over three financial years to 31 December 2017.
The EPS condition applies to the EPS achieved in the final year only, based on the reported fully diluted EPS subject to such adjustments as the Committee considers appropriate and TSR compares the TSR over the three months prior to the start ofthe financial year in which the grant is made with the three months prior to the end of the third financial year.
The Committee selected these performance conditions as they provide a suitable balance between absolute growth throughEPS and relative out-performance through TSR.
Sharesave scheme The Executive Directors had the opportunity to participate in the HMRC tax advantaged sharesave scheme on the same basis as all other UK employees, for which invitations opened on 10 September 2015.
David Buttress and Mike Wroe have both elected to make the maximum individual employee contribution of 500 per month as permitted under the scheme rules.
As a result, they have received an option over 5,521 shares on this basis.
The options have been granted at a price of 326.0 pence per share, representing a discount of 20% to the prevailing market price at the time of invitation, and vest after three years with the options first becoming exercisable on 1 November 2018.
As at Awards Exercise Awards Awards Awards As at Face value of 1 January granted price vested exercised lapsed 31 December awards granted Earliest exercise Latest exercise 1 2015 Number Pence Number Number Number 2015 in 2015 date date David Buttress 5,521 326.0 5,521 17,998 01.11.2018 30.04.2019 Mike Wroe 5,521 326.0 5,521 17,998 01.11.2018 30.04.2019 1.
Face values for the sharesave awards made in 2015 have been calculated using the grant price in accordance with the plan rules.
For the options granted on 6 October 2015, the grant price was 326.0 pence which is the average share price over three days immediately preceding the issue of invitations, less a 20% discount, as allowed by HMRC rules.
indd 56 06 03 2016 20:57 Corporate Governance Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests audited The table below details the total number of Directors interests in shares for the Chairman and each Executive Director at 31 December 2015.
There are no shareholdings or share interests held by the Non-executive Directors.
The shareholdings and awards set out above include those held by the Chairman and the Executive Directors and their respective connected persons.
Under share ownership guidelines implemented by the Remuneration Committee, Executive Directors are required to build and then maintain a shareholding excluding shares held conditionally under any incentive arrangements but including the number of shares to the value of any vested and exercisable interest under the Companys Joint Share Ownership Plan equivalent to at least 400% of base salary.
At the 2015 year end, the Executive Directors complied with this requirement.
Performance graph and CEO remuneration table unaudited The following graph shows the TSR performance of an investment of 100 in JUST EAT plc shares from its listing in April 2014 to the end of the 2015 financial year compared with a 100 investment in the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts over the same period.
The FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts was chosen as a comparator because it represents a broad equity market index of which the Company is a constituent.
indd 57 09 03 2016 12:34 Corporate Governance Report of the Remuneration Committee continued The table below details the CEO remuneration over the 2015 2014 % change m m same period as presented in the TSR graph: Total gross employee pay 30% 67.5 52.0 Underlying EBITDA 83% 59.7 32.6 Single total figure Long-term incentive ofremuneration Annual bonus pay-out vesting rates against Revenues 58% 247.6 157.0 against maximum % maximum opportunity % 2015 4,536,115 99.7% 100% Consideration by the Directors of matters relating 2014 3,857,963 100% 100% toDirectors remuneration The following Non-executive Directors were members As the Company listed in April 2014, part of the 2014 ofthe Remuneration Committee during the year: remuneration relates to when JUST EAT was a privately Gwyn Burr, Chair: owned group.
Andrew Griffith: Percentage change in remuneration of the Director undertaking the role of CEO unaudited Henri Moissinac: and The table below presents the year-on-year percentage Diego Oliva.
change in remuneration received by the Chief Executive Officer, compared with the change in remuneration received FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP FIT were selected by all UK employees.
All UK employees was chosen as a bythe Committee in 2014 as their remuneration advisors, suitable comparator group as this includes the UK call centre after a tender and presentation process involving four employees and excludes senior management and international leading firms.
FIT exclusively advise the Committee and employees who are on different pay structures.
do not provide any other advice to the Group, nor do they advise management.
This has, the Committee believes, Percentage increase in remuneration between ensured their objectivity and independence.
FIT are 2014 and 2015 members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and CEO All UK employees comply with its voluntary code of conduct in relation Salary 47% 9% to Executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
FITs Short-term incentives 107% 19% professional feesfor 2015 were 129,568 plus VAT and All taxable benefits 70% 27% werecharged onthe basis of the firms standard terms ofbusiness for advice provided.
The rise in salary for the CEO is in line with the The Remuneration Committee also consulted with remuneration policy as approved at the 2015 AGM.
The the Chief Executive Officer, Chief People Officer and rise in taxable benefits for the CEO principally reflects the the Company Secretary who attended, by invitation, annual payment to reimburse the income tax charge arising various Remuneration Committee meetings during the on the beneficial loan amount that is attributable to jointlyyear, although no Executive is permitted to participate owned shares, which applied in 2014 only from the Groups in discussions or decisions regarding his or her own listing in April 2014, whereas in 2015 a full 12 month value remuneration.
Input is also sought from the Chief Finance has been recognised for this benefit.
Relative importance of spend on pay unaudited Statement of voting at general meeting The table to the right details the change in total employee On 13 May 2015, the shareholders approved the 2014 pay between 2014 and 2015 as detailed in note 7 of the Directors remuneration policy and the 2014 Directors financial statements.
In line with our strategic plans, remuneration report as detailed in the table below: earnings have been retained for growth and development of the business and therefore no dividends have been paid Votes for Votes against since the one paid in April 2014 prior to the IPO as part of % of votes cast % of votes cast Votes withheld a capital restructuring.
Underlying EBITDA and Revenues 2014 Directors 422,486,238 2,177,404 141,000 have been used as a comparative measure as these KPIs Remuneration 99.487% 0.513% are used by the Directors to measure performance.
These Report measures have been calculated in line with those in the 2014 Directors 422,824,523 1,839,119 141,000 audited financial statements.
Remuneration 99.567% 0.433% Policy The 2015 Directors remuneration report will be put to an advisory vote at the Companys AGM on 27 April 2016.
indd 58 09 03 2016 12:36 Corporate Governance Appendix to the Directors Remuneration Report For information only: Directors remuneration policy The Directors remuneration policy as set out below was approved by the Companys shareholders at the Companys 2015 AGM held on 13 May 2015.
The section Illustrations of application of remuneration policy has, however, been updated to reflect current salaries and LTIP award levels, and accordingly is presented as part of the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 50.
The policy has been developed mindful of the new Corporate Governance Code and is felt to be appropriate to support the long-term success of the Company while ensuring that it does not promote inappropriate risk-taking.
Executive 1, 2 Directors Base salary Benefits Pension Annual Bonus Plan Element and This is the core element To provide benefits To provide retirement To motivate executives purpose of pay and reflects the valued by recipients.
and incentivise delivery of individuals role and position performance over a one-year within the Group with some operating cycle, focusing on the adjustment to reflect their short medium-term elements of capability and contribution.
Policy and Base salaries will be reviewed The Executive Directors Executive Directors Annual Bonus Plan levels and operation each year by the Committee.
are reimbursed for can receive pension the appropriateness of measures their commuting costs contributions to are reviewed annually at the The Committee does not and associated tax personal pension commencement of each financial strictly follow data but liabilities up to a value arrangements or the year to ensure they continue to uses the median position of 12,000.
Additionally, equivalent amount support our strategy.
as a reference point in they receive a car can be paid as a cash considering, in its judgement, Once set, performance measures allowance or company supplement in lieu of the appropriate level of and targets will generally remain car in the case of the pension contributions salary, having regard to other unchanged for the year, except to CEO, private medical reduced for the impact relevant factors including reflect events such as corporate cover and insurance of employers NICs.
corporate and individual acquisitions or other major benefits.
The Committee performance and any transactions where the Committee reserves discretion to changes in an individuals considers it to be necessary in introduce new benefits role and responsibilities.
its opinion to make appropriate where it concludes that adjustments.
Base salary is paid monthly it is appropriate to do in cash.
Annual Bonus Plan outcomes so, having regard to the are paid in cash following the particular circumstances determination of achievement and to market practice.
against performance measures Where appropriate, and targets.
the Company will meet The Committee will keep under certain costs relating review whether it is appropriate to Executive Director for bonuses to be partly deferred relocations and if into shares.
Where such necessary expatriate arrangements are operated, benefits.
individuals would be able to receive a dividend equivalent in cash or shares equal to the value of dividends which would have accrued during the vesting period.
Clawback provisions apply to the Annual Bonus Plan as explained in more detail on page 62.
Travel and hospitality While the Committee does not consider it to form part of benefits in the normal usage of that term, it has been advised that corporate hospitality whether paid for by the Company or another and business travel for Executive Directors, Non-executive Directors and the Chairman and exceptionally their families may technically come within the applicable rules and so the Committee expressly reserves the right for the Committee to authorise such activities within its agreed policies.
Deemed benefits from JSOP participation Payments to any Director in respect of the deemed cost of interest on loans relating to participation in the JSOP and, if relevant, the writing off of any such loans are benefits within the scope of the Directors remuneration policy.
The value of any such amounts is in addition to the maximum amounts stated in the table above for Benefits for Executive Directors and for Chairman and Non-executive Directors fees.
indd 59 06 03 2016 21:00 Corporate Governance Appendix to the Directors Remuneration Report continued Executive 1, 2 Directors Base salary Benefits Pension Annual Bonus Plan Maximum The Executive Directors It is not possible to The maximum The maximum level of Annual salaries will not be increased prescribe the likely employers contribution Bonus Plan outcomes is 150% so as to exceed the median change in the cost of is limited to up to 10% of base salary per annum for for the equivalent roles in insured benefits or the of base salary, although the CEO and 120% for any companies listed on the cost of some of the other it is not currently other Executive Director for London Stock Exchange with a reported benefits yearanticipated that this theduration of this policy.
market capitalisation ranking to-year, but the provision will increase above the which places them within 30 of benefits will operate current 5% level for the above and 30 below that of within an annual limit of three-year life of this the Company at or around 100,000 plus a further policy.
the time when the Committee 100% of base salary in obtains such benchmark data.
thecase of relocations In practice, the Company and expatriate benefits.
envisages, for the three-year The Committee will life of this policy, further monitor the costs of discounting the data by 20% benefits in practice to reflect the Companys and will ensure that high market capitalisation the overall costs do not torevenue ratio but reserves increase by more than the right not to apply such the Committee considers discount should it consider appropriate in all the that to be necessary to circumstances.
retain or recruit appropriate executives.
Once a suitable market level is achieved, further increases would not normally be more than the average awarded to staff generally.
Performance N A N A N A The performance measures measures applied may be financial or nonfinancial and corporate, divisional or individual and in such proportions as the Committee considers appropriate.
Attaining the threshold level of performance for any measure will not produce a pay-out of more than 25% of the maximum portion of overall Annual Bonus attributable to that measure, with a sliding scale to full pay-out for maximum performance.
However, the Annual Bonus Plan remains a discretionary arrangement and the Committee retains a standard power to apply its judgement to adjust the outcome of the Annual Bonus Plan for any performance measure from zero to any cap should it consider that to be appropriate.
indd 60 06 03 2016 21:00 Corporate Governance Executive Directors Long-term incentives Share ownership guidelines All-employee share plans Element and To motivate and incentivise delivery of sustained performance To further align To encourage share ownership purpose over the long term, and to promote alignment with the interests of by employees, thereby allowing shareholders interests, the Group intends to operate the Executive Directors them to share in the long-term Performance Share Plan PSP.
The Company also has the with those of success of the Group and align ability to grant market value options under an Employee Share shareholders.
their interests with those of the Option Scheme ESOS, although it is not currently intended shareholders.
that Executive Directors will receive awards under the ESOS.
Policy and Awards under the PSP may be granted as nil-cost options, Executive Directors The Company-operated operation conditional awards and forfeitable shares which vest to the are expected to Sharesave Scheme and Share extent performance conditions are satisfied over a period of retain 50% of the Incentive Plan are all-employee atleast three years.
ordinary shares share plans established under vesting under all HMRC tax-advantaged regimes Under the PSP plan rules, vested awards may also be settled share plans, after and follow the usual form for incash.
any disposals for such plans.
The PSP rules allow that the number of shares subject to the payment of Executive Directors are able to vested PSP awards may be increased to reflect the value of applicable taxes, until participate in all-employee share dividends that would have been paid in respect of any exthey have achieved plans on the same terms as other dividend dates falling between the grant of awards and the the required level Group employees.
expiry of any vesting and holding period for awards.
of shareholding currently 400% Vested awards will be subject to a two-year holding period ofsalary.
during which time awards may not be exercised or released but are no longer contingent on future employment.
Clawback provisions apply to PSP awards and are explained inmore detail on page 62.
The Company will honour the vesting of all awards granted under previous policies in accordance with the terms of such awards: in particular, outstanding JSOP awards and related loans will continue on their terms.
400% of base salary The maximum participation Maximum The PSP allows for awards over shares with a maximum for all Executive levels for all-employee share value as at the date of award of 200% of base salary per Directors.
plans will be the limits for such financial year, which may be increased to 300% in exceptional plans set by HMRC from time circumstances.
The ESOS allows for market value options over shares with reserves the power a maximum value as at the date of award of 300% of base to amend but not salary per financial year, which may be increased to 400% reduce these levels inexceptional circumstances.
The Committee expressly reserves discretion to make such awards as it considers appropriate within these limits although, as stated above, it is not currently intended that Executive Directors will receive awards under the ESOS.
Performance The Committee may set such performance conditions on PSP N A Consistent with normal practice, measures awards as it considers appropriate whether financial or nonsuch awards are not subject to financial and whether corporate, divisional or individual.
Once set, performance measures and targets will generally remain unaltered unless events occur which, in the Committees opinion, make it appropriate to alter the performance conditions in such manner as the Committee thinks fit.
Performance periods may be over such periods as the Committee selects at grant, which will not normally be less than but may be longer than three years.
No more than 20% of awards vest for attaining the threshold level of performance conditions.
indd 61 06 03 2016 21:00 Corporate Governance Appendix to the Directors Remuneration Report continued Clawback Chairman and 1, 2 Non-executive Directors Chairman and Non-executive Director fees Clawback being the ability of the Company to claim Element and purpose To enable the Company to recruit and repayment of paid amounts as a debt within two years of retain a Chairman and Non-executive payment provisions apply to the Annual Bonus Plan and Directors of the highest calibre, at the PSP in certain circumstances e. g. misstatement of accounts, appropriate cost.
miscalculation of vesting payouts and an act omission that Policy and operation The fees paid to the Chairman and justifies summary dismissal for misconduct which has no to Non-executive Directors aim to be time limit.
competitive with other fully-listed companies of equivalent size and Stating maximum amounts for the complexity.
remunerationpolicy The fees payable to the Non-executive The Directors Remuneration Report regulations and related Directors are determined by the Board.
investor guidance encourage companies to disclose a cap The fees payable to the Chairman within which each element of the Directors remuneration are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Where maximum amounts for elements of remuneration have been set within the Directors All fees will be subject to periodic review.
For Non-executive Directors remuneration policy, these will operate simply as caps and the fee structures may involve separate are not indicative of any aspiration.
fees for chairing or for membership of Board committees.
Differences between the policy on remuneration Non-executive Directors will not for Directors from the policy on remuneration of participate in any new cash or otheremployees share incentive arrangements from While the appropriate benchmarks vary by role, the Admission.
Company seeks to apply the philosophy behind this policy No benefits are envisaged for the across the Company as a whole.
Where JUST EATs pay Non-executive Directors including the policy for Directors differs from its pay policies for groups of Chairman but the Company reserves employees, this reflects the appropriate market rate position the right to provide benefits including travel and office support within the for the relevant roles.
The Company takes into account pay prescribed limits.
levels, bonusopportunity and share awards applied across Fees are paid monthly in cash.
the Group as a whole when setting the Executive Directors remuneration policy.
Maximum The aggregate fees and any benefits of the Chairman and Non-executive Variations in share capital Directors will not exceed the limit The LTIP and ESOS contain standard provisions that allow from time to time prescribed within for the adjustment of awards to take account of variations the Companys Articles of Association for such fees currently 2million per inshare capital, demergers, special dividends, etc.
Any increases actually made will be appropriately disclosed.
indd 62 06 03 2016 21:00 Corporate Governance For the Chairman and each Non-executive Director the Service contracts effective date of their latest letter of appointment is: Executive Directors The Committees policy is that each Executive Directors service agreement should be of indefinite duration, subject Name Date of Appointment Term to termination by the Company on 12 months notice or six John Hughes CBE 15 December 2011 2 years months notice by the individual.
The service agreements Benjamin Holmes 10 July 2009 2 years 1 ofall Executive Directors comply with that policy.
Michael Risman 12 March 2014 2 years Frederic Coorevits 10 July 2009 2 years The service agreements reserve the right for the Andrew Griffith 12 March 2014 2 years Companyto make a payment in lieu of notice to an Gwyn Burr 12 March 2014 2 years Executive Director for the amount of 1.2 and 1.1 times Henri Moissinac 1 August 2014 2 years for the CEO and CFO respectively of base salary for the Diego Oliva 24 September 2015 2 years notice period if notice is served on or after 1 January 2015.
The small premium to base salary reflects the Companys 1.
Mr. Risman also acted as the primary representative of the former corporate director estimate of fixed benefits costs.
Such sums may be paid in of the Company, Vitruvian Directors I Limited, from April 2012 to March 2014. instalments and would cease or be reduced if the individual The letters of appointment of the Non-executive Directors finds an alternative role.
Contracts do not contain change are available for inspection at the Companys registered of control provisions but do contain provisions allowing for office during normal business hours and at the Companys summary termination.
AGM, including during the 15 minutes preceding this.
The Committee reserves flexibility, for an appropriate candidate in exceptional circumstances only, to introduce a longer initial notice period of up to two years reducing overtime.
The date of each Executive Directors contract is: Contract date David Buttress 8 April 2014 Mike Wroe 8 April 2014 The service agreements of the Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the Companys AGM, including during the 15 minutes preceding this.
Chairman and Non-executive Directors Each Non-executive Director and the Chairman is engaged for an initial period of two years, subject to annual renewal at the AGM.
For Non-executive Directors, other than the Chairman, these engagements can be terminated by either party on three months notice.
The Non-executive Directors cannot participate in new awards under the Companys incentive plans from Admission, are not entitled to any pension benefits and are not entitled to any payment in compensation for early termination of their appointment beyond the three months notice referred to above.
indd 63 06 03 2016 21:00 Corporate Governance Appendix to the Directors Remuneration Report continued For external candidates, it may be necessary to make Recruitment remuneration policy additional awards in connection with the recruitment to The Companys recruitment remuneration policy aims buy-out awards forfeited by the individual on leaving a to give the Committee sufficient flexibility to secure the previous employer.
For the avoidance of doubt, buy-out appointment and promotion of high-calibre executives awards are not subject to a formal cap.
to strengthen the management team and secure the skill sets to deliver the Groups strategic aims.
However, For any buy-outs the Company will not pay more than is, in as an external recruitment at director level has not yet the view of the Committee, necessary and will in all cases taken place, the preparation of this policy is challenging seek, in the first instance, to deliver any such awards under as it provides for an event which has not been the the terms of the existing Annual Bonus Plan and long-term Companyspractice.
It may, however, be necessary in some cases to make buy-out awards on terms that are more bespoke than In terms of the principles for setting a package for a new the existing Annual Bonus Plan and long-term incentives.
Executive Director, the starting point for the Committee will be to apply the general policy for Executive Directors All buy-outs, whether under the Annual Bonus Plan, as set out on the previous pages and structure a package in long-term incentives or otherwise, will take account of the accordance with that policy.
Consistent with the Directors service obligations and performance requirements for any Remuneration Report Regulations, the caps contained remuneration relinquished by the individual when leaving within the policy for fixed pay do not apply to new recruits, a previous employer.
The Committee will seek to make although the Committee would not envisage exceeding buy-outs subject to what are, in its opinion, comparable these caps in practice.
requirements in respect of service and performance.
However, the Committee may choose to relax this The Annual Bonus Plan and long-term incentives will requirement in certain cases such as where the service operate including the maximum award levels as detailed and or performance requirements are materially completed, in the general policy in relation to any newly appointed or where such factors are, in the view of the Committee, Executive Director.
Any recruitment-related long-term reflected in some other way, such as a significant discount incentive awards which are not buy-outs will be subject to the face value of the awards forfeited and where the to the limits as stated in the general policy e. g. 300% in Committee considers it to be in the interests of shareholders.
Details of any recruitment-related awards will beappropriately disclosed.
A new Non-executive Director would be recruited on the terms explained above in respect of the main policy for For an internal appointment, any variable pay element suchDirectors.
awarded in respect of the prior role may either continue on its original terms or be adjusted to reflect the new appointment as appropriate.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses as it considers appropriate.
indd 64 06 03 2016 21:00 Corporate Governance Termination policy summary It is appropriate for the Committee to consider treatment on a termination having regard for all of the relevant facts and circumstances available at that time.
This policy applies both to any negotiations linked to notice periods on a termination see Service contracts on page 63 and any treatments that the Committee may choose to apply under the discretions available to it under the terms of the Annual Bonus Plan and PSP plans.
The potential treatment on termination under these plans are summarised in the table below.
If a leaver is deemed to be a bad leaver: for If a leaver is deemed to be a good leaver: for example, leaving example, leaving for disciplinary reasons or Other exceptional cases: Incentives through death or otherwise at the discretion of the Committee to join a competitor e. g. change in control Annual Bonus The Committee has discretion to determine the No awards made.
The Committee has discretion to Plan Annual Bonus which will typically be limited determine the Annual Bonus.
to the period actually worked.
PSP Receive a pro-rated award subject to the All awards will normally lapse.
Receive a pro-rated award application of the performance conditions at subject to the application of the end of the normal performance period.
the performance conditions at the date of the event, subject to The Committee retains standard discretions standard Committee discretions to either vary time pro-rating or to accelerate to vary time pro-rating.
vesting and release any holding period to the earlier date of cessation determining the performance conditions at that time.
Under the JSOP, good leavers will retain the rights to any vested portions of their awards for a period and bad leavers will have their awards repurchased at cost.
SIP and the Sharesave Scheme provide treatments for leavers in line with HMRC rules for such plans.
The Company has the power to enter into settlement agreements with Directors and to pay compensation to settle potential legal claims.
In addition, and consistent with market practice, in the event of the termination of an Executive Director, the Company may pay a contribution towards that individuals legal fees and fees for outplacement services as part of a negotiated settlement.
Any such fees will be disclosed as part of the detail of termination arrangements.
For the avoidance of doubt, the policy does not include an explicit cap on the cost of termination payments.
External appointments The Companys policy is to permit an Executive Director to serve as a Non-executive Director elsewhere when this does not conflict with the individuals duties to the Company, and where an Executive Director takes such a role, they will be entitled to retain any fees which they earn from that appointment.
No Executive Director currently holds such an appointment.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Pay and employment conditions generally in the Group are taken into account when setting Executive Directors remuneration.
The Committee receives regular updates on overall pay and conditions in the Group, including but not limited to changes in base pay and any staff bonus pools in operation.
There is also oversight of the all-employee share schemes which Executive Directors and all other Group employees can participate in on the same terms and conditions.
Reflecting standard practice, the Company did not consult with employees in preparing this Remuneration Report.
