Remuneration term expiring in February 2017, In addition to their fees, the Directors Remuneration renewable thereafter at the discretion were paid all out of pocket expenses of the Board.
Directors appointments can incurred in attending meetings of the As a Jersey-incorporated and be terminated with three months notice Board or Committees or with our domiciled company, KWE is not and the Company is entitled to make a shareholders or otherwise in connection subject to statutory UK remuneration payment in lieu of the notice period on with the discharge of their duties.
disclosures, but the Board recognises termination.
The letters of appointment the importance of effective corporate provide that the office of a Director can Interests of Directors in share capital governance and transparency in be terminated with immediate effect Table 2 below shows the Non-Executive this field.
This section sets out the without notice or payment in lieu of Directors shareholdings.
remuneration arrangements for notice in certain circumstances including the Board.
fraud, dishonesty or serious misconduct, There have been no changes in these bankruptcy, disqualification as a director interests in the period between 31 As detailed earlier in this report, as or material breach of obligations under December 2015 and 25 February 2016 the Company is an externally managed their respective letters of appointment.
being the date of approval of this report.
vehicle and has no executive directors or internal management, the Board has decided that it is not necessary Directors remuneration report There have been no payments to former for a remuneration committee to be Although not required to do so under Directors and no payments to Directors constituted.
This situation will be kept Jersey law, the Company has decided, for loss of office during the financial under review by the Board and the in line with best practice, to seek year ended 31 December 2015.
As a shareholder approval of its Directors consequence, the Board, as a whole, remuneration report.
The vote is is responsible for discussions and advisory, and the Directors entitlement decisions regarding remuneration.
to remuneration is not conditional on it.
No Director is involved in any decisions in respect of their own individual Non-Executive Directors fees remuneration.
Matters relating to the Table 1 below sets out the Non-Executive remuneration and fee of the Investment Directors fees.
The fees were set in 2014 Manager are considered by the and have not been changed to date.
Approach to Directors Table 1 Non-Executive Directors fees remuneration Our Directors are entitled to such Board remuneration as the Board may Committees determine, subject to any limitation supplemental which the Company may set by ordinary Director Fee fee Total fee resolution.
In addition, our Directors Charlotte Valeur 120,000 25,000 145,000 are entitled to be paid all out of pocket 1 William McMorrow expenses incurred in attending meetings of the Board or its Committees or Mark McNicholas 75,000 25,000 100,000 with our shareholders or otherwise in Simon Radford 75,000 25,000 100,000 connection with the discharge of their 1 Mary Ricks duties.
The fees paid are set out in the table below, being the fees that the Footnote: Non-Executive Directors are entitled 1.
The Investment Manager has waived the right to receive fees for the members of the Board to receive pursuant to their letters of nominated by it as Directors or as members of any Board Committee appointment with the Company.
Table 2 Interests of Directors in share capital The aggregate remuneration and benefits in kind of our Directors in As at 31 December 2014 At 31 December 2015 respect of any financial year are payable Number of % of holding Number of % of holding 2 2 out of the assets of the Company.
Director shares held in Company shares held in Company The Directors do not have contracts Charlotte Valeur Chair of employment, but hold their office William McMorrow 80,916 0.06 80,916 0.06 in accordance with their letters of Mark McNicholas appointment and the articles of association of the Company.
Each Simon Radford Director has a letter of appointment Mary Ricks 80,916 0.06 120,916 0.09 dated 10 February 2014.
The Directors are appointed for an initial three-year Footnote: 2.
Based on the issued share capital of the Company at such date 76 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
