Directors remuneration report 2016 will be a pivotal year for the business.
The Remuneration Committee is committed to ensuring that remuneration arrangements at Ladbrokes continue to support its objectives.
Dear shareholder As the Chairman of the Ladbrokes Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the 2015 Directors Remuneration Report, which has been prepared in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Listing Rules, section 421 of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 ofthe Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Account and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
TheReport is set out in two parts: Our remuneration policy Policy Report which was approved by shareholders on 7 May 2014.
For clarity wehave updated the Policy Report to reflect 2016 figureswhere relevant.
There will be no vote on this sectionat the 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM : and Our Annual Report on Remuneration detailing how our policywas implemented in the year ending 31 December 2015 and how it will be implemented in the year ending 31December 2016, which is subject to an advisory vote.
David Martin Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Impact on remuneration of key events in 2015 2015 performance 2015 has been a momentous year for Ladbrokes.
In June, In July 2015, Jim Mullen laid out his strategy and whilst still our newly appointed Chief Executive, Jim Mullen, announced earlydays, customer metrics in H2 have been encouraging.
a three-year strategic plan to build a stronger Ladbrokes.
Operating profit of 80.6 million for the year reflects the The proposed merger with Gala Coral fast-tracks progress to increased marketing spend in line with the new strategy and the scale proposed under the strategic plan and was approved c. 50 million increase in gambling taxation.
by shareholders at the General Meeting on 24November 2015.
For the 2015 annual bonus, up to 60% of the maximum bonus Notwithstanding these significant corporate changes, the opportunity was dependent on stretching profit targets with the principles underpinning the Ladbrokes remuneration policy remainder dependent on individual objectives.
For the Chief stillremain applicable and are unchanged from last year.
Executive and Chief Financial Officer this included a number of Theseremuneration principles are to: financial and strategic measures which were primarily focused on the delivery of the new strategy for Ladbrokes and work on Be strongly aligned with shareholder value creation: the proposed merger.
Support the achievement of organisational goals and be In 2015, the operating profit excluding High Rollers was aligned with long-term business strategy: 80.6mwhich is above the threshold requirement of 80.4m.
Enable the Company to attract, retain and motivate key Therefore, for achieving this level of profit, the Chief Executive individuals: and received 27,316 which is 7% of his salary pro-rated forhis Be positioned competitively against best market practice, tenure as Chief Executive in 2015.
The Chief Executive also while paying no more than necessary.
achieved his personal objectives to a satisfactory level therefore After the announcement of the new strategic plan and in total he received 97,891 which is26% of his salary pro-rated proposed merger, the Remuneration Committee reviewed for his tenure as Chief Executive in 2015.
The Chief Financial theremuneration arrangements across the business to assess Officer received 101,502 which is 25% of his salary.
For the whether current arrangements continue to align with these Chief Executive, athird of the earned bonus was deferred into principles.
The review showed that the existing arrangements shares for three years.
As the bonus targets were reset for the broadly continue to support Ladbrokes objectives: however new strategy on1 July 2015, the Remuneration Committee has changes were required to the 2015 bonus.
ensured thatthe bonus payouts reflect the performance outcome of thesecond half of the year.
The new strategy requires significant up-front investment in Ladbrokes core businesses.
Although these investments will Further details on the 2015 bonus targets and resulting bonus build a materially stronger business in the medium long term, outcomes can be found on page 64. these do impact profits in the short term.
Therefore, toensure The 2013 awards under the Performance Share Plan PSP that our employees are incentivised to implement ourstrategy, were based 50% on three-year Earnings per Share EPS the 2015 bonus PBIT threshold, on-target andstretch numbers performance and 50% on three-year Total Shareholder Return were changed from 95m, 110m and 120m to 80.4m, TSR to the end of 2015.
Neither the EPS nor TSR threshold 90mand 101.25m respectively which takes into account targets were met, therefore the 2013 PSP awards will lapse fully.
thestrategic investment made by Ladbrokes in the business The third and final performance test of the Ladbrokes Growth inthe second half of the year.
Further details on resulting bonus Plan LGP, a one-off share plan, was measured at the end of payouts are provided later inthis statement.
No additional shares were earned as the share price We have also granted a number of share and cash-based did not exceed the share price required during the performance awards to key below-Board colleagues to aid retention over measurement period.
However, as per the rules of the plan, a thecritical merger period.
These awards are likely to vest third of shares earned from the first performance test at the end in2016 and 2017.
None of the executive directors have received of June 2013 by the Chief Financial Officer and by the former an award linked to retention in relation to the merger.
Chief Executive vested in August 2015.
At the 2015 AGM, Ladbrokes received a 69.8% vote in favour Ladbrokes remuneration in 2016 ofthe 2014 annual report on remuneration.
The Board notes A key event for Ladbrokes in 2016 is the outcome of the thelevel of votes against the report primarily related to Richard proposed merger with Gala Coral.
The Committee intends Glynns termination arrangements.
Richard Glynns termination tocontinue to operate its existing remuneration programmes arrangements were agreed at the time of his recruitment and until the proposed merger with Gala Coral, including a 2016 were determined to be in line with UK damages principles.
TheRemuneration Committee understands that contracts ofthis type are no longer best practice and confirms the termination arrangements for current executive directors areinline with market practice and will be determined usingpayment in lieu of notice PILON principles.
com If the merger is confirmed, the Remuneration Committee will He will receive his 2015 annual bonus in cash which is equal review the existing remuneration policy prior to completion to to101,502: determine whether any revisions are required to ensure the His 2015 PSP share award will vest at the normal vesting policy continues to be appropriate for the enlarged Group datesubject to the extent which performance conditions have post-completion.
Any revisions will be offered for shareholder been satisfied.
In recognition of his contribution to Ladbrokes, approval at a General Meeting once this review hasbeen the Committee has disapplied any time pro-ration to his 2015 completed.
The pay structure for executive directors of PSP award and will not apply a two-year holding period: and theenlarged Group post-completion will reflect their roles The temporary monthly allowance of 10,000 paid to Ian Bull andresponsibilities and will reflect market norms for those from 1 March 2015 to 30 November 2015 was not taken into executives who will remain with the enlarged Group longer term.
account when calculating his termination arrangements.
Upon merger, Ladbrokes outstanding incentives will be treated As announced on 11 December 2015, Richard Snow, Director in line with plan rules.
It is anticipated that outstanding awards of Investor Relations became the acting Chief Financial Officer granted under the PSP will be rolled over into Ladbrokes upon Ian Bulls departure on 26 February 2016.
He will not join Coralshares.
the Board but will be invited to attend Board meetings.
Certain performance targets and measures attached to the We have also had a number of changes to non-executive 2015 and 2016 PSP will require review and potential revision director membership of the Board.
Peter Erskine stood down upon merger to reflect and incentivise the objectives of the from the Board in December 2015, with John Kelly appointed enlarged Group.
Shareholders will be consulted with regard to Non-Executive Chairman.
John Kellys annual fee for this role is any proposed changes.
Upon John Kellys appointment, Christine Hodgson Other became the acting senior independent non-executive director There have been a number of changes in Board membership and will receivea total annual fee of 70,000.
Jim Mullen became the new Chief Executive of joined theBoard on 3December 2015 will receive a total annual Ladbrokes on 1 April 2015.
His remuneration arrangements in feeof70,000 which takes into account his role as Audit 2015 arein line with the approved policy and consist of a base Committee Chair.
salary of 500,000 p. a. : a bonus of up to 170% of base salary, 2016 will be a pivotal year for the business.
The Remuneration one-third of which will be deferred for three years: a pension Committee is committed to ensuring that remuneration allowance of 22.5% of his base salary and benefits worth arrangements at Ladbrokes continue to support its objectives.
c. 15,000 which includes car allowance and private healthcare.
The Remuneration Committee values all feedback from In 2015, Jim Mullen received a share award equal to200% shareholders, and hopes to receive your support at the ofhis base salary under the PSP.
This award has stretching forthcoming AGM.
performance conditions attached to its vesting.
Effective from 1March 2016, Jim Mullens base salary will be 525,000 p. a.
POLICY REPORT This salary increase takes into account his performance over the year and his below-market positioning.
We also intend The following sections set out the Directors Remuneration togrant a PSP award in 2016 equal to 175% of his salary Policy the Policy.
The Policy was approved by shareholders at1January 2016, 500,000 p. a. which is in line with the atthe 2014 AGM on 7 May 2014. approved policy.
All other arrangements remain the same For avoidance of doubt, it is the Companys policy to honour andare in line with the approved policy.
infull any pre-existing obligations that have been entered Ian Bull will be leaving Ladbrokes before the end of February intoprior to the effective date of this Policy.
His termination arrangements are in line with the key Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any terms and conditions detailed in his service contract: remuneration payments and payments for loss of office notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy, He will receive six months pay in lieu of notice which will be wherethe terms of these payments were agreed: paidin six monthly instalments and is equivalent to salary, pension and benefits that would have been paid to him i before the Policy came into effect: or duringthis time.
He received his first monthly instalment of ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director 42,500 in November 2015.
The remainder will be paid in ofthe Company and, in the opinion of the Remuneration thefive months following his departure: Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the His termination agreement stated that his pay in lieu of notice individual becoming a director of the Company.
will be reduced accordingly if he finds alternative employment.
Ian Bull has found alternative employment at Parkdean Resortstherefore his remaining payments will be reduced accordingly.
These amounts are yet to be determined and will be disclosed in next years Annual Report: Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53 Governance Directors remuneration report continued For these purposes payments includes the Remuneration Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation toan award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Further details regarding the operation of the Policy can be found on pages 63 to 71 of this report.
Policy table Fixed remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Salary Core element of remuneration Salaries are typically reviewed annually Salary increases for executive Overall performance of the reflecting the size and scope of by the Remuneration Committee with directors will normally be in business and the individual an individuals responsibilities.
any change normally being effective line with increases for the are key considerations in from 1 March of each year.
There is no setting salary levels.
Salary levels are set at a maximum salary opportunity.
level to attract and retain the The Remuneration Committee typically talent necessary to deliver the takes into consideration a number Higher increases may businessstrategy.
of internal and external factors when be awarded in individual setting salaries, including: circumstances, at the Remuneration Committees business and individual performance: discretion, including, but not the individuals skills and experience: limited to: affordability: a significant increase in inflation: scope and or responsibility market positioning: and of the role: or pay and conditions elsewhere if a new executive director is intheGroup.
appointed at a lower salary which is to be aligned with The Remuneration Committee has market over time based on the discretion to review salaries at any performance.
point as it considers appropriate.
Benefits Fixed element of remuneration Benefits to executive directors may Whilst no maximum monetary None.
providing market competitive include private healthcare for the value exists, benefits are benefit to support the attraction executive director and his family, set by taking into account and retention of talent.
critical illness, disability and life a number of factors assurance, injury in service benefits, including market practice an allowance for tax advice and a cash for comparable roles within allowance in lieu of a company car.
appropriate pay comparators and taking into account The Remuneration Committee keeps individual circumstances, the benefits offered, the policies and e. g. relocation.
Participation in the Share The Remuneration Committee may Incentive Plan and the also remove benefits that executive Savings-Related Share directors receive or introduce other Option Scheme is limited benefits if it considers it is appropriate tothe maximum award to do so.
levelspermitted by the Where executive directors are relevant legislation.
requiredto relocate or complete an international assignment, the Remuneration Committee may offer additional benefits, if considered appropriate, or vary benefits according to local practice.
Executive directors are also eligible to participate in the Companys two all-employee share plans the Share Incentive Plan and the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme on the same basis as other eligible colleagues.
com Fixed remuneration continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Retirement benefits Fixed element of remuneration Executive directors can opt to join In general, the levels of None.
to assist with retirement planning the Companys defined contribution cash supplement and or which supports the attraction scheme or take a cash supplement employer defined contribution and retention of talent.
provided are intended to be broadly market typical for The Remuneration Committee keeps the role.
The Remuneration the cash supplement and or employer Committee reserves the right defined contribution level under to make adjustments to these regularreview.
levels in the event of market The cash supplement is not included in movements.
calculating annual bonus or long-term Whilst there is no maximum incentive quantum.
pension level, the current level is 22.5% of base salary.
Variable remuneration Annual bonus Incentivise performance on Performance is measured over 170% of base salary Performance is measured an annual basis against key oneyear: bonus is payable after for the Chief Executive, against a combination of financial metrics and demanding theyear end.
130% of salary for other financial measures currently individual objectives.
profit-based and strategic Measures and targets are and or individual objectives.
Deferral into shares is intended reviewed and determined by the At least 60% of the bonus to enhance shareholder  annually.
will be based on financial alignment and reinforce TheRemuneration Committee measures and the remainder retention.
reviewsthe performance against on strategic and or individual thesetargetsafter the year end to objectives.
No bonus will be determine thelevel of bonus pay-out.
awarded if a base level of A portion of any bonus earned profit is not achieved in the currently one-third is compulsorily bonus year.
deferred into an award of shares Strategic and individual or equivalents in nil-cost options measures selected may or cash under the deferred bonus vary each year depending plan DBP.
These shares are not on business context and subject to any further performance strategy, and will be weighted conditions, will not normally vest for accordingly to business a period of at least three years and priorities.
These objectives are forfeitable if the participant leaves are reviewed and approved employment before the vesting date by the Remuneration unless the Remuneration Committee Committee at the start decidesotherwise.
Participants may receive the value Between 0% and 100% in cash or shares of dividends paid of the maximum award on shares that vest in respect of applies for achievement the period between the grant and between base level of satisfaction of a deferred bonus award.
profit and a personal rating In line with the UK Corporate of 3 which is considered Governance Code, malus provisions to be good performance apply under which the Remuneration measured against the Committee may cancel or reduce Companys high standards vesting of unvested awards or impose and stretchperformance further conditions on those awards in targets and apersonal rating the event of a material misstatement of 5 which is considered to of the Groups financial results or betruly exceptional.
The annual bonus is operated in accordance with the terms of the annual bonus plan and DBP rules which include the capacity for the Remuneration Committee to adjust oramend the terms of the awards.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Variable remuneration continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Performance Share Plan PSP Promotes the long-term Awards will be structured in the The normal award levels as Awards vest based on successof the business.
form of conditional share awards a percentage of base salary performance against a or equivalents in nil-cost options or will be 175% for the Chief combination of performance Incentivises executives and the cash with vesting dependent on the Executive and 150% for other measures.
broader senior management achievement of stretching performance executive directors.
team to deliver performance At least 50% of the award measures over at least three years.
The Remuneration Committee will be based on financial For awards granted in 2015 onwards will have the discretion to measures and a further Helps retain executives.
vested shares will be mandatorily held make higher awards in portion of no more than Share based to provide for an additional two years by executive exceptional circumstances 50% will be based on greateralignment with directors.
subject to the individual plan TSR performance.
balance would be linked to Dividends or equivalents may accrue performance against specific during the vesting period only on strategic objectives.
For threshold levels of In line with the UK Corporate performance up to 25% of Governance Code, malus provisions the award vests, increasing apply under which the Remuneration on a straight line basis to Committee may cancel or reduce 100% of the award for vesting of unvested awards or impose maximum performance.
further conditions on those awards in the event of a material misstatement In line with the rules of of the Groups financial results or gross the PSP, the performance misconduct.
condition may be replaced or varied if an event occurs The PSP is operated in accordance or circumstances arise, with the terms of the PSP rules e. g. a significant regulatory which was approved by shareholders change, which causes the on 18 May 2007 and include the Committee, acting fairly and Remuneration Committees capacity reasonably, to determine that to adjust or amend the terms of the a substituted or amended awards.
performance condition would be appropriate taking into account the interests of the shareholders of the Company provided that the amended performance condition would continue to achieve its original purpose.
Notes to the policy table measures under the PSP with the long-term strategy and There have been no changes to the policy table from the policy priorities of the Company and considers that strong table presented in the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report.
performance under these metrics should result in sustainable long-term growth.
Performance measures annual bonus The Remuneration Committee considers that a combination The annual bonus performance measures are chosen to offinancial and strategic measures and a measure of value provide an appropriate balance between incentivising executive delivered to shareholders is most appropriate when measuring directors to meet financial targets for the year and to deliver long-term sustainable performance at Ladbrokes.
The use of a specific strategic, operational and individual goals.
This balance scorecard of measures recognises and rewards performance allows the Remuneration Committee to reward performance against a wide range of relevant measures and helps ensure effectively against the key elements of our strategy.
awards are less all or nothing, and therefore more motivational.
The precise bonus targets are set by the Remuneration Additional disclosure legacy arrangements LGP Committee each year to ensure that executive directors are The LGP was approved by shareholders on 14 May 2010. appropriately focused on the key objectives for the next 12 Fulldetails of the LGP were set out in the circular sent to months.
In doing so, the Remuneration Committee intends shareholders seeking approval for the LGP at the time of totake into account a number of internal and external implementation.
As a legacy arrangement which has now referencepoints, including the Companys business plan.
expired, the LGP is not included within the policy table above Performance measures PSP orin the rest of this policy report.
However, we have chosen to The ultimate goal of our strategy is to provide long-term voluntarily disclose summary details of the LGP here for ease sustainable returns to shareholders.
Committee strives to achieve this by aligning the performance 56 ladbrokesplc.
com Purpose and link to strategy The LGP was a one-off receive up to a four times matching award in respect of that long-term incentive plan which was designed to incentivise investment.
The matching award normally only vested to over 140 key senior executives to support revitalisation of theextent this investment is retained.
In the case of the then thebusiness and create significant, sustainable long-term Chief Executive, he was required to invest in c. 1million shareholder value.
The plan rewarded value creation of Ladbrokes shares and was eligible to receive a four times between 400m to 1.3bn for shareholders.
Operation One-off awards were made under this plan Performance measures Awards were subject to share in 2010 to the then Chief Executive and in 2011 to other price performance conditions.
Any share price target must be participants.
No further awards will be made under the plan attained throughout a period of 30 consecutive dealing days.
The performance period for all 25% of the award would have vested if a share price of 2.00 awards is five years, which began in June 2010 and ended in was achieved.
100% of the award would have vested if a June 2015.
A portion of the award was eligible for vesting at share price of 2.97 was achieved.
Vesting was on a straight the end of year three of the performance period June 2013. line basis between the minimum and maximum share price In 2013, 40.7% of the maximum award did vest, as a share targets, i. e. between 2.00 and 2.97.
A share price of price of 220.7 pence was maintained for a period of 30 220.7 pence was maintained at the end of year three consecutive dealing days.
No further vesting occurred at therefore 40.7% of the maximum award vested.
theend of year four June 2014 or at the end of year five The Remuneration Committee had the authority to amend the June 2015.
Participants may receive the value of dividends targets if it is necessary to take account of exceptional factors paid on any vested shares.
including, for example, corporate events or exceptional Maximum opportunity Executive directors were required marketor industry factors which would otherwise render to invest up to 150% of base salary in shares and could thetargets inappropriate.
Timeframe of remuneration arrangements The table below shows the timeframe of executive directors remuneration arrangements.
Element of remuneration 2016 Y Y 1 Y 2 Y 3 Y 4 Y 5 Salary 100% paid Benefits including retirement benefits 2 3 paid in cash Performance Annual bonus period 1 3 deferred as shares for three-years and subject to malus Performance period 100% subject to two-year holding period Award exercisable PSP Remuneration arrangements throughout the Company The remuneration policy for our executive directors is designed to be aligned with the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration for the wider Group.
Although there are differences in pay between the executive directors and the wider colleague population, all reward arrangements are built around the common objectives and principles outlined below: Remuneration objectives Arrangement s used for wider Group Be strongly aligned with shareholder value creation.
Key personnel participate in PSP with the same performance metrics as for executive directors.
Support the achievement of organisational goals and be aligned Two all-employee share incentive schemes are in operation the Share with long-term business strategy.
Incentive Plan and the Savings-Related Share Option Scheme to Enable the Company to attract, retain and motivate key individuals.
Be positioned competitively against market practice, while paying Key Group financial measures under colleague bonus arrangements no more than necessary.
are aligned with those for executive directors to ensure consistency across the organisation and delivery of strategic goals.
Colleagues also have relevant and therefore motivational team and individual targets to focusthe team on key deliverables in their area of business.
Use of survey data to ensure all elements of remuneration are aligned with market as appropriate.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Chairman and non-executive directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Non-Executive Chairman and non-executive directors NEDs fees Sole element of remuneration, The Non-Executive Chairman receives Whilst there is no maximum None.
paid for fulfilling the relevant role.
an all-inclusive fee for the role.
individual fee level, fees are set at a level which is The remuneration of the Non-Executive considered appropriate to Chairman is set by the Remuneration attract and retain the calibre Committee.
The Non-Executive of individual required by the Chairman receives a basic annual fee.
Company, but the Company NEDs receive a basic annual fee in avoids paying more than respect of their Board duties.
Further necessary for this purpose.
fees are paid to NEDs in respect of The Board may determine chairmanship and membership of fee increases at any point as certain Board committees.
it considers appropriate in Fees are normally based on the line with market movements level of fees paid to Chairmen and and to take into account the NEDs serving on boards of similar time commitment and duties companies, the time commitment involved.
required of the role and the duties Fees are paid for the following involved and take into consideration roles duties: the requirement to attract and retain Non-Executive Chairman: the quality of individuals required by theCompany.
senior independent non-executive director: Fees are normally reviewed at least once annually.
other NEDs: The Board is responsible for supplementary fee determining fees for other NEDs, forchair of the Audit although the NEDs are not involved in orRemuneration discussions about their own fees.
Committee : and There are currently no clawback supplementary fee for provisions in place to enable recovery membership of the Audit of sums paid.
Fees are normally paid in cash, although the Company retains the right The Chairman and NEDs to settle all part of the fees as shares of will not be eligible for annual equivalent value.
bonus, share incentives and pensions.
Reasonable expenses, e. g. travel, accommodation and subsistence associated with Chairman and NEDs duties will be reimbursed, including any tax due on the benefits.
Not paid to Chairman or senior non-executive independent director Recruitment policy Salaries will reflect the skills and experience of the individual, Principles and approach and may be set at a level to allow future salary progression to In determining remuneration arrangements for new reflect performance in the role.
The Committee also retains appointments to the Board including internal promotions, the right to determine that in the first year of appointment any theRemuneration Committee applies the following principles: annual bonus award will be subject to such conditions as it may determine: and The Remuneration Committee is at all times conscious Typically, the remuneration package for a new appointment thatany arrangements should be in the best interests of will be based on or be transitioned onto the same elements Ladbrokes and our shareholders, without paying more of the remuneration package as the other executive directors, thanisnecessary: in line with the policy table presented above.
The Remuneration Committee takes into consideration all relevant factors, including the calibre of the individual, the It would be expected that the structure and quantum of the nature of the role, local market practice, the individuals variable pay elements would reflect those set out in the policy current remuneration package, Ladbrokes remuneration table above.
However, at recruitment, the Committee would policy, internal relativities and existing arrangements for retain the discretion to flex the balance between annual and otherexecutive directors: long-term incentives and the measures used to assess performance for these elements, with the intention that asignificant portion would be delivered in shares.
com At recruitment, variable pay could, in exceptional In doing so, the Remuneration Committee will take account of circumstances, be delivered via alternative structures, again any terms attached to the forfeited arrangements.
Awards will with the intention that a significant portion would be sharetake such form as the Committee considers appropriate taking based, but in all circumstances subject to the overriding into account all relevant factors such as the nature of the award, capof420% of salary.
any performance conditions attached to those awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met, and the proportion The Committee retains discretion to make appropriate ofvesting performance period remaining.
The Committees remuneration decisions outside the standard policy to meet intention is that the value awarded would be equivalent to the theindividual circumstances when an interim executive director value forfeited.
is required to fill a role on a short-term basis or if exceptional circumstances require that the Chairman or a non-executive Recruitment of the Chairman and non-executive directors director takes on an executive function on a short-term basis.
In the event of the appointment of a new Chairman or nonexecutive director, remuneration arrangements will normally Buy-outs bein line with those detailed in the relevant table on page 70.
To facilitate recruitment, the Remuneration Committee maymake compensatory payments and or awards for any Disclosure remuneration arrangements subject to forfeiture on leaving The remuneration structure of any new director will be aprevious employer.
disclosedin a timely manner and, as far as possible, in the relevant RNS notification at the time of appointment.
In the next remuneration report, the Remuneration Committee will explain to shareholders the rationale for the relevant arrangements.
Executive director service contracts The key employment terms and conditions of the current Chief Executive, as stipulated in his service contract, are set out below.
Notice Period months Termination payment Treatment of remuneration Company policy Six months by executive and 12 months May terminate employment by Participation in all incentive No fixed term contracts by Company.
making a PILON equivalent to plans, including the annual the value of base salary and bonus and the PSP, is In a recruitment scenario, an executive benefits including pension non-contractual.
director may initially be hired on a allowance in respect of the contract requiring the Company to Outstanding awards will be notice period.
provide 24 months notice which then treated in accordance with reduces, pro-rata over the course of the therelevant plan rules.
first year of the contract, to requiring 12 months notice to terminate the contract.
Jim Mullen Six months by executive and nine months In line with Company policy.
In line with Company policy.
Effective date of contract by Company.
Also contains additional is 1 April 2015 specificprovisions requiring a reduction in PILON inthe event he finds alternative employment during the 12-month notice period.
For ease of reference, we have included the key terms and conditions for Richard Glynn and Ian Bull Richard Glynn 12 months by both sides.
Does not contain PILON clause.
Effective date of contract was His termination payment was 22 April 2010 calculated on a damages Contract predates current policy basis and took into account contractual obligations and the circumstances of his departure.
Ian Bull In line with Company policy.
Effective date of contract Also contains additional was 4 July 2011 specificprovisions requiring a reduction in PILON inthe event he finds alternative employment during the 12months notice period.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Policy on payment for loss of office The Remuneration Committee takes a number of factors into account when determining leaving arrangements for an executive director: The Remuneration Committee must satisfy any contractual obligations: a being consistent with the Policy set out in this report:or b if they are inconsistent having been entered into on a date on or before 27 June 2012 in accordance with relevantlegislation: The treatment of outstanding share awards is governed by the relevant share plan rules.
The following table summarises theleaver provisions of share plans under which executive directors may currently hold awards: Other payments which may be made as a result of loss of office include legal fees within an agreed maximum limit,  within an agreed maximum limit, payment for any outstanding accrued holiday and any other payments required by statute: and The Remuneration Committee strongly believes that there should be no reward for failure.
When exercising any discretion underthe plans referred to below, the Committee will take into account the circumstances of the individuals departure and performance in the role.
Plan Good leaver categories Treatment for a good leaver Treatment for any other leaver Annual Ill health and disability.
Participant must have a minimum of nine No bonus.
months full service in the relevant year a Bonus Plan Death.
normally be subject to the achievement Any other scenario in which the ofthe financial and individual objectives Remuneration Committee determines set at the beginning of the plan year.
good leaver treatment is justified.
Anypayment will be following the end of the relevant financial year and will normally be pro-rated for time served during the year, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise.
Any amounts which would have ordinarily been deferred into the deferred bonus plan may be paid in cash at the same time.
The Remuneration Committee, however, hasthe ability to exercise its discretion to paya bonus as it considers appropriate.
Deferred Ill health and disability.
Awards will vest on cessation Unvested awards lapse ofemployment.
in full if cessation of Bonus Plan Death.
Any other scenario in which the Remuneration Committee determines good leaver treatment is justified.
Performance Injury, ill-health or disability.
Awards will vest at the normal vesting Unvested awards lapse date, unless the Remuneration Committee in full if cessation of Share Plan Death.
determines that awards should vest early.
In either case, awards will vest to the Retirement by agreement with the extent that performance conditions have employing company.
been satisfied and on a time apportioned Transfer of whole or part of the business basis, unless the Remuneration Committee by which the participant is employed determines otherwise.
Any other scenario in which the Remuneration Committee determines good leaver treatment is justified other than summary dismissal.
All-employee Leaver treatment under these plans will be in accordance with HMRC rules.
com Corporate events affecting discretionary share plans Ladbrokes discretionary share plans shall be operated in accordance with the relevant rules as approved by shareholders andamended from time to time in accordance with these rules.
In particular, the plan rules provide for adjustments in certain circumstances.
For example, awards may be adjusted in the event of any variation of share capital, demerger, special dividend, reorganisation or similar event.
In the event of a change in control or winding up of the Company, existing share awards under these plans will be treated asfollows: Plan Treatment in an event of a change of control Deferred Vest in full on the date on which the change in control occurs.
Bonus Plan Performance Vest in line with the plan rules to the extent the Remuneration Committee determines the performance conditions have been satisfied and on a time-apportioned basis, subject to Remuneration Committee discretion to determine otherwise.
Share Plan Awards under the share plans may vest on the same basis in the event of a voluntary winding up of the Company.
Non-executive directors letters of appointment The non-executive directors, including the Chairman of the Company, have letters of appointment which set out their duties andresponsibilities.
They do not have service contracts with either the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The key terms of the appointments are set out in the table below: Provision Policy Period After the initial term, non-executive directors are typically expected to serve a further three-year term.
Whilst appointed for a three-year term, in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Chairman and all non-executive directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at each AGM.
Termination The appointment of a Chairman or a non-executive director is terminable without notice by either the Company orthedirector.
Non-executive directors and the Chairman are not entitled to any compensation upon leaving office.
Availability of documentation All executive directors service contracts and the letters of appointment for non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal hours of business, and at the place of the Companys 2016 Annual General Meeting on 5 May 2016 from 10.45am until the close of the meeting.
Illustration of our forward-looking remuneration policy In support of the remuneration philosophy, Ladbrokes remuneration arrangements have been designed to ensure that a significant proportion of pay is dependent on the delivery of stretching short-term and long-term performance targets, aligned with the creation of sustainable shareholder value.
The Remuneration Committee considers the level of remuneration that may be received under different performance outcomes toensure that this is appropriate in the context of the performance delivered and the value added for shareholders.
The following charts provide illustrative values of the remuneration package for executive directors under three assumed performance scenarios.
Details relating to Ian Bulls arrangements which he has until he leaves the Company before the endofFebruary 2016 have been included to illustrate the remuneration policy for executive directors other than for the ChiefExecutive.
In line with the regulations, the illustrations show the potential remuneration levels under Ladbrokes forward-looking remuneration policy.
These charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may differ from that shown.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Chief Executive Chief Financial officer PSP Annual Bonus Fixed pay PSP Annual Bonus Fixed pay 000s Minimum On-target Maximum 000s Minimum On-target Maximum performance performance performance performance performance performance 2500 2,424 1800 875 1,623 1600 600 2000 1400 1200 1500 893 1000 1,268 520 882 219 150 800 1000 393 229 600 503 656 503 503 503 400 656 656 656 500 200 0 0 % % Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Fixed pay 100% 52% 27% Fixed pay 100% 57% 31% Annual bonus 0% 31% 37% Annual bonus 0% 26% 32% PSP 0% 17% 36% PSP 0% 17% 37% Total 100% 100% 100% Total 100% 100% 100% Plan Assumptions used All performance Consists of total fixed pay, including base salary, benefits and retirement benefits cash allowance in lieu of pension scenarios Base salary salary effective as at 1 March 2016 Benefits estimated to be received by each executive director in 2016 based on 2015 value Pensions estimated to be received by each executive director in 2016 based on 2016 salary Minimum No pay-out under the annual bonus performance No vesting under the PSP On-target 44% of the maximum pay-out under the annual bonus cash and deferred elements performance 25% vesting under the PSP see note Maximum 100% of the maximum pay-out under the annual bonus cash and deferred elements performance 100% vesting under the PSP see note Note: PSP awards have been shown at face value normal PSP opportunity applied to salary at 1 January 2016, with no share price growth, dividend accrual or discount rate assumption.
All-employee share plans have been excluded.
The Chief Financial Officer chart is based on Ian Bulls package as the most recent Chief Financial Officer.
The scenario chart for the ChiefFinancial Officer does not include the 2015 temporary monthly allowance of 10,000 paid to Ian Bull from 1 March 2015 to 30 November 2015.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company The Remuneration Committee takes into consideration the pay and conditions of colleagues throughout the Group when determining remuneration arrangements for executive directors.
Information relating to wider workforce remuneration is provided inregular updates to the Remuneration Committee.
This takes the form of a comparison of reward elements across all main workforce groups, updates on total reward communications and details of business wide reviews such as annual bonus awards and salary increases.
In particular, the Remuneration Committee pays specific attention to the general level of salary increases and bonus outcomes within the wider population.
Whilst the Remuneration Committee does not directly consult with our colleagues as part of the process of determining executive pay, the Committee does receive feedback from colleague surveys and takes this into account when reviewing executive pay.
In addition, asignificant number of our colleagues are shareholders and so are able to express their views in the same way as other shareholders.
com Variable pay Fixed pay Consideration of shareholder views The Remuneration Committee continues to be mindful of shareholder views when evaluating and setting on-going remuneration strategy, and we commit to consulting with shareholders prior to any significant changes to our remuneration policy.
The Remuneration Committee also considers shareholder feedback received in relation to an AGM at its next meeting following theAGM.
Minor amendments to policy The Remuneration Committee may make minor changes to this policy, which do not have a material advantage to directors, to aid in its operation or implementation without seeking shareholder approval for a revised version of this policy.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Audited information The information presented from this section up until the relevant note on page 67 represents the audited section of this report.
Single total figure of remuneration The following table sets out the total remuneration for executive directors and non-executive directors for the year ended 31 December 2015, with prior year figures also shown.
Cash allowance Long-term Salary and fees Benefits in lieu of pension Annual bonus incentives Other All figures shown in 000 a b c d e f Total 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Current executive directors g Jim Mullen 375 10 84 98 567 Ian Bull 400 400 13 13 110 90 102 90 715 503 Former executive directors h Richard Glynn 145 580 6 23 33 131 183 734 i Chairman and non-executive directors Peter Erskine 232 250 30 262 250 John Kelly 77 60 9 86 60 Christine Hodgson 52 50 52 50 Sly Bailey 50 50 50 50 David Martin 60 60 60 60 Richard Moross 53 60 53 60 Darren Shapland 44 60 44 60 Mark Pain 6 6 Methodology a Salary and fees this represents the base salary or fees paid in respect of the relevant financial year.
No sums were paid to third parties in respect of any executive directors services 2014: nil.
b Benefits this represents the taxable value of all benefits paid in respect of the relevant financial year.
Executive director benefits include private healthcare for the executive and his family, and a cash allowance in lieu of a company car.
c Cash allowance in lieu of pension executive directors receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions equivalent to 22.5% of salary.
In 2015, Ian Bull received an overpayment of 2,250 which will be offset accordingly against his termination payments.
d Annual bonus this reflects the nil bonus awarded in respect of the performance year for 2014.
Bonuses of 26% and 25% of salary were awarded to the Chief Executive and ChiefFinancial Officer respectively for the 2015 performance year.
For the Chief Executive, one third of his bonus, equivalent to 32,630, was deferred into shares for three years.
Aspartofthe Chief Financial Officers termination agreement, his entire bonus for the performance year for 2015 was paid in cash.
Further details are provided on page 64.
U nder Richard Glynns termination arrangements, he was entitled to receive a bonus as if he had been in service for 2015.
This table does not include this payment, further details can befound on page 66. e Long-term incentives this figure represents the value of long-term incentive plans with a performance period ending in the relevant year.
P SP: The 2014 and 2015 figures reflect that no shares vested under the 2012 and 2013 awards under the PSP for Richard Glynn and Ian Bull.
Jim Mullen joined Ladbrokes in November 2013 therefore did not receive an award under the 2013 PSP.
Further details in respect of the achievement of performance conditions are provided on page 64.
L GP: The 2014 and 2015 figures reflect that there was no additional vesting under the second and third performance tests in June 2014 and June 2015.
Further details in respect of the achievement of performance conditions are provided on page 65. f Other Ian Bull was paid a temporary monthly allowance of 10,000 between 1 March 2015 to 30 November 2015.
Peter Erskine and John Kelly received an expense payment of 30,283and 8,690 representing the reimbursement of the costs of holidays which both had to cancel due to corporate activity associated with the proposed merger with Gala Coral.
g Remuneration for Jim Mullen covers only his period since his appointment as Chief Executive.
Jim Mullen was appointed Chief Executive on 1 April 2015 on a salary of 500,000 p. a.
He was previously the Managing Director of Ladbrokes Digital.
His salary, bonus, benefits and pensions for 2015 have been pro-rated to reflect the period from 1 April 2015 to 31 December 2015. h This table does not include payments relating to Richard Glynns loss of office which can be found on page 66. i Peter Erskines Chairman fee was 250,000 p. a. which he received until 3 December 2015.
John Kellys Chairman fee is 285,000 p. a. which he received from his appointment on 3 December 2015.
The senior independent non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee received a total fee of 70,000 p. a. from 3 December 2015 onwards: previously these roles received 60,000 p. a.
Other non-executive directors receive a basic fee of 43,000 p. a.
Additional fees are payable for the role of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee at a rate of 10,000 p. a. and for membership of the Audit and or Remuneration Committee at a rate of 7,000 per annum.
David Martins fee was paid to Arriva plc by mutual agreement up to 31 December 2015.
Peter Erskine retired on 3 December 2015 and Darren Shapland retired on 24 September 2015.
John Kelly became the Chairman, Christine Hodgson became the acting Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Mark Pain joined the Board on 3 December 2015 as the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Fees paid to each non-executive director reflect time spent on theBoard in 2015 and responsibilities.
The fees for Richard Moross in 2014 were reported in error as 50,000 and have now been restated as 60,000.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Additional disclosures in respect Performance Share Plan ofthesinglefigure table The PSP value shown in the single figure table relates to the 2013 Annual bonus award, for which the performance period was 1 January 2013 to The table below sets out the annual bonus awards made to 31 December 2015. executive directors in respect of 2015: The performance conditions for this award are set out below: 2015 As % of 50% of the award three-year relative TSR performance against annual bonus 2015 salary a peer group of sectoral peer companies.
Jim Mullen 97,891 26% The peer group for the 2013 award is set out below: Ian Bull 101,502 25% 888 Holdings Paddy Power 60% of the 2015 annual bonus was based on PBIT for the Boyd Gaming Punch Taverns year excluding profit from High Rollers and exceptional items.
Bwin PartyGaming Rank Group 40% ofthe 2015 annual bonus was based on individual Enterprise Inns Whitbread objectives, which are primarily financial in nature.
Furthermore, Mitchells & Butlers William Hill theindividual objectives element of the bonus remains subject OPAP toaprofit underpin.
The original comparator group consisted of 14 comparators, however Sportingbet and GTech In June 2015, the Chief Executive announced a new three-year were removed for the entire performance period as they were acquired in March 2013 and strategy which requires significant up-front investment.
these investments will build a materially stronger business in the Three-year TSR growth vs. sectoral peer growth medium long term, these do impact the PBIT in the short term.
Therefore, to ensure that our executive directors and other Relative TSR growth employees are incentivised to implement our strategy, the 2015 % vesting Median Upper quartile bonus PBIT threshold, on-target and stretch numbers were changed from 95m, 110m and 120m to 80.4m, 90m and 100 101.25m respectively which takes into account the strategic investment made by Ladbrokes in the business in the second half of the year.
At threshold PBIT up to 10% of this element of bonus can vest, at on-target PBIT up to 40% of this element can vest, and at stretch PBIT 100% of this element can vest.
Please note this is dependent on achieving atleast a personal performance rating of 3 or above.
25 In 2015, operating profit excluding High Rollers was 80.6m which is in-between the threshold requirement of 80.4m and target of 0 90m.
Therefore for the profit element the Chief Executive 50% of the award three-year EPS growth received 27,316 which is 7% of his salary pro-rated for his tenure Three-year EPS growth as Chief Executive in 2015.
The Chief Financial Officer received 20,880 which is 5% of his salary.
EPS growth The Chief Executive was also awarded 70,575 which % vesting 6% p. a.
10% p. a. isequivalent to 19% of base salary under individual objectives.
This is because he received a personal performance rating of 100 4out of 5.
This rating takes into account the development and implementation of the new long-term strategy and positive progress made against this strategy in 2015.
The Chief Financial Officer was also awarded 80,622 which isequivalent to 20% of base salary under individual objectives.
25 This is because he received a personal performance rating of 5out of 5.
0 This rating takes into account support with the potential merger and positive progress of the new long-term strategy in 2015.
Actual Vesting as The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer were able to performance % of element receive payment under the individual objectives as the profit Relative TSR 12 out of 12 companies 0% underpin of 80.4m was met.
The Committee has ensured that EPS growth -35% per annum 0% the bonus payouts reflect the performance outcome of the Total vesting 0% of maximum second half of the year.
Please note that executive directors only There will be nil vesting of the PSP awards made in 2013. receive full vesting under the individual objectives element of the annual bonus if a personal performance rating of 5 is received, and stretch PBIT targets are achieved.
com Ladbrokes Growth Plan If the peer group for 2015 was to fall below five companies, The LGP was a one-off long-term incentive plan where awards i. e. in the event of takeovers, a peer will be selected from were made under this plan in 2010 to the then Chief Executive areserve list of companies which originally included for 2015, and in 2011 to other participants.
The performance period for all GTech, International Game Technology, Betsson, Rank Group awards was five years which began in June 2010 and ended in and Playtech.
This would ensure that the peer group consists June 2015.
A portion of the award was eligible for vesting after of a minimum of five companies.
The replacement company will three years in 2013 first performance test with a further portion be effective for the entire performance period.
In February 2016, eligible for vesting at the end of year four June 2014, second Bwin Partygaming was acquired by GVC Holdings and Betfair performance test and year five June 2015, third performance and Paddy Power merged to form Paddy Power Betfair.
The test if performance targets had not been fully met at previous Committee has decided to replace Bwin Partygaming with GVC performance tests.
The performance conditions for this award Holdings over the entire performance period.
The Committee are set out below: has also decided that Paddy Power and Betfair both remain in the peer group with the TSR of both companies adjusted in Share price maintained for a period of Percentage of the 30 consecutive dealing days award vesting line with changes to Paddy Power Betfairs share price from 200 pence 25% 1February 2016.
Please note that GTech acquired International Between 200 pence and 297 pence Pro rata Game Technology in April 2015 with the new entity renamed 297 pence 100% International Game Technology.
Therefore both companies havebeen removed from the reserve list.
Straight line vesting operates between these points.
25% of the award will be based on three-year cumulative The first performance test on 29 June 2013 resulted in 40.7% EPS performance vesting of the maximum opportunity as a share price of 220.7 Percentage of the pence was maintained for a period of 30 consecutive dealing EPS performance award vesting days.
The second performance test on 29 June 2014 resulted Less than 29.0 pence 0% inno additional vesting as a share price of above 220.7 pence 29.0 pence 25% was not maintained for a period of 30 consecutive dealing days 37.0 pence 100% between 29 June 2013 and 29 June 2014.
Therefore, at the Straight line vesting operates between cumulative EPS third performance test on 30 June 2015, a share price of performance of 29.0pence and 37.0 pence.
Cumulative EPS above220.7 pence had to be maintained for a period of 30 performance excludes exceptional items and High Rollers.
consecutive days between 30 June 2014 and 29 June 2015, forany additional vesting to occur.
25% of the award will be based on three-year Free Cash Flow FCF performance Performance out-turn Percentage of the A share price above 220.7 pence was not maintained at any FCF performance award vesting point between 30 June 2014 and 29 June 2015, therefore Less than 273.9m 0% therewas no vesting under the third performance test in 2015.
273.9m 25% 345.3m 100% Scheme interests awarded during the financialyear Straight line vesting operates between FCF performance of Performance Share Plan awards 273.9m and 345.3m.
For 2015, PSP awards are granted over Ladbrokes shares with FCF for the purposes of the Plan is defined asthe new cash the number of shares under award determined by reference to flow from operating activities plus dividends received from joint apercentage of base salary.
ventures and associates, less income taxespaid, net capital Performance for these awards is measured over the three expenditure and net interest payments including bond financial years from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2017. coupons.
FCF excludes distributionof dividends, repayment of Theyare subject to the following performance conditions.
debt and merger andacquisition activity.
25% of the award will be based on TSR percentage 25% of the award will be based on performance against outperformance of six sector peers responsible gambling measures TSR % outperformance of Percentage of the The measures in relation to this element of the award will be the six sector comparators award vesting determined and independently measured and assessed by Less than median 0% the Social Responsibility Committee through a set of KPIs.
Median 25% These KPIs will reflect the GB Gambling Commissions Median 10% p. a.
100% objectives and regulatory and voluntary sector-level changes Straight line vesting operates between these points.
The peer group for the 2015 award is set out below: These KPIs will be assessed over the three-year performance period using three annual scorecards and the cumulative 888 holdings Paddy Power impact over the same period.
Betfair Sportech Bwin Partygaming William Hill Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65 Governance Directors remuneration report continued The Remuneration Committee and the Social Responsibility Committee intend to disclose targets and the performance level at the end of the performance period due to commercial sensitivity.
As with all measures under the 2015 PSP, threshold performance will result in 25% of this element of the PSP vesting.
The following table provides details of the awards made under the PSP in 2015.
End of Number Face value Face value Threshold vesting Maximum vesting performance Type of award of shares % of salary % of face value % of face value period Jim Mullen 910,580 999,999 200% Performance 31 December 25% 100% shares 2017 Ian Bull 546,348 599,999 150% Face value has been calculated using the five-day average share price prior to the date of grant 12 May 2015 of 109.82 pence.
Vesting of these awards is subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions as detailed on page 65.
Share Incentive Plan awards Executive directors are eligible to participate in HMRC-approved all-employee share plans on the same basis as other eligible colleagues.
During 2015, Ian Bull participated in the Share Incentive Plan SIP.
During 2015 under the SIP, Ian Bull purchased 811shares and 811 bonus shares were awarded to him, along with 130 shares in respect of dividends paid by the Company on14May 2015 and 12 November 2015.
Payments to past directors There were no payments to past directors in 2015.
Payments for loss of office Richard Glynn left Ladbrokes on 31 March 2015.
His service contract, effective from 22 April 2010, provides for a 12-month notice period and was structured that any termination payments had to be determined in line with UK damages principles.
He received the following payments upon his departure: 580,000 and 131,000 for 12 months salary and pensioncontribution: 34,000 for 12 months car allowance and private medical insurance: 6,692 in lieu of accrued untaken holiday as at his leavingdate: 100,000 for failure to grant a Performance Share Award inMarch 2015: and 1,000 for value of expenses in relation to his laptop and mobile phone for 12 months.
He also received life assurance cover equal to four times salary for 12 months and a contribution of 10,000 towards his legal costs and 40,000 excluding VAT for outplacement counselling services.
Richard Glynn was also allowed to receive a bonus in 2015 as ifhe had been in service for 2015, and on the basis that his personal performance would have been in line with the Remuneration Committees ratings for the financial year 2013 and 2014 and the financial performance conditions would be applied on the same basis as for other executive directors.
Therefore he is entitled to31,687 relating to the profit element of the bonus and 81,867 based on his personal performance rating of 4 out of 5.
His existing unvested share awards held under Ladbrokes executive share plans on his departure date were treated upon the discretion of the Remuneration Committee in accordance with good leaver provisions: 87,173 shares held under the Deferred Bonus Plan for performance in 2012 with a normal vesting date of February 2016 vestedinMay 2015: 2013 and 2014 PSP awards of 446,271 and 759,958 shares respectively will vest at the end of the performance period February2016 and February 2017 respectively, subject to satisfaction of performance conditions and time pro-rating in accordance with the plan rules: and The final one third of the shares under the Ladbrokes Growth Plan of 547,522 shares, vested at the end of the normal vestingdate of August 2015.
Richard Glynn would have been also entitled to any additional shares if there was anyimprovement on share price by the third performance test in June 2015, i. e. a share price of above 220.7p is maintained for 30consecutive days by 29 June 2015.
However, there was no further improvement therefore no additional shares vested under this plan.
Richard Glynn was also entitled to continue to hold nil-cost options granted to him in April 2010 under 2010 Share Option Plan which vested in April 2013.
These options would continue to be exercisable until April 2020 and were exercised in2015.
com Under the rules of the all-employee Share Incentive Plan and the relevant tax legislation, in 2015 Richard Glynn forfeited the560bonus shares termed free shares under tax legislation that he had held for less than one year: and retained theremaining 2,079 bonus shares which he had held for more than one year.
He also retained the 860 salary shares termedpartnership shares under the legislation and 114 dividend shares which he had held for more than oneyear.
Ian Bull will leave Ladbrokes before the end of February 2016.
As part of his settlement agreement, he received a payment of 42,500 inNovember 2015 which is the first monthly instalment of his PILON.
The remaining five instalments will bepaid following his departure in February 2016 and will be reduced accordingly for his new employment at Parkdean Resorts.
Statement of directors shareholdings andshare interests Directors shareholdings and share ownership guidelines The Companys shareholding guidelines require executive directors to build up over time a personal shareholding equivalent in value to at least one years base salary.
Executives are encouraged to retain vested shares earned under the Companys incentive plans until the shareholding guidelines have been met.
Shares which the executive directors hold outright and or vested shares under the Companys share plans count towards the requirement.
Unvested share awards only count towards the requirement if vesting is not subject to any further performance conditions or other conditions such as continued employment.
On this basis, Ian Bull has met the Companys shareholding requirement in full.
Jim Mullen has not yet met his requirement as 2015is his first year in the Chief Executive role and as an executive director.
Unexercised Interests in share interests in Interests in share incentive schemes, option schemes, Shares Shares owned incentive schemes, subject to without owned outright at outright at without performance performance performance 31 December 2014 31 December 2015 conditions at conditions at conditions at or later date of Actual shareholding 1 2 3 4 1 Director or date of cessation 31 December 2015 31 December 2015 31 December 2015 date of appointment % of base salary 5 37,005 37,005 27% Jim Mullen 157,348 1,520,185 15,345 6 Ian Bull 827,642 46,582 1,246,199 14,528 676,505 236% 58,041 28,041 John Kelly 10,000 10,000 Sly Bailey Christine Hodgson 15,000 15,000 55,000 55,000 David Martin 5,000 5,000 Richard Moross 7 Mark Pain 50,000 Previous directors 8 523,343 456,751 Richard Glynn 9 Peter Erskine 158,095 158,095 10 Darren Shapland 35,000 35,000 1 Includes partnership shares and dividend shares under the SIP.
2 This relates to shares awarded under the DBP, Restricted Share Plan and bonus shares awarded under the SIP.
3 This relates to outstanding shares awarded under the PSP.
4 This relates to options under the SAYE scheme.
5 Jim Mullen was appointed as a director on 7 May 2015.
6 During 2015, Ian Bull exercised 208,058 shares which had vested under the LGP and received an additional 44,732 dividend shares.
Between 31 December 2015 and 22 February 2016, IanBull purchased 126 shares under the SIP andwas also awarded 126 bonus shares.
7 Mark Pain was appointed as a director on 3 December 2015.
8 Richard Glynn ceased to be a director on 31 March 2015.
During 2015, Richard Glynn exercised a 1,642,564 shares which had vested under the LGP and received an additional 526,140 dividend shares: and b 1,177,103 shares relating to his 2010 Share Award and received an additional 387,459 dividend shares.
9 Peter Erskine ceased to be a director on 3 December 2015.
10 Darren Shapland ceased to be a director on 24 September 2015.
For the purposes of determining executive director shareholdings, the individuals salary at the year end and the three-month average share price to 31 December 2015 has been used.
This represents the end of the audited section of the report.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Historical TSR performance and Chief Executives remuneration outcomes As the Company is a constituent of the FTSE250, it is considered an appropriate indication of market movements against which to benchmark the Companys performance.
Thechart below summarises the Companys TSR performance against the FTSE250 index over the seven-year period to 31 December 2015 below.
Seven-year TSR performance Ladbrokes FTSE 250 400 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 The table below summarises the Chief Executives single figure for total remuneration, annual bonus pay-outs and long-term incentive vesting levels as a percentage of maximum opportunity over the seven-year period to 31 December 2015.
Chief Executive 1 2 Director Office 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Christopher Bell 0.9m 0.7m Chief Executive Richard Glynn 1.0m 1.2m 2.5m 4.7m 0.7m 0.2m Officer single figure 0.6m of remuneration m Jim Mullen Annual bonus pay-out as a % of maximum opportunity 0% 76% 50% 50% 0% 0% 15% Long-term incentive 3 vesting out-turn includes PSP and LGP opportunity, shown as a % of maximum opportunity 0% 0% 0% 82% 38% 0% 0% 1 The above number for Christopher Bell in 2010 reflects his remuneration including in respect of his notice period and excludes any payments associated with his departure.
Richard Glynn was appointed as Chief Executive on 22 April 2010 and the above number reflects his remuneration from that time to the year end.
2 The above number for Richard Glynn in 2015 reflects his remuneration including in respect of his notice period and excludes any payments associated with his departure.
Jim Mullen was appointedas Chief Executive on 1 April 2015 and the above number reflects his remuneration from that time to the year end.
The annual bonus payout relates to what was paid toJimMullen in 2015 as Chief Executive.
3 Increases in total compensation in 2012 and 2013 have been as a result of increased pay-outs under the Companys long-term incentive plans, as a result of meeting the relevant performance targets, e. g. PSP and LGP.
Richard Glynn did not receive any changes to salary or cash allowance in lieu of pension since his appointment in April 2010 to his departure inMarch 2015.
Percentage change in remuneration oftheChief Executive The table below illustrates the increase in salary, benefits including cash allowance in lieu of pension and annual bonus for the Chief Executive and that of a representative group of the Companys colleagues.
For these purposes, we have used all UK-based colleagues as the comparative group, as this represents the most appropriate comparator group for reward purposes for our UK-based Chief Executive.
% change in benefits % change including cash allowance % change in in base salary in lieu of pension annual bonus 2015 vs. 2014 2015 vs. 2014 2015 vs. 2014 Chief Executive -10.3% -14.0% N A All UK-based colleagues 2.5% 0% N A The % changes for the Chief Executive have been determined with reference to aggregate numbers for Jim Mullen and Richard Glynn when undertaking Chief Executive responsibilities.
The % change in annual bonus for 2015 vs. 2014 cannot be calculated as annual bonus pay-outs in 2014 were zero for the Chief Executive andother UK-based colleagues.
com Relative importance of the spend on pay Base salary The chart below illustrates the current year and prior year In determining salary increases for 2016, the Remuneration overallexpenditure on pay and dividends paid.
Committee took into consideration business performance, affordability and pay and conditions across the Group Relative importance of the spend on pay and determined that there will be 5% increase for the 2014 2015 Chief Executive in 2016.
1 The table below shows base salaries for 2016: m Overall expenditure Dividends on employee pay Base salary from 1 March 2016 300 Jim Mullen 525,000 2.0% 284.1 278.4 Benefits Benefits are generally set at an appropriate market competitive 250 level, taking into account a number of factors including market practice for comparable roles within appropriate pay 200 comparators.
There will be no changes to the benefits package received byexecutive directors in 2016.
150 Cash allowance in lieu of pension The executive directors have elected to receive a cash 100 -62.4% allowance of 22.5% of salary in lieu of pension, and there 81.5 willbeno change to cash allowance levels for 2016.
50 The table below shows cash allowances for 2016: 2016 cash allowance in lieu of pension % of salary 30.6 0 Jim Mullen 116,719 22.5% 2016 cash allowance has been calculated taking into The figures presented have been calculated on the following accounthis salary increase of 5% from 1 March 2016. basis: Please note that the executive directors do not have a Overall expenditure on employee pay represents total prospective right to defined benefit pension arrangements.
staff costs: and Dividends dividends paid or declared to be paid in respect Annual bonus of the year.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity will remain 1 Total dividend per share FY2015: 3.0 pence FY2014: 8.9 pence at 170%ofbase salary for the Chief Executive in 2016.
The table below provides further information on the Implementation of remuneration policy in 2016 performance measures against which performance will This section provides an overview of how the Committee is bemeasured: proposing to implement the remuneration policy in 2016.
Relative weighting % of maximum bonus opportunity TheCommittee is intending to implement the policy as follows 1 Financial operating profit 60% until the completion of the proposed merger.
Prior to completion Individual mainly specific financial targets 40% of the proposed merger, the Committee will review the policy 1 Profit before tax, net financial expense and exceptional items.
and its execution and will make any necessary revisions which would be communicated to shareholders for their approval.
Profit is the key financial measure for Ladbrokes.
Profit attributed Remuneration arrangements after the proposed merger for to High Rollers is excluded from the profit performance executive directors, including those from Gala Coral, will be in calculations for annual bonus purposes.
The individual objective line with the applicable policy.
element of the bonus remain subject to a profit underpin.
Ian Bull will be leaving at the end of February 2016, therefore At this stage, the annual bonus targets are considered specific detail on his arrangements have not been included commercially sensitive.
This is because of the close link below as he is not entitled to a bonus or a PSP award for 2016. between the selected performance measures and strategy.
He will be however receiving a salary, benefits and pensions However, in next years Annual Report, we commit to providing until his departure date in line with implementation of the shareholders with as much context as possible on performance remuneration policy in 2015, and payment in lieu of notice against those targets and the resulting bonus out-turn rationale, as described on page 53. within commercial constraints.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Performance Share Plan Consideration by the Committee of matters relating It is anticipated that Jim Mullen will receive a 2016 PSP award todirectors remuneration of 175% of his salary as at 1 January 2016.
The performance The Ladbrokes Board entrusts the Committee with the measures will be the same as for the 2015 PSP award, with responsibility for the remuneration policy in respect of executive theTSR peer group modified to take M&A activity into account, directors and senior executives and ensuring its ongoing i. e. will consist of 888 Holdings, GVC Holdings, Paddy Power appropriateness and relevance.
In setting the remuneration for Betfair, Sportech and William Hill, and the TSR outperformance these groups, the Committee takes into account the pay and and responsible gambling targets in line with the 2015 PSP conditions of the wider workforce as a matter of course.
The three-year cumulative EPSand FCF 2016 targets The table below shows the Committee members during the will be as follows: year and their attendance at Committee meetings: Percentage of the Directors as at Number of meetings Number of meetings EPS performance award vesting 31 December 2015 eligible to attend attended Less than 21.7 pence 0% David Martin 8 8 1 21.7 pence 25% Sly Bailey 8 7 26.4 pence 100% Christine Hodgson 8 8 2 John Kelly 0 0 Percentage of the Richard Moross FCF performance award vesting 8 8 Former members Less than 219m 0% 219m 25% Peter Erskine 8 8 310m 100% 1 Sly Bailey was unable to attend one Committee meeting due to prior business commitments.
Non-executive director remuneration 2 John Kelly became Chairman and a member of the Committee as of 3 December 2015.
The table below shows the non-executive director fee structure Heattended two meetings during the year by invitation to support his handover as Chairman of the Company.
2016 fees The Chief Executive, the Group HR Director and the Group Head of Reward attend Committee meetings by invitation, other Chairman inclusive of Board member fee 285,000 than when their personal remuneration is being discussed.
The Senior independent non-executive director 70,000 Company Secretary acted as secretary to the Committee.
Board member 43,000-55,000 During the year, the Committee received independent advice on Additional fee for Audit Committee Chairman 15,000 executive remuneration matters from Kepler, a brand of Mercer Additional fee for Remuneration Committee Chairman 10,000 which is part of the MMC group of companies Kepler.
Kepler Additional fee for membership of the Audit and or was appointed by the Committee as independent remuneration Remuneration Committee 7,000 advisers following a tender process in 2014 and was retained Not payable to Chairman or senior independent non-executive director.
Kepler is a signatory to the Code Board members who receive a fee of 55,000 for being a of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants in the UK, details of Boardmember will not be entitled to the additional 7,000 for which can be found on the Remuneration Consultants Groups being a member of the Audit and or Remuneration Committee.
Services However, they will be entitled to the applicable additional fee provided by Kepler included advice on remuneration packages forbeing an Audit or Remuneration Committee Chairman.
for executives and non-executives, assistance with a review of On 3 December 2015, in light of the changes to the Board the current incentive arrangements in light of the new strategy membership, it was decided to increase the Chairmans and potential merger and drafting the Directors remuneration annual fee from 250,000 to 285,000, the senior independent report, as well as other ad-hoc advice related to remuneration.
non-executive directors total annual fee from 60,000 to The fees paid to Kepler in relation to advice provided to 70,000 and offer atotal annual fee to the Chairman of the Committee for 2015 were 98,465.
Deloitte LLP also provided the Company with a TSR monitoring There are no additional fees for membership of the Social update.
Deloitte received 1,750 for their services in 2015.
Responsibility Committee or the Nomination Committee.
Deloitte also provides the Company with internal audit and miscellaneous tax and consulting services.
External appointments The Company recognises the benefits of executive directors Mercer provides advice to pensions trustees in Ireland.
taking on external appointments as non-executive directors, However, the Committee is satisfied that neither Kepler subject to the limitations set out in the Policy Report and to as apart of Mercer nor Deloitte, in providing remuneration Committee approval.
adviceto the Committee, had any connection that impaired itsindependence.
With effect 1 September 2014, Ian Bull became a non-executive director of St Modwen Properties PLC.
For the period from 1January 2015 until 31 December 2015, Ian received fees of 49,392, which he is allowed to retain.
com Shareholder voting The table below outlines the result of the votes on the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report at the 2015 AGM: Number of AGM date votes cast For Against Withheld 523,171,666 365,015,508 158,156,158 84,319,464 2015 Annual Report on 69.8% 30.2% Remuneration The Policy Report was last approved at the 2014 AGM where it received a 98.0% for vote.
As discussed in the Chairmans letter, the Board notes the vote in respect of the Directors Remuneration Report and understands that it primarily relates to Richard Glynns termination arrangements.
Ladbrokes has spoken with several shareholders about the termination arrangements for Richard Glynn where his contract required that any settlement had to be determined in line with UKdamages principles.
The Remuneration Committee acknowledges that the use of such contracts is no longer best practice: therefore the current executive team have contracts where termination arrangements are determined on PILON principles which are in line with market practice.
On behalf of the Board David Martin Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 22 February 2016 Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71
