CULTURE LAIRD PLC LEADERSHIP Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGY OPERATING MODEL 46 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE As a Committee we are keen to constantly As a result, there have been a number of changes to the Committee membership evolve our focus on financial risks that face the business as operations continue during the year, with Jack Boyer and Sir Christopher Hum stepping down to growglobally, whilst ensuring robust reporting is underpinned by appropriate on 30 June 2015 and 31 December 2015 respectively, and Mike Parker and and effective processes, controls and assurance.
The Committee recognises Kjersti Wiklund joining the Committee.
Michael Kelly retired as a Director and the requirement to keep primary areas PAULA BELL of judgement under review and report Committee member on 30 June 2015.
CHAIRMAN OF THE Nathalie Rachou recently joined the accordingly and is committed to fulfilling AUDIT COMMITTEE itsresponsibilities in this regard.
The Committee engages with the business As mentioned last year, following the effectively and assesses the adequacy of introduction of the audit tendering the internal financial control environment.
provisions in the Code, the recent During the year, the business has continued findingsof the Competition Commission, its review of the financial shared services the EU regulations and the Guidance for centres in Europe, North America and Audit Committees issued by the Financial Asia, which continues to bring strength Reporting Council, a competitive audit to the already robust financial processes tender took place in 2015 to coincide within the organisation.
The Committee with the five-year rotation of the audit receives regular updates throughout partner with a view to the change being the year on any changes in the financial implemented in 2016. controls environment and also receives Following a thorough tender process assurances from external professional details of which can be found on page 50 advisers.
The Committee continues to of this Report, the Board is proposing the challenge and develop the scope of Lairds appointment of Deloitte LLP Deloitte internal audit programme to match the as the Groups external auditor, subject to evolving growth of the business in terms the approval of the shareholders at the of regional expansion into new territories Companys Annual General Meeting the and as the organisational structure adapts AGM on 29 April 2016.
On behalf of the and changes.
The Committee also reviews Board, I would like to thank Ernst & Young and discusses with the external auditor the for the provision of the external audit scope of the audit to ensure it appropriately services during its tenure.
We look forward responds to risk.
to working with Deloitte going forward.
The Committee monitors and reviews The Committee also oversaw the tender annually the whistleblowing policy and any process for the appointment of KPMG LLP incidents of whistleblowing are brought to as the new internal audit services provider.
During the year an independent telephone and internet The Committee advises the Board provider review was undertaken and it asto whether the Annual Report and was concluded that the incumbent be Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, re-appointed.
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for As mentioned previously, during the year, shareholders to assess the Companys the Board reviewed the membership of the performance, business model and strategy.
Committees of the Board, including the At the beginning of each financial year, Audit Committee, with a view to having a the Committee agrees the annual agenda more focussed approach to the Committees of activities identifying key areas of focus of the Board with more specialisation.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 47 OBJECTIVE ensuring appropriate safeguards are in place for individuals to raise issues with To provide effective oversight and the Board where a breach of conduct governance over the Groups financial or compliance, including any financial reporting, including the adequacy of related reporting irregularity, is suspected: and disclosures, the performance of both the internal audit function and the external reviewing the effectiveness of the auditor, and the internal financial control Companys internal controls to guard environment and the processes in place against and detect fraud and to tomonitor this.
consider the Companys response toanysuch occurrence.
RESPONSIBILITIES The terms of reference of the Audit MEMBERSHIP Committee are documented and agreed The Audit Committee members are all by the Board.
The key terms are outlined independent Non-Executive Directors.
below and the full terms of reference The Chairman of the Audit Committee is are available on the Companys website, Paula Bell and the other members of the www.
com: Audit Committee are currently Mike Parker, Kjersti Wiklund and Nathalie Rachou.
reviewing the financial results announcements and financial statements Mike Parker joined the Committee with and any significant financial reporting effect from 3 March 2015 and Kjersti issues and judgements which they Wiklund joined on 1 July 2015.
Michael Kelly may contain: retired on 30 June 2015, and Jack Boyer and Sir Christopher Hum stepped down advising the Board on whether the Annual as members of the Committee on 30 June Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, 2015 and 31 December 2015 respectively.
are fair, balanced and understandable Nathalie Rachou joined the Committee and provide the information necessary on1 January 2016. for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model The Board ensures that at least one and strategy: member of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
Paula Bell, ensuring compliance with applicable the Chairman of the Committee, is the accounting standards and reviewing the Chief Financial Officer for John Menzies appropriateness of accounting policies plc, Mike Parker is the Senior Independent and practices in place: Director of publicly quoted company PV assessing the adequacy of the internal Crystalox Plc and a Non-Executive Director financial control environment and the of SNC-Lavalin Inc, a publicly quoted processes in place to monitor this, Canadian company, Nathalie Rachou is a including reviewing the performance Non-Executive Director of Societe Generale, ofthe internal audit team: where she serves on its Audit Committee, Veolia Environment and Altran Technologies overseeing the relationship with and Kjersti Wiklund is a Director, Group the external auditor, reviewing their Technology Operations at Vodafone.
performance and advising the Board Furthermore, the Board is satisfied that the ontheir appointment and remuneration: Audit Committee as a whole has sufficient financial, international and commercial experience to enable it to carry out its duties.
Further details about the Audit Committee members can be found on pages 36 and 37.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 48 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED MEETINGS MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING THE YEAR The Audit Committee met five times The Committee has assisted the Board in during the year.
Details of attendance carrying out its responsibilities in relation atthese meetings can be found on page to financial reporting requirements and the 40.
The Chairman of the Board, the Chief assessment of internal financial control.
Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the It has reviewed the effectiveness of the Chief Risk Officer, and the external auditor internal audit function and their work are given notice of all meetings and may be and oversaw the relationship with the invited to attend and speak at any meeting.
The external auditor has the opportunity to meet with the Audit Committee without The Committee normally meets prior to any Executive Directors present whenever Board meetings and before Half Year and necessary and the Audit Committee Full Year announcements and the two ensures that this happens at least once Trading Updates.
At least twice a year the a year in order to discuss any issues or Committee receives and reviews reports concerns from either party.
Additionally, from the Chief Risk Officer on internal the Chairman of the Audit Committee has financial control.
regular contact with the external audit In accordance with the Code, the Board partner outside of Committee meetings.
requested that the Committee advise them During the year, the Audit Committee held on whether they believe that the Annual two meetings with EY without management Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, being present, in order to receive feedback is fair, balanced and understandable and from them on matters such as the quality provides the information necessary for ofinteraction with management.
shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Deloitte LLP Deloitte, which provide global internal audit services under the During 2015, there was a tender process direction of the Chief Risk Officer, attended for the external and internal auditor service three Audit Committee meetings during providers, which was overseen by the the year.
The Chief Risk Officer briefed the Committee.
After conducting a thorough Audit Committee three times on key internal tender process, Deloitte was selected audit matters and findings of internal audit to provide the external audit services investigations and had the opportunity information on the external audit tender at each meeting to meet with the Audit process can be found further on in this Committee without any Executive Directors Report.
KPMG LLP KPMG was selected present and he met or had phone calls to provide the internal audit services, as well separately with the Chairman of the Audit as the tax consultancy services.
KPMG was Committee on six further occasions during selected as the internal audit services the year.
provider on the basis of the strength of the The Audit Committee has authority to audit services team, its understanding of seek any information it requires from any Lairds business and its forward-thinking officer or employee of the Company or any risk prioritisation ethos for targeted of its subsidiary undertakings.
that it has received sufficient, reliable and During the year, the Committee has timely information from management to continued to monitor and review the enable it to fulfil its responsibilities during effectiveness of the shared services model the year.
The Audit Committee can take to ensure that high levels of assurance are such independent professional advice, being maintained.
The Committee oversees at the expense of the Company, as it the assurance process to target priorities considers necessary.
in a new control model for the shared services environment.
The Committee has continued to challenge and develop the scope of Lairds internal audit programme to match the evolving growth of the business in terms of regional expansion into new territories and as the organisation structure adapts and changes.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 49 The Committee has also reviewed and Viability discussed with the external auditor the Following the changes to UK Corporate scope of the audit to ensure it appropriately Governance Code, the Board has assessed responds to risk.
the prospects of the Company over a longer period than the 12 months required FINANCIAL REPORTING by the going concern requirements of the Code.
The Committee considered and The primary role of the Committee approved the approach that was adopted in relation to financial reporting is to to provide additional information about the review the half-year and annual financial Groups longer term viability.
The review is carried out with term assessment process supports the both management and the external auditor, Boards statements on viability, as set out and focus areas include evaluating whether: on page 81. the Annual Report and Accounts Taxation represent a fair, balanced and Provisioning for potential current tax understandable view of information liabilities and the level of deferred tax asset for shareholders: recognition in relation to accumulated tax material areas of significant judgement losses require judgements.
The Committee have been given due consideration by addresses these issues through a range management and reviewed with the of reports from the taxation department external auditor: and senior management and a process of challenging the appropriateness the quality and acceptability of of managements views including the accounting policies and practices: degree to which these are supported by clarity of disclosures and compliance to professional advice from external legal and financial reporting standards and relevant other advisory firms.
In 2015 an amount financial and governance reporting of 25.4m 2014, 23.6m was recognised requirements: and in relation to potential non-current tax liabilities, including an amount of 8.6m any correspondence from regulators in recognised in the current year in relation relation to financial reporting.
to the redesign of Lairds operating The primary areas of judgement considered model.
The recognition of these liabilities, by the Committee in relation to the 2015 and any movement in the current year, accounts, and how these were addressed, is discussed in detail and challenged were: with both the taxation department and senior management.
Goodwill impairment testing The review for impairment of goodwill and In 2014 an exceptional 20.1m deferred intangible assets is based on cash flow tax asset was recognised in relation to US projections to calculate a value in use for losses.
The continued recognition of this each division.
These projections are based deferred tax asset, and the movement in the on forecasts which have been prepared current year, has also been discussed and by each division.
The achievability of verified with both the taxation department the forecasts is a risk, given the inherent and senior management.
The provisioning uncertainty within any financial projection.
for current tax liabilities and levels of The Committee addresses this risk by deferred tax asset recognition is an area challenging the assumptions used for of higher audit risk and accordingly the eachdivision and the financial models Committee received detailed verbal used to assess value in use are reviewed as and written reporting from EY on all part of the audit.
See note 16 on pages 117 these matters.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 50 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Acquisition accounting The Committee has reviewed EYs key There is judgement involved in identifying policies for maintaining objectivity and the fair values of the assets of an acquired independence, including the policy for the business.
The accounting policies of rotation of audit partners which requires acquired companies are examined and, a new lead audit partner to be appointed where they differ from Group policies, every five years.
In accordance with this an adjustment is made in the opening policy, there was a change in lead audit balance sheet to ensure consistency.
The Committee also Intangible assets and goodwill are reviewed the policy on employment of separately identified as part of this process, former employees of the external auditor with any need for impairment considered at and confirmed it remained effective.
December 2015 based on current factors.
EY will stand down as the Groups external The Committee has reviewed the disclosure auditor after the 2015 audit has been in the financial statements and has sought completed.
As previously mentioned, further explanation where necessary.
subject to approval of the shareholders Exceptional costs at the Companys AGM on 29 April 2016, The Committee also reviewed the nature Deloitte has been selected to provide the and classification of some costs as external audit services from 2016. exceptional in the year and its compliance with the Groups accounting policy.
EXTERNAL AUDIT TENDER PROCESS There was an exceptional charge of 45.0m An informal pre-proposal market in 2015, of which 39.0m is related to assessment was undertaken to identify redesigning the Laird Operating model.
firms to be invited to tender.
The tender The Committee tested whether certain included both external and internal costs met the recognition criteria as an audit services as well as the tax exceptional item in accordance with the consultancy services.
The Committee The Audit Committee oversaw the also checked that the disclosure of these tender process, and established a items was appropriate.
Tender Steering Committee to drive the process.
The Steering Committee EXTERNAL AUDITOR consisted of the Chairman of the Audit Appointment and independence Committee, the Chief Financial Officer, During the year, the Committee reviewed the Chief Risk Officer, the Group Financial the appointment and terms of engagement Controller and the Director of Internal of EY, the external auditor, including the Controls Governance.
The shortlist of firms invited to tender for The Committee has noted the changes the external audit services comprised four to the Code, the recent findings of firms, including one Tier 2 audit firm.
the Competition Commission, the EUregulations and the Guidance for The detailed process included visits to Audit Committees issued by the Financial selected sites in the US, Europe and Asia Reporting Council, in the context of as well as meetings with key Board and tendering for the external audit contract senior management members.
EY were appointed Whilst the some of the firms that were as external auditor in 1989 and their shortlisted put forward strong bids, a key appointment has been subject to annual deciding factor was the extremely high reviews.
In conjunction with the audit team capability offered by Deloitte, as tendering provisions in the Code, the well as the global reach of the audit team.
Committee decided that a competitive audit tender would take place in 2015 to coincide with the five-year rotation of the audit partner, with a view to the change being implemented in 2016, following the 2015 audit.
There are no contractual obligations which restrict the Committees recommendation to the Board of statutory auditor.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 51 EFFECTIVENESS INTERNAL AUDIT The Audit Committee considers and reviews The Audit Committee oversees the internal the effectiveness of the external audit on audit function.
The Audit Committee an annual basis, reporting its findings to considers the scope and planning of the Board as part of its recommendation.
internal financial audits and reviews the This process is supported by the completion internal audit process for identifying and of questionnaires by the Committee managing financial risk and the findings of which include consideration of the audit those audits.
partner, the approach, communication and reporting.
The results of the questionnaires INTERNAL FINANCIAL CONTROL are reported to and discussed by As noted above, the Audit Committee the Committee.
The Committee also reviews the Group and Companys financial considered the scope and planning of the statements.
It also has responsibility for external financial audit and assessed the reviewing the process for identifying and effectiveness of the audit process, including managing financial risk, for reviewing the a report on the audit firms own internal internal financial controls and considers quality control procedures.
Additionally, the scope and planning of internal and the Committee received and reviewed the external audits.
It reviews reports on Financial Reporting Councils Annual Audit internal financial control including reports Quality Inspections Report.
After taking into by the Chief Risk Officer and the Chief account the above factors, the Committee Financial Officer and the results from concluded that the external auditor internal financial audits.
As part of its remains effective.
audit, the external auditor, to the extent it considers necessary to support its audit NON-AUDIT SERVICES opinion, reviews and tests the systems of The Audit Committee recommends for internal control and the data contained in Board approval a policy for non-audit the accounts, including an independent services to be performed by the auditor.
and objective review of the approach This policy prohibits the use of the external of management to the reporting of the audit firm for certain specified matters and operating results and financial condition.
the hiring of its former employees, without prior approval from the Audit Committee Chairman.
The auditor will not be engaged to provide internal audit services, systems implementations or valuations as such services would be deemed to conflict withtheir independence.
There are sound commercial and practical reasons, including confidentiality, for using the auditor to provide non-audit services.
During the year Laird used the services of EY and other providers for tax compliance advice and acquisition due diligence.
The ratio of fees for non-audit work to audit services was 0.9 in 2015.
As previously reported, tax compliance fees have been unusually high as EY has been advising Laird over a number of years on a Bilateral Advanced Pricing Agreement, a major tax compliance project involving the Chinese and US tax authorities.
These fees, which amounted to 0.7m in 2015, represent closure of the outstanding issues with the Chinese authorities.
Excluding these fees, the ratio of non-audit fees to audit was 0.3.
Details of fees for non-audit work are set out in note 6 on page 108.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 52 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED WHISTLEBLOWING The Audit Committee reviews the Companys procedure for handling allegations from whistleblowers as set out in the Companys Global Code of Conduct which is available on the Companys website and any whistleblowing events are brought to its attention.
Following the 2015 annual policy and process review, the Audit Committee agreed that the policy works well and no changes were recommended.
A whistleblowing service, which offers a relevant language service in all countries in which Laird operates, is made available to all employees through an independent telephone and internet provider.
Employees have the right to remain anonymous.
A monthly report on any calls is sent to senior management.
This service was re-tendered in 2015, with the incumbent provider re-appointed to provide an enhanced service which has been re-advertised internally to employees in 2015.
Investigation of all whistleblower communications is overseen by the Chief Risk and Assurance Officer with findings reported to the Board.
In order to continue to highlight the existence of the service, it was agreed that an organisation-wide awareness refresh would be appropriate.
CULTURE LAIRD PLC LEADERSHIP Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGY OPERATING MODEL 53 GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE OBJECTIVE MEMBERSHIP To deal with items of a routine and The Committee consists of any two or administrative nature.
RESPONSIBILITIES MEETINGS The terms of reference of the Administration The Administration Committee met seven Committee are documented and agreed times during the year.
The key terms are outlined Full minutes are kept by the Company below and the full terms of reference Secretary of the matters considered and are available on the Companys website, decisions taken by the Committee and are www.
com: circulated to the Board.
to consent to the appointment of a By order of the Board Director, or Directors of any subsidiary company, where this is required under thesubsidiarys Articles of Association: J G DU PLESSIS to appoint or remove a Director, or GENERAL COUNSEL AND Directors of any subsidiary company COMPANYSECRETARY where this is permissible under the 1 March 2016 subsidiarys Articles of Association: Registered office to approve any increase or reclassification 100 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5NQ or subdivision of the authorised and Registered in England No.
55513 issued share capital of any subsidiary company where this is required under thesubsidiarys Articles of Association: to forfeit unclaimed dividends in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company: and to approve the terms of any bank facility.
CULTURE LAIRD PLC LEADERSHIP Annual Report & Accounts 2015 STRATEGY OPERATING MODEL 54 GOVERNANCE PART 1: ANNUAL STATEMENT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT for the year ended 31 December 2015 DEAR SHAREHOLDER INDEX TO THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT I am pleased to present the Directors remuneration report for 2015 which has This report has been prepared in compliance with Schedule 8 been prepared by the Remuneration of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Committee Committee on behalf Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, ofthe Board.
aswell as the Companies Act 2006.
This report is set out inthe following key sections: CONTEXT TO THE COMMITTEES DECISIONS PART 1: ANNUAL STATEMENT 54 Under David Lockwoods leadership 2015 was another successful year for our PART 2: REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE business, being the third consecutive year of growth, with revenue up 11.6% in Sterling Key principles of the Executive Director remuneration policy 56 and up 3.5% in US Dollar on a constant Summary of the Directors Remuneration Policy 56 currency basis.
Operating cash flow was up 56.9% and underlying EPS up 14.1%.
Executive incentives and link to KPIs 57 Performance against the Companys key All employee incentive arrangements 57 performance indicators are detailed on Incentive outcomes for 2015 58 pages 14 to 29 and the financial highlights 2015 single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors 59 on page 1.
2015 actual single figure versus remuneration policy 59 The year also saw the business execute Total equity exposure at 31 December 2015 60 further on key strategic objectives to support growth including the acquisition of Remuneration Committee and Advisers 60 LS Research and the agreement to acquire Statement of implementation of remuneration policy for 2016 61 Novero, the diversification of our customer base, the development of a plan to streamline PART 3: ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION our business to become a more effective partner to our customers and deliver Single total figure of remuneration Executive Directors 64 efficiency savings and the strengthening Additional details in respect of single total figure table 64 ofthe senior management of the Company Total pension entitlements 68 in line with its growth ambitions.
Single total figure of remuneration Non-Executive Directors 69 2015 REMUNERATION DECISIONS Awards under the Laird PLC 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan 69 Key decisions made by the Committee Buyout Award for Tony Quinlan 70 during, and for, the financial year include: Service contracts 72 The increase in salary for David Lockwood Payments to Past Directors and for loss of office 72 of 14.6% to 550,000 p. a.
When David Outside appointments 73 Lockwood was appointed as Chief Statement of Directors shareholdings and share interests 74 Executive in 2012, his salary was set at a level below the market rate as he was new Dilution limits 75 to the role.
As he is now established in the Performance graph and Chief Executives remuneration over the role and in light of the strong performance past seven years 75 of the Company, the Committee Percentage change in the Chief Executives remuneration 76 concluded that it was appropriate for his salary increase to be higher than average Relative importance of the spend on pay 77 in order to bring it more in line with the Statement of voting at the 2015 AGM 77 benchmark level.
This increase was also inline with the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy Policy.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 55 The decision that David Lockwood and To facilitate his recruitment and in Tony Quinlan should receive an annual accordance with the Policy and the terms performance bonus in respect of 2015 agreed with Tony Quinlan, the Company equal to 40.5% and 37.8% of base salary determined to buy out certain share respectively reflects performance awards with his previous employer which against the strategic measures for the lapsed on his cessation of employment.
David and Tony made a decision Further details of the buyout package to utilise approximately 2.5m of PBT granted can be found on pages 70 to 71. to pay management bonuses thereby forfeiting the PBT element of their 2015 SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL bonus which would otherwise have been AT THE 2016 AGM triggered.
Further details can be found on In line with the Large and Medium sized pages 65 to 67.
Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 Amendment That 75% of the 2003 Long-Term Regulations 2013, the Policy has not been Incentive Plan 2003 LTIP awards and presented in this report given that the Policy 25% of the 2003 Executive Share Option was approved at the 2015 Annual General Plan 2003 ESOP awards granted in Meeting AGM and it is not intended 2012 to David Lockwood and Jonathan to move for a similar resolution again at Silver had achieved the performance the 2016 AGM.
The Policy is available to conditions reflecting the value created view in full on the Companys website for shareholders.
com and is intended to The increase in the Chairmans fee for Dr apply for a period ofthree years from the Martin Read of 15.2% to 190,000.
the Chief Executive, when Dr Read was The Annual Report on Remuneration appointed as Chairman in May 2014, his together with this letter is subject to an fee was set at a level below the market advisory shareholder vote and will be put to rate to reflect that he was new to the role.
this years AGM to be held on 29 April 2016.
The Committee believed that it was now The sections of this report that have been appropriate to bring his fee in line with the subject to audit are labelled accordingly.
level of the previous Chairman of Laird PLC who retired in 2014.
Details of voting at last years AGM, where 99.75% and 96.43% of the votes cast The approval of MyShare, an umbrella supported the resolutions to approve share purchase plan for all employees the Policy and the Annual Report on operated internationally under the Laird Remuneration respectively, are set out on PLC 2015 Share Incentive Plan, the Laird page 77 of this report.
Shareholders also PLC International Share Purchase Plan voted strongly in favour with 99.73% to and the Laird PLC 2015 US Employee 99.99% of the votes cast for the new allStock Purchase Plan.
employee share plans and the 2015 LTIP.
APPOINTMENT OF TONY QUINLAN Finally, I am pleased to inform you that, in Tony Quinlan joined Laird with effect December 2015, Laird PLC won the PwC from 1 July 2015 and was appointed as Building Public Trust Award for the best Chief Financial Officer on 28 July 2015.
Executive Remuneration Reporting in the On appointment the Committee decided to FTSE 250.
A great deal of work goes into provide Tony Quinlan with: producing this report and I am delighted that the work of the Laird team has been A base salary of 350,000 per annum.
A standard benefits package and We remain committed to hearing, and 20% of salary paid as cash in lieu of take an active interest in, your views as pension contribution.
If you would like to discuss The opportunity to participate in the Laird any further aspect of our remuneration PLC 2015 Annual Performance Incentive strategy I would welcome your views.
I can Scheme and the Laird PLC 2015 Longbe contacted at j. boyer@laird-plc.
Term Incentive Plan 2015 LTIP up to 140% and 150% of salary respectively.
JACK BOYER, OBE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 1 MARCH 2016 LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 56 PART 2: REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE Ahead of the detail behind payments for 2015, the Remuneration Committee would like to take the opportunity to outline the Directors Remuneration Policy Policy, wider all-employee pay arrangements, key decisions and performance outcomes during the past year.
KEY PRINCIPLES OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION POLICY Lairds Policy is based on a number of principles.
Remuneration arrangements should be aligned with strategy for accelerated growth and the creation of long-term shareholder value.
The Policy should ensure there is a clear link between reward and sustained performance and recognise exceptional performance appropriately when this occurs.
The Policy should provide an appropriate balance between fixed and variable performance-related components, witha significant element of long-term variable pay given the long-term nature of thebusiness.
Remuneration should be competitive with the market and facilitate retention of talent within sectors and geographies in which the Company operates and competes for talent.
SUMMARY OF THE POLICY The Policy supports Lairds strategic drivers, which are set out on pages 14 and 15.
The Policy and its use of performance metrics appropriately support shareholder value creation by delivering sustainable performance consistent with the strategic drivers and appropriate risk management.
Element Policy summary description Maximum opportunity EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Base salary Base salaries are set at a level to recognise the market value In normal circumstances, where appropriate, of the role, the performance of the individual, the individuals annual increases are made in line with the experience and responsibilities and pay and conditions average of employees salary increases.
Pension and benefits Either a contribution to a personal pension scheme or the Pension contribution or cash allowance in lieu Companys defined contribution pension scheme: or cash of pension benefits up to 25% of salary and allowance in lieu of pension benefits.
levels of benefits are defined by market rates.
Market competitive benefits are provided.
Annual bonus Annual bonus is payable each year subject to performance Up to 150% of salary.
against a scorecard consisting offinancial and non-financial Annual Performance targets.
Incentive Scheme rd 1 3 of any award is deferred into shares for aperiod of three years.
Malus and clawback arrangements are in place.
Long-term Incentives Performance shares known as LTIP Awards vest subject to the Up to 200% of base salary.
achievement of relative TotalShareholder Return and Earnings 2015 Long-Term per Share targets at the end of a three-year period.
A two-year Incentive Plan holding period will apply following a three-year vesting period for LTIP Awards granted to the Executive Directors.
Shareholding requirement 200% of salary for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
n a NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Fees Each Non-Executive Director receives a fee which relates to In normal circumstances, where appropriate, membership of the Board and additional fees are paid for annual increases are made in line with the Committee Chairmanship and membership.
The Chairman average of employees salary increases unless receives an annual fee for his services to the Company.
Previous awards granted under the old remuneration policy i. e. prior to the current Policy approved at the AGM on 8 May2015 will be honoured.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 57 Executive incentives and link to KPIs In line with the remuneration principles, the incentive arrangements are designed to support the Companys KPIs.
The following table sets out a number of the Companys KPIs and how their satisfaction is encouraged by the incentive framework: PBT Satisfaction of Sustainable Maximise Total Performance Key Strategic Profit Growth Shareholder KPI Objectives EPS Returns Annual Performance 4 4 Incentive Scheme 2015 Long-Term 4 4 Incentive Plan The Committee believes that the remuneration structure in place will continue to support and motivate the Executive Directors, in furthering the Companys long-term strategic objectives including the creation of sustainable shareholder returns.
Furthermore, we are satisfied that the composition and structure of the remuneration package is appropriate and does not incentivise undue risk-taking or reward underperformance.
ALL EMPLOYEE INCENTIVE ARRANGEMENTS Since 2013, the Board, led by the Chief Executive, has been transforming the remuneration strategy of the Company to ensure all employees share in its success through performance-related remuneration and share ownership.
In 2015 the Medium Term Incentive Plan MTIP was introduced for the senior leaders excluding the Executive Directors, and a new all-employee share purchase plan was implemented.
The remuneration arrangements operating across the Company for 2016 are set out below.
In addition, the following table demonstrates how key objectives are reflected consistently in plans operating at all levels within the Company.
More details on share schemes can be found in note 29 to the Financial Statements on pages 134 to 138.
Objectives Financial Strategic & Long-term Share Performance Operational Value Creation Ownership Profit & Goals encouraged Earnings per through equity Plan Purpose Eligibility Share retention International Share To broaden share The majority of PurchasePlan or ownership and share in employees depending 4 4 countryequivalent corporate success over on country the medium term Profit share scheme To share in annual All employees not in any 4 successabove target other performance or management scheme Annual bonus Incentivise and reward Managers, senior 4 4 short-term performance managers and senior leaders Conditional Share Awards Broaden share ownership, Senior managers and 4 4 annual with three-year alignment and retention senior leaders vesting Conditional ShareAwards Broaden share ownership, High-potential 4 4 ad hoc with three-year retention andincentive employees, highvesting performing employees MTIP three-year Broaden share ownership, Senior leaders 4 4 4 4 performance condition alignment, retention and long-term performance Annual Performance Incentivise and reward Executive Directors IncentiveScheme short-term performance 4 4 4 4 plus retention through deferral 2015 LTIP Incentivise and reward Executive Directors 4 4 4 4 long-term performance andselected others LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 58 PART 2: REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE CONTINUED INCENTIVE OUTCOMES FOR 2015 2015 Annual Performance Incentive Scheme outcome Bonus awards for 2015 reflect the good progress in respect of the key strategic objectives to support the growth of the Company.
The Committee determined that a bonus payment equal to 40.5% of salary for David Lockwood 27% of 150% of salary maximum and 37.8% of salary for Tony Quinlan 27% of 140% of salary maximum should be awarded following an assessment of the 2015 corporate scorecard, as set out below, and taking into account Lairds underlying financial performance and also individual performance.
One third of the bonus payment will be deferred into shares and will vest after three years.
The measures that were applicable for the 2015 Annual Performance Incentive Scheme are summarised in the table below.
1 Measure Targets Outcome Underlying PBT Threshold: 97% of Budget PBT Performance Threshold was not met Target: 100% of Budget Budget of 77m for Weighting 70% of maximum bonus FY 2015 Maximum: 103% Budget Strategic, Operational and Six strategic, operational and corporate 90% of Strategic, Operational and Corporate CorporatePerformance Measures performance measures were set for the Performance Measures were met ChiefExecutive for 2015 and three for the Weighting 30% of maximum bonus 2 newChief Financial Officer to cover the periodfrom July to December 2015 Notes 1.
For full details of the 2015 Annual Performance Incentive Scheme performance targets, objectives and outcome, please see pages 65 to 67.
As previously disclosed, it was agreed with Jonathan Silver as part of his leaving arrangements that he would not be entitled to an annual bonus in respect of the year ending 31 December 2015.
Long-term incentive vesting outcomes 2015 25% of the 2003 ESOP and 75% of the awards granted under the 2003 LTIP to David Lockwood in August 2012 and Jonathan Silver in April 2012 vested in 2015.
Performance measure Weighting Performance Outcome Total Shareholder Return 75% weighting for the LTIP awards Upper Quartile performance for both David Lockwood and Jonathan Silvers awards 25% weighting for the ESOP awards Average Annual Growth in 25% weighting for the LTIP awards EPS threshold performance was not met ContinuingEarnings Per Share 75% weighting for the ESOP awards Note 1.
For full details of performance for the vesting of the 2012 awards, please see pages 67 to 68.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 59 2015 SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The table below summarises the 2015 and 2014 single total figure of remuneration: Long-term Pension Cash in 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Base salary Taxable benefits Annual bonus incentives lieu of pension Other Total Executive Director 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 D Lockwood 465 515 18 18 240 223 664 116 129 839 1,549 T Quinlan 150 6 132 30 193 511 J Silver 345 123 21 6 164 673 433 138 49 1,341 611 Note 1.
Full details of information included in the single total figure of remuneration can be found on page 64.
2015 ACTUAL SINGLE FIGURE VERSUS REMUNERATION POLICY The following charts show the actual single figure for remuneration for the Executive Directors against the Policy scenarios applying for 2015: DAVID LOCKWOOD TONY QUINLAN 000 000 2,500 1,400 2,294 1,201 960 42% 1,200 525 44% 2,000 1,6 365 34 1,000 1,549 806 552 1,500 34% 347 800 302 37% 43% 720 31% 317 490 41% 600 1,000 468 29% 614 223 14% 319 40% 400 318 662 43% 614 614 614 500 100% 37% 27% 186 132 42% 200 186 100% 186 23% 186 15% 186 58% 0 0 Minimum On-Target Maximum Single Figure Minimum On-Target Maximum Single Figure 2015 2015 Fixed Annual Bonus LTIP LTIP: intrinsic value of vested awards at grant LTIP: value delivered via share price growth Minimum, On-Target and Maximum scenarios have been calculated in accordance with the Regulations, except to enable an accurate comparison Tony Quinlans fixed remuneration reflects the amounts he received for the year rather than the annualised figures.
Tony Quinlans buy-out awards, that form part of the Single Figure for 2015, have also been excluded on the basis they do not form part of the Lairds annual remuneration policy.
David Lockwoods 2015 remuneration policy scenarios are as disclosed in the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report.
His actual fixed remuneration for 2015 was higher than the remuneration policy scenarios disclosed in the 2014 report following the mid-year increase to salary at the normal review date i. e. the Committees policy is to review salaries 1 July each year.
No allowance has been made for share price appreciation for Minimum, On-Target and Maximum scenarios.
Therefore, for comparison with the 2015 actual single figure LTI number which shows the value of an award at vesting, the value has been separated to show the intrinsic value of the LTI awards at grant and the value delivered via share price growth over the performance period.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 60 PART 2: REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE CONTINUED TOTAL EQUITY EXPOSURE AT 31 DECEMBER 2015 The following table and chart sets out all subsisting interests in the equity of the Company held by the Executive Directors at 31 December 2015: 2003 LTIP, 2003 ESOP, 2013 & 2015 LTIP interests Interests subject to Shareholding at 31 December 2015 conditions Vested but unexercised Total Shares interests in required Number of Number of ShareLTIPs ESOP to be shares beneficially holding Market Buyout held at 31 Executive held % of required owned requirement Nil-Cost Market Value Nil-Cost Value Nil-Cost December 1 2 3 Director salary to hold shares met Options Options Options Options Options 2015 D Lockwood 200% 309,946 148,443 No 599,087 350,318 949,405 T Quinlan 200% 197,239 5,000 No 132,308 147,804 280,112 Notes 1.
David Lockwood and Tony Quinlan joined the Company in August 2012 and July 2015 respectively, and therefore have not yet built up shares equal totheir individual requirements.
For details regarding Tony Quinlans buyout awards, please see pages 70 and 71.
For full details regarding all Directors share and share award interests, please see page 74.
David Lockwood Shareholding requirement % of salary Value of beneficially owned shares Value of gain on interests over Laird shares i. e. unvested unexercised awards Shareholding requirement Tony Quinlan % of salary Value of beneficially owned shares Value of gain on interests over Laird shares i. e. unvested unexercised awards 0% 100% 200% 300% 400% 500% 600% 700% REMUNERATION COMMITTEE AND ADVISERS Number of meetings held during tenure Number of Committee Members Independent during the year meetings attended 1 P Bell Yes 3 3 J Boyer Chairman of the Committee Yes 4 4 Sir Christopher Hum Yes 4 4 2 Professor M Kelly Yes 3 3 3 M Parker Yes 2 1 Dr M Read Yes 4 4 Notes 1.
Paula Bell retired as a member of the Committee on 30 June 2015.
Professor Michael Kelly retired as a Director of the Company on 30 June 2015.
Mike Parker was appointed as a Director of Laird PLC and a member of its Remuneration Committee on 3March2015.
He was unable to attend the Committee meeting in May 2015 due to commitments made prior tohisappointment as a Director of Laird PLC.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 61 The members of the Committee have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in matters to be decided, no potential conflicts of interest arising from cross directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board the remuneration policy for Executive Directors and the senior management and for setting the remuneration packages for each Executive Director.
The Committee also has oversight of the remuneration policy and packages for other senior members of staff.
The written Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website and from the Company on request.
The Committee held four meetings during the year.
Its activities during 2015 included approving the 2014 Annual Performance Incentive Scheme awards: approving the framework for the 2015 Annual Performance Incentive Scheme: determining if performance conditions for Lairds long-term incentive arrangements had been met: reviewing the Committees Terms of Reference: approving the Directors remuneration report for approval by the Board, reviewing the base salaries of the Executive Directors and other senior executives, setting an appropriate remuneration package for Tony Quinlan, reviewing the fees paid to the Chairman and approving the 2015 LTIP and an umbrella share purchase plan for all employees.
Advisers to the Committee  LLP PwC are independent advisers to the Committee.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
On this basis, the Committee is satisfied that the advice received is objective and independent.
PwC also provided the Company with other advisory services during the year.
The Committee reviewed the nature of theservices provided and was satisfied thatno conflict of interest exists or existedin the provision of these services.
The Committee also sought the views ofthe Chief Executive, David Lockwood, during the year.
The Chief Executive is given notice of all meetings and, at the request of the Chairman of the Committee, attends part of the meetings.
The Chief Executive may request that he attends and speaks at Committee meetings.
In normal circumstances, the Chief Executive will be consulted on general policy matters and matters concerning the other Executive Director and employees.
The total fees paid to PwC in respect of services to the Committee during the year were 127,250.
Fees were determined based on the scope and nature of the projects undertaken for the Committee.
STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR 2016 The Policy and its implementation for the forthcoming financial year is summarised below: EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Salary During the summer of 2015, the Committee considered David Lockwoods remuneration.
The Committee awarded a one-off salary increase of 14.6% to David Lockwood from 480,000 to 550,000 which was effective from 1 July 2015.
The rationale for the increase is set out below: When David Lockwood was appointed as Chief Executive, his salary was set at a level below the market rate and significantly below the previous CEO Peter Hill 609,000, given that he was new to the role.
In line with the Policy for individuals who become established in their role following appointment and in light of his strong personal performance as Chief Executive and Lairds strong corporate performance, the Committee concluded that it was appropriate for his salary increase to be higher than the average increase applied to the wider employee population.
Since appointment, David Lockwood has transformed the business to position Laird as a leading global technology company.
Under his leadership, Laird has delivered solid results, underpinned by an increasingly diversified business, exemplified by the strength and growing importance of our Wireless Systems division.
The continuation of this transformation, redesign of Lairds operating model, associated growth for shareholders and the execution of the long-term strategic plan is dependent on David Lockwoods leadership and drive.
The increase recognises the shareholder value that has been created since David Lockwoods appointment and his role in delivering that value.
In context, since his appointment Lairds Total Shareholder Return growth has been 88% compared to a FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts return of 71% to 31 December 2015.
Lairds strong performance has resulted in an increase to the size and complexity of the business through both organic growth and acquisitions.
The increase to David Lockwoods salary is therefore also a recognition that the business is ofsignificantly greater size, complexity and geographical footprint than at David Lockwoods appointment.
An increase to David Lockwoods salary better aligns his positioning against companies in the FTSE 250 he is now positioned at the median level which is in line with our stated Policy.
The package is in line with our Policy to provide anappropriate balance between fixed and variable performance-related components, with a significant element of long-term variable pay given the long term nature of the business.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 62 PART 2: REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE CONTINUED Tony Quinlan joined the Company on 1 July 2015, and was appointed the new Chief Financial Officer on 28 July 2015 withabase salary of350,000.
It is the Committees Policy to review Executive Directors salaries as at 1 July each year.
Any changes to salaries in 2016 willbe in line with the Policy and disclosed in the 2016 Directors remuneration report.
Annual Performance Incentive Scheme 2016 Details of the maximum bonus potentials along with the performance measures and their respective weightings for the year ending 31 December 2016 are set out below: Performance measure Bonus opportunity weighting % award Maximum Underlying profit Strategic Director % of salary before tax objectives D Lockwood 150% 70% 30% T Quinlan 140% 70% 30% The Committee considers that disclosing precise targets of profit and strategic objectives, which are commercially sensitive, for the Annual Performance Incentive Scheme in advance would not be in shareholder interests.
Actual targets, performance achieved and awards made will be published at the end of the performance period where possible without compromising confidential matters so that shareholders can fully assess the basis for any payouts.
Two-thirds of the bonus award will be paid out in cash with the further one-third deferred into shares subject to a further three-year vesting period.
No further performance targets apply to the deferred shares.
LTIP Awards in 2016 Details of the maximum LTIP Awards i. e. performance share awards to be made under the 2015 LTIP in 2016 are set out below.
Weighting Maximum opportunity Performance measure % award Performance target Vesting level 200% of salary for D Lockwood Total Shareholder Return 50% Upper Quintile Full Vesting relative to the FTSE 250 Median to Upper Quintile Pro rata on a straight-line basis excluding financial services between 20% and full Vesting sector companies and investment trusts Below Median Nil 150% of salary for T Quinlan Average Annual Growth 50% 13% p. a.
Full Vesting in Continuing Earnings Between 5% and 13% p. a.
Pro rata on a straight-line basis Per Share between 10% and full Vesting Below 5% p. a. Nil Awards will be subject to performance measures over a three-year period.
A two-year holding period will apply following the three-year vesting period for LTIP Awards granted to the Executive Directors.
Pension For the year ending 31 December 2016 David Lockwood and Tony Quinlan will be entitled to receive a pension contribution or cash in lieu equal to 25% and 20% of base salary respectively.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 63 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Board determines the fee levels for the Non-Executive Directors and the Committee determines the fee levels for the Chairman.
In light of the revised Non-Executive composition of the Board, increased time spent by the Non-Executive Directors onCompany business, experience and quality of the individuals and increased complexity and international profile of thebusiness, it was decided that certain changes were necessary to the Non-Executive Director fee structure.
In line withthe approved Policy for Non-Executive Directors, the table below summarises the changes to the fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors effective 1 July 2015: Role 1 January 2015 1 July 2015 1 165,000 190,000 Chairmans Fee 44,000 49,000 Non-Executive Directors fee 7,000 8,000 Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 7,000 11,000 Additional fee for chairmanship of Audit and Remuneration Committees 0 3,000 Additional fee for membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees 0 2,000 Additional fee for membership of the Nomination Committee Note 1.
The 165,000 fee paid to Martin Read was effective from the date of the AGM.
The fee structure for the Non-Executive Directors was previously unchanged since 2012, except for the Chairman who was brought in on a lower fee of 165,000 compared to the previous Chairman 190,000.
The Board is satisfied that the new fee structure for the Non-Executive Directors will: Ensure that Laird can retain and attract individuals with the appropriate knowledge and experience to guide Laird through its next stage of development as a leading global technology business.
Provide a fee structure which recognises the increased time commitment for our Non-Executive Directors on Company business.
Provide a competitive fee structure when compared to other FTSE 250 companies.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 64 PART 3: ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This Annual Report on Remuneration contains details of how the Companys remuneration policy for Directors was implemented during the financial year ended on 31 December 2015.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
An advisory resolution to approve this report will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
The information on pages 64 to 75 upto the Performance Graph and the Chief Executives Remuneration over the past seven years has been audited.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OFREMUNERATION EXECUTIVEDIRECTORS The remuneration of Executive Directors showing the breakdown between components with comparative figures for the prior year is shown below.
Figures provided have been calculated inaccordance with the Regulations.
Tony Quinlan joined the Company on 1 July 2015 and was appointed to the Board on 28 July 2015.
His remuneration in the above table represents the period from 28 July 2015 to 31 December 2015.
Jonathan Silver retired as a Director of the Company on 8 May 2015.
His remuneration in the above table represents the period from 1 January 2015 to 8May2015.
Benefits include car and fuel, or a car allowance, and health insurance.
For details, see table below.
The value of long-term incentives is calculated using the closing mid-market share price on the later of the date the performance conditions are met or the minimum period for holding is met.
David Lockwood: On 13 August 2015, 146,081 LTIP awards and 48,694 ESOP awards exercise price 218.2p met their performance conditions 75% and 25% respectively of the original awards granted on 13 August 2012.
The relevant share price was 395.4p giving a net value of 577,604 and 86,286 respectively.
Further details are shown on pages 67 to 68.
Jonathan Silver: On 2 April 2015, 117,100 LTIP awards and 29,275 ESOP awards exercise price 215.2p met their performance conditions 75% and 25% respectively of the original awards granted on 2 April 2012.
The relevant share price was 339.0p giving a net value of 396,969 and 36,242 respectively.
This includes the cash in lieu of pension amount and the single pension figure.
Other represents buyout awards that were awarded to Tony Quinlan on joining the Company that are not subject to performance conditions.
See more details on pages 70 to 71.
ADDITIONAL DETAILS IN RESPECT OF SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE TABLE Taxable benefits Benefits comprise the provision of a car and fuel, or a car allowance, life, disability and health insurance.
The Company provided Executive Directors with the following benefits during the year: Company car or Executive Director 000 cash allowance Health insurance 1 D Lockwood 2015 11 3 2014 11 3 T Quinlan 2015 5 1 2014 J Silver 2015 5 1 2014 18 3 Note 1.
David Lockwoods taxable benefits for 2014 and 2015 included a sum of 3,759 and 4,365 respectively where the Company paid for his wife to accompany him on an overseas business trip.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 65 OUTCOME OF THE ANNUAL PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE SCHEME FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER2015 The performance targets, actual performance achievement and resulting bonus payments are summarised below.
Performance measures and Targets Actual performance outcome Performance Measure Underlying profit before tax PBT Weighting: 70% of maximum Targets 1 Up to 70% of maximum bonus is based on PBT of 73.1m achieved which was below the Threshold target of 74.69m.
achievement of budget for underlying PBT adjusted for any acquisitions and disposals during the year of 77m.
Threshold: At 97% of budget being 74.69m, 20% of maximum PBT element is payable.
Budget: At 100% of Budget being 77m, 70%at maximum PBT element is payable.
Maximum: At 103% of Budget being 79.31m, 100% of maximum PBT element is payable.
Performance Measure Strategic, Corporate and  Weighting: 30% of maximum Targets Six objectives were set for the Chief Executive 90% of Strategic, Corporate and Operational objectives were met.
for the year although some objectives are expected to take a few years to achieve and complete in full and three forthe new Chief Financial Officer.
Up to 30% of maximum bonus is based on The Board was satisfied that the Executive Directors had a good year and provided highly achievement of certain strategic, corporate effective leadership to the Company.
They had worked hard and made tangible and significant and operational measures.
If none of the progress in the development of the business.
Progress in strengthening the management team performance metrics are achieved, 0% of in 2015 had been particularly pleasing and the transition to the new operating model had gone this element would be paid.
The acquisition of LS Research and the agreement to acquire Novero have provided the reviews performance against objectives opportunity for making significant progress with the development of our wireless telematics in the round at the end of the year when businesses in the year ahead.
Taken in the round, the Board was satisfied that both the Chief determining payments under this element Executive and the Chief Financial Officer should be awarded 90% of the bonus element ofthe bonus scorecard.
attributed to Strategic, Corporate and Operational objectives.
Further details against the individual goals are set out on the following page.
The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer decided to utilise approximately 2.5m of PBT for 2015 to pay management bonuses.
This decision took the achieved PBT for 2015 i. e. after the cost of the management bonuses below the 2015 Annual Performance Incentive Scheme PBT threshold level 97% of budget.
Therefore no bonus will be paid to either David Lockwood or Tony Quinlan in respect of the PBT element of the Annual Performance Incentive Scheme for 2015.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 66 PART 3: ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Performance measures and Targets Actual performance outcome For the Chief Executive: Increase customer diversification.
This was measured by the number of customers in the following bands revenue, each of which increased with the exception of the $25m band where the level of customers was maintained in line with expectation: Customer Band 2015 Target 2015 Result $25m 6 6 $10$25m 9 9 $1m$10m 70 71 Progress on strengthening and diversifying Considerable progress has been made on strengthening and diversifying the management the Management Team.
The first female Vice President of Technology was appointed during the year.
Forty percent 40% of new hires in the Leadership Team were female and seventy-six percent 76% of new hires to the Management Team were non UK US nationals.
Seamless transition to the new Operating This has been supported by a number of initiatives, including: Model and processes.
a the implementation of a new set of Delegated Authority Levels: b t he strengthening of the Finance and Legal functions: c the institution of a new monthly reporting cycle: and d i mprovements to senior customer engagement.
Significant progress with the strategic plans This is evident from major M2M wins within the Telematics Business Unit, double digit organic for the Wirelessbusiness.
growth and two significant acquisitions, Novero which completed in January 2016 and LSResearch.
Further refinement of the forecasting in the Further refinements were made and a new reporting format was adopted during the course business.
ofthe year which was well received by theBoard.
Further development of strategic plan.
Two significant acquisitions were achieved: Novero and LS Research.
The 2014 Model Solution acquisition is delivering according to plan.
Astrong funnel process has been developed and is well supported by the relevant executive and Board committees.
1,2 For the Chief Financial Officer Deliver a seamless transition from previous The Chief Executive and the Board were impressed by the smooth transition from the Chief Financial Officer.
Tony Quinlan has delivered an ambitious plan for the transformation of the Finance function to support Lairds growth plans, which was well received by the Chief Executive and the Board.
Deliver a high-quality Capital Markets Day.
The Capital Markets Day was highly successful as reflected inthe positive feedback received from the investorcommunity.
As previously disclosed and in accordance with the terms of his leaving arrangements, Jonathan Silver was not entitled to an annual bonus in respect of the year ending 31 December 2015.
The objectives set out above were for the new Chief Financial Officer, who joined the Company on 1 July 2015.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 67 Taking into account the performance against the targets and the underlying financial performance of Laird, the Committee determined to make the following bonus awards for 2015.
One-third of the bonus payment willbe deferred into shares and will vest in three years.
The deferred shares are not subject to any further performance conditions.
Chief Executive David Lockwood Chief Financial Officer Tony Quinlan Value of Value of bonus to be bonus to be Maximum Bonus paid awarded in Maximum Bonus paid in awarded in opportunity % of salary in cash shares opportunity % of salary cash shares Performance measures % of salary paid 000 000 % of salary paid 000 000 Underlying profit before tax 105% 0.0% 0.0 0.0 98.0% 0.0% 0.0 0.0 Strategic, corporate and operational 45% 40.5% 148.5 74.3 42.0% 37.8% 88.2 44.1 objectives Total 150% 40.5% 148.5 74.3 140.0% 37.8% 88.2 44.1 LONG-TERM INCENTIVES The awards granted in 2012 to David Lockwood and Jonathan Silver under the 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan and 2003 Executive Share Option Plan vested in 2015.
Weighting % of award subject to Performance measures performance Number of Number of Value of vested 1 Award see full details below measure awards granted awards vesting awards D Lockwood 2003 LTIP awards Continuing Earnings per share 25% 194,775 146,081 577,604 granted in 2012 Total shareholder return 75% 2003 ESOP awards Continuing Earnings per share 75% 194,775 48,694 86,286 granted in 2012 Total shareholder return 25% J Silver 2003 LTIP awards Continuing Earnings per share 25% 156,133 117,100 396,969 granted in 2012 Total shareholder return 75% 2003 ESOP awards Continuing Earnings per share 75% 117,100 29,275 36,242 granted in 2012 Total shareholder return 25% The table below summarises the performance measures and the extent to which the performance measures were satisfied: Incentive value for Threshold Maximum threshold and max performance performance performance Measurement Performance measures required required % award period Actual performance outcome Earnings per share RPI 5%p.
December 2014 Therefore the threshold target was not achieved for both David Lockwood or Jonathan Silvers awards Total shareholder return Median Upper quartile 30% 100% 3 years from the Upper Quartile performance date of grant for both David Lockwood and Jonathan Silvers awards Notes to above tables 1.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 68 PART 3: ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Total Shareholder Return and continuing earnings per share were both used as performance measures for both the LTIP and ESOP Awards.
The comparator group for TSR was a group of 20 companies as set out in the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report, but excluding any companies that had delisted, merged or demerged since the awards had been made.
The TSR measurement period was the three years ending 13 August 2015 and 2 April 2015 for awards made to David Lockwood and Jonathan Silver respectively.
In addition, the Committee must be satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the Companys underlying financial performance.
Earnings per share is calculated with reference to underlying earnings per share before exceptional items, the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, deferred tax on acquired intangible assets and goodwill, the gain or loss on disposal of businesses, the impact arising from the fair valuing of financial instruments as stated in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts of the Company.
For the awards granted in 2012, and all outstanding awards, the EPS performance measure is assessed based on year-end results.
However, the TSR performance measure is assessed a number of months post the financial year end and is subject to an underlying financial performance condition until thedate of vesting.
Therefore, vesting is unknown at the year end.
The Committee believes it would be inconsistent to split the performance conditions for these awards and therefore to show true comparability between annual grants the figures are shown for the awards which vest in the financial year.
This approach is consistent with the approach taken in prior years.
TOTAL PENSION ENTITLEMENTS The Company provides either a contribution to a personal pension scheme, a contribution to the Laird defined contributionscheme or a cash allowance in lieu of pension benefits.
All Directors have elected to receive cash in lieu ofpension benefits.
Jonathan Silver was a member of the Group contributory defined benefit scheme but ceased toaccrue further pension benefits with effect from 6 April 2006.
The following payments were made for 2015: Cash in Lieu 2015 2014 Executive Director % of base pay 000 000 D Lockwood 25% 129 116 T Quinlan 20% 30 J Silver 40% 49 138 Single pension Transfer value of Accrued pension at figure at accrued pension at 2 3 4 Age at 08.05.2015 08.05.2015 08.05.2015 1 Executive Director 08.05.2015 000 p. a.
Payable from normal retirement date of age 60.
The single pension figure is calculated as 20 x closing pension value uplifted opening pension value less directors contributions.
The transfer value of accrued benefits is calculated on the cash equivalent transfer value basis agreed by the Trustees on 2 July 2013.
Accrued benefits payable from the normal retirement date were calculated at the date Jonathan Silver ceased to beaDirector.
LAIRD PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2015 69 SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors showing the breakdown between components, with comparative figures forthe prior year, is shown below.
Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the Regulations.
Fees for 2014 have been pro-rated as Martin Read was appointed as a Director with effect from 28 February 2014 and as Chairman with effect from 2 May 2014.
Paula Bell received additional fees as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Jack Boyer received additional fees as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Sir Christopher Hums services as a Non-Executive Director of the Company are supplied by Qilin Consulting Limited.
He received additional fees as a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Professor Michael Kelly retired as a Non-Executive Director of the Company on 30 June 2015.
Mike Parker was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of the Company with effect from 3 March 2015.
He received additional fees as the Senior Independent Director and, with effect from 1 July 2015, as a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Fees for 2015 have been pro-rated.
Kjersti Wiklund, who was appointed as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 July 2015, received additional fees as a member of the Audit Committee.
AWARDS UNDER THE LAIRD PLC 2015 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN The table below sets out the details of the long-term incentive awards granted under the Laird PLC 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan in 2015 where vesting will be determined according to the achievement of performance measures that will be tested in 2018.
A two-year holding period will apply following the three-year vesting period for LTIP Awards granted tothe Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive awards under the plan.
Percentage of award Face value of receivable for End of Exercise Type of option Basis of award made Number of threshold performance price Executive Director awarded award shares performance period p 1 1 D Lockwood Nil-Cost 200% of 960,000 248,769 15% 12 May 2018 Nil Option salary 2 2 T Quinlan Nil-Cost 150% of 524,998 132,308 15% 4 August 2018 Nil Option salary Notes 1.
Calculated as maximum number of shares that would vest if all performance measures are met multiplied by the closing mid-market share price on 11 May 2015, the day prior to grant, of 385.9p.
Calculated as maximum number of shares that would vest if all performance measures are met multiplied by the closing mid-market share price on 3August2015, the day prior to grant, of 396.8p.
