Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued directors remuneration policy This part of the report sets out the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy which was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
The policy came into effect on 5 October 2014.
The policy is determined by the Companys Remuneration Committee.
The policy is due to be reviewed by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
base salary Purpose and Core element of xed remuneration, reecting the size and scope of the role.
linktostrategy Purpose is to recruit and retain Directors of the calibre required for the business.
Operation Reviewed annually and usually xed for 12 months commencing 1 October.
Whilst Executive Directors are contractually entitled to an annual review of their salary, there is no entitlement to an increase as a result of this review.
Salary levels are determined by the Committee taking into account a range of factors including: role, experience and performance: alignment with workforce: prevailing market conditions: and external benchmarks for similar roles at comparable companies.
Opportunity Salary increases are reviewed in the context of salary increases across the wider Group.
The Committee considers any increase which is out of line with these very carefully and such increases may be awarded where there is a reason to do so taking into account relevant factors.
These circumstances may include but are not limited to: increase in scope and responsibility: promotional increase to Executive Director: or a salary falling signicantly below market positioning.
Performance metrics Not applicable, although the individuals contribution and overall performance is one of the considerations in determining the level of any salary increase.
benefits Purpose and Ensures the overall package is competitive.
Participation in the Save As You Earn scheme SAYE creates staff alignment with the Group and promotes a senseof ownership.
Operation Executive Directors receive benets in line with market practice which include a car allowance, private medical insurance and life assurance.
The SAYE is an HMRC approved monthly savings scheme facilitating the purchase of shares at a discount.
Other benets may be provided based on the role and individual circumstances.
These may include, for example, relocation and travel allowances.
Opportunity Set at a level which the Committee considers appropriate against the market and provides a sufficient level of benefit based on individual circumstances.
SAYE contribution as permitted in accordance with the relevant tax legislation.
50 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Annual bonus and deferred bonus plan DBP Purpose and Rewards performance against annual targets which support the strategic direction of the Company.
linktostrategy Compulsory deferral into shares aligns Executive Directors with shareholder interests and provides a retentionelement.
Operation Targets are set annually and any pay-out is determined by the Committee after the period end, based on performance against those targets.
The Committee has discretion to vary the bonus pay-out should any formulaic output not reect the Committees assessment of overall business performance.
Any bonus earned in excess of 40% of the maximum award is usually payable in shares in the Company which will be deferred for a period of three years.
Executive Directors can opt to defer a greater proportion if they wish.
Deferral of any bonus earned is subject to a fide minimis limit of 5,000.
A malus provision gives the Committee the right to cancel unvested shares if an act or omission of the participant contributes to a material misstatement of the Groups financial statements or results in material loss or reputational damage for the Company.
A clawback provision allows the Committee to recover any bonus awarded for up to two years if certain events occur.
These events include serious misconduct and a material misstatement of the Groups audited results.
As with all Company bonuses, they remain discretionary and can be adjusted or removed at the Companys discretion.
In the case of Executive Directors this discretion lies with the Committee.
Opportunity Maximum bonus opportunity is 100% of base salary.
Performance metrics Financial targets are set each year reecting the business priorities that underpin Group strategy and align to financial key performance indicators which may include Group profit and return on capital measures.
At least 50% of the award will be based on Group profit.
Payments range between 0% and 100% of base salary with 50% of the maximum entitlement for each measure payable for on-target performance.
For achievement of the maximum performance level the highest level of performance that results in any additional payment 100% of the maximum opportunity will vest.
There is usually straight-line vesting between the threshold and target performance levels and between target and maximum performance levels.
The Committee has the discretion to vary the vesting schedules by reducing the percentage that vests at each performance level but not by increasing the percentage that vests.
51 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued Long term incentive plan LTIP Purpose and Incentivises Executive Directors to deliver against the Companys strategy over the longer term.
linktostrategy Long term performance targets and share-based remuneration support the creation of sustainable shareholder value.
Operation The Committee makes long term incentive awards under the 2014 LTIP which was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
Under the 2014 LTIP, awards of conditional shares, restricted stock or nil cost options or similar cash equivalent can be made with vesting dependent on the achievement of performance conditions, normally over a three-year performance period.
Awards may vest early on a change of control or other relevant event subject to satisfaction of the performance conditions and pro-rating for time, although the Committee has discretion to increase the extent of vesting having due regard to performance over the period to vesting.
As described on page 56, LTIP awards may also vest early in good leaver circumstances.
Under the new LTIP the Committee has the right to reduce any LTIP awards which have not yet vested i. e. a malus provision if an act or omission contributes to a material misstatement of the Groups financial statements or results in material loss or reputational damage for the Company.
At any time on or after the vesting of an award and prior to the second anniversary of vesting, a clawback provision allows the Committee to reduce the number of shares subject to an award or cancel an un-exercised award or require a cash payment in respect of shares already delivered under an award if certain events occur.
The Committee may at its discretion structure awards as Approved Performance Share Plan APSP awards.
APSPawards enable the participant and Company to benefit from HMRC approved option tax treatment in respect of part of the award, without increasing the pre-tax value delivered to participants.
APSP awards may be structured either as an approved option for the part of the award up to the HMRC limit currently 30,000 with an unapproved option for the balance and a linked award to fund the exercise price of the approved option, or as an approved option and an LTIP award, with the vesting of the LTIP award scaled back to take account of any gain made on exercise of the approved option.
Opportunity The normal maximum award size will be 125% of base salary in respect of any financial year.
In exceptional circumstances the Committee reserves the right to award up to 200% of base salary in respect of any financial year.
These limits do not include the value of shares subject to any approved option granted as part of an APSP award.
Performance metrics The vesting of LTIP awards is subject to the satisfaction of performance targets set by the Committee.
The performance measures are reviewed regularly to ensure they remain relevant but will be based on financial measures and or share price growth related measures, including but not exclusively : free cash ow: return on capital employed: and relative total shareholder return.
The relevant metrics and the respective weightings may vary each year based upon Company strategic priorities.
For 2016, the performance measures and weightings will be: 40% free cash ow: 40% cash return on cash capital employed: and 20% relative total shareholder return.
For the achievement of threshold performance no more than 25% of each respective element of the award willvest.
For the achievement of maximum performance 100% of each respective element will vest.
There will be straight-line vesting between threshold and maximum performance.
The Committee will regularly review the performance conditions and targets to ensure they are aligned to Marstons strategy and remain challenging and reective of commercial expectations.
52 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Retirement benefits Purpose and To recruit and retain Directors of the calibre required for the business.
linktostrategy Provides market competitive post-employment or cash equivalent benets.
Operation Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the dened contribution pension scheme or such other pension plan as may be deemed appropriate and, if a member before closure of the scheme, the dened benefit scheme.
The dened benefit scheme was closed to new entrants from 29 September 1997.
Executive Directors who are members of the closed scheme can continue to receive benets in accordance with the terms of this scheme.
In appropriate circumstances, Executive Directors may take a salary supplement instead of contributions into a pension plan.
Opportunity Ralph Findlay, who was previously a member of the dened benefit scheme has opted to no longer accrue future benets and instead receives 25% of base salary as a salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions.
All the other Executive Directors including any new appointments may receive contributions of up to 20% of base salary under the dened contribution pension scheme, an equivalent cash allowance or a combination of the two up to 20% of base salary.
Active members of the dened benefit pension scheme continued to accrue benets under this scheme until 30September 2014.
Non-executive Director fees Purpose and Sole element of Non-executive Director remuneration set at a level that reects market conditions and is sufficient linktostrategy to attract individuals with appropriate knowledge and experience.
Operation Fees are reviewed every two years and amended to reect market positioning and any change in responsibilities.
The Committee recommends the remuneration of the Chairman to the Board.
Fees paid to Non-executive Directors are determined and approved by the Board as a whole.
The Non-executive Directors do not participate in the annual bonus plan, any of the Groups share incentive plans nor do they receive any benets or pension contributions.
Opportunity Fees are based on the level of fees paid to Non-executive Directors serving on Boards of similar-sized UK-listed companies and the time commitment and contribution expected for the role.
Non-executive Directors receive a basic fee and an additional fee for further duties e. g. chairmanship of a Committee or Senior Independent Director responsibilities.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of ofce notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed: i before the Policy came into effect: or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes the term payments includes the Remuneration Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Remuneration Committees discretion includes discretion to determine, in accordance with the rules of the current LTIP, the extent to which awards under that plan may vest in the event of a change of control or in a good leaver circumstance.
The Committee may make minor changes to this Policy, which do not have a material advantage to Directors, to aid in its operation or implementation taking into account the interests of shareholders but without the need to seek shareholder approval.
53 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued EXPLANATION OF PERFORMANCE METRICS CHOSEN Performance measures are selected that are aligned to the Companys strategy.
Stretching performance targets are set each year for the annual bonus and long term incentive awards.
In setting these stretching performance targets the Committee will take into account a number of different reference points which may include the Companys business plans and strategy and the market environment.
Where relative total shareholder return is used there will be no payment for performance below median compared to the comparator group.
The annual bonus performance targets reect key financial objectives of the Company and reward for delivery against these.
The LTIP performance targets reect the Companys strategic objectives and therefore the financial and strategic decisions which ultimately determine the success of the Company.
The LTIP performance measures are based on financial measures and or share price growth related measures, including but not exclusively : Cash Return On Cash Capital Employed this is a key driver of shareholder value and reects Marstons investment disposal plans and the balance sheet.
Free Cash Flow this reects the operating cash ow of the business after tax and interest which is available to return to shareholders as dividends: to reinvest to increase returns: or to pay down debt.
Relative Total Shareholder Return aligns managements objectives with those of shareholders and is a broad measure of the extent to which Company strategy is considered appropriate by the market as well as the extent to which it is being well implemented.
The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to adjust the performance targets and measures where it considers it appropriate to do so for example, to reect changes in the structure of the business and to assess performance on a fair and consistent basis from year to year.
ILLUSTRATION OF APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY The requirement to illustrate the relative split of remuneration between xed pay and variable pay for each Executive Director, on the basis of minimum remuneration, remuneration receivable for performance in line with the Companys expectations and maximum remuneration, only applies to the first financial year of the current Remuneration Policy.
These charts can be viewed on pages 41 to 42 in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts which is available at www.
co. uk DIFFERENCES IN POLICY FROM THE WIDER EMPLOYEE POPULATION The Company aims to provide a remuneration package that is market competitive, complies with any statutory requirements and is applied fairly and equitably across the wider employee population.
Where remuneration is not determined by statutory regulation, the Company operates the same core principles as it does for Executive Directors, namely: We remunerate people in a manner that allows for stability of the business and the opportunity for sustainable long-term growth.
We seek to remunerate fairly and consistently for each role with due regard to the marketplace, internal consistency and the Companys ability to pay.
With the exception of our pub managers and eld-based sales teams, all bonus arrangements within the Group normally have the same structure and pay-out mechanism as those for Executive Directors.
Participation in the DBP and LTIP is extended to the senior management team at the discretion of the Board and, in line with the policy for Executive Directors, share ownership is encouraged and LTIP participants are expected to build and maintain a minimum level of shareholding.
We also encourage long term employee engagement through the offer of SAYE to all employees of the Group who meet a minimum service requirement.
54 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION POLICY When hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will typically seek to use the Policy detailed in the table above to determine the Executive Directors ongoing remuneration package.
To facilitate the hiring of candidates of the appropriate calibre required to implement the Groups strategy, the Committee also retains the discretion to include any other remuneration component or award which is outside the Policy.
In determining appropriate remuneration, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors including the quantum and nature of remuneration to ensure the arrangements are in the best interests of Marstons and its shareholders.
The Committee may make an award to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so the Committee will take account of relevant factors including the form of award, any performance conditions attached to these awards and the time over which they would have vested.
The Committee would seek to incorporate buy-out awards in line with the Companys remuneration framework as far as is practical.
The Committee may consider other components for structuring the buy-out, including cash or shares awards, restricted stock awards and share options where there is a commercial rationale for doing so.
Appropriate costs and support will be covered if the recruitment requires relocation of the individual.
All recruitment awards will normally be liable to forfeiture or clawback on early departure.
For Executive Directors, early departure is dened as being within the first two years of employment.
The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted excluding buy-out arrangements is three times salary.
The Committee will ensure that such awards are linked to the achievement of appropriate and challenging performance measures and will be forfeited if performance or continued employment conditions are not met.
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND POLICY ON PAYMENT FOR LOSS OF OFFICE Executive Directors contracts are on a rolling 12 month basis and are subject to 12 months notice when terminated by the Company and six months notice when terminated by the Director.
The Committee may, in exceptional circumstances, in order to attract and retain suitable executives, offer service contracts with up to an initial 24 month notice period which then reduce to 12 months at the end of this initial period.
The current Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, do not have a service contract and their appointments, whilst for a term of three years, may be terminated without compensation at any time.
All Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment and their appointment and subsequent re-appointment is subject to annual approval by shareholders.
55 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors Remuneration Report continued The principles on which the determination of payments of loss of ofce will be approached are summarised below: provision treatment upon loss of office Payment in lieu of notice Payments to Executive Directors upon termination of their contracts will be equal to base salary plus the value of core benets for the duration of the notional notice period.
Benets may also include, but are not limited to, outplacement and legal fees.
They will also be entitled to pension contributions for the duration of the notional notice period or the requisite cash allowance equivalent.
Annual bonus This will be at the discretion of the Committee on an individual basis and the decision whether or not to award a bonus in full or in part will be dependent upon a number of factors including the circumstances of their departure and their contribution to the business during the bonus period in question.
Any bonus amounts paid as estimated by the Committee will typically be pro-rated for time in service to termination and will, subject to performance, be paid at the usual time.
Deferred bonus Any deferred award under the deferred bonus plan will be determined based on the leaver provisions contained within the deferred bonus plan rules.
For participants leaving before the first anniversary of the date of grant, deferred awards will lapse unless the participant is considered a good leaver.
For a good leaver the deferred award will vest in full.
Good leavers are participants who leave as a result of redundancy, death, ill-health, injury or disability, the sale of his employer out of the Group or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
For a participant leaving after the first anniversary of the date of grant the award will vest in full unless employment is terminated for reasons of misconduct in which case the award will lapse.
2014 LTIP Any award under the 2014 LTIP would be determined based on the leaver provisions contained within the 2014 LTIP plan rules.
For good leavers LTIP awards will usually vest at the ordinary vesting point, be subject to performance conditions and pro-rated for time.
Good leavers are participants who leave as a result of death, ill-health, injury or disability, the sale of his employer out of the Group or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
In other circumstances LTIP awards will lapse upon the cessation of employment.
The Committee retains the discretion to accelerate vesting and to waive pro-rating for time.
Change of control Upon a change of control incentive awards will usually vest and be subject to performance conditions and pro rated for time.
The Committee retains the discretion to waive pro-rating for time.
Mitigation Ralph Findlays service contract is formed under a model which was approved by the Committee in 2001 and there is no reduction in payments for mitigation or for early payment as the Remuneration Committee has taken the view that as a long-standing employee of the Group, full compensation would be merited in the event of unilateral termination of his employment by the Group.
Andrew Andrea and Peter Dalzells service contracts were formed under a new model approved in 2009 and provide that, subject to formal notice being given by either party, any payment during the notice period will be reduced by any amount earned in that period from alternative employment as a result of being released to work for another employer prior to the conclusion of their notice period.
56 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information STATEMENT OF CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY Salary, benets and performance related rewards provided to employees are taken into account when setting policy for Executive Directors remuneration.
Although employees are not actively consulted on Directors remuneration the Company has regular contact with union bodies on matters of pay and remuneration for employees covered by collective bargaining or consultation arrangements.
In October of each year a paper is submitted to the Remuneration Committee by the Group People Director summarising the outcome of any annual reviews made to the wider workforce including head ofce and supply chain employees but excluding pub-based staff as the majority of these employees have their remuneration rate set by statute rather than the market.
This paper is taken into account when setting Executive Directors remuneration effective from the start of October for the following 12 months.
In addition, and where relevant, a similar paper is submitted in October covering the decisions taken by the Executive Committee relating to bonus payments for employees within the wider workforce.
This is taken into consideration by the Remuneration Committee when approving bonus awards for Executive Directors.
STATEMENT OF CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Committee is committed to open and transparent dialogue with shareholders and welcomes feedback on Executive and Non-executive Directors remuneration.
Prior to the 2014 LTIP being formally put to shareholders, the Committee held an open dialogue with major shareholders and institutional investor bodies setting out the proposals and the detailed thinking and planning behind them.
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Neil Goulden Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 26 November 2015 57
