Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee Chairman Annual Statement DEAR SHAREHOLDER Our KPIs and how they link to our strategy and to remuneration On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the are set out on pages 16 to 17.
The Committee believes that Remuneration Report for the period ended 3 October 2015, the alignment of Remuneration Policy with our five strategic which details the amounts earned in respect of that period and pillars continues to incentivise and drive results that generate sets out the Remuneration Policy for the Directors of Marstons.
sustainable value creation for our shareholders.
The annual The Committee met five times during the period and details of bonus scheme targets profit growth and returns on our the Committee membership is shown overleaf.
investment in the business, through CROCCE and Group profit measures.
The LTIP incentivises over the longer term through PERFORMANCE sustainable growth in: earnings per share EPS and return Our Executive Directors have delivered a strong set of results on investment, both drivers of shareholder value measured aligned with our strategy.
Underlying profit before tax is up by relative Total Shareholder Return TSR : and free cash 10.2% to 91.5 million and underlying earnings per share have ow, which enables continued investment in the business and also increased this year.
Our Executive Directors and our people debt servicing.
have made excellent progress in transforming our pub portfolio into an optimal estate and our new-build investment continues to deliver strong returns with the average profit per pub up to 100,000 and return on capital up to 10.8%.
2014 15 key decisions and incentive payouts Average base salary increases awarded to the Executive Directors in 2015 were circa 2%, in line with average salary increases across the Group.
Peter Dalzell was awarded an additional 3.5% increase in base salary to reect his span of responsibilities for the entire pub estate, to align his salary with the other Executive Directors and the market, and recognise his contribution to the long-term success of the Company.
Marstons underlying profit before tax increased by 10.2% for the year and return on capital exceeded target.
The Executive Directors will receive 40% of their maximum annual bonus entitlements.
On a straight-line vesting basis a bonus level of 45% would have been payable but, taking into account the affordability of bonus payments across the Group, and to reafrm their commitment to a responsible approach to executive pay, the Committee exercised restraint and awarded bonuses of 40% of salary.
The 2012 LTIP award vested at 41.9%, as a result of EPS growth from 2012 to 2014.
Further details are set out on page 43.
The Committee has discretion to withhold or reduce awards but not to increase them and, when reviewing the outturn of an award, has regard to the financial performance of the business for the financial period in which the award vests.
For the 2012 award the Committee has taken into account a further 12 months of performance to provide additional assurance that the vesting of the award is appropriate.
