Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Remuneration Report STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Dear Shareholder Aligned to the long term success of the Company Our pay structure encourages strong alignment between This years Remuneration Report is split into two sections: the interests of our senior executives and the interests of Statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration our shareholders.
Committee contains details of our remuneration principles Senior executives receive regular awards of shares under and of the key decisions reached by the Committee the Performance Share Plan PSP which are subject to the during 2015. achievement of challenging EPS and ROCE performance targets.
EPS and ROCE are key performance indicators Annual Report on Remuneration contains details of aligned to the Companys strategic priorities.
pay received by Directors in 2015 and full details of how we The business continues to see many global opportunities for intend to implement our pay policy during 2016.
The Annual the successful deployment of capital and these measures are Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote designed to ensure that this is done in the most effective at the 2016 AGM.
manner to generate sustainable long term returns.
For senior executives, there is greater emphasis on rewards For the reference of shareholders, an Annex to the for delivery of longer term performance targets than short Remuneration Report contains the current Directors term performance targets.
Remuneration Policy Policy that was approved by a binding Members of the Executive Committee are required to shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM in the exact form that it build up and retain a significant holding of Merlin shares.
was included in the 2013 Remuneration Report.
This Policy For Executive Directors, the requirement is to build a remains effective for the forthcoming year.
holding of shares worth 200% of salary.
 Consistent with best practice A series of key principles underpin the Merlin remuneration Salaries are set at competitive, but not excessive, levels structure: payments should be based on results and performance: compared to peers and other companies of an equivalent pay should be aligned to the long term success of the Company, size and complexity.
and consistent with best practice: widespread share ownership There is potential for market competitive levels of total pay should be encouraged.
but only if stretching business targets are delivered.
For our employees, we have a high degree of simplicity Performance orientated in our pay model.
Rewarding performance is a core part of our ethos.
About 80% of our permanent employees participate in a Widespread share ownership bonus plan and over 325 employees receive regular share Widespread share ownership is an integral part of Merlins awards or share option grants.
We operate all-employee share plans that enable To reinforce the link between performance and pay, all of our permanent employees to purchase a stake in most employees are rewarded for the performance of our Company.
Only the senior executives These plans supplement the discretionary share plans for the Executive Committee and their direct reports and senior executives Deferred Bonus Plan and PSP and the employees of central functions are rewarded for the Company Share Option Plan CSOP for middle management.
performance of the overall Group.
For senior executives, including the Executive Directors, performance related pay, based on stretching short term and longer term targets, forms a significant part of their potential pay packages.
76 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Remuneration Report Performancein2015 RetirementofCFO The financial and operating performance of Merlin in 2015 is As a Committee, we recognise our responsibility to ensure that set out on pages 2 to 57 in the Strategic Report.
pay decisions relating to departing Directors are determined fairly both for shareholders and for the departing individuals.
2015 was a challenging year for Merlin.
The Company grew revenues by 2.3% 3.9% on a constant currency basis but, As outlined in our announcements in January and February, reflecting the lower levels of like for like revenue growth and Andrew Carr has decided to retire and will step down as a Board Director on 1 August 2016.
Andrew will continue to work for the significant decline in revenue in the Resort Theme Parks the Company until 31 October 2016 in order to provide Operating Group, underlying operating profit decreased by transitional support to the new CFO.
20 million, or 5.6% on a constant currency basis.
Andrew will receive no further payments following cessation of As a result of financial performance falling below expectations employment and will not be eligible for future bonus or LTIP the threshold for payment of profit-related bonus was not met.
awards and accordingly he will not be a participant in either As a consequence neither the CEO nor CFO will receive a the 2016 annual bonus plan or the 2016 PSP award.
Andrews bonus in relation to 2015 performance.
outstanding deferred bonus share award will vest upon cessation of employment in accordance with our standard policy for good Paydecisionsfor2016 leavers.
His outstanding PSP awards will be time pro rata reduced The proposed pay structure for the Executive Directors for upon cessation of employment and will remain subject to the 2016 is outlined on pages 78 to 79.
Key decisions made by existing performance conditions measured over the full three the Committee in relation to 2016 include: year performance period.
In order to be compliant with the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, the Committee has strengthened the I hope you will find this report to be clear and helpful in existing provisions relating to the withholding and recovery understanding our remuneration practices and that you will be of incentive awards malus and clawback provisions so supportive of the resolution relating to remuneration at the that they can potentially be applied to any element of the AGM.
As ever, the Committee welcomes any questions or Executive Directors variable pay awarded in respect of comments from shareholders.
Further details of these provisions are outlined in the Implementation of remuneration policy in 2016 section of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
CharlesGurassa Both Executive Directors asked not to be considered for an  increase in their salaries as part of the review to be effective 24 February 2016 from 1 January 2016.
The average salary increase for the Merlin UK workforce effective 1 January 2016 is 1.5%.
The Committee has agreed the same basic structure to the bonus plan as 2015 with individual objectives for the Executive Directors appropriately reflecting Company priorities.
The Committee has also maintained the same basic structure for the PSP with unchanged threshold and maximum performance conditions.
Following the announcement of the retirement of the current CFO, Andrew Carr, and the appointment of Anne-Francoise Nesmes the remuneration arrangements for Anne-Francoise are set out on page 79 and those for Andrew are set out as follows.
77 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Remuneration Report ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2016 Annual General Meeting.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION  This section provides an overview of how the Committee is proposing to implement our remuneration policy as set out in the Annex to this Remuneration Report in 2016 for the current Executive Directors.
The remuneration arrangements for the new CFO, Anne-Francoise Nesmes, are set out on page 79.
Base salary Salary details for the current Executive Directors are set out below.
Salary Salary 1October2014 1October2015 %increase Nick Varney 581,400 581,400 Zero Andrew Carr 351,900 351,900 Zero Pension and benefits As in 2015, the current Executive Directors will receive a Company contribution worth 25% of salary.
Nick Varney will receive this contribution as a cash allowance and Andrew Carr will receive a contribution to the Group Pension Plan up to the minimum Annual Allowance of 10,000 and a cash allowance in respect of the balance.
To the extent that a cash allowance is paid this is reduced by the corresponding amount of employer National Insurance Contributions.
They will also receive a standard package of other benefits consistent with those received in 2015.
Annual bonus The structure of the annual bonus plan for 2016 remains broadly consistent with the 2015 plan.
Key features are as follows: The maximum annual bonus potential will be 150% of salary for the CEO and 135% for the CFO.
One-third of any bonus earned will be deferred into shares for three years under The Merlin Entertainments plc Deferred Bonus Plan.
Bonus payments and deferred share awards will be subject to potential withholding or clawback during the three year period following the award of the bonus in exceptional circumstances of evidence coming to light of misconduct justifying summary dismissal or of a material misstatement of the financial accounts or an error in the calculation of the extent of payment or vesting of an incentive.
The annual bonus for 2016 for Executive Directors will be determined as detailed below:  Measure CEO CFO Underlying operating profit 80% 80% Personal objectives 20% 20% Total 100% 100% Payment under the non-financial elements of the bonus will be scaled back to the extent that Group underlying operating profit targets are not fully met.
This means that if there is no payment under the Group underlying operating profit element of the bonus scheme, there will also be no payment under this element of the bonus irrespective of performance against the aforementioned individual measures.
The targets themselves, as they relate to the financial year 2016, are deemed to be commercially sensitive.
However, retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be provided in next years remuneration report to the extent that they do not remain commercially sensitive at that time.
78 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Remuneration Report Performance Share Plan Performance Share Plan PSP awards are granted over Merlin shares with the number of shares under award determined by reference to a percentage of base salary.
Vesting of the awards is conditional upon satisfaction of performance conditions and is usually also conditional upon continued employment until the awards vest.
The CEO will be amongst the participants in the PSP award to be granted in April 2016.
Awards will be over shares worth, at the date of grant, 250% of salary for the CEO.
Vesting of these awards will be subject to satisfaction of the following performance conditions measured over the three financial years to December 2018.
Owing to planned retirement the CFO will receive no award under the PSP in 2016.
 50%ofaward  50%ofaward Adjusted EPS growth % of award vesting Average ROCE % of award vesting 7% p. a.
Below threshold 0% Below threshold 9% 0% cumulative growth 7% p. a.
Threshold 10% Threshold 9% 12.5% cumulative growth Between threshold 7% - 14% p. a.
10% to 50% Between threshold 9% - 13% 12.5% to 50% on and maximum cumulative growth on sliding scale and maximum sliding scale 14% p. a.
Maximum 50% Maximum 13% 50% cumulative growth Adjusted EPS is defined on page 164.
Adjusted EPS growth will be calculated by comparing Adjusted EPS for the 2018 financial Average ROCE will be calculated as an average of ROCE for the 2016, 2017 and 2018 year with Adjusted EPS for the 2015 financial year.
PSP awards will be subject to potential withholding or clawback during the five year period following the date of award in exceptional circumstances of evidence coming to light of misconduct justifying summary dismissal or of a material misstatement of the financial accounts or an error in the calculation of the extent of payment or vesting of an incentive.
Employee Share Plan Invitations to UK employees including Executive Directors to participate in the Employee Sharesave Plan UK Sharesave Plan were issued in 2014 and 2015.
Similar invitations were issued to relevant employees under the US Employee Stock Purchase Plan and the Overseas Sharesave Plan.
Invitations for the next award under each of these plans commenced in February 2016.
New CFO pay arrangements Anne-Francoise Nesmes will commence employment with Merlin on 1 August 2016.
Her pay arrangements will be in line with our policy and will comprise: Salary of 385,000 fixed until October 2017.
Pension contribution worth 25% of salary plus a standard benefits package including relocation support.
Annual bonus potential of up to 135% of salary paid in a mixture of cash and deferred shares as outlined above.
In 2016, Ms Nesmes will have a time pro-rated bonus potential.
The Committees current policy is that Ms Nesmes will receive an annual PSP award of shares worth 225% of annual salary, consistent with the award policy for her predecessor.
Her first PSP award will be granted in September 2016 shortly after she commences employment with Merlin.
For completeness, there are no buy-out arrangements to compensate for forfeited long term incentive awards.
In line with the Merlin shareholding requirement, Ms Nesmes will be expected to retain at least 50% of vested share awards after selling sufficient shares to satisfy tax liabilities until she holds Merlin shares worth at least 200% of her salary.
79 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Remuneration Report Non-executive Director remuneration The table below shows the fee structure for Independent Non-executive Directors for 2016.
Independent Non-executive Director fees are determined by the full Board except for the fee for the Chairman of the Board which is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
2016 Basic fee for UK-based Non-executive 50,000 Basic fee for overseas-based Non-executive 50,000 plus a travel allowance of 1,000 per Board meeting attended in person Senior Independent Director additional fee 10,000 Audit Committee Chairman additional fee 10,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman additional fee 10,000 Chairman of the Board all-inclusive fee 250,000 There are no fees paid for membership of Board Committees nor to the shareholder representative Non-executive Directors.
80 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Remuneration Report AUDITED INFORMATION The information provided in this section of the Remuneration Report up until the Unaudited information heading on page 86 is subject to audit.
 The following table sets out the total remuneration for Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors for 2015 with prior year comparatives for 2014.
2015 Salary Annual Longterm 1 2 3 4 5 6 Allfiguresshownin000 andfees Benefits bonus incentives Other Pension Total Executive Directors Nick Varney 581 21 - - 3 128 733 Andrew Carr 352 17 - - 3 82 454 Non-executive Directors Sir John Sunderland 250 - - - - - 250 Charles Gurassa 70 - - - - - 70 Ken Hydon 60 - - - - - 60 7 Miguel Ko 21 - - - - - 21 Fru Hazlitt 50 - - - - - 50 8 Trudy Rautio 14 - - - - - 14 Sren Thorup Srensen - - - - - - - 7 Dr. Gerry Murphy - - - - - - - 7 Rob Lucas - - - - - - - 2014 Salary Annual Longterm 1 2 3 4 5 6 Allfiguresshownin000 andfees Benefits bonus incentives Other Pension Total Executive Directors Nick Varney 573 20 859 - 3 127 1,582 Andrew Carr 347 18 444 - 3 81 893 Non-executive Directors Sir John Sunderland 250 - - - - - 250 Charles Gurassa 70 - - - - - 70 Ken Hydon 60 - - - - - 60 Miguel Ko 50 - - - - - 50 9 Fru Hazlitt 38 - - - - - 38 Sren Thorup Srensen - - - - - - - Dr. Gerry Murphy - - - - - - - Rob Lucas - - - - - - - Notes to the table - methodology: 1 Salary and fees - this represents the cash paid or receivable in respect of the period.
2 Benefits - this represents the taxable value of all benefits paid or receivable in respect of the period.
Executive Directors receive a company car or car allowance, phone costs, income protection insurance, an annual medical, private medical insurance and life assurance of four times annual salary.
3 Annual bonus - this is the total annual bonus earned in respect of the period.
Two-thirds of this bonus is paid in cash and the remaining third is deferred in shares for three years.
Further details relating to the 2015 bonus are disclosed below.
4 Long term incentives - this column relates to the value of long term awards whose performance period ends in the year under review.
The first long term incentive award granted post Listing has a performance period that ends in 2016.
As a result, this column has a zero figure in 2014 and 2015.
5 Other - this column relates to the value of the grant of options under the UK Sharesave Plan.
The grant has been valued, for the 2014 and 2015 grants respectively, at 22.6% and 29.8% of the face value of shares under option which is the IFRS 2 valuation for these awards.
6 Pension - Executive Directors receive a Company contribution worth 25% of salary.
Nick Varney receives this contribution as a cash allowance and Andrew Carr receives this as a contribution to the Group Personal Pension Plan up to the Annual Allowance and, in respect of the balance, as a cash allowance.
This figure represents the benefit received by the Directors in respect of the period.
The 2014 figures have been amended to reflect the reduction in cash amount paid for the corresponding amount of employer National Insurance Contributions.
7 Miguel Ko, Dr. Gerry Murphy and Rob Lucas stepped down from the Board on 14 May 2015.
Fees shown for Miguel Ko are from 28 December 2014 to 14 May 2015.
8 Trudy Rautio joined the Board on 1 October 2015.
Fees shown in the table are from that date to 26 December 2015.
9 Fru Hazlitt joined the Board on 1 April 2014.
Fees shown in the table are from that date to 27 December 2014.
81 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Remuneration Report  Annual bonus Executive Directors are participants in the central bonus plan.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity for the Executive Directors for 2015 was 150% of salary for the CEO and 135% of salary for the CFO.
One-third of any bonus earned is deferred into shares for three years under The Merlin Entertainments plc Deferred Bonus Plan.
The maximum potential annual bonus that could be paid to Executive Directors in respect of 2015 performance was determined by underlying operating profit performance.
20% of that potential bonus was additionally subject to satisfaction of individual objectives.
Performance measures and targets applying to the 2015 annual bonus are set out below.
In 2015 no bonus was payable to employees under the central bonus plan, including the Executive Directors, since the financial threshold for payment of bonus was not achieved.
Proportionof % of Performance bonusdetermined Threshold Target Maximum Actual maximum measure bymeasure performance performance performance performance bonuspayable Underlying 80% 310.6 million 330.4 million 350.2 million 291.5 million 0% operating profit 0% of bonus 40% of bonus 80% of bonus payable payable payable 1 Individual 20% Following the year end, the Committee assessed performance objectives against the individual objectives for each Director for 2015.
CEO: The CEO met the majority of his personal objectives which 0% as covered a range of areas from delivering new openings, new threshold accommodation rooms, customer satisfaction targets and profit target securing future sites.
was not CFO: The CFO met the majority of his personal objectives which achieved covered a range of areas including delivering new finance facilities and implementing new systems.
TOTAL 0% CEO 0% CFO 1 The maximum annual bonus payout that can be received as a result of individual objectives is scaled back to the extent that the underlying operating profit target is not fully satisfied.
 Performance Share Plan awards An award was granted under the PSP to selected senior executives, including the Executive Directors, on 2 April 2015.
This award is subject to the performance conditions described below and will vest on 2 April 2018.
Maximum Endof numberof Facevalue Facevalue Thresholdvesting performance 1 Typeofaward shares %ofsalary %ofaward period Performance Nick Varney 328,846 1,453,500 250% For EPS element shares 10% of award max 50% 30 December 2017 For ROCE element Performance Andrew Carr 179,134 791,772 225% 12.5% of award max 50% shares 1 The maximum number of shares that could be aw arded has been calculated using the closing share price on 1 April 2015 of 4.42 and is stated before the impact of reinvestment of the dividends paid since grant.
82 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Remuneration Report  50%ofaward  50%ofaward Adjusted EPS growth % of award vesting Average ROCE % of award vesting 7% p. a.
Threshold 10% Threshold 9% 12.5% cumulative growth 10.5% p. a. Mid-point 27.5% Mid-point 11% 27.5% cumulative growth 14% p. a.
Maximum 50% Maximum 13% 50% cumulative growth Based on Adjusted EPS as defined in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
Based on ROCE as defined in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
Adjusted EPS growth will be calculated by comparing Adjusted EPS for the 2017 financial Average ROCE will be calculated as an average of ROCE for the 2015, 2016 year with Adjusted EPS for the 2014 financial year.
UK Sharesave awards The Executive Directors participated in the 17 March 2015 grant of options under the Sharesave Plan on the same terms as other UK employees.
Details relating to their participation in this grant are set out below.
No performance conditions apply to these options.
Maximumnumber Typeofaward ofshares Facevalue Optionsexercisable Nick Varney Share Option 2,780 8,999 1 April 2018 - 30 September 2018 Andrew Carr Share Option 2,780 8,999 Each option is exercisable at an exercise price of 3.2371.
The option exercise price represents a 20% discount to the average closing price of a share 4.0463 on the three dealing days prior to the invitation to participate in the Companys Plan which was 16 February 2015.
The face value of options in the above table is based on the aforementioned exercise price.
Deferred Bonus Plan awards The Executive Directors annual bonuses are delivered two-thirds in cash and one-third in shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
On 25 March 2015, the Executive Directors received an award of shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan relating to the 2014 annual bonus.
The value of these shares was included in the annual bonus figure in the 2014 single total figure of remuneration.
No further performance conditions apply to these shares.
Maximumnumber 1 Typeofaward ofshares Facevalue Vestingdate Nick Varney Deferred shares 64,364 286,420 25 March 2018 Andrew Carr Deferred shares 33,308 148,220 25 March 2018 1 The maximum number of shares aw arded has been calculated using the closing share price on 24 March 2015 of 4.45 and is stated before the impact of reinvestment of the dividends paid since grant.
83 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Remuneration Report  There were no payments to past Directors during 2015.
 There were no payments for loss of office to Directors during 2015.
 A shareholding requirement of 200% of base salary applies to the Executive Directors.
Both of the current Executive Directors had a shareholding that surpassed that requirement at 26 December 2015.
Executive Directors are expected to achieve the shareholding requirement primarily by retaining at least 50% of any share awards that vest under the PSP and the Deferred Bonus Plan after selling sufficient shares to satisfy tax liabilities.
Individuals are expected to be compliant with their shareholding requirement within five years of that individual becoming subject to the requirement.
The Committee reviews ongoing individual performance against the shareholding requirement at the end of each financial year.
Current shareholding requirements and the number of shares held by Directors are set out in the table below.
Numberofshares Interestsinshare  incentiveschemes, schemes, awardedwithout awardedsubjectto   2  Shares 26December2015 at26December2015 December2015asa%of owned salary Shareholding outrightat Deferred 1 Director requirementtarget 26December2015 SharesaveBonus PSP 3 Nick Varney 5,014% 200% 6,477,823 5,816 65,346 906,636 3 Andrew Carr 3,625% 200% 2,835,123 5,816 33,816 494,997 Sir John Sunderland - 531,044 - - - Charles Gurassa - 31,746 - - - Ken Hydon - 31,920 - - - Fru Hazlitt - 31,746 - - - Trudy Rautio - 11,250 - - - Sren Thorup Srensen - - - - - Notes to the table: 1 In accordance with the Deferred Bonus Plan rules, the Committee has determined that an additional award of shares will be made in respect of shares which vest under Deferred Bonus Plan awards to reflect the value of dividends which would have been paid on those shares during the deferral period calculated on the assumption that dividends are reinvested in Company shares on a cumulative basis.
The total number of shares shown in this table includes 982 shares and 508 shares for Nick Varney and Andrew Carr respectively which relate to assumed reinvestment of the dividends paid since grant on Deferred Bonus Plan awards.
2 Further details relating to the PSP grants are summarised below.
3 For the purposes of determining Executive Director shareholdings, the individuals salary and the share price as at 26 December 2015 has been used 4.50.
Between 26 December 2015 and the date of this report there were no changes in the shareholdings outlined in the above table.
84 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Remuneration Report Outstanding awards under the PSP Maximum Dividend Endof Dateof numberof Facevalue equivalent Performance performance 1 Dateofgrant vesting shares %ofsalary shares condition period EPS: 10% vests for 7% p. a. cumulative growth Nick 12 November 1 April 2017 560,952 310% 11,822 increasing to 50% Varney 2013 vesting for 14% p. a. cumulative growth December 2016 ROCE: 12.5% vests for average ROCE of 9% Andrew 12 November increasing to 50% 1 April 2017 306,667 280% 6,463 Carr 2013 vesting for average ROCE of 13% Maximum Dividend Endof Dateof numberof Facevalue equivalent Performance performance 1 Dateofgrant vesting shares %ofsalary shares condition period EPS: 10% vests for 7% p. a. cumulative growth Nick 2 April 2015 2 April 2018 328,846 250% 5,016 increasing to 50% Varney vesting for 14% p. a. cumulative growth December 2017 ROCE: 12.5% vests for average ROCE of 9% Andrew increasing to 50% 2 April 2015 2 April 2018 179,134 225% 2,733 Carr vesting for average ROCE of 13% 1 In accordance with the PSP rules, the Committee has determined that an additional award of shares will be made in respect of shares which vest under PSP awards to reflect the value of dividends which would have been paid on those shares during the vesting period calculated on the assumption that dividends are reinvested in Company shares on a cumulative basis.
The figures in the table above relate to assumed reinvestment of the dividends paid since grant.
85 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Remuneration Report UNAUDITED INFORMATION The information provided in this section of the Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
 The chart below compares the Total Shareholder Return performance of the Company over the period from Listing to 26 December 2015 to the performance of the FTSE 350 Index.
This index has been chosen because it is a recognised equity market index of which Merlin is a member.
The base point in the chart for Merlin equates to the Offer Price of 315p.
150 146 Merlin Entertainments FTSE 350 145 140 135 130 126 125 120 115 115 110 103 103 105 101 100 100 95 90 Listing 2013 year end 2014 year end 2015 year end 13 November 28 December 27 December 26 December 2013 2013 2014 2015 The table below summarises the CEO single figure for total remuneration, annual bonus payouts and PSP vesting levels as a percentage of maximum opportunity over this period.
1 2013 2014 2015 CEO single figure of remuneration 000 151 1,582 733 Annual bonus payout n a no maximum 100% 0% as a % of maximum opportunity limit applied in 2013 PSP vesting outturn n a no award n a no award n a no award as a % of maximum opportunity vested in 2013 vested in 2014 vested in 2015 1 From Listing on 13 November 2013 to 28 December 2013.
86  Merlin onthedateofListing FTSE350 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Remuneration Report  The table below indicates the change in the CEOs remuneration between 2014 and 2015 and the change in average remuneration for other UK employees between 2014 and 2015.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the UK workforce is the most appropriate comparator for this analysis for the UK based CEO.
1 2 3 Salaryincrease Benefitsincrease decrease Annualbonusincrease decrease CEO 0% 5% - 100% Average for all UK employees 1.5% 1% - 89% 1 The CEOs salary was increased by 2% effective 1 October 2014.
There has been no further increase since that time.
2 The CEOs increase in benefits of 5% reflects the increased cost of company car provision 1,000.
3 For comparative purposes the annual bonus % for the CEO is compared to the average for the participants in the central bonus plan.
 This chart illustrates the total expenditure on pay for all of Merlins employees compared to distributions to shareholders by way of dividend and share buyback.
In order to provide context for these figures, underlying operating profit is also shown.
15m4.8% 44m214.9% -20m 6.2% 400 350 327 312 311 291 300 250 200 150 100 64 2014 50 20 2015 0 Employee costs Distributions to Underlying shareholders operating profit see page 108 87 m Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Remuneration Report  The Committee has been chaired throughout the year by Charles Gurassa.
The Committee has comprised the Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the Committee, Ken Hydon, Fru Hazlitt and Miguel Ko until he stepped down from the Board on 14 May 2015.
The Committee met four times during 2015.
The CEO, CFO, Group HR Director, Group Compensation & Benefits Director, Deputy Company Secretary, Sren Thorup Srensen and the Group Legal Director in his role as secretary to the Committee were also present at some of these meetings by invitation.
The Committee is responsible for determining all aspects of Executive Director pay.
It also monitors pay arrangements for other senior executives and oversees the operation of all share plans.
Full terms of reference of the Committee are available on our website under Investor Relations - Corporate Governance.
Deloitte LLP was appointed by the Company in 2013 to provide advice on executive remuneration matters.
During the year the Committee received independent and objective advice from Deloitte, principally on the drafting of the remuneration report, shareholder consultation and market practice.
Deloitte was paid 47,915 in fees during 2015 for these services charged on a time plus expenses basis.
Deloitte is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
In addition, other practices of Deloitte, separate from the executive remuneration practice, have provided indirect tax advice to the Company during the year.
 At the 2015 Annual General Meeting, strong shareholder support was received for our resolutions on remuneration as summarised below.
Votesfor Votesagainst Voteswithheld Approval of the Annual Report on Remuneration 815 million 98% 17 million 2% 0.3 million  Executive Directors are normally entitled to accept external appointments outside the Company with the consent of the Board.
Any fees received may be retained by the Director.
As at the date of this report, neither of the Executive Directors held an external appointment for which they received a fee.
AnnualGeneralMeeting The Annual Report on Remuneration section of this Remuneration Report will be submitted for an advisory shareholder vote at our Annual General Meeting to be held on 19 May 2016.
On behalf of the Board CharlesGurassa  24 February 2016 88 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Remuneration Report ANNEX TO THE REMUNERATION REPORT - POLICY REPORT For the reference of shareholders, this Annex to the Remuneration Report sets out our Directors Remuneration Policy Policy that was approved by a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM in the exact form that it was included in the 2013 Remuneration Report.
This Policy applies to payments made from 15 May 2014.
The information provided in this section of the Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
Policytable The following table sets out details of each component of the Executive Director remuneration package.
Our aim is to provide pay packages that will: Motivate and retain our industry leading employees.
Attract high quality individuals to join us.
Encourage and support a high performance culture.
Reward delivery of our business plan and key strategic goals.
Align our employees with the interests of shareholders and other external stakeholders.
Purposeandlink 1 tostrategy Operation Maximumopportunity  Fixedpay Basesalary Generally reviewed annually with any No absolute maximum has been set None To appropriately recognise increase normally taking effect from for Executive Director base salaries.
responsibilities and attract and 1 October although the Committee may Current Executive Director salaries retain talent by ensuring award increases at other times of the are set out in the Annual Report on salaries are market year if it considers it appropriate.
Remuneration section of this competitive.
The review takes into consideration a number of factors, including but not Any annual increase in salaries is at the limited to : discretion of the Committee taking into The individual Directors role, account the factors stated in this table experience and performance.
and the following principles: Business performance.
Salaries would typically be increased Market data for comparable roles in at a rate consistent with the average appropriate pay comparators.
salary increase in percentage of salary Pay and conditions elsewhere in terms for permanent employees.
Larger increases may be considered appropriate in certain circumstances including, but not limited to, a change in an individuals responsibilities or in the scale of their role or in the size and complexity of the Group.
Larger increases may also be considered appropriate if a Director has been initially appointed to the Board at a lower than typical salary.
Benefits Benefits are role specific and take into There is no overall maximum as the None To provide market account local market practice.
level of benefits depends on the annual competitive benefits.
cost of providing individual items in the Benefits currently include a company relevant local market and the individuals car or car allowance, phone costs, specific role.
income protection insurance, an annual medical, private medical insurance and life assurance of four times annual salary.
The Committee has discretion, in the event of the appointment of a Director based overseas or in exceptional circumstances, to add to or remove benefits provided to Executive Directors.
89 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Remuneration Report Purposeandlink 1 tostrategy Operation Maximumopportunity  Pension Current policy is for the Company to Executive Directors receive a None To provide market either contribute to the Group Pension contribution of up to 25% of salary to competitive retirement Plan and or to provide a cash allowance the Group Pension Plan and or as a cash benefits.
allowance in lieu of pension.
Variablepay 2, 3 The Executive Directors are participants The maximum award that can be made The bonus is based on Annualbonus in the central bonus plan which is under the central bonus plan is 150% performance assessed To link reward to key business reviewed annually to ensure bonus of salary.
over one year using targets for the forthcoming opportunity, performance measures and appropriate financial, year and to individual targets are appropriate and supportive Each year the Remuneration Committee strategic and individual contribution.
determines the maximum bonus performance measures.
opportunity for individual Executive Additional alignment with Two-thirds of an Executive Directors Directors within this limit.
The majority of the shareholders interests annual bonus is delivered in cash bonus will be determined through the operation of following the release of audited results by measure s of Group bonus deferral.
and the remaining third is deferred into financial performance.
an award over Company shares under The selected measure s The Merlin Entertainments plc for the next financial Deferred Bonus Plan.
year are set out in Deferred awards are usually granted in the Annual Report on the form of conditional share awards Remuneration section or nil-cost options and may also be of this Remuneration settled in cash.
Deferred awards usually vest three years after award although may vest A sliding scale of targets early on leaving employment or on a is set for each Group change of control see later sections.
financial measure with An additional payment in the form payout at zero for of cash or shares may be made in threshold financial respect of shares which vest under performance increasing deferred awards to reflect the value to 50% for meeting of dividends which would have been expectations and paid on those shares during the 100% for maximum vesting period this payment may performance.
assume that dividends had been reinvested in Company shares The remainder of the on a cumulative basis.
bonus will be based Deferred awards will be subject to on financial, strategic or withholding at the Remuneration operational measures Committees discretion during the appropriate to the deferral period in exceptional individual Director.
The circumstances where the Committee selected measures for finds that the Executive Director has the next financial year engaged in misconduct justifying are set out in the Annual summary dismissal or there has been Report on Remuneration a material misstatement of the section of this financial accounts relating to the Remuneration Report.
relevant bonus year which has led to an overpayment of bonus.
Any bonus payout is ultimately at the discretion of the Committee.
90 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Remuneration Report Purposeandlink 1 tostrategy Operation Maximumopportunity  PerformanceShare Awards are usually granted annually The maximum annual award permitted Vesting of PSP awards is 3, 4 Plan PSP under the PSP to Executive Directors under the PSP is shares with a market dependent on measures To link reward to key business and other selected senior executives.
value as determined by the Committee of Group earnings targets for the longer term of 350% of salary.
and return on total and to retain executives.
Individual award levels and performance investment with the conditions on which vesting will be Each year the Remuneration Committee precise measures dependent are reviewed annually by determines the actual award level for and weighting of the the Remuneration Committee.
individual Executive Directors within measures determined by this limit.
the Committee ahead of Awards may be granted as conditional each award.
These details awards of shares, nil-cost options or are disclosed in the forfeitable share awards or, if Annual Report on appropriate, as cash-settled equivalents.
Remuneration section of this Remuneration Awards normally vest at the end of a Report.
period of at least three years following grant although may vest early on leaving Performance will usually employment or on a change of control be measured over a see later sections.
For achieving An additional payment in the form of a threshold level of cash or shares may be made in respect performance against a of shares which vest under PSP awards performance measure, to reflect the value of dividends which no more than 25% of the would have been paid on those shares portion of the PSP award during the vesting period this payment determined by that may assume that dividends had been measure will vest.
Vesting reinvested in Company shares on a then increases on a cumulative basis.
sliding scale to 100% for achieving a stretching maximum performance target.
Tax-approved monthly savings scheme Monthly saving limit of 250 prior to The Sharesave scheme is AllEmployeeSharePlan facilitating the purchase of shares 6 April 2014, 500 thereafter or such structured in accordance UKSharesaveScheme 3, 5 through share options at a discounted other limit as may be approved from with HMRC requirements exercise price by all eligible time to time by HMRC under all so has no performance To create staff alignment with UK employees.
savings contracts held by an individual.
conditions but requires the Group and promote a participants to make sense of ownership.
Executive Directors are eligible to regular savings into a participate on the same basis as savings contract.
CompanyShareOption The CSOP permits grants of share Annual awards of options over shares If CSOP awards 3 Plan CSOP options with an exercise price of not worth up to 100% of salary at grant were, in exceptional Executive Directors will less than the market value of a share or, if the Remuneration Committee circumstances, granted only receive CSOP awards in as determined by the Committee determines that special circumstances to an Executive Director, exceptional circumstances.
they would be subject to an appropriate Individuals who are Options are usually exercisable between performance condition promoted to the Board three and ten years following grant as determined by the may have outstanding although may have a different exercise Committee.
period on leaving employment or on a change of control see later sections.
An individual promoted to the Board may have Options that are HMRC unapproved outstanding CSOP may, if appropriate, be settled in cash awards granted prior to or be net-settled.
their promotion that have no performance conditions attached to them.
91 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Remuneration Report 4 Notes to the table: Performance measures - PSP.
The PSP performance measures are chosen to provide 1 alignment with our longer term strategy of growing the business in a sustainable The Committee may vary or waive any performance condition s if circumstances manner that will be in the best interests of shareholders and other key stakeholders occur which cause it to determine that the original condition s have ceased to be in the Company.
In particular, our use of earnings and return on total investment appropriate, provided that any such variation or waiver is fair, reasonable and not measures is designed to reward management for delivery of key financial measures materially less difficult to satisfy than the original condition in its opinion.
In the of Company success that should result in sustainable value creation.
Targets are event that the Committee was to make an adjustment of this sort, a full explanation considered ahead of each PSP grant by the Remuneration Committee taking into would be provided in the next Remuneration Report.. 2 account relevant external and internal reference points and are designed to be Performance measures - annual bonus.
The annual bonus measures are reviewed appropriately stretching.
annually and chosen to focus executive rewards on delivery of key financial targets 5 Broadly equiv alent versions of the UK Sharesave Scheme operate for USA employees for the forthcoming year in addition to key strategic or operational goals relevant to US Employee Stock Purchase Plan and overseas employees Overseas Sharesave an individual.
Precise targets for bonus measures are set at the start of each year Scheme.
An Executive Director based in the USA or overseas may be eligible to by the Remuneration Committee based on relevant reference points, including, for participate in one of these schemes instead of the UK Sharesave Scheme.
The Group financial targets, the Companys business plan and are designed to be monthly contribution limit for the US Employee Stock Purchase Plan would be appropriately stretching.
specified by the Remuneration Committee before each grant.
3 The Committee may: a in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital 6 The Committee reser ves the right to make any remuneration payments and and with the exception of HMRC approved options demerger, super dividend or payments for loss of office notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy dividend in specie or any other corporate event which it reasonably determines set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed: a before the policy justifies such an adjustment, adjust: and b amend the terms of awards granted came into effect: or b at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director under the share schemes referred to above in accordance with the rules of the of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in relevant plans which were summarised for shareholders in the Companys IPO consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
Share awards may be settled by the issue of new shares or by the purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable transfer of existing shares.
In line with prevailing best practice at the time this Policy remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the Report is approved, any issuance of new shares is limited to 5% of share capital payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
over a rolling ten year period in relation to discretionary employee share schemes 7 and 10% of share capital over a rolling ten year period in relation to all employee The Committee may mak e minor amendments to the policy set out in this Policy share schemes.
Report for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
 There are differences in the precise components within the pay policy for Executive Directors and for our employees generally and a greater proportion of Executive Directors pay is at risk and determined by performance than for our employees generally.
However, as outlined in the Committee Chairmans statement, common principles underlie the pay policy through the Company including for the Executive Directors.
In particular, we place great emphasis throughout the Company on reward being linked to performance either Group performance or of an employees particular attraction and on encouraging share ownership through participation in the PSP, CSOP or the All Employee Share Plan.
  Operation Opportunity  NED fees NED fees other than NEDs whose Fees are set at an appropriate level that is To appropriately recognise responsibilities by appointment is in respect of their position market competitive and reflective of the ensuring fees are market competitive.
as representatives of the pre-IPO major responsibilities and time commitment shareholders comprise payment of an associated with specific roles.
annual basic fee and additional fees for further Board responsibilities such as: No absolute maximum has been set for Senior Independent Director.
Current fee levels are set Audit Committee Chairman.
out in the Annual Report on Remuneration Remuneration Committee Chairman.
section of this Remuneration Report.
The Chairman of the Board receives an The Companys Articles of Association all-inclusive fee.
provide that the total aggregate fees paid to the Chairman and NEDs will not exceed No NED participates in the Groups incentive 1,000,000. arrangements or pension plan or receives any other benefits other than where travel to the Companys registered office is recognised as a taxable benefit in which case a NED may receive the grossed-up costs of travel as a benefit.
Fees are generally reviewed annually.
NEDs whose appointment is in respect of their position as shareholder representatives do not receive a fee.
92 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Remuneration Report  Merlins remuneration arrangements have been designed to ensure that a significant proportion of pay is dependent on the delivery of stretching short term and long term performance targets.
The charts below provide illustrative values of the remuneration package for Executive Directors under three assumed performance scenarios.
The charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may differ from that shown.
Assumedperformance Assumptionsused All performance scenarios Fixed pay Consists of total fixed pay, including base salary, benefits and pension.
Base salary - salary effective as at 1 January 2014.
Benefits - estimated value of 5% of salary.
Pension - amount expected to be received in 2014 25% of salary.
Minimum performance Variable pay No payout under the annual bonus.
Performance in line with expectations Variable pay 50% of the maximum payout under the annual bonus.
Maximum performance Variable pay 100% of the maximum payout under the annual bonus.
PSP awards have been shown at face value, with no share price growth or discount rate assumptions.
All-employee share plans have been excluded.
For the purposes of the illustration, we have, consistent with legislative requirements, included the maximum permitted annual bonus opportunity 150% of salary and maximum permitted PSP award 350% of salary as set out in the Policy Table above.
We would emphasise that these are the maximum permitted awards under the incentive schemes.
The CFOs actual annual bonus opportunity for 2014 135% of salary is lower than the scheme maximum and the face value of the PSP awards granted to the CEO and CFO in November 2013 310% of salary and 280% of salary respectively was lower than the scheme maximum.
4,000 3,591 PSP 3,500 Annual Bonus Fixed Pay 3,000 55% 2,500 2,174 2,166 2,000 46% 55% 1,500 1,311 24% 46% 1,000 20% 741 24% 449 20% 500 100% 34% 21% 100% 34% 21% 0 Minimum Meeting Maximum Minimum Meeting Maximum expectations expectations CEO CFO 93 000 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Remuneration Report  Buy outs To facilitate recruitment, the Remuneration Committee may Principles make a one-off award to buy out terms, incentives and any other In determining remuneration arrangements for new compensation arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous appointments to the Board including internal promotions, employer.
In doing so, the Committee will take account of all the Committee applies the following principles: relevant factors, including any performance conditions attached to The Committee takes into consideration all relevant factors, incentive awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met, the proportion of the vesting performance period remaining and the including the calibre of the individual, market data and existing form of the award e. g. cash or shares.
The overriding principle arrangements for other Executive Directors, with a view that will be that any replacement buy out award should be of any arrangements should be in the best interests of Merlin comparable commercial value to the terms, incentives and other and our shareholders, without paying more than is necessary.
compensation which have been forfeited.
However such awards Typically, the new appointment will have or be transitioned would only be considered where there is a strong commercial onto the same package structure as the other Executive rationale to do so.
Directors, in line with the Policy Table presented above.
Where an Executive Director is appointed from within the Components and approach organisation, the normal policy of the Company is that any The remuneration package offered to new appointments may legacy arrangements would be honoured in line with the include any element listed in the Policy Table above, or any other original terms and conditions.
Similarly, if an Executive Director element which the Committee considers is appropriate given the is appointed following the Companys acquisition of or merger particular circumstances, with due regard to the best interests of with another company or business, legacy terms and shareholders subject to the limits on variable pay set out above.
Upon appointment, the Committee may consider it In considering which elements to include, and in determining the appropriate to offer additional remuneration arrangements approach for all relevant elements, the Committee will take into in order to secure the appointment.
In particular, the account a number of different factors, including but not limited Committee may consider it appropriate to buy out terms to market practice, existing arrangements for other Executive or remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a Directors and internal relativities.
If appropriate, different targets previous employer discussed below.
may be applied to a new appointees annual bonus in their The Committee may provide costs and support if the year of joining.
recruitment requires relocation of the individual.
The Committee would seek to structure buy out and variable Maximum level of variable pay pay awards on recruitment to be in line with the Companys The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be remuneration framework so far as practical but, if necessary, granted to new Executive Directors in respect of recruitment the Committee may also grant such awards outside of that shall be limited to the maximum permitted in the Policy Table, framework as permitted under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 subject to namely 500% of their annual salary.
This limit excludes any the limits on variable pay set out above.
The exact terms of any payments or awards that may be made to buy out the Director such awards e. g. the form of the award, timeframe, performance for terms, awards or other compensation forfeited from their conditions, and leaver provisions would vary depending upon previous employer discussed below.
Recruitment of Non-executive Directors In the event of the appointment of a new Non-executive Director, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with the structure set out in the Policy Table for Non-executive Directors.
However the Committee or the Board as appropriate may include any element listed in the Policy Table above, or any other element which the Committee considers is appropriate given the particular circumstances, with due regard to the best interests of shareholders.
94 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Remuneration Report Servicecontracts Key terms of the current Executive Directors service agreements and Non-executive Directors letters of appointment other than Non-executive Directors whose appointment is in respect of their position as representatives of the pre-IPO major shareholders are summarised in the table below.
It is envisaged that any future appointments would have equivalent contractual arrangements unless otherwise stated in this Policy Report.
Provision Policy Notice period Executive Directors - twelve months notice by either the Company or the Executive Director.
Non-executive Directors - three months notice by either the Company or the Non-executive Director or no notice period if terminated by shareholders.
Termination payment There is no payment in lieu of notice clause in the Executive Directors service agreements.
Any payments of compensation on termination would be subject to negotiation in line with general principles which include a duty for the individual to mitigate loss.
Non-executive Directors are entitled to receive any fee accruing in respect of their notice period.
Expiry date Executive Directors have rolling twelve months notice periods so have no fixed expiry date.
All Non-executive Directors have rolling three months notice periods so have no fixed expiry date.
Each of the Non-executive Directors nominated by the pre-IPO major shareholders are appointed pursuant to the relevant Relationship Agreement with their nominating shareholder and do not have individual letters of appointment with the Company.
These Relationship Agreements provide for the aforementioned shareholders to maintain a Non-executive Director as a shareholder representative for so long as they hold 10% of the Companys share capital.
The Company has the right to remove these Directors should the relevant shareholding fall below 10% and no fees or termination payments are payable.
Each Director will retire and put themselves forward for re-election at the first Annual General Meeting of the Company.
All Executive Directors service agreements and Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office at 3 Market Close, Poole, Dorset BH15 1NQ.
 As outlined above, there are no contractual obligations to make any payments to Executive Directors in relation to loss of office and any termination payment would be subject to negotiation although would not be expected in normal circumstances to exceed salary, pension and benefits in relation to the individuals outstanding notice period.
In relation to payments under non-contractual incentive schemes, the Committee would take the following factors into account: The Committee may determine that the Executive Director is eligible to receive a bonus in respect of the financial year in which they cease employment.
This bonus would usually be time apportioned.
In determining the level of bonus to be paid, the Committee may, at its discretion, take into account performance up to the date of cessation or over the financial year as a whole.
The treatment of outstanding share awards is governed by the relevant share plan rules.
The table overleaf summarises the treatment of share awards for leavers and on a change of control in share plans under which Executive Directors could hold awards.
 The Committee does not formally consult with employees as part of its process when determining Executive Director pay.
However the Committee is kept informed of general decisions made in relation to employee pay and related issues by the Group HR Director and is conscious of the importance of ensuring that its pay decisions for Executive Directors are regarded as fair and reasonable within the business.
As outlined in the Policy Table, pay and conditions in the Group are one of the specific considerations taken into account when the Committee is determining salary levels for the Executive Directors.
 The Companys three major shareholders each had a representative on the Committee in the pre-Listing period and, accordingly, the structure of our post-Listing remuneration policy has been subject to significant consultation with them.
In addition we have sought the views of our largest institutional shareholders and leading advisory bodies post Listing.
95 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 DIRECTORS Remuneration Report The following table summarises the treatment of share awards for leavers and on a change of control in share plans under which Executive Directors could hold awards.
Treatment Treatmentonachange Goodleaver Treatmentfor forany ofcontrol voluntary Plan categories goodleaver otherleaver winding-up Deferred Death.
Deferred bonus awards vest on Deferred bonus Deferred bonus awards BonusPlan Injury.
Transfer of employing company or business to which an individuals employment relates out Performance PSP awards will usually vest on a Awards lapse.
PSP awards will vest on a of the Group.
SharePlan time-apportioned basis on the normal time-apportioned basis Any other scenario in vesting date subject to any relevant unless the performance which the Remuneration performance condition s measured period is complete or unless Committee determines over the full performance period.
the Committee determines that good leaver otherwise and subject to the treatment is However, in the event of death, or Committees determination appropriate other than special circumstances at the of the extent to which any circumstances justifying Remuneration Committees discretion, relevant performance summary dismissal.
awards may vest early based on the conditions are satisfied.
Committees determination of the extent to which any relevant performance conditions are satisfied.
The Committee has the discretion, acting fairly and reasonably, to dis-apply time apportionment.
Company Options become exercisable for a Options lapse.
Options will become ShareOption period of six months after the date on exercisable on a timePlan which the Committee determines the apportioned basis unless Executive extent to which the option becomes any performance period is Directors will exercisable or twelve months in the complete or unless the only receive event of death.
Committee determines CSOP awards otherwise and subject to the Options will become exercisable in exceptional Committees determination subject to the Committees circumstances.
of the extent to which any determination of the extent to which relevant performance any relevant performance conditions Individuals who conditions are satisfied.
are satisfied and on a time-apportioned are promoted basis unless the Committee determines to the Board otherwise.
In relation to HMRCmay have unapproved options, options may outstanding become exercisable at the normal awards under vesting date or earlier if the this plan.
UKSharesave Options become exercisable immediately on death, ceasing employment due to injury, disability, retirement, redundancy, sale of Scheme the employing company or business to which an individuals employment relates out of the Group or on a change of control Overseas of the Company.
Sharesave Scheme USEmployee Options become exercisable on death, ceasing employment due to injury, permanent disability, reaching normal retirement StockPurchase age, sale of the employing company or business to which an individuals employment relates or on a change of control of Plan the Company.
