ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Remuneration Policy Table for Executive Directors Purpose and link Element to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Salary Attract, retain and Salary levels and subsequent increases are set after reviewing Current CEO salary level is 575,000 Fixed pay reward high calibre various factors including individual and Company performance, which can be increased in line with Executive Directors role and responsibility, internal relativities such as the increases the parameters set out under the awarded to other employees and prevailing market levels for column Operation.
Executive Directors at companies of comparable status and Aim for market competitive salaries.
market value, taking into account the total remuneration package.
Salaries will not increase by more than Salaries are normally reviewed annually.
RPI 5% except increases in excess Salary is paid monthly and increases are generally effective from of this may be awarded in the case 1 January.
of new Executive Directors where it is appropriate to offer a below market salary initially on appointment and a series of staged increases, subject to performance and experience in role, to bring to a market competitive salary.
Benefits Attract, retain Competitive benefits including car allowance or company car Competitive benefits in line with Fixed pay and reward high including running costs, private medical insurance for the market practice.
calibre Executive individual and family, permanent health insurance and four times Directors salary life assurance.
Provision of Provision of relocation assistance and any associated costs or opportunities for benefits including but not limited to housing benefits, personal connecting with tax advice and school fees upon appointment if when applicable.
clients, investors The Company may also provide tax equalisation arrangements.
and staff to facilitate growth strategy Membership of clubs as appropriate for the development of business.
Annual Incentivise the delivery At least half based on audited financial measures, such as Maximum award of 175% of salary.
Bonus of annual financial and Profit Before Tax.
No more than one half assessed against other Variable strategic targets strategic targets.
pay Any strategic element will be payable only if the Committee is also satisfied in the circumstances with the underlying performance of the business.
Performance below the threshold of the financial performance target will result in zero payment of the financial element of the annual bonus.
Payments rise from 20% to 100% of the maximum opportunity for levels of performance between the threshold and maximum targets.
Clawback provisions will be put in place for misstatement and misconduct.
Deferred Focus Executive The terms of the new Deferred Bonus Plan, as referred to below, Not applicable see Annual Bonus Bonus Plan Directors on long-term were approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
Variable performance and Compulsory deferral in shares applies to any annual bonus pay align the interests of payment above a hurdle of 125% of salary.
The Committee can Executive Directors lower the hurdle for compulsory deferral.
with shareholders Deferred shares vest in equal amounts after one and two years.
Deferred shares are not subject to further performance conditions as they are awarded in lieu of previously earned annual bonus.
Dividends accrue or are paid on unvested awards over the vesting period.
Clawback provisions are in place for misstatement and misconduct.
80 PB ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Directors Remuneration Report Purpose and link Element to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Long-term Incentivise share The terms of the new Long-term Incentive Plan, as referred to below, Maximum award of 200% Incentive ownership and longwere approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
Plan term performance in Awards are granted in the form of restricted shares or Variable line with Group strategy nil-cost options.
pay Awards have a performance period of at least three financial years.
At least 62.5% of any award is based on financial measures, such as EPS.
At least 12.5% of any award will be based on relative growth compared to a peer group.
The remainder of any award is subject to performance measures based on long-term strategic objectives, such as people and leadership development, strategy development, IT strategy and Corporate Centre development, which are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration in the year of grant.
Performance below the threshold of the performance target for the financial performance results in no vesting for the financial element of the LTIP award.
For performance between the threshold target and maximum target, vesting starts at 25% and rises to 100%.
There is no opportunity to re-test performance measures.
Vested shares must be held for a further two years if the shareholding guideline set out below in the section Executive shareholding guidelines has not been met.
Pension Attract, retain and fairly Executive Directors may receive a defined contribution pension benefit CEO: 25% of salary.
Fixed pay reward high calibre or cash supplement.
Other Executive Directors: 20% Executive Directors of salary.
Policy Table for Board Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The Board Chairman and Non-Executive Directors receive a fee for their services and do not receive any other benefits from the Group, nor do they participate in any of the bonus or share schemes.
The fees recognise the responsibility of the role and the time commitments required, and are not performance related or pensionable.
They are paid monthly in cash and there are no other benefits.
Purpose and link Element to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Fees Attract, retain and Reviewed by the Board after recommendation by the Chairman The maximum aggregate fees for all fairly reward high and Chief Executive and by the Committee in the case of the Directors allowed by the Companys calibre individuals.
Chairman taking into account individual responsibilities, such as Articles of Association is 600,000. committee Chairmanship, time commitment, general employee Current fee levels are set out in the pay increases, and prevailing market levels at companies of Directors Annual Remuneration comparable status and market value.
Fee increases are normally reviewed annually and are generally effective from 1 January.
