Directors Remuneration report On a constant currency basis the Base or were content but felt that their votes Remuneration Committee Micro Focus business has delivered increased were not necessary to carry the position.
Chairs statement Underlying Adjusted EBITDA of 11.1% and The board discussed the position with On behalf of your board, I am pleased to the Enlarged Group has delivered an annual all major shareholders at the time and present our Directors Remuneration report shareholder return of 65.8% in the year recognizes the concerns that linked votes for the financial year ended 30 April 2015. under review.
The board would not intend to Similar to last year, this report is split into follow the same course again unless there three sections: the Remuneration Committee Over the coming months the board will were further opportunities to create very the committee Chairs Annual Statement, continue to evaluate the orderly separation significant value which could not be delivered the Directors Remuneration Policy and of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive without a linked vote as in this case.
the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Officer consistent with the announcement Directors Remuneration Policy set out on made on 15 April 2014.
Internal and external Additional Responsibility pages 50 to 54 was approved at the AGM candidates will be evaluated for the role of on 25 September 2014, reapproved with Allowance Chief Executive Officer whilst at all times amendments at the General Meeting With the enlarged size of the business and aiming to ensure appropriate continuity on 27October 2014 and will next be an increase in responsibilities for the senior and continued focus on performance.
In the put to shareholders in 2017 at the latest.
team, the committee considered during the meantime, Kevin Loosemore will continue to The Annual Report on Remuneration year that remuneration was significantly be remunerated as the Executive Chairman, will be subject to an advisory vote at the below market competitive levels.
However, within the policy for executive directors as forthcoming AGM.
We hope that you the committee is mindful of not making detailed on pages 50 to 54. find the report to be clear, transparent and a permanent increase in remuneration consistent with the reporting requirements.
levels before the success of the integration Remuneration decisions in the We continue to monitor best practice in this is apparent.
Shareholders approved area and to consult with our shareholders year ended 30 April 2015 a temporary Additional Responsibility and other stakeholders and we welcome The Companys Remuneration Policy Allowance ARA to be put in place for feedback on any issue regarding this remained fundamentally unchanged a small number of critical employees until report or executive remuneration.
However as part of the such time as clear determination of the transaction to acquire TAG, shareholders relevant base salaries can be made.
The were requested to approve new incentive number of ARAs that have been put in Corporate performance and arrangements for the senior team to place is six and the total amount of ARAs business context recognize the increased size of the currently in place amounts to 680,000 The Company has a clear strategy that Group and the significant incremental per annum.
The ARA is included in the defines an operating and financial model workload involved in acquisition activities.
determination of incentive opportunities designed to deliver superior shareholder The committee determined that the and pension benefits.
This model is underpinned by a implementation of an allowance was the provided in the Policy Report on page 53 remuneration model that ensures rewards most appropriate approach rather than and in the Annual Report on Remuneration only accrue as value is delivered to applying a permanent increase to an on page 62. shareholders.
We believe this tight linkage executives salary and bonus entitlement positively differentiates the Companys until such time as clear determinations Additional Share Grants approach to governance and value creation.
of the relevant base salaries can be made.
The committee also awarded a number of The committee will keep this position Additional Share Grants ASGs to a number The year ended 30 April 2015 was a under regular review.
of senior managers and executives, critical transformational year for the Group with the to delivering the anticipated results of the acquisition of TAG resulting in an Enlarged As explained at the time the board acquisition.
Grants can be made to no more Group that is around three times larger in took the unusual step of linking the vote than 15 people within 18 months of the terms of revenue and 2.7 times larger in on remuneration with the vote on the completion date.
ASGs are conditional share terms of Underlying Adjusted EBITDA than transaction.
In the boards opinion a vote awards over ordinary shares.
TAG is one of the leading global for the transaction without a remuneration of ordinary shares subject to the ASGs will providers of enterprise infrastructure software policy to retain key executives would have be a maximum of 2.5% of the Enlarged solutions to businesses, governments and been the worst possible outcome for Groups Share Capital.
The ASGs will become other large organizations.
Almost 40% of shareholders exercisable, subject to the satisfaction of a enables Micro Focus to broaden its voted against the Remuneration Policy, shareholder return performance condition, addressable market and customer base and is however, had the votes not been linked on the third anniversary of the date of consistent with the goal of driving sustainable we believe the transaction would have Completion.
In order for shares to vest in full, total shareholder returns from a diverse failed with the consequent loss of value the management team will need to deliver portfolio of solutions.
In the months following to shareholders.
Of the c. 40% that voted shareholder return of at least 100%, i. e. a the acquisition, the executive team have been against approximately half were trackers doubling of value over a three year period.
working on a comprehensive integration and funds that have no option but to follow The total number of ASGs awarded were review and developing a strong plan for the position of entities such as ISS.
A further seven and the total number of shares the future of the combined entity.
The key quarter was one large shareholder who involved was 3,262,420, representing deliverables from the review included a new objected to the combined role of Chairman 1.5% of the share capital of the Company.
organizational design that was announced and Chief Executive Officer continuing and on 6 April 2015, a restructuring plan covering the remainder were shareholders who in Further details are provided in the Policy the next two years, a combined budget, some cases objected to the linkage: or Report on page 54 and in the Annual a branding and product strategy and a objected to the terms of the remuneration Report on Remuneration on pages 68 and 69. systems design and implementation plan.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 48 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information The Annual Report on Remuneration The remuneration arrangements for the Malus and claw back will be subject to an advisory vote at the Chairman and CEO as we transition: The committee concluded that no changes forthcoming AGM.
We continue to value to the Remuneration Policy were required any feedback from shareholders and hope The mix of base salary, short and at this time.
However, the committee notes to receive your support at the AGM.
long-term incentives and the ongoing that the requirement for malus and claw appropriateness of the ARA: back provisions in incentives in the updated Given the increased footprint and UK Corporate Governance Code 2014, complexity of the business, it is right to Executive shareholding requirements and is taking steps to implement the revisit whether other measures and other and post-vesting holding periods: and changes.
The Company already operates remuneration approaches could even claw back provisions in the annual bonus better support the strategic priorities ahead.
How to further improve communication and is introducing malus and claw back Therefore, during the year ending 30 April on remuneration to shareholders.
provisions to LTIP awards due to be made 2016, the committee will revisit certain from July2015.
aspects of executive remuneration to ensure they remain fit for purpose.
This will include Calendar of activities consideration of the following: The calendar is driven by the business planning Karen Slatford activity of the Group prior to the start of the Chair of the Remuneration Committee new financial year.
The committee is fully 7 July 2015 informed of changes in business strategy, which may affect its decision making.
The annual timetable for the committee is set out below: Date Purpose Matters reviewed and or approved Q1 May July Annual Report Directors Remuneration report: and Payments Bonus payments and any vesting of awards under all plans for the previous year: and Grants of equity awards to executives, top talent and all employee share schemes.
Q2 August AGM Investor engagement: and October Review committee agenda for the following year.
Q3 November Strategic Outlook Progress of half year business performance: January and Policy Review On-going appropriateness and effectiveness of remuneration and benefits policies strategy and their linkages to the overall business strategy: Review of external remuneration consultants: Review of revised remuneration reporting regulations: Corporate governance developments: and Business objectives for the following year.
Q4 February Year End Executive director, Company Secretary and executive committee remuneration reviews April Remuneration including benchmarking where appropriate of base salaries and benefits: Approvals Group-wide pay and benefit reviews: Share awards and their performance conditions for grants to executives, top talent and employee share plans: Design and targets for annual performance related bonus arrangements for executives and employees for the forthcoming year: Review of performance and terms of reference of the committee: and Review of vesting of long-term incentive awards.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 49 Directors Remuneration report continued The objective of the Groups remuneration Terms of reference policies is that all employees, including Compliance Statement The committee is responsible for reviewing executive directors, should receive This Directors Remuneration report has remuneration arrangements for members appropriate remuneration for their been prepared on behalf of the board of the board and for providing general performance, responsibility, skills and by the committee and complies with guidance on aspects of remuneration experience.
Remuneration packages are the provisions of the Companies Act policy throughout the Group.
Its terms designed to enable the Group to attract and 2006 and Schedule 8 of The Large and of reference include the following: retain key employees by ensuring they are Medium-sized Companies and Groups remunerated appropriately and competitively Accounts and Reports Amendment To determine and agree with the and that they are motivated to achieve the Regulations 2013.
The report has board the framework or broad policy highest level of Group performance in line been prepared in line with the for the remuneration of the Companys with the best interests of shareholders.
recommendations of the UK Corporate Chairman, CEO and other executive Governance Code and the requirements directors, the Company Secretary Policies on remuneration take account of the of the UKLA Listing Rules.
and other members of the executive pay structure, employment conditions and management team as appointed relativities within the Group and also the from time to time : industry sector.
It also takes into consideration that individuals may have different levels of To determine the total individual Directors Remuneration Policy experience, capability, and market demand remuneration package of each executive This section of the report sets out the for their services.
To determine the elements director and other senior executives Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and level of remuneration appropriate to each including bonuses, incentive payments, in accordance with Section 439A of the executive director, the committee considers share options and any other share awards: Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The benchmark remuneration data for selected Remuneration Policy was approved by comparable technology companies as well as To determine the policy for, and scope of, shareholders at the 2014 AGM and took a broader group of companies of a similar size pension arrangements for each executive effect from that date.
It was amended and to the Company.
director and other senior executives: reapproved by shareholders at the General Meeting on 27 October 2014.
The policy It is intended that a significant proportion To approve the framework of salaries report below is as disclosed in the 2014 of remuneration will continue to be for senior managers, determine targets Directors Remuneration Report except performance-related.
Conditions for for any performance-related pay schemes for a number of minor changes as follows: performance-related bonuses and long-term operated by the Company and approve incentives, i. e. Underlying Adjusted EBITDA the total annual payments: References to financial years have been and EPS respectively, will represent updated where appropriate: challenging targets which are designed To review the design of all share to increase shareholder value and are linked incentive plans for approval by the Shareholder-approved ARAs and ASGs to the Companys financial and operational board and shareholders: have been included: strategy.
The committee will review the performance conditions annually to ensure To oversee any major changes in Pay-for-performance scenario charts have that they remain demanding and appropriate.
employee benefit structures throughout been updated to reflect 2015 benefits the Company or Group: and salaries are unchanged and ARA and In line with the Association of British Insurers ASG awards: Guidelines on Responsible Investment To review the on-going appropriateness Disclosure, the committee will ensure that and relevance of the remuneration policy.
Malus and claw back provisions have been the incentive structure for executive directors introduced to LTIP awards from July 2015: and senior management will not raise The full terms of reference of the committee environmental, social or governance ESG are available from the Company Secretary The announcement made by the Company risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible and are on the Companys website on 22 August 2014 published on the behaviour.
More generally, with regard to the http: investors.
com corporateCompanys website with regard to overall remuneration structure, there is no governance.
recruitment awards and appointment restriction on the committee, which prevents of interim executive directors has been it from taking into account corporate The table opposite sets out the remuneration included for clarity: and governance on ESG matters.
policy that was approved at the AGM on 25September 2014 and subsequently Confirmation that the non-executive The Companies Act 2006 requires the amended at the General Meeting held on director fees do not apply to the nonauditors to report to the Companys members 27 October 2014 to include the ARA and executive directors representing Wizard.
on the auditable part of the Directors ASG as part of the shareholder vote to Remuneration Report and to state whether approve the acquisition of TAG.
The Companys policy on the remuneration in their opinion that part of the report has of executive directors and their direct been properly prepared in accordance with For these purposes payments includes reports is established by the committee the Companies Act 2006.
The report has the committee satisfying awards of variable and approved by the board.
The individual therefore been divided into separate sections remuneration and, in relation to an award remuneration package of each executive for audited and unaudited information.
over shares, the terms of the payment are director is determined by the committee.
agreed at the time the award is granted.
No executive director or employee participates in discussions relating to the setting of their own remuneration.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 50 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Executive directors remuneration policy table Base salary Element of pay and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures alignment with strategy Supports the recruitment and Normally reviewed annually.
Increases Ordinarily, salary increases will be in None, although overall performance retention of executive directors generally apply from the first quarter line with increases awarded to other of the individual is considered by of the calibre required to deliver of the financial year.
However, the committee when setting and the Groups strategy.
increases may be made above this level at reviewing salaries annually.
When determining base salary levels, the committees discretion to take account consideration is given to the following: of individual circumstances such as: Rewards executives for the performance of their role.
Pay increases for other employees Increase in scope and responsibility: of the Group: Set at a level that allows fully flexible Increase to reflect the individuals operation of our variable pay plans.
The individuals skills, experience development and performance in and responsibilities: role e. g. for a new appointment where base salary may be increased Pay at companies of a similar size, over time rather than set directly at complexity and international scope, the level of the previous incumbent in particular those within the or market level : and technology sector, the FTSE 250, US listed technology companies Alignment with market level.
and privately owned software companies: and Corporate and individual performance.
Benefits Element of pay and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures alignment with strategy Provides a competitive and The Group provides a range of Set at a level which the committee None.
cost-effective benefits package to benefits which may include a car considers: executives to assist them to carry benefit or cash equivalent, private out their duties effectively.
medical insurance, permanent health Appropriately positioned against insurance and life assurance.
comparable roles in companies of a similar size and complexity in the Additional benefits may also be provided relevant market: and in certain circumstances which may Provides a sufficient level of benefit include but are not limited to relocation based on the role and individual expenses, housing allowance, school fees circumstances, such as relocation.
and temporary increase in responsibilities.
Other benefits may be offered if considered appropriate and reasonable by the committee.
Pension Element of pay and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures alignment with strategy Provides a competitive postDefined contribution plan with 20% of base salary.
retirement benefit, in a way Company contributions set as that manages the overall cost a percentage of base salary.
An individual may elect to receive some or all of their pension contribution as a cash allowance.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 51 Directors Remuneration report continued Annual bonus Element of pay and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures alignment with strategy Rewards and incentivizes the Measures and targets are set annually For maximum performance: The measures and targets are achievement of annual financial and pay out levels are determined by set by the committee each year.
the committee after the year end based 150% of salary for Executive The measures that applied for the on performance against those targets.
Chairman: and financial year 2015, and that will apply for the financial year 2016, 100% of salary for other executive The committee may, in exceptional are described in the Annual Report directors.
circumstances, amend the bonus pay on Remuneration.
out should the formulaic outcome not, The maximum bonus will be achieved by in the view of the committee, reflect growing the Underlying Adjusted EBITDA Targets are set that drive overall business performance or individual by 10% year on year excluding the impact improvement in the underlying contribution.
Any such adjustments would of in year acquisitions and currency on performance of the business be disclosed in the relevant years Annual straight-line basis.
ensuring a link to shareholder return.
Report on Remuneration and bonuses would not exceed the stated maximum.
Currently measures are limited to growth in Underlying Adjusted The annual bonus is delivered in cash.
EBITDA excluding the impact of in year acquisitions and currency.
This In the case of fraud: mis-statement may change if needed to support of accounts: or misconduct: claw back a change in business strategy.
provisions are in place for a period of up to one year after a bonus payment has been made.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Element of pay and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures alignment with strategy Motivates and rewards the Contingent awards of performance Maximum opportunity contained within The performance measures and achievement of long-term shares structured as nil-cost options are the plan rules is 200% of salary.
respective weightings may vary year business goals.
made annually with vesting dependent on year to reflect strategic priorities, upon the achievement of performance The maximum face value of annual subject to retaining at least 50% Supports the creation of shareholder conditions over three years.
value through the delivery of strong market performance aligned with The committee has discretion to decide Details of the measure and the long-term business strategy, whether and to what extent targets have performance targets used for both organic and inorganic.
been met, and if an exceptional event specific LTIP grants are included in occurs that causes the committee to the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Supports achievement of our strategy consider that the targets are no longer by targeting performance under our appropriate, the committee may adjust Threshold performance will result key financial performance indicators them, provided the new conditions are in 25% vesting.
of revenue growth and EPS growth.
no tougher or easier than the original conditions at the time they were set.
Awards granted from the date of Aligns executive interest with those this report onwards under the LTIP of long-term shareholders.
The committee has the discretion share scheme are subject to malus to adjust the LTIP outcomes to ensure and claw back provisions.
Those alignment of pay with performance to provisions may apply at the discretion ensure the outcome is a true reflection of the committee if accounts are of the performance of the Company.
corrected or published that indicate Any such adjustments would be the relevant performance was disclosed in the relevant years materially worse than in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
accounts used to assess vesting.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 52 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information All-employee share plans Element of pay and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures alignment with strategy Provides an opportunity for directors Executive directors are entitled to Participation limits are those set by the Not applicable.
to voluntarily invest in the Company.
participate in a tax approved all-employee local tax authorities from time to time.
plan, The Micro Focus Sharesave Plan 2006, under the same terms as other employees.
Under this plan they make monthly savings over a period of three years linked to the grant of an option over Micro Focus shares with an option price which can be at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of shares on grant.
Options may be adjusted to reflect the impact of any variation of share capital.
Additional Responsibility Allowance Element of pay and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures alignment with strategy Ensure the success of the ARAs will be a fixed amount per Kevin Loosemore: Capped at None.
acquisition of TAG by Micro Focus individual, paid on a monthly basis 260,000 per annum.
and the successful integration subject to the recipient being in Mike Phillips: Capped at 120,000 of TAG and the Group.
employment with the Group on per annum.
Recognizes the significant Stephen Murdoch: Initially at incremental workload and Payments will be made during a 100,000 per annum.
responsibility and allows for period of at least six months but not a revised salary to be determined.
exceeding three years from the date Other senior managers: in aggregate of completion of the acquisition.
The ARA does not contain malus Subject to review every six months or claw back provisions.
for the first 18 months and then at any time thereafter.
Any amendment will take effect on three months notice, except if a revised salary has been determined, in which case any entitlement to the ARA will cease immediately.
the maximum amount payable under the ARA to all recipients will be no more than 1m per annum in aggregate.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 53 Directors Remuneration report continued Additional Share Grant Element of pay and Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures alignment with strategy Ensure the success of ASGs will take the form of nil cost Kevin Loosemore, Mike Phillips and The percentage of the ASG which the acquisition.
options which may be awarded Stephen Murdoch will receive ASGs will vest is: during the first 18 months from the over no more than 947,140 ordinary Aligns executive interest with i 0% if the Share Holder Return date of completion of the acquisition, shares, 676,529 ordinary shares and those of long-term shareholders.
Percentage is 50% or less: with vesting dependent upon the 405,917 ordinary shares respectively, achievement of a performance subject to appropriate adjustment in ii 100% if the Share Holder Return condition over three years.
the event of any capitalization issue, Percentage is 100% or more: and rights issue or open offer, sub-division The ASGs do not contain malus or consolidation of shares or reduction or claw back provisions.
iii a percentage determined on a of capital or any other variation of straight-line basis between i and capital or demerger of all or part of ii above.
The number of ordinary shares The Shareholder Return subject to ASGs granted to any Percentage will reflect all other one participant shall not exceed dividends paid and any increase 1,082,448, subject to appropriate in share price from the reference adjustment in the event of any price of 819.4 pence to the capitalization issue, rights issue vesting price, being the average or open offer, sub-division or of the closing share price on the consolidation of shares or reduction 20 Business Days prior to the of capital or any other variation vesting date.
The vesting date of capital or demerger of all or is the earlier of the third part of the business.
anniversary of Completion and 1 November 2017.
Fees for non-executive directors are determined by the board after taking appropriate advice.
The Company currently has an Executive Chairman whose role combines those of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The section below details the Companys policy on how the non-executive directors, including a non-executive Chairman, will be remunerated.
Non-executive director fees Element of pay and Operation alignment with strategy Provides an appropriate The non-executive Chairman and Is appropriately positioned against Aggregate fees paid to non-executive reward to attract and retain non-executive directors are paid comparable roles in companies of directors will remain within the limit high-calibre individuals.
Additional fees are paid a similar size and complexity in the stated in the Companys articles for chairmanship of board committees relevant market, especially companies of association, currently 1m.
and for the roles of senior independent of a similar size and international director and Deputy Chairman: scope to the Company, in particular Actual fee levels are disclosed those within the technology sector, in the Directors Annual Report Fees are currently paid in cash but the FTSE 250, US listed technology on Remuneration for the relevant the Company may choose to provide companies and privately owned financial year.
some of the fees in shares.
Non-executive directors representing Fees are set at a level which: Fees are reviewed periodically.
Increases Wizard Representative Directors will typically be in line with market are not paid a fee.
Reflects the commitment and levels of fee inflation.
In exceptional contribution that is expected from circumstances including, but not limited Non-executive directors and the non-executive Chairman and to, material misalignment with the Representative Directors do not non-executive directors: and market or a change in the complexity, participate in any incentive scheme.
responsibility or time commitment required to fulfil a non-executive director role the board has discretion to make appropriate adjustments to fee levels to ensure they remain market competitive and fair to the director.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 54 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information The committee reserves the right to make Around 100 of our senior managers In relation to the annual bonus plan, any remuneration payments and payments and other key employees also receive the committee retains discretion over: for loss of office, notwithstanding that they LTIP awards.
Performance conditions are not in line with the policy set out below, are consistent for all participants, while The participants: the determination where the terms of the payment were award sizes vary by individual.
All UK of the bonus payment: the timing of agreed i before the policy came into effect employees are eligible to participate in payment: and dealing with a change or ii at a time when the relevant individual the all-employee share plans on the same of control: was not a director of the Company and, in terms and in addition is available to 22 the opinion of the committee, the payment other countries worldwide.
Determination of the treatment of leavers was not in consideration for the individual based on the rules of the plan and the becoming a director of the Company.
All of our UK employees are able to appropriate treatment chosen: participate in our Flexible Benefits program.
The annual review of performance Selection of performance ASGs can be made by the remuneration measures and weighting, and targets measures committee in the first 18 months following for the annual bonus plan from year The Companys core objective is to continue the acquisition to certain senior managers to year: and to deliver shareholder returns of 15% to 20% or employees of the Enlarged Group and per annum over the long-term.
The committee new joiners who are deemed critical to the The operation of malus and claw back.
continues to believe that a combination delivery of the acquisition and integration of Underlying Adjusted EBITDA, Revenue of TAG and Base Micro Focus, with the In relation to both the Companys LTIP and Growth, Cash flow, EPS and Total Shareholder total number of recipients including annual bonus plan, the committee retains Return remain the most appropriate measures executive directors not to exceed 15. the ability to adjust the targets and or set of long-term performance of the Company.
different measures if events occur e. g. The performance measures used under the material acquisition and or divestment of a What discretions are retained annual bonus are selected annually to help the Group business which cause it to determine Group achieve its core objective.
The annual by the committee in operating that the conditions are no longer appropriate bonus plan is currently linked to growth in its incentive plans?
and the amendment is required so that the Underlying Adjusted EBITDA.
Vesting of LTIP The committee will operate the annual conditions achieve their original purpose and awards is currently linked to growth in EPS as bonus and LTIP according to their respective are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Any the committee believes that this aligns with rules or relevant documents and in use of the above discretions would, where the Companys focus on shareholder value, accordance with the Listing Rules where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report which together with the annual bonus metrics relevant.
The committee retains discretion, on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, provide a strong line of sight for the executives consistent with market practice, with regard be the subject of consultation with the and supports the long-term strategy.
to the operation and administration of these Companys major shareholders.
These include, but are not limited to, The board does not favour non-numeric the following in relation to the LTIP: In relation to ARAs, the committee has targets for annual bonuses as it believes there discretion to revise the allowances for Kevin is evidence to show that when such targets The participants: the timing for granting Loosemore and Mike Phillips downwards or are used payments to executives are higher awards: the size of an award subject for other recipients upwards or downwards than would be justified by the returns to to maximum limits set out in the policy following a review but based on current shareholders.
A recent report by KPMG table: and the determination of vesting: assessment can envisage no circumstances shows that, where there are non-numeric where any would be revised upwards.
targets, executive bonuses reduce less when Discretion required when dealing with there is a reduction in corporate performance.
a change of control or restructuring The use of discretion in relation to the of the Group: Companys Sharesave and Share Incentive Performance targets are set to be stretching Plan will be as permitted under HMRC rules and achievable, taking into account the Determination of the treatment of and the Listing Rules.
Details of share awards Groups strategic priorities and the economic leavers based on the rules of the plan granted to existing executive directors are environment in which the Group operates.
and the appropriate treatment chosen: set out on pages 67 to 69 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
These remain Remuneration policy for Adjustments required in certain eligible to vest based on their original circumstances e. g. rights issues, other employees award terms.
corporate restructuring events The remuneration policy for other and special dividends : and employees is based on broadly consistent principles to those for executive directors.
The annual review of performance Salary reviews take into account Group measures and weighting, and targets performance, local pay and market for the LTIP from year to year.
conditions and salary levels for similar roles in comparable companies.
All noncommission employees participate in a bonus scheme which operates on the same metrics for all levels in the Company from entry level employees to executive directors.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 55 Directors Remuneration report continued The minimum scenario shows salary, Illustrations of the application Recruitment of executive directors ARA, pension, fixed compensation and The remuneration package for a new of remuneration policy benefits only.
These are the elements executive director would be set in accordance The value and composition of the executive of the executive directors remuneration with the terms of the approved remuneration directors remuneration packages for the packages that are not at risk.
policy in force at the time of appointment year ended 30 April 2016 at minimum, and taking account of the experience and on-target, maximum and exceptional The on-target scenario shows fixed skills of the individual and prevailing market maximum scenarios under the policy are remuneration as above, plus a pay-out conditions.
In determining the appropriate set out in the charts below.
The graphs of 50% of the maximum annual bonus remuneration structure and levels, the show an estimate of the remuneration and 25% vesting for long-term incentives committee will take into consideration that could be achieved by the executive excluding ASG awards.
all relevant factors to ensure that the directors under the policy set out in the arrangements are in the best interests report.
Each bar represents the minimum The maximum scenario reflects fixed of the Company and its shareholders.
amount of remuneration payable, remuneration, plus full pay-out of all The committee may also make an award in remuneration payable at target performance, incentives excluding ASG awards.
respect of a new appointment to buy-out remuneration payable at maximum incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving performance, and remuneration payable The exceptional maximum scenario a previous employer and may exercise the at exceptional maximum performance reflects fixed remuneration, plus full pay discretion available under the relevant Listing under the policy.
out of all incentives including ASG awards.
Rule to facilitate this, i. e. in the event that a structure that is different from those detailed Note that the projected values exclude in the policy would be required.
For example, the impact of any share price movements the committee may offer additional cash and the ASGs are valued at the share price and or share-based elements as part of the at the date of grant which was 11.24. buy-out when it considers these to be in Executive Chairman 000 Exceptional 14,206 Maximum M Ma ax xiimu mum m 3,560 On-target 1,873 Minimum 935 000 0 3,000 6,000 9,000 12,000 15,000 Chief Financial officer 000 Exceptional 9,322 Maximum M Ma ax xiimu mum m 1,718 On-target 954 Minimum 543 000 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 Salary ARA Pension Benets Annual bonus Long-term incentives Additional Share Grant Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 56 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information the best interests of the Company and, In determining appropriate remuneration In exceptional circumstances where a therefore, of its shareholders.
Any such arrangements on hiring a new executive non-executive director takes on an executive buy-out payments would be based solely director, the committee will take into account function on an interim basis, the director on remuneration lost when leaving the relevant factors: this may include the calibre will receive an increase to their cash fee former employer, would be no higher in fair of the individual, local market practice, reflecting the market rate for that role value terms and would reflect the delivery the existing remuneration arrangements only for the duration of the appointment.
mechanism i. e. cash, shares, options, time for other executives and the business horizons and performance requirements circumstances.
The committee seeks to Non-executive directors will not be eligible attaching to that remuneration.
However, ensure that arrangements are in the best for an annual bonus or LTIP in the event the committee has the discretion in interests of both the Company and its of a significant merger or acquisition.
The unforeseen and exceptional circumstances shareholders and not to pay more than committee commits to consulting with to offer awards of variable remuneration is appropriate.
and seeking approval from shareholders in excess of the maximums stated in the in advance of operating outside these policy table if judged necessary to procure policy limits.
Internal appointment of the services of the most appropriate executive directors candidate.
If it were to do so, any such Executive directors appointed as a In the case of an internal appointment, arrangements would be put to shareholders any variable pay element awarded in respect result of mergers and acquisitions at the following AGM.
of the prior role may be allowed to pay As merger and acquisition activity is part out according to its terms on grant.
In of the Companys strategy, the committee The committee published the following addition, any other on-going remuneration recognizes that such activity may give rise announcement on the Company website obligations existing prior to appointment to situations where there are exceptional to clarify the remuneration policies when may continue, provided that they are circumstances in relation to executive hiring a new executive director: disclosed in the following years Annual directors and certain senior management.
For external and Should it be necessary to match 1.
The remuneration package for a new internal appointments, the committee may compensation in an acquired company executive director including incentive agree that the Company will meet certain and or adjust compensation of existing opportunities will normally be consistent relocation expenses, as appropriate and management to deliver significant with the policy for current executive within the limits set by the committee.
shareholder benefits then the Company directors, but in any event the maximum may offer awards of variable remuneration total level of award that may be made in excess of the maximum levels stated in the Appointment of interim under the annual bonus and share plans policy table.
As part of the acquisition of TAG executive directors in any one year will not be above 500% during the last financial year two additional The committee also recognizes that there of salary: incentives were agreed by shareholders to may be times when it is appropriate to compensate a small number of executives appoint an interim executive director or 2.
Buyout awards as previously disclosed and senior managers for the incremental in exceptional circumstance require that will generally be based solely on workload involved in the integration.
These a non-executive director takes on an remuneration lost on leaving a former two additional incentives, the ARA and ASG, executive function on a short-term basis.
employer and will have a fair value no are described in detail in the policy table.
Remuneration for interim executive directors greater than the awards forfeited.
In doing will be determined within the existing so the committee will take account of remuneration policy.
The committee retains relevant factors including any performance the discretion to make appropriate one-off conditions attached to these awards, the remuneration arrangements for non-executive form in which they were granted e. g. cash directors, including a non-executive Chairman, or shares and the timeframe of awards: outside of the standard policy at these times.
Any such arrangements will be detailed 3.
The committee does not envisage any in the relevant years Annual Report on cash payment being offered which could Remuneration.
be construed as a golden hello: and 4.
The committee will consult with and seek approval from shareholders in advance of operating outside the maximum limit described above.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 57 Directors Remuneration report continued Executive directors service Executive directors service contracts agreements The Companys policy is that executive Provision Detailed terms directors service agreements normally Normal Base salary, pension and benefits: continue until the directors agreed remuneration Company car or cash allowance: retirement date or such other date as the arrangements Private health insurance: parties agree are terminable on no more than Life assurance: one years notice and provide no entitlement 25 days paid annual leave: to the payment of a pre-determined amount Participation in annual bonus plan, subject to plan rules: and on termination of employment in any Participation in LTIP, subject to plan rules.
In addition, in some limited Change of control No special contractual provisions apply in the event of a cases, career counselling may be provided change of control.
Details of the treatment of LTIP awards after the cessation of employment for are provided on page 59. a defined period.
Notice period A maximum of 12 months notice from the Company The table alongside provides details or the director.
of the main terms of the executive directors Termination Payment in lieu of notice equal to: service contracts and termination payments payment A maximum of 12 months base salary: not otherwise set out in this report.
Pension supplement: and Cash supplement in lieu of other benefits.
If an executive director commits a material Restrictive During employment and for a maximum of 12 months breach of their service contract, any crime, covenants after leaving.
or act of gross misconduct or dishonesty, the Company is entitled to summarily Executive director Date of service contract terminate the service contract without Kevin Loosemore 14 April 2011 notice or payment in lieu of notice or other compensation.
Such a contract term Mike Phillips 7 September 2010 cannot however, as a rule of law, affect the 1 Stephen Murdoch 16 April 2014 executive directors statutory rights such as rights in respect of unfair dismissal.
1 Stephen Murdoch stepped down as an executive director on 20 November 2014.
He remains with the Company as Chief Operating Officer.
All of the executive directors service contracts were entered into before 27 June 2012 with the exception of In respect of Kevin Loosemore, his loss The treatment of leavers under our longStephen Murdoch appointed 16 April 2014 of office compensation is equal to 150% term incentive plans is determined by the and have not been modified or renewed of his basic pay to reflect the value of salary rules of the relevant plans.
The committee following their execution.
For this purpose, salary is will determine when and if awards vest remuneration payments or payments for based on the sum of his base salary and and the period during which awards loss of office that are required to be made ARA if applicable.
under them are not required to be consistent with the policy.
During that period, for the other executive Share options lapse if the participant director, he must take all reasonable steps leaves employment in case of termination Loss of office payments to obtain alternative employment and for cause or resignation.
In other cases, Except for Kevin Loosemore, there are no payments to the executive director by normally including death and ill health, predetermined special provisions for directors the Company will be reduced to reflect injury or disability, redundancy and with regard to compensation in the event of payments received in respect of that retirement, or any other reason at the loss of office: compensation is based on what alternative employment.
committees discretion, awards would would be earned by way of salary, pension typically vest on the normal vesting date entitlement and other contractual benefits There is no automatic entitlement to annual with committee discretion to accelerate over the notice period.
In the event that a bonus and this is at the discretion of the and be pro-rated for time and performance.
contract is to be terminated, and a payment Remuneration committee.
Where an The committee has the discretion to in lieu of notice made, payments to the executive director leaves by reason of death, allow the award to vest on cessation executive director may be staged over the disability, ill-heath or any other reason at the of employment on a pro-rata basis or notice period, at the same interval as salary committees discretion they may receive a otherwise if, in the committees view, would have been paid.
pro-rata bonus for the year of cessation, the performance conditions are met paid on the normal payment date with at that point.
The committee may vest committee discretion to accelerate, based the award on any other basis if it believes on performance against predetermined there are exceptional circumstances targets and time served during the year.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 58 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information David Maloney retired from the board Non-executive directors appointments in September 2014, having served for nine years and was replaced as senior Non-executive director Appointment or re-appointment date Expiration date independent director by Karen Slatford.
David Maloney 14 April 2014 25 September 2014 Karen Slatford also chairs the Nominations Committee.
Karen Geary was appointed Tom Skelton 23 October 2014 24 September 2015 to the board on 8 January 2015 and will Karen Slatford 5 July 2013 5 July 2016 Chair the committee effective 1 July 2015.
Tom Virden 5 January 2015 5 January 2018 Richard Atkins 16 April 2014 16 April 2017 Prescott Ashe and David Golob do not serve on any board committees and Karen Geary 8 January 2015 8 January 2018 do not receive a fee for their services.
Shareholding guidelines ASG awards will lapse following voluntary Policy in respect of external We believe executive directors and other resignation, breach of contract, gross senior managers should be encouraged to board appointments misconduct or gross incompetence, hold a substantial portion of their personal We recognize that external non-executive subject to committee discretion.
In other wealth in shares of the Company.
Over directorships are beneficial for both the cases, the ASG will vest, subject to the a period of three years from appointment, executive director concerned and the performance condition, and become executive directors are required to build a Company.
With prior approval from the exercisable on the normal vesting date holding in the Groups shares to a minimum board, each serving executive director for a period of six months.
value broadly equivalent to two times their can undertake external non-executive respective base salary for the Executive directorships.
At the discretion of the board, Change of control Chairman: 1.5 times for other executive executive directors are permitted to retain The rules of the LTIP provide that, in the directors and one times for other senior fees received in respect of any such event of a change of control, awards management.
Failure to meet the minimum non-executive directorship.
options would vest to the extent that the shareholding requirement is taken into performance conditions where applicable account when determining eligibility Non-executive directors terms are satisfied at the date of such event.
of appointment such early vesting would generally be on The non-executive directors terms of a time pro-rata basis.
The committee may Non-executive directors do not have appointment are recorded in letters of vary the level of vesting, if it believes that a shareholding requirement.
The required notice from the exceptional circumstances warrant this, Company is three months in all cases.
The taking into account any other factors Consultation with employees non-executive directors are not entitled to it believes to be relevant in deciding Although the committee does not consult any compensation for loss of office and stand to what extent an award will vest.
directly with employees on the Directors for re-election at each AGM.
Details of the Remuneration Policy, the committee letters of appointment of each non-executive The directors may exchange their awards does consider the general basic salary director who has served as a director of the over Company shares for awards in shares increase, the benchmarking of employee Company at any time during the financial of the acquiring company if the terms compensation and benefits, remuneration year are set out in the table above.
arrangements and employment conditions for the broader employee population when Prescott Ashe and David Golob were Awards held under all-employee plans determining remuneration policy for the appointed to the board pursuant to the would be expected to vest on a change executive directors.
Relationship Agreement entered into of control and those which have to meet by the Company on 20 November 2014, specific requirements to benefit from Consideration of shareholder details of which are set out on page 41 permitted tax benefits would vest in of the corporate governance report.
views accordance with those requirements.
The committee also considers developments All appointments of non-executive directors in institutional investors best practice ASG awards will vest and become exercisable are subject to election by the shareholders expectations and the views expressed in full immediately prior to and for one at the first AGM of the Company after by shareholders when setting directors month following a change of control.
appointment and, on an annual basis remuneration.
We remain committed to thereafter.
Except for Tom Skelton who shareholder dialogue and take an active having served for nine years will not be interest in voting outcomes.
We consult standing for re-election at the forthcoming extensively with our major shareholders AGM, all the directors will be offering when setting our remuneration policy.
If themselves for election or re-election at the any of these shareholders express concerns AGM to be held on 24 September 2015. relating to our policy, we would endeavour to meet with them, as appropriate, to understand and respond to any issues they may have.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 59 Directors Remuneration report continued Remuneration committee meeting attendance Annual Report on Remuneration The following section provides the details of Membership Number of how the remuneration policy was implemented throughout meetings during the year.
Committee member the year attended Karen Slatford Chair Yes 6 Remuneration committee Tom Skelton Yes 6 membership during the year Tom Virden Yes 6 ended 30 April 2015 1 Karen Geary No 1 The committee comprises four independent 2 David Maloney No 3 non-executive directors which we see as fundamental to ensuring that the 1 Karen Geary was appointed to the board on 8January 2015. remuneration of executive directors and 2 David Maloney retired from the board on 25September 2015. senior executives is set by people who are independent and have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters discussed.
The committee Reviewed Group wide pay and benefits: Single figure for total met six times during the year under review.
remuneration audited Attendance by individual committee Reviewed the ARA in accordance with The table opposite sets out the single figure members at the meetings is detailed financial performance and progress for total remuneration for directors for the in the table alongside.
of integration plan: financial year ended 30April 2015 and 2014.
The committee invited the views of each of Established targets for annual cash Base salary the Executive Chairman, the Chief Financial bonuses for the year ended 30 April Market positioning of base salary Officer and the Group Human Resources 2016: and is approached on an individual basis, Director during the year to provide advice taking account of advice received from the on specific questions raised by the committee Reviewed the performance and terms committees independent external advisors and on matters relating to the performance of reference of the committee.
regarding the salary levels for similar roles and remuneration of senior managers.
They in selected groups of comparable companies did not participate in discussions relating External advisors and the individual performance and to their own remuneration.
The Company The committee last reviewed their external experience of each executive.
The aim Secretary attended each meeting as advisors in 2012 and appointed Kepler is for base salary to be set with reference secretary to the committee.
Kepler attends to the market median, dependent on the committee meetings where appropriate committees view of individual and Group Agenda during the year ended and provides advice on remuneration for performance.
The committee decided not executives, analysis on all elements of the 30 April 2015 to increase Kevin Loosemores salary which remuneration policy and regular market and The key activities of the committee were remains below median.
As a result of the best practice updates.
Kepler reports directly as follows: acquisition of TAG an ARA was awarded to the committee chair and is a signatory to Kevin Loosemore rather than an increase to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Approval of the Directors Remuneration in the base pay.
Consultants which can be found at Report for the year ended 30 April 2015: www.
The table opposite shows the base salary Kepler provides no non-remuneration Reviewed salaries of the executive for the executive directors and there was no related services to the Company and is directors and the Executive Chairmans increase during the year.
Stephen Murdoch therefore considered independent.
The direct reports: stepped down as a director during the year.
terms of Keplers engagement are available from the Company Secretary and they are Reviewed bonus payments and LTIP paid on a time and materials fee for projects against targets: outside the scope of their retainer.
The committee seeks advice on legal matters Conducted annual review and from a number of firms as appropriate.
ratification of remuneration packages for executive directors and senior The committee continually assesses executives, incorporating institutional on-going advice provided by its advisors investor feedback: on remuneration matters.
Considered current guidelines on The fees incurred with Kepler in the year executive compensation from advisory under review were 38,600 2014: 41,997. bodies and institutional investors: Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 60 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Single figure for total remuneration audited Base Base salary, salary ARA and and fees fees Benefits in kind Bonus LTIPs vested Pension Other Total 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive directors Kevin Loosemore 605 490 35 34 908 735 2,646 11,111 121 98 4,315 12,468 Mike Phillips 403 299 14 13 403 299 1,191 3,121 50 37 4 2,061 3,773 Stephen Murdoch 176 11 7 1 176 11 7 1 366 24 Total 1,184 800 56 48 1,487 1,045 3,837 14,232 178 136 4 6,742 16,265 Non-executive directors David Maloney 41 100 41 100 Tom Skelton 50 50 50 50 Karen Slatford 66 60 66 60 Tom Virden 50 50 50 50 Richard Atkins 59 2 59 2 Prescott Ashe David Golob Karen Geary 16 16 Total nonexecutive directors 282 262 282 262 Total 1,466 1,062 56 48 1,487 1,045 3,837 14,232 178 136 4 7,024 16,527 Notes: 1 The base ARAs paid to Kevin Loosemore and Mike Phillips for the period 20 November 2014 to 30 April 2015 were 115,333 and 53,231 respectively.
The bonuses based on ARAs to Kevin Loosemore and Mike Phillips were 172,500 and 53,231 respectively.
2 Taxable benefits for executive directors include car benefits, private medical insurance, permanent health insurance and life assurance.
3 In the year ended 30 April 2014, an LTIP award had substantially completed and a valuation was attributed to this as at 30 April 2014.
In this financial year the award vested and has been restated to 3.1m to reflect the Absolute Shareholder Return performance and the share price on the vest date.
Further details of those LTIP awards are included in the notes on pages 52 and 53 of the prior year Annual Report and Accounts.
4 In the year ended 30 April 2015, LTIP awards to Kevin Loosemore and Mike Phillips that did not vest until 27 June 2015 but for which the committee believes that the performance measures have been substantially completed by the year end.
Further details of those LTIP awards are included in the notes on pages 123 and 125.
5 Stephen Murdoch stepped down as a director on 20 November 2014 and his emoluments for the period only are disclosed.
6 Kevin Loosemore receives a payment of 20% of base salary in lieu of a pension.
The Companys pension contribution for Mike Phillips and Stephen Murdoch is 12.5% of salary or a cash payment in lieu of a pension contribution of 10.98% of salary or a combination of both.
7 Karen Geary was appointed on 8 January 2015 and receives an annual fee of 50,000.
Prescott Ashe and David Golob do not receive any fees pursuant to the Relationship Agreement.
8 David Maloney retired from the board after nine years service on 25 September 2014.
9 Other emoluments include the all employee share plan and this is valued based on the embedded gain at grant.
Executive directors base salary Executive director At 1 May 2015 At 1 May 2014 % change Kevin Loosemore 490,000 490,000 0% Mike Phillips 350,000 350,000 0% Stephen Murdoch N A 320,000 0% Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 61 Directors Remuneration report continued Additional Responsibility Additional Responsibility Allowances Allowances Following the acquisition of TAG, From 20 the committee approved Additional November 2014 Responsibility Allowances ARAs to the Executive director At 1 May 2015 to 30 April 2015 following executive directors with effect Kevin Loosemore 260,000 115,333 from 20 November 2014 on a monthly rate Mike Phillips 120,000 53,231 of 21,667 for Kevin Loosemore and 10,000 for Mike Phillips.
This amount of ARA payable is reviewed by the committee each six months following completion and the first review agreed no change in the amounts.
The ARA paid for the period from completion on 20 November 2014 to 30 April 2015 and the annualized amount in place as at 1 May 2015 is shown in the table alongside.
Annual bonuses Annual bonus for the year ended 30 April 2015 audited EBITDA EBITDA EBITDA growth growth growth Maximum % of Bonus for For the year ended 30 April 2015, the Executive director threshold maximum achieved Bonus maximum 2015 maximum bonus opportunity was 150% Kevin Loosemore 0% 10% 11.1% 908,000 100% 908,000 of salary for Kevin Loosemore and 100% of salary for Mike Phillips and Stephen Mike Phillips 0% 10% 11.1% 403,231 100% 403,231 Murdoch.
The executive directors are on the Stephen Murdoch 0% 10% 11.1% 176,000 100% 176,000 same bonus plan as all non-commissioned employees and their bonuses are capped at the percentages above.
There is no bonus pay out if Underlying Adjusted EBITDA on The annualized EPS growth over the period Vesting of long-term incentives a CCY basis, excluding the impact of in year exceeded 11.94% being RPI 2.94%, for performance to the year acquisitions, is the same as the previous plus 9% and so 100% of the award was ended 30 April 2015 year and maximum bonuses are earned if achieved.
The award was not due to vest Awards granted in year ended the increase in this measure is 10% or more.
until 1 July 2014 but the committee believed 30 April 2011 Underlying Adjusted EBITDA excluding the when issuing last years Annual Report and On 18 April 2011, Mike Phillips received an impact of in year acquisitions grew by 11.1% Accounts that the expected ASR would award of 146,504 nil-cost options at zero over the figure for the year ended 30 April warrant 150% of the final award vesting, pence per share, equal to approximately 2014 on a CCY basis and so the bonuses or 219,756 options.
These options were 150% of salary.
Vesting of the award was are at the maximum capped percentages.
valued at the average share price in the last based on annualized EPS growth in excess of quarter of the financial year of 787 pence.
RPI over the three years ended 30 April 2014 The part of the bonus that was calculated The closing share price on the vesting date, as set out in the table below.
In addition, the based on the ARA was 173,000 for Kevin 1 July 2014, was 877 pence and the resulting level of vesting will be reduced by Loosemore, 53,231 for Mike Phillips and dividends per share in the vesting period 25% if the Absolute Shareholder Return Nil for Stephen Murdoch since he was no were 64.02 pence.
The ASR over the vesting ASR is below 150 pence or increased by longer an Executive Director when the ARAs period is 649.22 pence and this warranted 50% if the ASR is 300 pence or above.
These amounts are included 150% of the award vesting i. e. 219,756 in the table alongside.
The total value of the award has ASR at vesting is to be calculated by the been restated in this report as 1,927,260 committee as the share price at vesting The total payments to staff that were based on the share price on the vest date less the reference price of 291.8pence plus eligible for bonuses under the Corporate of 877 pence.
dividends per share over the vesting period.
Bonus plan or TAGs Variable Payment Plan in the period was $23.5m 2014: $9.7m.
The full year payments under both schemes totalled $36.8m.
Awards granted in the year ended 30 April 2011 Annualized EPS growth of the Company Vesting percentage of the in excess of RPI over the performance period shares subject to an award Less than 3% p. a.
Between 25% and 100% on a straight-line basis Equal to or above 9% p. a.
100% Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 62 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Awards granted in year ended 30 April 2012 Awards granted in the year ended 30 April 2012 The awards granted on 28 June 2012 Annualized EPS growth of the Company Vesting percentage of the to Kevin Loosemore and Mike Phillips of in excess of RPI over the performance period shares subject to an award 192,157 shares and 86,471 nil-cost options Less than 3% p. a.
Vesting of the award was based on annualized Equal to 3% p. a.
25% EPS growth in excess of RPI over the three Between 3% and 9% p. a.
Between 25% and 100% on a straight-line basis years ended 30 April 2015 as set out in Equal to or above 9% p. a.
The committee believes that the performance criteria have been substantially met and vested in full on 27 June 2015.
These options have been valued at the closing share price at the closing price on 26 June 2015, the last trading day before vesting on 27 June 2015, of 13.77 and the value of the awards is 2,646,002 for Kevin Loosemore and 1,190,706 for Mike Phillips.
The annualized Diluted Adjusted EPS growth rate over the performance period was 22.2% compared to annualized RPI of 2.09% and RPI plus 9% per annum of 11.09%.
Share interest awards made Share interest awards made during the year during the year audited On 18 September 2014, Kevin Loosemore, Middle Mike Phillips and Stephen Murdoch were Awards Market Face value made closing price at date of granted awards of nil-cost options under during the at date of Face value at award % the LTIP.
Details are provided in the table Executive director Date of grant year award date of award of salary alongside.
The three year period over Kevin Loosemore 18 September 2014 115,192 990.0p 1,140,401 233% which performance will be measured will be 1 May 2014 to 30 April 2017.
The Mike Phillips 18 September 2014 61,710 990.0p 610,929 175% awards are eligible to vest, subject to EPS Stephen Murdoch 18 September 2014 56,421 990.0p 558,568 175% performance, on 27 June 2017 which is the third anniversary of the date on which the awards would have been granted if the Company had not been prohibited as Targets for the EPS measure and vesting of awards a result of the TAG transaction.
Annualized EPS growth of the Company Vesting percentage of the As a result of the acquisition of TAG, the in excess of RPI over the performance period shares subject to an award grant of LTIP awards was delayed due to Less than 3% p. a.
0% the Company being in a prohibited period.
25% If the award had not been delayed then Between 3% and 9% p. a.
Between 25% and 100% on a straight-line basis the share price used to grant other LTIPs granted on 27June 2014 would have been Equal to or above 9% p. a.
100% 850.75 pence and it was this closing price that was used in determining the LTIP awards.
At this value the awards are within the scheme policy limits of two times salary for Kevin Loosemore and 1.5 times salary for Mike Phillips and Stephen Murdoch.
The table alongside sets out targets for the EPS measure and vesting of the awards.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 63 Directors Remuneration report continued As a result of the acquisition of TAG agreed with the shareholders at the General Awards granted on 20 November 2014 Meeting on 27 October 2014, additional Face value share grants ASG were granted on Middle at date of 20 November 2014 and these awards are Awards Market award % nil cost options that have a vesting date made closing price of salary during the at date of Face value at including of 1 November 2017 subject to market Executive director Date of grant year award date of award ARA price conditions.
Kevin Loosemore 20 November 2014 947,140 1,060.0p 10,039,684 1,339% The performance condition is that the Mike Phillips 20 November 2014 676,529 1,060.0p 7,171,207 1,526% percentage of ordinary shares subject to the ASG which may be acquired on exercise on or after the vesting date is as follows: Percentage change in Executive Relative importance of spend i 0 % if the Shareholder Return Percentage Chairman remuneration on pay as defined below is 50% or less: The table below shows the percentage The table below shows the percentage change in the Executive Chairmans change in total employee pay expenditure ii 100% if the Shareholder Return remuneration from the prior year compared and shareholder distributions i. e. dividends Percentage is 100% or more: and to the average percentage change in and share buy-backs from the financial year remuneration for all staff that were on the ended 30 April 2014 to the financial year iii a percentage determined on a straightcorporate bonus scheme in both years and ended 30 April 2015. line basis between i and ii above.
were employed at the beginning and end of the financial year.
We have selected our staff The directors are proposing a final dividend The Shareholder Return Percentage will on the corporate bonus scheme around for the year ended 30 April 2015 of 33.0 be calculated by deducting 819.4 pence 630 staff for this comparison as it is cents 21.2 pence per share 2014: 30.0 per share the Reference Price, being the considered to be the most relevant for cents 17.7 pence.
average of the 20 days before 3 June 2014 structure of remuneration.
being the date of the heads of agreement relating to the proposed combination of Micro Focus and TAG between the Company, Executive Chairmans remuneration Wizard, Golden Gate Capital and Francisco Other Partners Management LP, from the sum of Executive Chairman 000 employees the Vesting Price calculated as the average Base Package and ARA 2015 2014 % change % change closing share price over the period of 20 days Salary 605 490 23.5% 4.6% ending on the day prior to the vesting date Taxable benefits 35 34 2.9% 2.0% plus the total of all dividends per share between Completion and the vesting date.
Annual performance bonus 908 735 23.5% 12.5% This will be divided by the Reference Price, Total 1,548 1,259 23.0% 5.4% multiplying the resulting figure by 100 to obtain the Shareholder Return Percentage.
Percentage change in total employee pay expenditure and shareholder distributions 2015 2014 $m $m % change Distribution to shareholders Dividends paid 72.7 62.6 16.1% Return of Value 131.6 144.7 -9.1% 1 Employee remuneration 348.2 173.1 104.0% 1 FY2015 includes TAG employee emoluments for the post acquisition period.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 64 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Payments for loss of office Historical TSR performance audited Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over the six years to 30 April 2015 There were no payments for loss of office during the year.
500 450 Payments to past directors 400 audited 350 Stephen Murdoch stepped down from the 300 board during the year and the amounts paid 250 to him in this financial year total a base salary 200 and ARA of 355,385 and a bonus of 150 355,385.
His other benefits in the year were 100 pension of 15,000 and others of 14,000.
There were no other payments to Micro Focus past directors during the year.
FTSE 250 Index FTSE All-Share Software and Computer Services Index Other directorships None of the executive directors held any other directorships outside the Group during the year.
Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer remuneration Review of past performance Year ended 30 April The remuneration package is structured 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 to help ensure alignment with shareholders.
000 000 000 000 000 000 There is no direct correlation between Kevin Loosemore share price movement and the change Single total figure of remuneration 23 1,291 1,304 12,468 4,315 in value of pay package in any one year Annual bonus outcome as the remuneration package comprises % of maximum Nil 90% 92% 100% 100% several components.
The graph and table alongside show how the Chief Executive LTIP vesting % of maximum Nil Nil Nil 199% 100% Officers or Executive Chairmans pay Nigel Clifford compares to total shareholder returns Single total figure of remuneration 628 TSR over the last six years.
Annual bonus outcome % of maximum Nil The graph alongside shows the value, by 30 April 2015, of 100 invested in Micro LTIP vesting % of maximum Nil Focus International plc on 30 April 2009 Stephen Kelly compared with the value of 100 invested Single total figure of remuneration 3,696 in the FTSE 250 and the FTSE All-Share Annual bonus outcome Software and Computer Services Indices.
% of maximum Nil The intervening points are at the Companys financial year ends.
The FTSE 250 and the LTIP vesting % of maximum 100% FTSE All-Share Software and Computer Services Indices have been chosen as they are considered the most relevant indices for comparison with the Company.
The table alongside details the Executive Chairmans or, prior to his appointment on 14 April 2011, the Chief Executive Officers single total figure of remuneration over the same period.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65 Directors Remuneration report continued Annual bonus A salary increase averaging 3.0% across Implementation of executive The annual bonus for the financial year the Group was awarded at the annual pay director remuneration policy ended 30 April 2016 will operate on the review, effective 1 May 2014, with further for the year ended 30 April 2016 same basis as for the year ended 30 April pay changes during the year, the average Base Salary 2015.
The committee has approved a for the year for staff employed during the The committee approved no change to maximum bonus opportunity of 150% year was 4.6%.
the base salary for executive directors for of salary for the Executive Chairman and the year ended 30 April 2016.
See the 100% for other executive directors.
Executive directors will continue to receive The annual bonus will continue to be based a pension contribution or payment in lieu The committee awarded during the year on growth in Underlying Adjusted EBITDA of pension.
The Executive Chairman receives an annual ARA to each of the executive on a constant currency basis excluding the a payment in lieu of pension of 20% of base directors and there is no change to these impact of in year acquisitions.
There will be salary whilst other executive directors receive for the year ended 30 April 2016.
See the zero payment if there is no growth increasing a contribution of up to 12.5% of base salary table below.
on a straight-line basis to a maximum or a payment in lieu of pension of 10.98% payment at 10% year on year growth.
of base salary or a combination of both.
The ARA is a fixed amount per individual, paid to a maximum of 12 senior managers and executives.
It is paid on a monthly basis Base Salary for executive directors for up to three years post the acquisition and is subject to deduction of PAYE, income Executive directors % change 000 tax and National Insurance contributions, Kevin Loosemore 0% 490 subject to the recipient being in Mike Phillips 0% 350 employment with the Company on date of payment.
The ARA is included in the determination of incentive opportunities and pension benefits.
Payments were determined by a benchmarking exercise ARA for executive directors using the combined projected financials of the new entity.
Payments are reviewed Executive directors % change 000 every six months in line with overall Group Kevin Loosemore 0% 260 financial performance and the progress of Mike Phillips 0% 120 the integration plan which covers all aspects of the effort involved in delivering a fully integrated business.
The amount payable under the ARA in FY16 to current recipients will be 680,000.
The committee may LTIP performance criteria review and subsequently increase or decrease the ARA in accordance with the Average annual EPS growth of the Company Vesting percentage of the Remuneration Policy every six months for in excess of RPI over the performance period shares subject to an award the first 18 months following completion Less than 3% 0% of the TAG acquisition on 20 November Equal to 3% 25% 2014 and then at any time thereafter.
Any Between 3% and 9% Between 25% and 100% on a straight-line basis exercise of the committees discretion to amend the ARA will take effect on three Equal to or above 9% 100% months written notice from the date of the relevant review, except if the committee has determined a revised salary for the recipient of the ARA in which case any entitlement to the ARA will cease immediately.
While the ARA is in place there will be no increase to executives base salary or bonus entitlement.
Should the integration plan continue to be successful, we would expect the ARA to cease at the end of April 2016 and set the appropriate compensation of the Executive Team following benchmarking at that time.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 66 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information LTIP Implementation of nonThe committee will make awards of 200% executive director remuneration of salary to the Executive Chairman and for the year ended 30 April 2016 150% for other executive directors.
Following the annual review of non-executive director fees in February 2015, the executive There will be no change to the performance directors determined that there should be conditions to the LTIP which are in the no changes in fees for the financial year table opposite.
ended 30 April 2016 except that Karen Slatfords remuneration would be increased Awards will vest three years from the grant with immediate effect to 80,000 per date.
Further details of the grant date and annum to reflect her appointment as Senior quantum of shares will be disclosed in the Independent Director.
This fee would include 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration.
the fee for chairing any committee or none.
Non-executive director remuneration Non-executive director base fee 50,000 p. a.
Additional fee for chairing a committee 10,000 p. a.
Fee for the SID including committees 80,000 p. a.
Directors shareholdings and share interests audited Nil-cost options held Options Shares held Unvested and Unvested and Shareholding Current owned Vested but not subject to Vested but not subject to requirement shareholding Requirement Director outright exercised performance exercised performance % of salary % of salary met?
1 Kevin Loosemore 695,980 192,157 1,204,464 200% 1166% Yes 2 Mike Phillips 145,000 86,471 802,198 150% 388% Yes 4 Stephen Murdoch 192,542 100% Not yet due David Maloney 36,923 Yes Tom Skelton Yes Karen Slatford Yes Tom Virden 4,207 Yes 3 Richard Atkins 5,464 Yes Karen Geary n a Prescott Ashe n a David Golob n a David Maloney retired and Stephen Murdoch stepped down during the year.
Shares held and share options for David Maloney and Stephen Murdoch are as at the date of resignation.
The above is based on Micro Focus share price of 1257 pence as at 30 April 2015.
1 46,491 shares are held by Kevin Loosemores wife, Joy Loosemore.
2 122,492 shares are held by Mike Phillips wife, Josephine Phillips.
3 2,055 shares are held by Richard Atkins wife, Julie Atkins.
4 Stephen Murdoch is required to have a 100% shareholding within three years of joining on 5 November 2012.
Between 1 May and 7 July 2015 there had been no changes to these interests.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67 Directors Remuneration report continued Micro Focus International plc Incentive Plan 2005 Increase at Number Number Number Number at vesting due to granted in exercised in lapsed in Number at Exercise 1 May 2014 performance financial year financial year financial year 30 April 2015 price Date for exercise 27 June 2015 to 3 Kevin Loosemore 192,157 192,157 0.0p 26 June 2022 26 June 2016 to 1 Kevin Loosemore 142,132 142,132 0.0p 25 June 2023 27 June 2017 to 1 Kevin Loosemore 115,192 115,192 0.0p 26 June 2024 1 July 2014 to 2 Mike Philips 146,504 73,252 219,756 0.0p 17 April 2021 27 June 2015 to 3 Mike Philips 86,471 86,471 0.0p 26 June 2022 26 June 2016 to 1 Mike Philips 63,959 63,959 0.0p 26 June 2024 27 June 2017 to 1 Mike Philips 61,710 61,710 0.0p 26 June 2024 1 Performance condition requires that cumulative EPS growth over a three year vesting period is at least equal to RPI plus 3% per annum at which point 25% of awards will vest and for full vesting the cumulative EPS growth will be required to be RPI plus 9% per annum.
Straight-line vesting will apply between these points.
Performance against these objectives is determined by the committee based on the Companys audited results.
2 Performance condition comprises a combination of EPS and share price targets which require that cumulative EPS growth over a three year vesting period is at least equal to RPI plus 3% per annum at which point 25% of awards will vest and for full vesting the cumulative EPS growth will be required to be RPI plus 9% per annum.
The resulting level of vesting will be reduced by 25% if the Absolute Shareholder Return ASR at vesting equal to the share price at vesting less the reference price of 291.8 pence plus dividend and cash distributions over the vesting period is below 150 pence or increased by 50% if the ASR is 300 pence or above.
3 In the year ended 30 April 2015, the LTIP awards to Kevin Loosemore and Mike Phillips did not vest until 27 June 2015 but the Committee believed that the performance measures had been substantially completed by the year end.
Additional Share Grant Number Number Number Number at granted in exercised in lapsed in Number at Exercise 1 May 2014 financial year financial year financial year 30 April 2015 price Date of exercise 1 November 2017 to 1 Kevin Loosemore 947,140 947,140 0.0p 31 October 2024 1 November 2017 to 1 Mike Philips 676,529 676,529 0.0p 31 October 2024 1 The performance condition is that the percentage of ordinary shares subject to the ASG which may be acquired on exercise on or after the vesting date is as follows: i 0% if the Shareholder Return Percentage as defined below is 50% or less: ii 100% if the Shareholder Return Percentage is 100% or more: and iii a percentage determined on a straight-line basis between i and ii above.
The Shareholder Return Percentage will be calculated by deducting 819.4 pence per share the Reference Price, being the average of the 20 days before 3 June 2014 being the date of the heads of agreement relating to the proposed combination of Micro Focus and TAG between Micro Focus, Wizard, Golden Gate Capital and Francisco Partners Management LP, from the sum of the Vesting Price calculated as the average closing share price over the period of 20 days ending on the day prior to the vesting date plus the total of all dividends per share between Completion and the vesting date.
This will be divided by the Reference Price, multiplying the resulting figure by 100 to obtain the Shareholder Return Percentage.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 68 Consolidated financial Company financial Overview Strategic report Corporate governance statements and notes statements and notes Additional information Results of votes at the 2014 AGM Votes for Votes against Number Percentage Number Percentage Votes cast Votes withheld i 82,500,248 73.43% 29,848,653 26.57% 112,348,901 567,113 ii 101,527,479 90.56% 10,584,724 9.44% 112,112,203 803,811 iii 65,666,308 60.35% 43,145,559 39.65% 108,811,867 3,652,239 As explained at the time, the board took Micro Focus International plc the unusual step of linking the vote Incentive Plan 2005 Plan on remuneration with the vote on the The executive directors as at 30 April 2015 transaction.
In the boards opinion a vote held awards granted under the terms of for the transaction without a remuneration the Plan.
The movements in these awards policy to retain key executives would have during the financial year are shown opposite.
been the worst possible outcome for shareholders.
Almost 40% of shareholders Additional Share Grant voted against the Remuneration Policy, The executive directors as at 30 April 2015 however, had the votes not been linked hold the following awards of ASGs.
The we believe the transaction would have movements in these awards during the failed with the consequent loss of value financial year are shown opposite.
Of the c. 40% that voted against approximately half were trackers Sharesave and funds that have no option but to follow In relation to the Sharesave Scheme, the position of entities such as ISS.
A further Mike Phillips joined the Company scheme quarter was one large shareholder who on 21August 2013 at an option price objected to the combined role of Chairman of 5.98 over 1,504 shares that are and CEO continuing and the remainder were exercisable from 1 October 2016. shareholders who in some cases objected to the linkage: or objected to the terms of Share option schemes the remuneration or were content but felt Details of the Companys share option that their votes were not necessary to schemes are given in note 35 of the carry the position.
The board discussed the financial statements.
position with all major shareholders at the time and recognizes the concerns that linked The mid-market price of the shares at votes cause.
The board would not intend to 30April 2015 was 1257 pence per share follow the same course again unless there and during the financial year ended 30 April were further opportunities to create very 2015 the price varied between 778 pence significant value which could not be delivered and 1257 pence per share.
without a lined vote as in this case.
On behalf of the board Statement of shareholding voting The table above sets out the results of the vote at the 2014 AGM on i the Remuneration report and ii the Remuneration Policy and the result of the vote on the Additional Karen Slatford Share Grant and iii the amendment to the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Policy at the General Meeting 7 July 2015 held on 27 October 2014.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69
