Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance 49 Directors remuneration report Annual chairmans statement Dear Shareholders, Following a busy 2014, during which time we finalised and gained submitting the remuneration policy for shareholder approval at the shareholder approval for our Directors Remuneration Policy and 2017 AGM.
The guiding principles for this review will be that approved the remuneration arrangements for our outgoing and remuneration should be linked to performance and align incoming Group Chief Executive Officers, 2015 proved to be a management with the interests of shareholders.
quieter year for the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee supported managements efforts to review the As the Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 global compensation and benefits packages of the Groups senior annual general meeting has, in the Committees view, been management team below the Board level and approved policy implemented and utilised successfully over the past two years, changes to simplify the packages and make them more particularly with regard to the remuneration package developed for understandable, engaging and effective.
Aloysius Lee Tse Sang as the new Group Chief Executive Officer and exit arrangements for Wong Hong Ren when he stepped down Finally, during the year we were pleased to welcome Gervase in February 2015, we are not proposing any changes to the policy MacGregor to the Committee.
Following his appointment in May this year.
Therefore, it will not be put to shareholders for re-approval 2015, all of the independent Non-Executive Directors now sit on the until we are required to do so again at the 2017 annual general Committee.
I would like to thank them for their diligent efforts over meeting.
the past year and I look forward to a productive 2016.
In terms of significant matters considered, the Committee has The Directors remuneration report, consisting of this annual awarded Mr Lee a bonus for 2015 of 127,122 which represents Chairmans statement, the Directors Remuneration Policy and the 18.5% of the maximum opportunity for the portion of the year Annual Report on Remuneration, is prepared in compliance with during which Mr Lee served as Group Chief Executive Officer.
This applicable reporting requirements and I hope you will find it helpful.
amount takes into account the performance of the Company and The Committee welcomes any feedback from our shareholders and the personal achievements of Mr Lee since his appointment, and we trust that you will support the policies and practices outlined in further details of the calculation can be found on page 57 of this this report.
We also agreed Mr Lees 2016 performance objectives, and that his salary would remain the same for 2016.
Yours faithfully, Alexander Waugh Turning to our share schemes: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, the performance 18 February 2016 measures of total shareholder return and earnings per share for the three-year period ended on 31 December 2015 did not meet the required minimum thresholds and, as such, the awards granted in 2013 will lapse.
The current LTIP and Sharesave Plan expire in May 2016.
Since no changes are being proposed to our remuneration policy and the LTIP scheme already incorporates many of the recommended best practices, such as clawback and malus provisions, it is being put to shareholders for re-approval at this years annual general meeting without significant revision except to include the flexibility to introduce a two-year holding period on vested LTIP awards, in addition to the standard three-year performance period, to be used at the discretion of the Committee.
This change is to acknowledge the revised 2015 Principles of Remuneration issued by the Investment Association and the expectation that LTIPs include performance and holding periods of at least five years in total.
The Committee does not anticipate implementing the additional two-year holding period for the LTIP grant to be made this year.
Instead, the Committee intends to examine the applicable LTIP metrics and holding period requirements during 2016 as part of a holistic remuneration policy review prior to Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance 50 Directors remuneration report continued Committee governance Membership Alexander Waugh chairs the Remuneration Committee the In addition, the Committee is authorised to: Committee and all of the other independent Non-Executive Directors are members, including Shaukat Aziz, Susan Farr, administer the Companys share option schemes: Nicholas George and Gervase MacGregor.
All Committee members oversee major changes to employee benefit structures throughout served throughout the full year except Gervase MacGregor, who the Group: was appointed to the Committee in May 2015.
The Committee held ensure that performance related elements of remuneration form a five scheduled meetings in 2015 and one ad hoc meeting.
significant proportion of the total remuneration of Executive Attendance of the regularly scheduled meetings is shown on Directors and are designed to align their interests with those of page 43.
The Chairman of the Board and the Group Chief shareholders: Executive Officer are invited to attend meetings as appropriate, but consider whether the Executive Directors should be eligible for they are excluded when their own performance or remuneration are annual bonuses and benefits under long-term incentive schemes: being discussed.
provide packages needed to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the quality required: No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest, approve the terms and duration of any service agreement to be other than as a shareholder of the Company, in the matters to be entered into with an Executive Director: decided by the Committee or involvement in the day-to-day consider the compensation commitments payable to Executive management of the business of the Group.
Directors under their service agreements or otherwise in the event of early termination: and Further information regarding the Committees advisors and its select and appoint consultants engaged to advise the Committee.
evaluation can be found on page 63 of this report.
The Committees terms of reference are available at Our role www.
The Committee has delegated authority from the Board to determine, in consultation with the Chairman of the Board and Group Chief Executive Officer as appropriate, the broad remuneration policy and individual remuneration arrangements of the Chairman, Executive Directors, Company Secretary and senior management team.
It also oversees the Groups share-based incentive arrangements.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance 51 Directors remuneration policy The Companys Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the Companys annual general meeting held on 1 May 2014 and remains unchanged.
The Remuneration Policy set out below is as disclosed in the 2014 Directors remuneration report.
The Committee retains discretion to make non-significant changes to the Remuneration policy without reverting to shareholders.
Policy for Executive Directors Presently there is only one Executive Director, the Group Chief Executive Officer, but a similar policy would be applied to any other Executive Directors appointed to the Board.
Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Salaries are a key component of the reward package in attracting, motivating and retaining executives.
Operation Salaries in the Group are based on the value of the individual, the level of responsibility, experience and market conditions.
Salaries are reviewed at least annually but are not necessarily increased.
In reviewing salaries, account is taken of market conditions, significant changes in role, pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group, inflation and budgets.
Maximum The maximum salary payable is the amount agreed by the Remuneration Committee for the period.
The Committee does not prescribe a maximum salary for any employee in the Group as it wishes to retain the flexibility to set levels of pay appropriate to roles and market conditions.
The establishment of maximum salaries could result in unrealistic expectations of employees and weaken the Companys negotiating position.
Annual bonus Purpose and link to strategy Executive Directors are eligible to participate in an annual bonus scheme to: incentivise executives to drive Group strategy and performance over the short term: and ensure that a significant proportion of the total reward of executives packages is linked to performance during the year.
Operation The performance period for annual bonuses corresponds with the financial year.
Bonus measures, weightings and targets are set annually at the start of the financial year by the Committee which retains discretion to revise any calculated bonus downwards, but not upwards, if it is felt to have become misaligned with the Groups performance.
Payment of the annual bonus is contingent on the employee still being employed by the Group at the time of vesting and not having served notice.
Annual bonus is not pensionable.
The Committee may defer and pay a proportion up to 100% of the annual bonus in shares which must be held for three years before vesting.
No performance conditions apply to such deferred bonus shares other than a requirement for continuous employment but such deferred bonus share awards would be eligible for a dividend equivalent.
In the event that annual bonuses are found to have been paid on the basis of any material misstatement of financial performance, the rules of the scheme provide for appropriate means of redress, including the adjustment of future bonuses 1 and any unvested long-term incentive awards.
Maximum The level of bonus opportunity for Executive Directors is: Other Executive Directors Group Chief Bonus as a % of Executive Officer base salary Threshold 0% 0% Target 75% 50% Maximum 150% 100% The maximum value of a deferred bonus share award is the value of the cash bonus that would otherwise have been paid.
2 Performance 70% of bonus potential will be linked to financial performance, with the remainder linked to personal objectives and individual contribution.
However, the Committee has discretion to vary those percentages by plus or minus 10% for any performance period to reflect particular corporate objectives.
Financial measures may include, but are not limited to, operating profit, profit before tax, revenue and revenue per available room.
Notes: 1 The Remuneration Committee wishes to clarify that clawback rights with r espect to paid bonuses do, and will continue to, exist within its Remuneration Policy.
2 The Committee determines bonus performance measur es, weightings and targets annually which are closely aligned with the Groups short-term strategic priorities.
Targets for financial measures are set by reference to the Groups budget, while the personal element of the bonus is driven by personal KPIs set at the start of the year.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance 52 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy continued Long-Term Incentive Plan Purpose and link to strategy The Company adopted a Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP in 2006 which forms the long-term variable element of executive remuneration.
The Plan allows for the award of performance shares, nil cost share options and deferred bonus shares.
Performance share awards aim to drive and reward sustained performance over the long term, align the interests of executives and shareholders and support retention.
Operation Performance share awards are made annually and vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant subject to the achievement of performance conditions over three years and continued employment with the Group, subject to the rules of the plan.
The Plan provides for dividends or their equivalent to be paid.
In the event that performance shares are found to have vested on the basis of any material misstatement of financial performance, the rules of the scheme provide for appropriate means of redress, including the adjustment of future bonuses and any unvested long-term incentive awards.
Maximum The maximum value of an award of performance shares and nil cost share options is 150% of base salary, though 200% may be awarded in exceptional circumstances including but not limited to the recruitment of new Executive Directors.
The level of 1 awards is otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of grant.
2 Performance The performance measures are Earnings per Share EPS, Relative Total Shareholder Return TSR and Net Asset Value plus dividends NAV.
The weightings applying to each performance measure may vary year-on-year reflecting strategic priorities.
Whilst a number of performance measures are applied, weighting for any one measure is expected to range between 10% and 60%.
Under each measure, entry level performance will result in 25% of maximum vesting for that element, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting.
Pension Purpose and link to strategy The provision of retirement benefits is an important element of executive reward packages in attracting and retaining executives and promoting long-term retirement planning.
Operation A defined cash contribution may be made into either a Company sponsored pension plan or a private pension plan or as cash in lieu of pension.
Maximum 20% of base salary and by exception up to 30% of base salary.
Other benefits Purpose and link to strategy Help recruit and retain through the provision of cost effective benefits consistent with market practice.
Operation Benefits are determined to ensure they are competitive with market practice by location and the responsibilities of the individual.
These may comprise although are not limited to a motor vehicle and driver or an appropriate allowance, insurances for life, personal accident, disability and family medical cover.
Additional benefits such as relocation, removal, tax equalisation, house purchase rental and childrens education may need to be offered to attract the right candidate in the event that an Executive Director is appointed on expatriate or international assignment terms.
Maximum There is no maximum.
The value of other benefits is consistent with market practice and is kept under review by the Committee but would not be expected to exceed more than the equivalent of a months salary, other than in exceptional circumstances such as a relocation requirement.
Notes: 1 The Committee r etains discretion to use Listing Rule 9.4.
2 2, within the remit confirmed on page 53, to make awards in exceptional circumstances.
2 The Committee determines the level of L TIP awards and the associated performance measures, targets and weightings annually.
The performance measures of EPS and relative TSR ensure that executives are aligned with shareholder interests and are consistent with FTSE market practice.
The introduction in 2014 of a third measure, NAV plus dividends, improves the alignment with the Groups strategic priorities by capturing a balance sheet measure.
The targets for the financial measures are set by reference to the Groups budget and strategic plans as well as taking account of broker forecasts for both the Group and other sector peers.
The TSR target measures comparative performance against a relevant benchmark which for 2016 will be split equally between the FTSE250 market index and an index of peer companies.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance 53 Shareholding requirements Within five years of being appointed to the Board, Executive Directors are required to build up, and retain, ordinary shares in the Company equivalent in value to 100% of their base annual salary.
Provided that Executive Directors hold and maintain the appropriate level of shares, they may sell shares, subject to the normal requirement for directors dealings under the Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Share interests which do not count against the shareholding guidelines include: unvested performance share awards: SAYE options: unvested deferred bonus shares: and any notional accrued dividend equivalent shares.
Directors to whom this requirement applies are prohibited from engaging in any hedging transactions with respect to Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc shares including trading in any derivative security.
There are no formal shareholding guidelines for the Chairman, the Non-Executive Directors and the senior management, however, they are encouraged to hold shares in the Company in order to align their interests with those of shareholders.
Non-Executive Director Policy The remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors is set out below: Fees Basic fee Fees paid to Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole taking into account the time commitment and responsibilities.
The policy is to set fees at or around the median for companies of a similar size and complexity.
Their purpose is to attract and retain Non-Executive Directors.
Additional fees Non-Executive Directors are paid an additional fee for being a member of a Board committee and for chairing a Board committee.
Other matters The independent Non-Executive Directors each have rolling letters of appointment which may be terminated by either party on one months notice.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to bonuses, benefits or pension scheme contributions or to participate in any share scheme operated by the Company.
In addition to any remuneration payable, a Non-Executive Director may be paid reasonable travelling, hotel and other expenses properly incurred in discharging the Directors duties.
Fees cease immediately in the event the Non-Executive Director ceases to be a Director.
Remuneration on recruitment Reward packages for new Executive Directors will be consistent with the policy set out on pages 51 to 55, which describes each component of remuneration for the Executive Directors of the Company.
Fixed remuneration elements would be paid only from the date of employment and any bonus will be pro-rated to reflect the proportion of employment over the year.
The maximum level of variable remuneration is as stated in the policy table above.
If, consequent to joining the Group, a new director forfeits elements of variable reward linked to their previous employment, the Committee reserves the right to make compensatory awards up to the maximum amount of the individuals loss.
Any such awards would be made taking into account the performance conditions and time horizon of the forfeited awards.
In the event that an internal candidate is appointed as an Executive Director, any contractual obligation in respect of a previous role will be honoured even if it is inconsistent with this policy at the time the obligation is fulfilled.
As disclosed on the Companys website in April 2014, the Committee confirms that Listing Rule 9.4.
2 2 will only be used to compensate an Executive Director for long-term incentive scheme awards forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
Such buyout awards will have a fair value no greater than the awards forfeited.
The arrangements that exist for current Executive Directors, as set out in the Policy Table, would then apply to the balance of the individuals remuneration package.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance 54 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy continued Directors service agreements and letters of appointment To reflect current practice, it is the Companys policy for Executive Directors to have service contracts that provide for a notice period for termination of up to 12 months.
The dates on which Directors initial service agreements letters of appointment commenced and the current expiry dates are as follows: Name Date of contract Notice period Unexpired term Chairman Kwek Leng Beng Nominee of controlling shareholder Executive Director Aloysius Lee Tse Sang 10 December 2014 12 months written notice given by either party Independent Non-Executive Directors Shaukat Aziz 16 June 2009 Susan Farr 12 December 2013 Rolling letters of appointment terminable by either party Nicholas George 16 June 2009 on one months notice Gervase MacGregor 11 December 2014 Alexander Waugh 16 June 2009 Other Non-Executive Directors Kwek Eik Sheng Nominees of controlling shareholder Kwek Leng Peck The commencement date was 1 February 2015 and the effective date of Mr Lees appointment to the Board was 1 March 2015.
Service contracts are kept at the Groups corporate headquarters at Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc, Scarsdale Place, Kensington, London, W8 5SR.
There exists no other obligation that might give rise to or impact on remuneration payments or payment for loss of office which is not disclosed elsewhere in this report.
Termination payments The Companys normal policy is to limit payments to Executive Directors on termination to entitlements under their service agreements and the rules of any incentive and pension plans.
There is no automatic entitlement to bonus as part of the termination arrangements and the value of any terminating arrangement will be at the discretion of the Committee, having regard to all relevant factors.
This discretion allows the Committee to determine good leaver status, the consequences of which are set out in the table on page 55.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance 55 Incentive schemes The rules of the incentive schemes provide that: Good leavers Other leavers Change of Control Discretion Performance Shares Performance conditions Award lapses Performance conditions The Committee has discretion to applied taking into account the applied taking into account the disapply the pro rata vesting, or foreshortened performance foreshortened performance decide that the award will vest on period.
A time pro rata reduction is then A time pro rata reduction is then applied.
Annual Bonus Performance conditions No bonus payable Performance conditions The Committee has discretion to applied taking into account the applied taking into account the disapply pro rata reduction and foreshortened performance foreshortened performance maintain original sum.
A time pro rata reduction is then A time pro rata reduction is applied.
Deferred Bonus Shares Vest in full Award lapses Vest in full To determine the number of shares which vest up to the value of the applicable bonus.
Reasons for good leaver include death, ill health, retirement, office of employment ceases to be a part of the business or any other reason determined by the Committee.
Pay Scenarios The following chart shows the various remuneration scenarios for the existing remuneration package of the Group Chief Executive Officer, calculated based on the stated assumptions.
Fixed Annual bonus LTIP Base 100% 610 Target 52% 32% 16% 1,173 Maximum 29% 35.5% 35.5% 2,110 '000 0 5001,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 Assumptions: Base The Base scenario reflects fixed remuneration, including base salary, pension and benefits, which are the only elements of the Group Chief Executive Officers package not linked to performance.
Target The Target scenario reflects the fixed remuneration elements as set out above, plus a target bonus payout of 50% of maximum and LTIP threshold vesting at 25% of the maximum award.
Maximum The Maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus full payout of all incentives.
No share price growth has been assumed in any scenario.
Consideration of employment conditions in the Group When setting the policy for executive remuneration, the Committee does not consult employees.
Management does, however, ensure that the Committee is aware of pay and conditions throughout the Group and that these are taken into account when framing executive remuneration.
As a global group, in a sector with ready mobility, the more senior the role, the more reward needs to reflect the global market, whilst for the majority of employees it is set with greater consideration of local market conditions and practices.
The annual bonus scheme and awards under the LTIP are limited to the senior management team and those employees responsible for managing the hospitality business.
Shareholder views When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account the views of investor representative bodies and those of its key shareholders and is committed to undertaking consultation before committing to significant changes in aspects of remuneration.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance 56 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration Audited Information Single total figure of remuneration for each Director in 2015 The total remuneration for each person who served as a Director of the Company during 2015 is set out in the table below.
Remuneration 000 1 2 Salary and fees All taxable benefits Annual bonus LTIP awards Pension contributions Total Director 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Chairman 3 Kwek Leng Beng 268 268 268 268 Executive Directors 4 5 5 Wong Hong Ren, 663 650 7 40 9 609 22 130 701 1,429 6 Aloysius Lee Tse Sang 458 11 127 92 688 Non-Executive Directors Shaukat Aziz 57 56 57 56 Susan Farr 57 55 57 55 Nicholas George 72 59 72 59 Kwek Eik Sheng 52 51 52 51 Kwek Leng Peck 59 57 59 57 Gervase MacGregor 68 3 68 3 Alexander Waugh 72 71 72 71 7 Total 1,826 1,270 18 40 136 609 114 130 2,094 2,049 Notes: 1 Salaries and fees ar e shown inclusive of sums receivable by the Directors from the Company and any of its subsidiary undertakings.
2 Both W ong Hong Ren and Aloysius Lee Tse Sang received their pension contributions as a cash allowance equal to 20% of their base salary.
3 In addition to his basic fee, Kwek Leng Beng r eceived 18,487 in fees from subsidiary companies.
4 W ong Hong Ren stepped down as Group Chief Executive Officer and a Director as of 28 February 2015.
Until that time, his benefits comprised a motor vehicle and driver, medical, personal accident and travel insurance.
As indicated in this report, he was paid his base salary in monthly instalments through February 2016 and accrued holiday pay 12,500 in accordance with his service agreement.
5 The Long T erm Incentive Plan award of 203,898 shares, made to Mr Wong on 16 August 2012, lapsed on 16 August 2015 since the minimum performance conditions for this award, which were measured over the three years ended on 31 December 2014, were not achieved.
The 175,834 shares awarded to Mr Wong on 11 September 2013, will lapse on 11 September 2016 since the minimum performance conditions for this award, which were measured over the three years ended on 31 December 2015, were not achieved and therefore have been valued at nil.
6 Aloysius Lee T se Sang was appointed as the Group Chief Executive Officer and a Director with effect from 1 March 2015, after serving as Group Chief Executive Officer designate from 1 February 2015.
Mr Lee is the highest paid Director.
His biography on page 36 reports the directorships and positions he holds in other Group subsidiaries and associate companies.
7 For comparison purposes, the total excludes amounts paid to Ian Batey and Sean Collins in 2014.
They r esigned from the Board on 20 February 2014 and 11 December 2014, respectively.
2015 annual bonus for Executive Directors The annual performance bonus for the two Executive Directors who served in 2015, Wong Hong Ren and Aloysius Lee Tse Sang, was divided into two components including financial performance measures, which represented 60% of the bonus opportunity, and personal key performance indicators, which combined represented 40% of the bonus opportunity for each Executive Director.
Since Wong Hong Ren was set to step down as Group Chief Executive Officer at the end of February 2015, his personal objectives were limited in scope accordingly.
Both his and Mr Lees bonuses were adjusted on a pro-rata time basis for the number of months they were employed by the Group during the year.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance 57 The following describes how the annual bonuses for Wong Hon Ren and Aloysius Lee Tse Sang were calculated for the year ended 31 December 2015, including a summary of the Committees assessment of the personal objectives for each.
The Committee considers that the specific target figures remain commercially sensitive given their close alignment with the Companys strategic plans.
Additionally, the Committee is of the view that disclosing the targets could put the Company at a disadvantage to some of its competitors, which are not subject to similar reporting requirements.
However, the Committee commits to disclose such targets when the Committee determines that they are no longer commercially sensitive, such disclosure to be within the next two years in any event.
Financial Performance Objectives representing 60% of the opportunity Financial Performance Measure Target Minimum and Maximum Thresholds Weighting Achievement Group Revenue Not disclosed No payout below threshold of 95% of budget, rising on a straight 10% 0.49% line basis to maximum payout for 105% of budget or more Group Profit Before Tax Not disclosed No payout below threshold of 92% of budget, rising on a straight 50% nil% line basis to maximum payout for 108% of budget or more Personal Objectives representing 40% of the opportunity.
Personal Key Performance Indicator Weighting Wong Hong Ren Orderly transition of the Group Chief Executive Officer responsibilities to Aloysius Lee Tse Sang 20% Delivery of the Annual Report and Accounts 2014 to agreed timescale and quality 20% Total 40% Aloysius Lee Objectives concerning the development of the senior executive management team 10% Tse Sang US business development and performance objectives 15% Group growth, capital and asset management objectives 10% Room rate and room occupancy growth objectives 5% Total 40% The Committee assessed that Mr Lee achieved 18% of the 40% of his bonus opportunity related to his personal key performance indicators KPIs due to his achievements during the ten months of his tenure as Group Chief Executive Officer and one month as Group Chief Executive Officer designate despite the difficult trading conditions in certain jurisdictions.
The Committee recognised the progress in development of the senior executive management team and medium term strategy, particularly the progress with the development and refurbishment projects.
While a transition of the Group Chief Executive Officer role and responsibilities to Mr Lee occurred during the year and the 2014 annual report and accounts were delivered on time, in light of the short time served during 2015 and the Groups financial performance over the year it was considered appropriate to award to Mr Wong 5% of his maximum bonus potential under his personal KPIs.
Each bonus was prorated for time served resulting in Mr Lee receiving a total bonus of 127,122 and Mr Wong a total bonus of 8,922.
Scheme interests awarded in 2013 Performance share awards made under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP in 2013 were subject to performance conditions comprising both earnings per share EPS growth and relative total shareholder return TSR performance over the three-year period ending 31 December 2015.
These awards were due to vest on the third anniversary of the awards being made, with 50% vesting in the event the Companys EPS growth over the period exceeds the growth of the UK Retail Price Index by set targets over the same period and the remaining 50% vesting if the Companys TSR performance over the relevant period meets or exceeds the median TSR performance of a comparator group comprising those companies within the FTSE 250 index, excluding investment trusts, over the period.
Based on the Companys EPS growth and relative TSR performance for the three years ended 31 December 2015, the Committee has determined that the LTIP awards made on 11 September 2013 will lapse in full.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance 58 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Scheme interests awarded during 2015 The only Director to be awarded performance shares under the Companys LTIP during 2015 was Aloysius Lee Tse Sang.
The award was made on 3 August 2015 and, subject to achievement of the relevant performance measures and LTIP rules, will vest on 3 August 2018.
Details of the award and the performance measures and targets attaching to the 2015 LTIP awards are provided in the tables below.
The Directors did not participate in any other share-based incentive plans during the year.
Aloysius Lee Tse Sang Date of award 3 August 2015 Awards made during the year 134,408 1 Market price of shares used to calculate award 5.5800 Basis of award 150% of salary Face value of award on date of grant 000 750 % vesting at threshold performance 25% Performance measures and targets See following table Performance period end date 31 December 2017 Vesting date 3 August 2018 Market price at the vesting date Monetary value of vested award Note: 1 The number of shar es awarded was calculated using the middle market share price on 31 July 2015, one business day prior to the date of grant.
The performance measures, targets and vesting thresholds are set out below.
1 Performance Measure Weighting Minimum Threshold Level of Vesting Maximum Threshold Level of Vesting Cumulative EPS 60% 114 pence 25% 138 pence 100% Net Asset Value growth plus dividends 20% 6% p. a.
100% Notes: 1 V esting levels between threshold and maximum will be assessed on a straight-line basis.
2 The FTSE 250 comparator gr oup excludes investment trusts.
3 The peer gr oup comprises Accor, Banyan Tree Holdings, Belmond, Choice Hotels International, Hongkong & Shanghai Hotels, Hotel Properties, Hyatt Hotels, InterContinental Hotels Group, Mandarin Oriental, Marriott International, Melia Hotels International, NH Hotels, Overseas Union Enterprise, Rezidor, Shanghai Jin Jiang International, Shangri-La Asia, Starwood Hotels & Resorts, Whitbread and Wyndham Worldwide.
Payments made to past directors Except as disclosed elsewhere in this report, no payments to past Directors were made during 2015.
In particular, no special project fees were agreed with or paid to Wong Hong Ren under his consultancy arrangement as Senior Advisor to the Group.
Payments for loss of office The termination arrangements agreed with Wong Hong Ren were fully disclosed in last years report, and all sums paid to him in respect of 2015 are included in the single total figure of remuneration table.
There were no other payments for loss of office made during the year.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance 59 Statement of directors shareholdings and share interests The interests of the Directors who served during 2015, and their connected persons, in the ordinary shares of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc were as follows: 1 Number of ordinary shares owned outright Number of scheme interests LTIP awards which are LTIP awards which are not subject to subject to future Value of ordinary shares Holding on Holding on performance conditions performance conditions Total interests as at owned outright as a 2 Director 31 December 2015 1 January 2015 at 31 December 2015 at 31 December 2015 31 December 2015 percentage of salary Chairman 3 Kwek Leng Beng N A Executive Directors 5 5 4 Wong Hong Ren 498,838 498,838 349,630 848,468 N A 6 Aloysius Lee Tse Sang 134,408 134,408 0% Non-Executive Directors Shaukat Aziz N A Susan Farr N A Nicholas George 12,500 12,500 12,500 N A 3 Kwek Eik Sheng N A 3 Kwek Leng Peck N A Gervase MacGregor N A Alexander Waugh N A Notes: 1 Includes beneficial holdings held by the Dir ectors personally and by their connected persons, including their spouses and minor children.
2 For the purposes of determining Executive Dir ector shareholdings as a percentage of salary, the individuals salary and the share price as at 31 December 2015 were used.
3 The inter ests of the Directors appointed by City Developments Limited in that company and its ultimate parent company, Hong Leong Investment Holdings Pte.
Ltd, are disclosed in the accounts of those companies.
4 L TIP interests comprise the 175,834 shares granted to Wong Hon Ren pursuant to the 2013 LTIP award which will lapse in full, as disclosed in this report and the award of 173,796 shares held by Mr Wong relating to the LTIP award made on 4 April 2014, details of which can be found in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
5 Shar es held by Mr Wong on his retirement as Group Chief Executive Officer on 28 February 2015 and as at 1 January 2015, the latter restated to include his connected persons.
6 In addition to shar es or scheme interests in the Company, Aloysius Lee Tse Sang due to his appointment as a director of the following subsidiaries holds 1 share in the following subsidiaries of the Company: Grand Plaza Hotel Corporation, Rogo Realty Corporation and Harbour Land Corporation.
These shares were transferred from Mr Wong.
Director shareholding requirements are as disclosed earlier in this report, on page 53.
Given Mr Lee was appointed as an Executive Director with effect from 1 March 2015, he was not required to have met the requirements by 31 December 2015.
There have been no changes to the Directors interests between 31 December 2015 and the date of this report.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance 60 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Unaudited Information Implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2016 This section provides an overview of how the Committee is proposing to implement our Remuneration Policy in 2016.
Base salary of the Executive Directors Given the recent appointment of Aloysius Lee Tse Sang in 2015, the Committee has determined that his base salary of 500,000 per annum will remain unchanged for 2016.
2016 annual bonus for Executive Directors The Committee established the following 2016 annual bonus performance conditions for Aloysius Lee Tse Sang as Group Chief Executive Officer.
As in previous years and in line with the Remuneration Policy, the bonus will be comprised of two elements, including financial performance measures and personal objectives.
The Committee has decided to retain the 40% weighting on personal performance as applied last year in order to ensure strong alignment with the Groups strategy and to reflect the importance of the selected KPIs which are felt to be key drivers of future financial performance.
The financial performance measures indicated below will apply to any other Executive Director who is appointed during the year whilst such Directors personal objectives will be agreed by the Committee at the appropriate time, in conjunction with any appointment.
The Committee believes that the specific financial targets and detailed measurements for Mr Lees personal objectives are commercially sensitive given their alignment with the Companys operating budget and strategic plans for 2016, and that consequently it is not appropriate to disclose them in this report.
The Committee will consider the extent such targets and objectives will be disclosed in the 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration after the conclusion of the year.
Financial Performance Measure Weighting Group Revenue 10% Underlying Group Profit Before Tax 50% Personal Key Performance Indicators for Aloysius Lee Tse Sang Weighting Objectives concerning the further development of the senior executive management team 10% US business development and performance objectives 15% Group growth, capital and asset management objectives 10% Room rate and room occupancy growth objectives 5% Total 40% 2016 Long Term Incentive Plan award The maximum value of any LTIP awards granted during the year will remain at 150% of base salary for Aloysius Lee Tse Sang as Group Chief Executive Officer and 100% of base salary for any other Executive Director.
The Committee has reviewed the current LTIP structure and has agreed that the performance conditions will remain the same as in 2014 and 2015, namely earnings per share EPS, net asset value NAV and total shareholder return TSR.
The table below describes the applicable performance measures, weightings and targets.
The vesting thresholds have been updated to reflect the Groups three-year forecast, based on its strategy and business plan over the coming years, and are considered to be appropriately stretching when compared to other FTSE companies.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance 61 The Committee has decided that the awards to be granted in 2016 will vest on the third anniversary of the grant date, without an additional holding period, but subject to continued employment, achievement of the above performance measures and the LTIP rules.
No consideration will be payable for the grant of awards and no payment will be due from the grantees on the vesting and exercise of their awards.
1 Performance Measure Weighting Minimum Threshold Level of Vesting Maximum Threshold Level of Vesting Cumulative EPS 60% 95 pence 25% 115 pence 100% Net Asset Value growth plus dividends 20% 5% p. a.
Pension and benefits As in 2015, Aloysius Lee Tse Sang will receive a cash pension contribution worth 20% of his base salary in 2016.
He also will continue to receive a standard package of other benefits consistent with those received in 2015.
Non-Executive Director fees The basic fee for the Non-Executive Directors will continue to be 50,000 per annum in 2016, having increased from 45,000 per annum on 1 April 2014.
Non-Executive Directors also will continue to receive separate annual fees for their service as a member and, to the extent applicable, the chair of a Board committee, and the Senior Independent Director will be paid an additional fee of 10,000 per annum to serve in such capacity.
Details of the additional committee fees are set out in the table below.
Committee Annual fee for membership of a committee Additional annual Chairmans fee Audit & Risk Committee 5,000 10,000 Remuneration Committee 5,000 10,000 Nominations Committee 2,000 The annual fee for the Chairman of the Board will remain unchanged at 250,000 for 2016, having increased from 200,000 per annum from 1 April 2013.
Also, the Chairman will continue to receive fees for serving as a director of certain subsidiary companies.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance 62 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Additional disclosures Performance of the Company and historic remuneration of the Group Chief Executive Officer The following graph illustrates the total shareholder return of the Companys shares and comparator indexes over the past six years.
As the Company is a constituent of both the FTSE 250 and the FTSE Allshare Travel & Leisure index, the Directors consider these indices to be the most appropriate broad equity market indices against which the Companys performance should be compared for these purposes.
The remuneration history of the Group Chief Executive Officer over the same period also is provided.
Total shareholder return TSR Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc FTSE250 excluding investment trusts FTSE Allshare Travel & Leisure 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Remuneration history of the Group Chief Executive Officer 1 2 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 000 000 000 000 000 000 Total remuneration 1,243 4,404 1,495 2,287 1,429 1,389 Annual bonus as a percentage of maximum opportunity 100% 63% 37% 67% 62% 19% LTIP vesting rates as a percentage of maximum opportunity 0% 100% 100% 50% 0% 0% Notes: 1 Richar d Hartman retired as Group Chief Executive Officer and Wong Hong Ren was appointed to the post on 27 June 2011.
These figures are for both and are restated to be consistent with the other years.
2 W ong Hong Ren stepped down as Group Chief Executive Officer on 28 February 2015 and Aloysius Lee Tse Sang was appointed as Group Chief Executive Officer Designate from 1 February 2015 and assumed the full role as of 1 March 2015.
These figures are for both.
Percentage change in remuneration of the Group Chief Executive Officer The tables below show the percentage change in remuneration based on salary and fees, taxable benefits and annual bonus between 2014 and 2015 for the Group Chief Executive Officer and employees within the Groups bonus pool.
1 % Change from 2014 to 2015 Base Salary Benefits Bonus 2 Group Chief Executive Officer 23 68 79 3 Employees 3 5 8 1 All percentages are based on converting relevant local currencies into pounds sterling using the average rates for the respective year.
2 Gr oup Chief Executive Officer change is the percentage change between the remuneration paid to Mr Wong in 2014 and Mr Lee in 2015.
The salary and benefits paid to Mr Lee have been trued up to equate to a full year.
3 Change in bonus relates to payments made in the respective year.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further Information Annual report and accounts 2015 Governance 63 Relative importance of spend on pay The table below illustrates the year-on-year change in total pay for colleagues across the Group being the aggregate personnel expenses as set out in Note 8 to the financial statements and distributions to shareholders being declared dividends.
The average number of colleagues employed by the Group in 2015 was 10,870 2014: 10,257.
2014 2015 m m Change % Employee remuneration costs 325 351 8% 1 Dividends distributed 73 44 39.7 1 Includes a special dividend paid of 9.15p per share driven by the Glyndebourne development profit.
Like-for-like percentage change was nil%.
Statement of voting at general meeting The following table sets out the voting in respect of the resolutions to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy and the 2014 Directors remuneration report, which resolutions were put to shareholders at the Companys annual general meetings held on 1 May 2014 and 7 May 2015, respectively.
The Directors were pleased with the support received from shareholders.
Votes Resolution Votes for % of vote against % of vote Votes withheld % of vote Approve the Directors Remuneration Policy 281,458,849 99.09% 2,573,555 0.91% 10,619,954 3.60% Approve the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2014 279,396,939 97.70% 6,567,005 2.30% 645,484 0.23% This Directors remuneration report will be put to an advisory vote of the shareholders at the annual general meeting to be held on 5 May 2016.
No changes to the Remuneration Policy are proposed for 2016.
In line with best practice, the Committee intends to present the Remuneration Policy to shareholders for approval once again at the annual general meeting in 2017 unless any modifications are required before then.
Consideration by the Committee members of matters relating to directors remuneration The Committee is authorised by the Board to appoint external advisers if it considers such an appointment to be beneficial.
In 2012 the Committee conducted a tender process and selected Kepler Associates as the Committees remuneration advisor.
Kepler Associates, who are now known as Kepler, a brand of Mercer, continued to act in that capacity during 2015, where over the course of the year, consultants from Kepler attended most of the Committees meetings and provided advice on a range of topics, including remuneration trends and best practices and the design of the performance share incentive plans.
Separately, the Company also received from Kepler advice on the accounting treatment of share options required by IFRS 2: Share-based payments.
Kepler provided no other services to the Company.
Kepler is a founding member and signatory to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants, details of which can be found at www.
The consultants from Kepler are routinely asked to confirm any conflicts and the Committee is satisfied that the advice received was objective and independent.
Kepler generally charges on an hourly basis.
The aggregate amount of fees paid to Kepler during 2015 was 62,000 2014: 70,000.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Chairman of the Board and Group Chief Executive Officer are invited to attend Committee meetings.
In addition to the remuneration consultant, the Committee considers their views when reviewing the remuneration of Executive Directors and other senior executives.
Individuals who attend Remuneration Committee meetings do not participate in discussions concerning their own remuneration.
External appointments The Company recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies and that such appointments can broaden the executives knowledge and experience, to the benefit of the Group.
Fees payable to Executive Directors in connection with external appointments may be retained by them with the approval of the Committee.
As at the date of this report, Mr Lee does not hold an external appointment for which he receives a fee.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Governance 64 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Satisfaction of performance share awards Performance share awards are made for nil consideration and are satisfied either by the issue of new shares or through market purchases of shares.
Currently the company has in place an employee benefit trust known as the Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Employee Benefit Trust 2006 the EBT, which was established to acquire shares to satisfy performance share awards that may vest from time to time.
As at 31 December 2015, the EBT held 5,758 shares 2014: 5,758 shares, representing approximately 0.00177% of the Companys issued share capital as at the same date.
Executive Directors who participate in the LTIP, together with other employees of the Group who participate in the LTIP and other performance share schemes, are potential beneficiaries of the EBT and, as such, are deemed to be interested in any shares held.
Dilution The Company ensures that the level of shares granted under the Companys share plans and the means of satisfying such awards remains within best practice guidelines so that dilution from employee share awards does not exceed 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital for all-employee share plans and 5 per cent in respect of executive share plans in any ten-year rolling period.
The Company monitors dilution levels on a regular basis and the Committee reviews these at least once a year.
Share price The market price of a Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc ordinary share at 31 December 2015 was 463.4 pence and the range during the year was 463.0 pence to 600.5 pence.
The Directors confirm that this report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, reflects the provisions of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and was approved at a meeting of the Board held on 18 February 2016.
On behalf of the Board Alexander Waugh Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 18 February 2016
