Strategic Report Governance Financial Directors remuneration report Statement from the Remuneration Committee Chairman Introduction On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2015.
I was pleased to be appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from 1 October 2014.
My thanks go to Crawford Gillies, who served as Chairman of the Committee from November 2013, for his support when I took over the role.
At Mitie, we work hard to ensure that our people are fully engaged with our company and its clients.
To continue delivering strong results, it is imperative that we are able to attract and retain the right people and motivate them to make a positive contribution to the business.
Attraction, incentivisation and retention are key tenets of our reward strategy.
In my first annual statement to shareholders, I would like to share with you: a How our executive remuneration policy is aligned to Mities strategy: a How Mities performance has affected incentive-linked remuneration for 2014 2015: and a Our long-term approach to executive remuneration and the proposed future policy.
How the pay policy is aligned to our KPIs and strategy Our pay policy supports and rewards the achievement of our strategy to deliver sustainable and profitable growth.
This is driven and measured by how we perform against a number of KPIs, both non-financial and financial, further details of which can be found on pages 10 to 13 and pages 32 to 37 respectively.
We align our pay policy to our strategy and performance in a number of ways: Annual Bonus awarded based on a combination of financial and non-financial measures set by the Board at the beginning of the financial year: and Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP based on a number of measures, including: earnings per share EPS : relative total shareholder return TSR : organic revenue growth: and cash conversion.
Pages 58 and 59 gives you more information on bonus and LTIP targets.
Performance and remuneration outcomes for 2014 15 As set out in the Chairmans overview and Group Finance Directors report, Mitie has delivered the following results, during the year: a Headline revenue growth of 5.8% of which 4.9% was organic: a Headline operating profit growth of 0.9%: a Headline basic EPS growth of 2.1%: and a Dividend per share growth of 6.4%.
Mitie Group plc 57 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors remuneration report Mities statutory results include trading losses and exceptional charges resulting from the exit of our mechanical and electrical engineering construction and asset management businesses.
Whilst this has come at a significant cost, we are confident that the right longer term decisions have been made for the business and shareholders.
It has been in this context that the Committee has approached the key decisions regarding the remuneration of our Executive Directors.
With regard to fixed pay, it has been agreed that the Executive Directors base salaries should be increased by 2.9% from 1 April 2015.
This is line with average salary increases awarded to Mities salaried non-contract UK employees.
For the Executive Directors, this years annual bonus was based on the achievement of financial targets 110% of salary and performance against strategic objectives relating to organic growth, people management and strategy 50% of salary for the Chief Executive and 25% of salary for the Group Finance Director.
Overall, annual bonus outcomes for 2014 15 are at broadly half of maximum opportunity 80% of salary for the CEO and 62.5% of salary for the other Executive Directors.
Under the financial element, the threshold level was achieved which produced an entitlement of c. 90% of salary.
However, the Committee, in conjunction with the three Executive Directors in the financial year, determined that the financial element should be reduced to half of the threshold level, recognising the statutory result.
Against the strategic elements, the Committee has awarded 35% of salary for the CEO and 17.5% of salary for the other Executive Directors, reflecting good progress on all metrics.
Bill Robson stepped down as an Executive Director on 31 July 2014 and remains a key part of our management team as the Managing Director of our Property Management division.
With regard to long-term incentives, the LTIP awards granted in 2012 vested at a threshold level of 25%.
Remuneration policy for 2015 16 and onwards In last years report, we informed shareholders that we would be reviewing our executive remuneration policy during the course of 2014.
At the 2014 AGM, shareholders voted overwhelmingly in favour of the policy resolution, with just under 99% of votes cast in favour.
The Directors remuneration report resolution achieved a 73% level of support.
Whilst being supported by a number of our major investors, the votes cast against this resolution were influenced by concerns raised by governance agencies and by certain shareholders, primarily the exceptional level of LTIP award to the Chief Executive at 250% of salary rather than 200% of salary and the EPS target set as part of the balanced scorecard of 2013 LTIP performance measures of which EPS had a 20% weighting.
We engaged with our shareholders regarding these concerns both at the time of the 2014 AGM and later in the year when undertaking the review of the remuneration policy described further below.
Looking back to 2013, the Committees perspective was that the 2013 LTIP award was designed to strengthen further the CEOs appropriate alignment to shareholders and that the EPS targets for LTIP were considered stretching in the circumstances prevailing at the time.
The CEOs LTIP award in 2014 was made at a 200% of salary level.
Our review of the remuneration policy is now complete and we will be presenting to our shareholders a revised policy designed to operate for the next three years at the forthcoming AGM.
We consulted with Mities principal shareholders and the leading governance agencies prior to finalising the policy and are grateful for their constructive comments, engagement and support during the consultation process.
We refined the final proposal in light of their feedback.
The main aims of the review were to: a Maintain the role played by equity in our remuneration policy and thereby strengthen the alignment between executive pay and long-term value creation: a Ensure remuneration is aligned with our pay for performance culture that rewards strong performance, but also protects against inappropriate pay outturns: a Address recent shareholder concerns regarding how the policy had been operated: and a Recognise current trends in best practice and provide greater transparency.
Our new proposed policy is detailed on pages 62 to 65.
In summary, the major elements include: Element Remuneration for 2015 16 Key decisions Base Salary Set by reference to the individuals role, experience and No change performance.
Increases will normally be broadly in line with the average increase for the salaried non-contract UK based workforce whose salaries Mitie determine Benefits Package of benefits in line with market practice No change Pension Defined benefit accrued at a rate of 1 70th of pensionable No change.
For new Executive salary up to the level of the HMRC salary cap.
A salary Directors the policy is to offer supplement of 20% is also paid above this cap no more than a 20% of salary pension contribution Annual Bonus Maximum opportunity No change Chief Executive 160% of salary Group Finance Director 135% of salary Mitie Group plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Element Remuneration for 2015 16 Key decisions Performance Measures No change Up to 110% of salary Earnings Before Interest, Tax and Amortisation EBITA Above 110% of salary strategic targets relating to matters such as organic growth, strategic deliverables, people management Under the new bonus payout range, EBITA Payout Schedule there will be: Performance EBITA Bonus Bonus payout a A lower bonus earned at threshold level performance payout % of and target performance: % of target % of salary maximum EBITA a A wider payout range between threshold and maximum Threshold 95% 60% 55% performance: and Target 100% 90% 82% a A greater level of outperformance Maximum 105% 110% 100% against target will be required to receive a maximum payout.
Deferral No change but now subject to malus Any bonus paid over 100% of salary is deferred into shares see below for two years Disclosure Timing of disclosure brought forward.
Disclosure of the EBITA threshold, target and maximum Previous approach was to defer numbers will be published in the Directors remuneration disclosure for one year report immediately following the year end New LTIP Award Levels The maximum LTIP award limit will be Chief Executive up to 200% of salary reduced from 250% of salary to 200% Group Finance Director up to 200% of salary of salary.
This removes the opportunity for the Committee to make exceptional awards above 200% of salary Performance Conditions No change.
The targets will be agreed Adjusted EPS growth 20% of award each year at the time of grant Relative TSR 20% Organic revenue growth 30% Cash conversion 30% Post Vesting Holding Period Post vesting holding period introduced Following vesting, a holding period will apply for continuing shares subject to malus during this employees such that 50% of the shares are released holding period immediately after the third anniversary of the award date, 25% are released a year later and the remaining 25% a further year later Malus Deferred Bonus and LTIP Malus clause introduced Any unvested awards granted under the deferred bonus or the new LTIP and any shares subject to a holding period will be able to be lapsed in certain circumstances Share Ownership 200% of base salary as a minimum Increased from 150% of base salary Guidelines Mitie Group plc 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors remuneration report The new policy has evolved from the current one and maintains the focus on long-term value creation for our shareholders.
Our expectation is that fixed pay increases will be broadly in line with those of our salaried non-contract UK employees, reflecting the individuals role, experience and performance.
We have made the annual bonus plan more robust and challenging through the wider target range that incorporates lower payment levels at threshold and target performance and through the introduction of malus, with the Committee happy to be accountable to our investors via immediate retrospective disclosure of the EBITA targets.
As our current LTIP would require renewal of its ten year authority at the 2017 AGM, we are bringing forward this item to the 2015 AGM when we are seeking approval for our new policy.
The proposed new LTIP 2015 follows the current LTIP but with additional features, to protect shareholders.
The new LTIP now includes a malus clause.
The role played by equity in our remuneration policy, which perhaps provides the most direct and powerful alignment of the long-term interests of our executive team and our investors, is also further strengthened by the increase in shareholding guidelines and the post vesting holding period introduced in the new LTIP.
Conclusion Shareholders will be invited to approve our new remuneration policy for the year ending 31 March 2016 and beyond, the introduction of the new LTIP and the annual remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2015, at the Companys AGM on 13 July 2015.
Jack Boyer Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Policy Who is on the Remuneration Committee?
The members of the Remuneration Committee are Non-Executive Directors.
Chairman: Jack Boyer from 1 October 2014 Crawford Gillies until 30 September 2014 Committee Members: Crawford Gillies Larry Hirst, CBE David Jenkins Roger Matthews What is the Committees key purpose?
We have the responsibility for determining remuneration for Mities Executive Directors and the Chairman, taking into account the need to recruit and retain executives and ensuring they are properly incentivised to perform in the interests of the Company, our people and our shareholders.
What are the Committees key responsibilities?
Our key responsibilities are: a Shaping and agreeing with the Board the policy framework for the remuneration of Executive Directors and certain aspects of the remuneration of senior management: a Determining the total individual remuneration package of each Executive Director with due regard to the performance of the individual in line with the agreed remuneration policy: a Agreeing Executive Directors contractual terms: a Acting on behalf of the Board, in connection with the establishment and administration of the groups current and or future share plans, including the selection of participants, determining the structure of awards and the setting of performance targets: a Overseeing the remuneration policy for the group as a whole: and a Drafting and approving the Directors remuneration report and any remuneration related resolutions to be put to the shareholders at the groups AGM.
Mitie Group plc 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Who attends Committee meetings?
The Committee regularly consults with Ruby McGregor-Smith CBE, Chief Executive and the People and Transformation Director on various matters relating to the appropriateness of rewards for the Executive Directors.
However, the Chief Executive is not present when matters relating directly to her individual remuneration are discussed.
This is also the case for other executives attending Committee meetings.
The Company Secretary and or the Assistant Company Secretary attended the meetings as Secretary to the Committee.
The Chief Executive and People & Transformation Director also attend meetings by invitation only.
How many times did the Committee meet?
During the financial year, we met as a Committee 6 times.
Attendance Number of meetings held in year: 6 Jack Boyer 6 David Jenkins 6 Crawford Gillies 5 Larry Hirst, CBE 6 Roger Matthews 6 What were the key activities of the Committee during the year?
During the year and immediately following the year end, we addressed a number of key issues, such as: a Setting base salaries for the Executive Directors: a Assessing performance of the Executive Directors and determining annual bonuses: a Setting bonus targets for the Executive Directors: a Approving share awards and the vesting of legacy share awards: a Designing our revised policy and new LTIP, together with a consultation exercise with our major shareholders: and a Preparing the Directors remuneration report.
This report We have presented this report in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The report also describes how the Board has complied with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code relating to remuneration matters.
At our 2015 AGM we will be holding two votes relating directly to this report: a binding vote on the revised Directors remuneration policy as set out in the policy section of this report and an advisory vote on the implementation section of this report.
In addition, we will also be holding a vote to approve our new LTIP.
The Independent Auditor has reported on certain parts of this report and stated whether, in his opinion, those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Those sections of the report which have been subject to audit are clearly indicated.
The Companys remuneration policy The key principles of the policy The remuneration policy promotes and embeds the Companys remuneration principles.
The key principles of this policy are: Performance-related At the Executive Director and senior management levels, the majority of reward opportunity is provided through performance-related incentives linked to the Companys strategic goals and taking account of the Companys attitude to risk Reward under these incentives is linked to both individual and group performance Shareholder aligned The performance-related incentive arrangements are designed to align the interests of the executives with those of shareholders and to promote the Companys long-term success Comprehensive and simple The overall remuneration policy is comprehensive without becoming overcomplicated and encourages executives to concentrate on profitable growth Mitie Group plc 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors remuneration report The policy As stated above, following a review, major shareholders were consulted regarding changes to the policy which, if approved by shareholders, will take effect from the date of the AGM.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Base salary increases will be N A Base Salary Salaries are generally reviewed Set at levels to attract and annually and effective broadly in line with the average from 1 April.
The review is increase for the salaried nonretain individuals of the calibre required to drive the vision and influenced by: contract UK employees whose salaries Mitie determines, direction for Mitie.
a The individuals role, although on occasion other experience and performance: specific circumstances such a Business performance as changes of responsibilities, and the wider market and progression in role, experience, economic conditions: or a significant increase in the a The range of increases scale of the role and or size, across the group: and value and or complexity of the group may also be taken a An external comparator into consideration.
group comprised of sector comparators and size adjusted FTSE 250 comparator organisations.
N A Benefits The group provides a range of Benefits are set at a level which To aid retention and be benefits which may include a the Committee considers: competitive within the company car car allowance, a Appropriately positioned marketplace.
private fuel, private health against comparable roles insurance, life assurance and in companies of a similar annual leave.
size and complexity in the Benefits are reviewed relevant market.
periodically against market and a Provides a sufficient level of new benefits may be added benefit based on the role and and or amended as required individual circumstances for to support the attraction and example, relocation.
The Committee retains Additional benefits may be discretion to approve a higher awarded in certain recruitment cost than currently incurred circumstances which may where factors outside the include relocation expenses, Companys control have housing allowance and changed materially e. g. medical school fees.
Other benefits inflation or in exceptional may be offered if considered circumstances appropriate and reasonable by e. g. relocation.
All Employee Share Schemes Executive Directors are eligible N A N A To provide opportunities for the to participate in any allDirectors to voluntarily invest employee share plan operated in the Company on the same by the Company, in line with terms as other employees.
HMRC guidelines currently prevailing where relevant, on the same basis as for other eligible employees.
Mitie Group plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Pension Executive Directors currently All Directors accrue at a rate N A To aid retention and provide participate in the groups of 1 70th of pensionable competitive retirement benefits.
Pension salary which is now closed to new supplement for each of the entrants.
The plan has a cap Directors is 20% of salary.
A cash The pension salary supplement is payable in supplement for new Directors respect of full salary.
will be determined based on The Directors are subject to the Committees assessment the same scheme rules as of competitive levels needed other members of the Final to attract and retain such Salary scheme.
The rules individuals, but will be capped detail the pension benefits at 20% of salary.
which members receive on retirement, death or leaving service.
New Executive Directors will be eligible to participate in the defined contribution pension scheme or receive a cash allowance in lieu of a pension contribution.
Annual Bonus Plan Measures and targets are set Maximum bonus opportunity Bonuses are based on To incentivise and recognise annually and pay-out levels is 160% of salary for the stretching financial and execution of the Companys determined by the Committee Chief Executive and 135% strategic objectives as strategy on an annual basis.
after the year end based of salary for the Group set at the beginning of the on performance against Finance Director or any other year and assessed by the Rewards the achievement those targets.
Committee at the end of the of annual financial and year, with the underlying aim strategic goals.
The Committee may, in of encouraging and rewarding exceptional circumstances, Deferral provides alignment the generation of sustainable amend the bonus pay-out with shareholders.
should this not, in the view of the Committee, reflect overall The Committee has business performance or discretion to determine the individual contribution.
appropriate weightings each year depending on business Up to 100% of Base Salary priorities.
The financial is paid in cash with anything measures will represent over 100% being deferred in the majority of the bonus, shares which vest in two years with the strategic objectives normally subject to continued representing the balance.
Dividends are These elements are additive.
accrued on deferred shares and paid in cash.
For the strategic element of the award, payment at Malus provisions apply to threshold performance is deferred share awards made zero.
At the start-to-earn after the 2015 AGM.
performance level under the financial element, a bonus of no more than 60% of salary is payable.
Mitie Group plc 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors remuneration report Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Long Term Incentive Scheme Annual awards in the form of Awards may be made Performance over three Awards will be delivered under nil-cost options, conditional up to a maximum level financial years is measured a replacement LTIP for the year share awards or cash of 200% of salary for any against stretching objectives ending March 2016. settlements are made with Executive Director.
set at the beginning of the vesting dependent upon the performance period which To motivate and incentivise achievement of performance again have the underlying aim delivery of sustained conditions over three years.
of encouraging and rewarding performance and alignment the generation of sustainable with shareholder interests.
Award levels and the framework returns to shareholders.
for determining vesting are reviewed annually to ensure The targets that will apply to they continue to support the the LTIP awards that are to groups strategy.
be made in 2015 2016 are referred to in the notes below.
The Committee has the discretion to decide whether, Vesting under the LTIP and to what extent, targets have depends on the achievement been met, and, if an exceptional of performance conditions, for event occurs that causes which a minimum performance the Committee to consider threshold has been set.
that the targets are no longer Awards attributable to each appropriate, the Committee performance condition vest may adjust them.
at 25% on the achievement of the minimum performance Dividend equivalents are paid in threshold rising to 100% for the cash on or after the date shares achievement of a defined upper are received.
Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on 13 July 2015, in respect of awards made from 2015 2016 onwards, vested shares will be subject to an additional holding period.
Malus provisions apply for any awards made after the 2015 AGM.
Share Ownership Executive Directors are N A N A To ensure alignment required, over time, to build between Executive Directors and maintain a minimum and shareholders.
shareholding in the Company worth 200% of salary.
They are required to retain half of the post-tax shares vesting under the LTIP until the guideline is met.
Mitie Group plc 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Chairman and Non-Executive Fees are normally reviewed Fees are set at the level which: N A Director fees every three years.
a Reflects the commitment and To attract and retain The fee structure is as follows: contribution that is expected high-calibre individuals.
from a Chairman and the a The Chairman is paid an Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors: and all-inclusive single fee for do not participate in any a Is appropriately positioned all Board responsibilities: incentive schemes.
against comparator roles a The Non-Executive in companies of a similar Directors are paid a basic size and complexity in the fee, plus additional fees for relevant market.
Chairmanship of committees: Actual fees are disclosed in the a Fees are currently paid in Directors remuneration report cash but the Company may for the relevant financial year.
choose to provide some of the fees in shares: and Aggregate fees value a Benefits, including expenses, of benefits are capped can be provided if considered at the amount set out in necessary on a case by the Companys Articles case basis.
Notes: 2015 2016 salaries for the Executive Directors can be found on page 70.
2015 2016 bonus targets and measures are discussed on pages 71 and 72.
Award levels, performance conditions and details of the holding period for the LTIP award for 2015 2016 are provided on page 72.
The malus provision under the Annual Bonus Plan and LTIP may be operated if it comes to light within three years that information used to determine performance was materially inaccurate and resulted in a material overstatement of the award or in the event of any act omission by an individual that would give grounds for summary dismissal with no time limit.
What discretions are retained in operating the incentive plans under our policy?
The Committee will operate the Annual Bonus Plan and LTIP according to their respective rules and the above policy table.
The Committee retains discretion, consistent with market practice, in a number of respects, in relation to the operation and administration of these plans.
These discretions include, but are not limited to, the following: a The selection of participants: a The timing of grant of an award bonus opportunity: a The size of an award bonus opportunity subject to the maximum limits set out in the policy table: a The determination of performance against targets and resultant vesting bonus pay-outs: a Discretion required when dealing with a change of control or restructuring of the group: a Determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: a Adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : and a The annual review of performance measures, weightings and targets from year to year.
In relation to both the LTIP and Annual Bonus Plan, the Committee retains the ability to adjust the targets and or set different measures if events occur e. g. material acquisition and or divestment of a group business which cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and the amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Any use of these discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Directors remuneration report and may, where appropriate and practicable, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
In addition, for the avoidance of doubt, in approving this policy report, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former Directors under previous policies.
Details of any payments to former Directors will be set out in the relevant report going forward as required by the current reporting regulations.
Mitie Group plc 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors remuneration report How our policy actually influences levels of remuneration Under our policy, a significant proportion of remuneration is linked to performance.
The charts below show how much the Executive Directors could earn under Mities remuneration policy as detailed above under different performance scenarios.
The following assumptions have been made: a Minimum performance below threshold fixed pay only comprising salaries effective as of 1 April 2015, benefits received in the year ended March 2015 excluding the value of any matching SIP shares and pension received in 2015: a On-target performance fixed pay plus an on-target bonus and 25% of the maximum possible LTIP award vesting.
On-target bonus represents 90% of salary for financial targets and 50% of the maximum for strategic targets: and a Maximum performance fixed pay plus maximum bonus and maximum LTIP awards.
The scenarios do not include share price growth or dividend assumptions.
Ruby McGregor-Smith Suzanne Baxter Minimum Minimum On-target On-target Maximum Maximum 000s 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 000s 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 Fixed Bonus LTIP Fixed Bonus LTIP Value of Package Value of Package 000 Fixed Bonus LTIP Total 000 Fixed Bonus LTIP Total Minimum 738.7 738.7 Minimum 482.3 482.3 % of package 100% 100% % of package 100% 100% On-target 738.7 650.8 283.0 1,672.5 On-target 482.3 369.2 180.1 1031.5 % of package 44% 39% 17% 100% % of package 47% 36% 17% 100% Maximum 738.7 905.5 1,131.9 2,776.1 Maximum 482.3 486.2 720.3 1,688.8 % of package 26% 33% 41% 100% % of package 28% 29% 43% 100% Our policy on Executive Directors service contracts All Directors are appointed on rolling service contracts but are subject to annual re-election at the AGM in accordance with the Code.
Under the service contracts, the Company is required to give 12 months notice of termination of employment: Executive Directors are required to give 6 months notice.
For Executive Directors, if notice is served by either party, the Executive Director can continue to receive basic salary, benefits and pension for the duration of their notice period during which time the Company may require the individual to continue to fulfil their current duties or may assign a period of garden leave.
With respect to the current Group Finance Directors contract, the Company has the right to make a payment in lieu of notice equivalent in value of up to 12 months salary payable in either monthly instalments or as a lump sum.
The Company will also pay for any benefit which the individual would have been eligible for until the date of cessation had full notice been given.
The Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection at Mities registered office, the head office and at the AGM.
There are no other provisions for compensation on termination of employment set out within the contracts of the Executive Directors.
As reported in last years Annual Report, Bill Robson stepped down from the Mitie Group plc Board on 31 July 2014 and has stayed within the group as Managing Director of our Property Management division.
For future Directors, notice periods will not exceed 12 months, save in exceptional circumstances and should a longer than 12 month notice period be necessary, the Committee would expect this to reduce to a 12 months notice period over time.
The effective dates of the service contracts of the Executive Directors are set out below: Date of agreement Ruby McGregor-Smith, CBE 01-Apr-03 Suzanne Baxter 10-Apr-06 1 Bill Robson 01-Apr-03 Note: 1 Bill Robson retired as an Executive Director on 31 July 2014.
Mitie Group plc 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Our policy on loss of office The rules of the Annual Bonus Plan and LTIP set out what happens to awards if a participant ceases to be an employee or Director of Mitie before the end of a vesting period, with the relevant service contracts also determining the general treatment of Executive Directors on cessation.
Regarding the annual bonus, in the event that the participant ceases to be an eligible employee before the date the bonus is paid or is subject to notice of termination of their employment on the bonus date, they shall forfeit all entitlement to the bonus in respect of that financial year, unless the Committee in its absolute discretion determines otherwise.
The deferred shares will vest in full on the date of cessation for good leaver reasons, otherwise the shares will lapse on cessation.
Generally, any outstanding LTIP awards will lapse on cessation of employment, except in certain circumstances.
Specifically, if the Executive ceases to be an employee or Director as a result of death, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement, the sale of the business or company that employs the individual or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee, then they will be treated as a good leaver under the LTIP rules in which case awards will vest either on cessation or, for leavers within the first three years, the normal vesting dates subject to the performance conditions and, if the Committee determines, a pro-rata reduction.
A good leaver has 12 months to exercise their vested awards structured as options following the cessation of employment.
In addition, and consistent with market practice, in the event of termination of an Executive Directors employment, the Company may settle any claims that may arise, pay a contribution towards the individuals legal fees and fees for outplacement services as part of a negotiated settlement.
Any such fees would be disclosed as part of the detail of termination arrangements.
Should it become necessary to make additional payments in respect of such professional fees that were not ascertained at the time of reporting, the Company may do so up to a level of a further 10,000.
For the avoidance of doubt, the policy does not include an explicit cap on the cost of termination payments.
Our policy on external appointments The Board recognises that the appointment of Executive Directors to Non-Executive positions at other companies can be beneficial both for the individual Director and the group through the broadening of their experience and knowledge.
Ruby McGregor-Smith CBE received fees of 56,167 pa in respect of her role as a Non-Executive Director of Michael Page International plc and 15,000 for her role as Non-Executive Director of the Department of Culture, Media and Sport.
Suzanne Baxter received fees of 55,000 for her role as a Non-Executive Director of WH Smith plc.
Both individuals are entitled to retain any fees earned.
Our policy on the recruitment of a new director In cases of a new hire, the Committee will typically align the Executive Directors remuneration package to the above remuneration policy.
However, where appropriate, the Committee retains discretion to make decisions outside of policy to facilitate hiring key talent as set out below.
Base salaries will be set based on the individuals role and experience, with consideration given to internal equity.
Benefits will be provided in line with those offered to other employees at the similar level, with relocation expenses arrangements provided if necessary.
In the case of new Executive Directors, individuals will be given a choice of either participation in a defined contribution pension or a cash allowance in lieu of pension.
The maximum level of variable pay that may be offered on an on-going basis and the structure of remuneration will be in accordance with the approved policy detailed above i. e. for the CEO an aggregate maximum of 360% of salary 160% annual bonus and up to 200% for LTIP, for the Group Finance Director an aggregate maximum of 335% of salary 135% annual bonus and up to 200% for LTIP.
This limit does not include the value of buy-out arrangements.
The above policy applies to both internal promotions to the Board or an external hire.
For external hires, if it is necessary to buy-out existing incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would be forfeited on leaving their previous company, this would be provided taking into consideration relevant factors such as the commercial value of the amount forfeited from the previous employer, the performance conditions e. g. the likelihood of achieving those and timing e. g. where the award is in the vesting cycle.
Buy-out awards, if used, will be granted using Mities existing share plans, although, if necessary, additional buy-out awards may be made on more bespoke terms regarding matters such as vesting and performance conditions as permitted under the Listing Rules provision 9.4.
The Committee has placed a maximum limit on any such buy-out awards which it may be necessary to make: these will not exceed the commercial value of the amount forfeited from the previous employer.
In the case of an internal promotion to the Board, any outstanding variable pay awarded in relation to the individuals previous role will be allowed to pay out according to its terms of grant.
On appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, their fees will be set taking into account the existing fee structure.
Mitie Group plc 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors remuneration report Our policy on Non-Executive Director remuneration and appointment terms The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors receive an annual fee which is paid in monthly instalments.
The Chairmans fee is set by the Remuneration Committee and the fees for the Non-Executive Directors are approved by the Board, on the recommendation of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee with an additional fee for chairing a Committee, together with expenses incurred in carrying out their duties on behalf of the Company.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Companys share schemes or the Annual Bonus Plan, nor do they receive pension or ancillary benefits.
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at Mities registered office, the head office and at the AGM.
The Non-Executive Directors are engaged for an initial term of three years which is terminable on either three or six months notice and thereafter on a rolling term.
They are also subject to annual re-election.
Non-Executive Directors engagement terms Initial Date of contract Notice Additional duties engagement term period Roger Matthews Chairman: 04-Dec-06 3 years 6 months Chairman of Nomination Committee David Jenkins Senior Independent Director: 31-Jan-06 3 years 6 months Chairman of Audit Committee Larry Hirst, CBE 01-Feb-10 3 years 3 months Crawford Gillies 12-Jul-12 3 years 3 months 1 Jack Boyer Chairman of Remuneration Committee 01-Jun-13 3 years 3 months Note: 1 Jack Boyer was appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 October 2014.
How does the executive pay policy differ from that of other Mitie employees?
The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is more heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other employees, ensuring that the greater part of their pay is conditional on the successful delivery of business strategy.
This helps create a clear link between the value created for shareholders and the remuneration received by the Directors.
The LTIP is limited to the most senior employees.
For employees below this level, variable pay may consist of share-based awards and annual bonus both of which will be based on role and the opportunity to participate in SAYE and SIP.
How we take account of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company when setting our policy The Remuneration Committee is responsible for overseeing the remuneration policy for the group as a whole and is mindful of pay and employment conditions in the wider workforce within the group and externally when determining Executive remuneration.
When considering base salary increases, benefits and pension provision, the Committee reviews overall levels and increases offered to employees across the group.
The Committee also reviews information with regard to share awards made to other senior management of the group, noting that i all employees can participate in the SAYE and SIP, and ii participation in the LTIP is limited to a selection of senior executives.
However, consistent with general practice, the Committee does not consult with employees in preparing the policy or its implementation.
How we take account of shareholder views when setting our policy The Committee is committed to a continuing discussion with major shareholders and obtains their views when any significant changes to remuneration arrangements are being proposed.
A recent example of this was the consultation with major shareholders undertaken in relation to the proposed new pay policy and LTIP.
Remuneration Committee and its Advisers The Remuneration Committee seeks and considers advice from independent remuneration advisers where appropriate.
FIT Remuneration Consultants FIT were appointed by the Committee in December 2013 to provide independent advice on executive remuneration.
FIT attended Committee meetings and provided advice and analysis on executive remuneration.
The advisers provide no other services to the Company and also comply with the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants.
FITs total cost of advice for the year they advised was 132,340 such fees being charged in accordance with FITs standard terms of business.
The Committee specifically considered the position of FIT and was satisfied that the advice it received was objective and independent, given that no other services were provided to the Company.
Mitie Group plc 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Annual Report on Remuneration Executive Director remuneration subject to audit The table below reports a single figure for total remuneration for each Executive Director for the financial years ending 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2015.
The information in the table above confirms his earnings for his position as an Executive Director up to this date.
The Annual Bonus figure is the pro-rated amount relating to the year ending March 2015, for the time he was an Executive Director of the business: this will be paid to him in May 2015.
B enefits relate to the cost to the Company of private medical cover, private fuel and the car allowance.
B onus payable in respect of the financial year includes any deferred element at face value at the date of award.
Further information about how the level of the award, for the year ending March 2015, was determined is provided on page 71.
T he value of the 2015 LTIP is based on the 2012 LTIP award, which will vest in June 2015 at a rate of 25% valuation based on the number of shares vesting at the share price calculated as an average over the period 1 January to 31 March 2015 and includes the value of the Dividend Equivalent to that date.
The value of the 2014 LTIP was based on 2011 LTIP award which lapsed in full.
T he Other column denotes the value of matching shares during the year under the Company Share Incentive Plan along with the value in respect of the intrinsic gain on the option grant under the 2014 SAYE.
In 2014 these figures were included in the figure for Benefits but have now been extracted for comparison purposes.
The pension benefits of the Directors comprise a pension supplement paid in cash in the year of 20% of salary and a capped cash contribution to a defined benefit pension scheme of 16,104 2014: 15,576 made by Mitie for each of the Directors.
The disclosures above in respect of pension benefits comprise the 20% pension supplement along with an actuarially derived value of the annually accrued pension benefits under the defined benefit pension scheme, net of personal contributions made by each Director.
This calculation is known as the net pension input amount and is affected by the number of years of scheme membership, the value of annual accrued benefits at each year end, inflation and a prescribed multiplication factor of 20.
The net pension input amount for the Directors included in the pension benefits disclosed above was: Year Years of scheme membership at 31 March Ruby McGregor-Smith, CBE 2015 12 35,851 2014 11 37,701 Suzanne Baxter 2015 3 28,696 2014 2 28,973 1 Bill Robson 2015 23 23,211 2014 22 49,198 Note: 1 The 2015 figures for Bill Robson relate to the pension accrued up to 31 July when he was an Executive Director.
Mitie Group plc 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors remuneration report Non-Executive Directors fees subject to audit The fees for the Non-Executive Directors for the financial year ended 31 March 2015 and 31 March 2014 are set out below: Non-Executive Directors remuneration Base salary fees 000 1 2015 2014 Roger Matthews 185 140 David Jenkins 67 53 Larry Hirst, CBE 52 46 2 Crawford Gillies 56 49 3 Jack Boyer 56 38 4 Terry Morgan, CBE 37 5 Graeme Potts 27 Total 416 390 Notes: 1 All amounts were paid in cash and no other benefits were received in the year.
2 Crawford Gillies was Remuneration Committee Chairman until 30 September 2014.
3 Jack Boyer was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 June 2013 and as Remuneration Committee Chairman on 1 October 2014.
4 Terry Morgan retired as a Non-Executive Director on 31 October 2013.
5 Graeme Potts retired on 9 July 2013.
What happened in 2014 2015 and changes for 2015 2016 Base salary and benefits Effective 1 April 2014, the Remuneration Committee awarded average salary increases of 4.6% for two of the Executive Directors, resulting in the following base salaries being payable: a Ruby McGregor-Smith, CBE 550,000 a Suzanne Baxter 350,000 Bill Robson received no increase and his salary remained at 330,000.
Bill subsequently stepped down as an Executive Director of the Group on 31 July 2014 and his salary was amended accordingly.
Commencing 1 April 2015 and effective for the remainder of the financial year, the Committee awarded salary increases of 2.9% for the Executive Directors, resulting in the following base salaries being payable: a Ruby McGregor-Smith CBE 565,950 a Suzanne Baxter 360,150 A review of Non-Executive Director fees was undertaken in March 2014.
The broad policy is for the fees to be reviewed every three years.
The fees for the year ending March 2016 remain unchanged and are as follows: Base salary fees 000 1 2016 2015 2 Chairman fees 185 185 3 Non-Executive Director core fees 52 52 Additional fees Senior Independent Director 7 7 Chairman of a Committee 8 8 Notes: 1 T he core fee of 52,000 paid to each Non-Executive Director including the Chairman will total 260,000 for the year ending March 2016 which is unchanged from the year ended March 2015.
Total fees including additional duties are expected to amount to 416,000 for the year ending March 2016 416,000 for the year ended March 2015.
2 T he Chairmans fee is inclusive of the Non-Executive Directors core fee and no additional fees are paid to the Chairman where he is a Chairman, or is a member of, other committees.
3 F or Non-Executive Directors, individual fees comprise the core fee and additional supplemental fees for chairing committees where a greater responsibility and time commitment is required.
Benefits are as described in the Remuneration policy table.
No changes are planned for the year ending March 2016.
Mitie Group plc 70 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Pension subject to audit Pension is as described in the Remuneration policy table.
The pension entitlement for each Director is as follows: Defined benefit pension scheme transfer values Transfer value of pension Contributions Increase in increase after Transfer value made by the accrued pension inflation, net of Transfer value Normal retirement 31 March 2014 Director over the year contributions 31 March 2015 date 000 000 000 000 000 Ruby McGregor-Smith, CBE 22 02 2028 238 0 3 32 307 Suzanne Baxter 16 04 2033 34 0 2 20 59 1 Bill Robson 11 08 2015 913 0 3 43 1,166 Note: 1 Benefits for Bill Robson are valued up to the point he stepped down as an Executive Director of the business on 31 July 2014.
The pension benefits of the Executive Directors are based on a pensionable salary capped at 146,400.
The Company made contributions to the groups defined benefit scheme on behalf of the three Directors who are members of the scheme at a rate of 11% of the value of the benefit cap.
In addition, the Directors received a salary supplement as described in the policy table.
The normal retirement age for the three Directors is 65 and there are no additional benefits available to the Directors upon early retirement.
Annual Bonus Plan Awards in respect of the year ended March 2015 were made under the Group Annual Bonus Plan.
The outcomes were determined as set out below.
Evaluation of performance for the year ended March 2015 At the beginning of the year the Committee set a range for EBITA performance for threshold, target and maximum levels of performance.
Performance against these targets was assessed at the threshold level of performance resulting in a pay-out of c. 90% of base pay for this element.
However, the Committee, in conjunction with the three Executive Directors, determined that the financial element should be reduced to half of the threshold level, recognising the statutory result.
The Committee also set objectives relating to organic growth, people management and strategy.
Key deliverables for the year included: a To deliver organic revenue growth at a level that out performs sector comparatives for UK businesses: a To strengthen the talent pipeline: a Invest in sector specialisation to maximise organic growth: and a Define and implement a plan for operational efficiencies.
Having evaluated a range of outcomes and indicators of performance, the Committee determined that overall progress was good and warranted a pay-out of 35% of salary for the Chief Executive and 17.5% of salary for the other Executive Directors.
Therefore, based on the Committees assessment of achievement for both the financial and strategic objectives, the bonus was, following the reduction referred to above, calculated as follows: Financial performance Strategic performance Total bonus payable % of salary % of salary % of salary % of salary % of salary Deferred payable at payable at payable at % of salary payable at payable at % of salary Total bonus Cash shares threshold on-target maximum payable threshold maximum payable 000 000 000 Ruby McGregor-Smith, CBE 90 100 110 45 0 50 35 440.0 440.0 0.0 Suzanne Baxter 90 100 110 45 0 25 17.5 218.8 218.8 0.0 1 Bill Robson 90 100 110 45 0 25 17.5 68.8 68.8 0.0 Note: 1 The bonus calculated for Bill Robson relates to the bonus he earned for the period up to 31 July 2014 when he was an Executive Director.
Mitie Group plc 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors remuneration report Achievement against financial targets for the year ended March 2015 The financial performance for the organisation to March 2015 was assessed against a threshold of 131m, a target of 135m and a maximum of 139m.
The achievement was 131.8m reflecting the EBITA before the settlement of a legacy pension cost.
This would have generated a payout of 92.0% of salary before the reduction by the Committee.
Achievement against financial targets for the year ended March 2014 In the Report & Accounts for the year ended March 2014 we made a commitment to disclose the financial targets that were used to determine the level of performance for the Annual Bonus Plan in respect of that year.
The financial performance for the organisation to March 2014 was assessed against a threshold of 123.1m a target of 126.9m and a maximum of 130.7m: performance achieved was 127.5m and this equated to 100.5% of the target.
For the year ending March 2016, there are some changes proposed to the structure of the Annual Bonus Plan, details of which can be found in the table below: Financial performance Strategic performance Total bonus payable % of salary % of salary % of salary % of salary % of salary % of salary payable at payable at payable at payable at payable at payable at threshold on-target maximum threshold maximum maximum Ruby McGregor-Smith, CBE 60 90 110 0 50 160 Suzanne Baxter 60 90 110 0 25 135 The financial and strategic targets for 2015 16 are not disclosed at this time as they are considered commercially sensitive.
However, full disclosure of the above financial targets for 2015 16 will be provided in next years report.
Details of LTIP vesting in June 2015 2012 award The Committee assessed the outcome of the 2012 LTIP awards against the performance condition of adjusted EPS growth % pa.
Number of shares capable of vesting was determined based on the following scale: EPS% growth % of award vesting 10% or more 100% Between 5% and 10% On a straight-line basis between 25% and 100% 5% 25% Less than 5% 0% For the performance period, adjusted EPS growth achieved the threshold at 5% and therefore resulted in vesting at a level of 25% of the original award made.
Adjusted EPS excludes the impact of IAS19 pensions accounting changes and the settlement of a legacy pension cost.
Mitie Group plc 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial LTIP awards granted in June 2014 Awards granted will vest depending on performance against four weighted measures assessed over three years: Vesting of portion of the award Performance measure Weighting Performance range performance period 3 years ending 31 March 2017 Absolute Earnings Per 20% of 3% 8% pa Zero vesting if adjusted EPS growth is less than 3% pa. Share EPS growth the award If performance is equal to 3%, 25% of the award will vest.
If Mitie achieves 8% EPS growth pa, all the awards will vest.
Between these two points the proportion of awards vesting will be determined on a linear sliding scale basis.
Relative Total Shareholder 20% of Outperformance against Zero vesting if Mities TSR performance is less than the Return TSR the award FTSE 350 Support median of the index.
If Mities TSR performance is equal to Services index the median of the index, 25% of the award will vest and if it exceeds the index median TSR by 10% pa or more, all the awards will vest.
An underpin condition for underlying financial performance also applies.
Organic revenue growth 30% of 3% 6% pa with a financial Zero vesting if organic revenue growth is less than 3% pa. the award underpin based on the If performance is equal to 3% pa, 25% of the award will achievement of target vest.
If Mitie achieves 6% organic growth pa, all the awards margin of 5.5% pa will vest.
Between these two points, the proportion of awards vesting will be determined on a linear sliding scale basis.
Entire portion of award is subject to Mitie achieving an average 5.5% margin in the performance period.
Cash conversion 30% of 75% 85% pa Zero vesting if cash conversion is less than 75% pa. At 75%, the award 25% of the award will vest.
70% of the award will vest if Mitie achieves 80%.
Full vesting for this portion will occur if 85% pa is achieved.
Between 75% and 80% and 80% and 85%, the proportion of awards vesting will be determined on a linear sliding scale basis.
Details of the awards made to the Executive Directors under the LTIP granted as nil cost options are summarised below, with further details given in the table on outstanding share interests on page 76.
What was granted in June 2014 subject to audit Face 1 Number of value % of salary Performance Performance % vesting at 2 Award Type shares 000s condition period threshold Ruby McGregor-Smith, Performance Nil-cost 345,261 1,100 200% 20% 3 financial 25% CBE option Absolute years Earnings ending Per Share 31 March 2017 Suzanne Baxter Performance 219,711 700 200% 20% Relative TSR Bill Robson Performance 103,578 330 100% 30% Organic Revenue Growth 30% Cash Conversion Notes: 1 Face value was calculated based on the grant date share price of 318.60p on 30 June 2014.
2 Performance conditions are set out in the table at the top of this page.
Mitie Group plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors remuneration report 2015 awards will be made under a replacement LTIP, as outlined on page 64.
The same basic approach to the performance conditions described above will apply to these 2015 awards, with the actual targets being as follows: Vesting of portion of the award Performance measure Weighting Performance range performance period 3 years ending 31 March 2018 Absolute Earnings Per Share 20% of the 3% 8% pa Zero vesting if adjusted EPS growth is less than 3% pa. EPS growth award If performance is equal to 3%, 25% of the award will vest.
Relative Total Shareholder 20% of the Outperformance against Zero vesting if Mities TSR performance is less than the Return TSR award FTSE 350 Support median of the index.
Organic revenue growth 30% of the 3% 6% pa with a financial Zero vesting if organic revenue growth is less than 3% pa. award underpin based on the If performance is equal to 3% pa, 25% of the award will achievement of target vest.
Cash conversion 30% of the 75% 85% pa Zero vesting if cash conversion is less than 75% pa. At 75%, award 25% of the award will vest.
Awards made under the replacement LTIP will, for continuing employees, be subject to a holding period, post vesting, with 50% of the shares being released immediately after the end of the performance period, 25% being released a year later and 25% two years later.
Loss of office payments subject to audit No payments for loss of office were made to past directors during the year.
Payments to past Directors No payments have been made to past directors, with the exception of the remuneration arrangements for Bill Robson, who remains an employee of the business.
Change in CEO pay for the year compared to UK salaried employees The table below sets out the change in remuneration of the Chief Executive and Mities UK salaried population.
1 % Salary Benefits Bonus Chief Executive 4.6% 32.7% -41.9%% 2 Average pay based on Mities UK non-contract employees 5.5% 15.3% -13.1% Notes: 1 Includes car car allowance, private medical and private fuel.
2 Reflects the change in average pay for salaried non-contract UK employees employed at both ended 31 March 2014 and 31 March 2015.
Mitie Group plc 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Relative spend on pay The table below shows both the total cost of remuneration in the group, compared with the dividends distributed and share buybacks.
Year ended Year ended 31 March 2015 31 March 2014 m m Change Aggregate employee remuneration 1,150 1,137 1.1% Equity dividends and share buybacks 41 46 -10.9% Assessing pay and performance In the table below we provide a summary of the Chief Executives single figure remuneration over the past six years, as well as the pay out and vesting levels of our variable pay plans in relation to the maximum opportunity.
This is compared with historical TSR performance over the same period.
We have chosen these indices FTSE 250 and FTSE 350 Support Services as they are widely recognised and we have been members of both indices during the period: Mitie FTSE 250 FTSE 350 Support Services 350 300 250 200 150 100 Mar 09 Mar 10 Mar 11 Mar 12 Mar 13 Mar 14 Mar 15 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Single figure remuneration 1,703,031 2,324,443 2,431,773 2,105,131 1,447,266 1,495,416 Annual bonus element actual as a % of max 100% 100% 100% 85% 90% 50% LTIP element actual vesting as a % of max 100% 100% 87.2% 57.2% 0% 25% The reporting requirements state that the time period for the above TSR chart be lengthened to ten years over time and we have therefore included a ten year chart below: Mitie FTSE 250 FTSE 350 Support Services 350 300 250 200 150 100 Mar 05 Mar 06 Mar 07 Mar 08 Mar 09 Mar 10 Mar 11 Mar 12 Mar 13 Mar 14 Mar 15 Share ownership Value of target Number of holding at 1 May Percentage Compliance ordinary shares 2014 based on % Value of of base salary with the share owned as at of salary as at holding for achieved for ownership 1 2 31 March 2015 31 March 2015 guideline guideline guidelines Ruby McGregor-Smith, CBE 566,283 825,000 1,634,066 297% Achieved Suzanne Baxter 214,553 525,000 619,114 177% Achieved 3 Bill Robson 1,624,701 495,000 4,688,237 1421% Achieved Notes: 1 Calculated at a share price of 288.56p which is the 5 day average share price up to 30th April 2015, required to be used for the guideline.
2 Against the guidelines in force for the year to 31 March 2015 of 150% of salary.
In the following year, this increases to 200%.
3 Values for Bill Robson are based on his salary on 1 April 2014.
Mitie Group plc 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 TSR rebased to 100 TSR rebased to 100 Directors remuneration report Directors outstanding share interests subject to audit The following tables provide the outstanding share interests for the Executive Directors: 1 Directors interests in options granted under the Mitie Group plc 2011 Save As You Earn Scheme Options as at Exercised Granted Lapsed Options as at Exercise Earliest normal Year of Grant 31 March 2014 in year in year in year 31 March 2015 price p exercise date 2012 4,035 4,035 223.0 Dec-15 Ruby McGregor-Smith, CBE 2014 3,459 3,459 260.2 Sep-17 2012 4,035 4,035 223.0 Dec-15 Suzanne Baxter 2014 3,459 3,459 260.2 Sep-17 Bill Robson 2012 4,035 4,035 223.0 Dec-15 2014 3,459 3,459 260.2 Sep-17 Notes: 1 E xecutive Directors were invited to participate in the 2011 SAYE scheme and are contributing the maximum amount of 250 month over a 36 month period starting December 2012 and 250 month starting 1 September 2014.
2 Details for Bill Robson have been included although the SAYE contract started in September 2014 after he stepped down as an Executive Director.
Directors interests in shares purchased under the Mitie Group plc Share Incentive Plan 2011 Total number Shares Number of Number of of shares outstanding as at partnership shares matching shares outstanding at 1 2 3 31 March 2014 acquired in year awarded in year 31 March 2015 Ruby McGregor-Smith, CBE 1,874 663 57 2,594 Suzanne Baxter 1,874 663 57 2,594 Bill Robson 1,874 663 57 2,594 Notes: 1 Figure comprises 1,714 purchased shares plus 160 matching shares.
2 S hares were acquired at a market price of 319.3p on 13 May 2014.
Executive Directors contributed the full annual amount of 1,800 permitted under the Plan.
Shares acquired through dividend reinvestment 13 August 2014 and 2 February 2015 have also been included.
3 M atching shares were purchased in the market at a price of 319.3p on 13 May 2014.
Awards of Matching Shares must in normal circumstances be held for at least three years from the date of award and are subject to forfeiture if corresponding Partnership Shares are withdrawn during that period.
4 The market price of the Companys shares as at 31 March 2015 was 276.0p.
The highest and lowest prices during the year were 335.3p and 265.3p respectively.
Directors interests in options granted under the Mitie Group plc 2001 Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS options ESOS options outstanding Granted Lapsed Exercised outstanding Exercise as at during during during as at price 1 31 March 2014 the year the year the year 31 March 2015 p Exercisable between Ruby McGregor-Smith, CBE Unapproved scheme 100,000 100,000 162 Jun-08 Jun-15 Unapproved scheme 100,000 100,000 191 Jun-09 Jun-16 Suzanne Baxter Unapproved scheme 35,000 35,000 191 Jun-09 Jun-16 Approved scheme 15,000 15,000 191 Jun-09 Jun-16 Note: 1 The market price of the Companys shares as at 31 March 2015 was 276.0p.
Mitie Group plc 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Directors interests in shares granted under the Mitie Group plc 2010 Deferred Bonus Plan Shares Shares outstanding outstanding as at Granted Lapsed Exercised as at Year of 31 March during during during 31 March Earliest 1 2,3 4 grant 2014 the year the year the year 2015 exercise date Ruby McGregor-Smith, CBE 2012 45,883 45,883 2013 71,616 71,616 May-15 2014 71,670 71,670 May-16 Suzanne Baxter 2012 29,239 29,239 2013 19,842 19,842 May-15 2014 23,651 23,651 May-16 Bill Robson 2012 28,789 28,789 2013 19,546 19,546 May-15 2014 23,298 23,298 May-16 Notes: 1 T he 2012 award was granted on 28 May 2012 at a grant price of 277.9p.
The 2013 award was granted on 28 May 2013 at a grant price of 260.0p.
The 2014 award was granted on 28 May 2014 at a grant price of 323.7. p. 2 Awards vested on 27 May 2014 and were transferred to the participant.
At the date these awards vested the market price of the Companys shares was 323.7p.
3 The awards attract dividend equivalents which are accrued from grant date and paid out on vesting.
Directors interests in nil-cost options granted under the Mitie Group plc 2007 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP options Granted during Lapsed Exercised LTIP options Year of outstanding at the year at during during outstanding at Exercise 1 2 3 grant 31 March 2014 318.60p share the year the year 31 March 2015 price Exercisable between Ruby McGregorSmith, CBE 2011 446,663 446,663 Nil-cost 2012 414,336 414,336 Nil-cost Jun-15 Jun-16 2013 527,371 527,371 Nil-cost Jun-16 Jun-17 2014 345,261 345,261 Nil-cost Jun-17 Jun-18 Suzanne Baxter 2011 284,638 284,638 Nil-cost 2012 263,883 263,883 Nil-cost Jun-15 Jun-16 2013 268,698 268,698 Nil-cost Jun-16 Jun-17 2014 219,711 219,711 Nil-cost Jun-17 Jun-18 Bill Robson 2011 280,259 280,259 Nil-cost 2012 259,945 259,945 Nil-cost Jun-15 Jun-16 2013 264,688 264,688 Nil-cost Jun-16 Jun-17 2014 103,578 103,578 Nil-cost Jun-17 Jun-18 Notes: 1 T he performance criteria applicable to the 2011 award: lower and upper performance thresholds of 7% pa and 13% pa respectively.
The performance criteria applicable to the 2012 award: lower and upper performance thresholds of 5% pa and 10% pa respectively.
The performance criteria applicable to the 2013 award reflect a basket of measures relating to TSR, EPS, organic growth and cash conversion.
The performance criteria applicable to the 2014 award are the same as those for the 2013 award and are provided on page 73.
The Directors acquired a conditional joint beneficial interest with the Mitie Employee Benefit Trust 2008 in the shares awarded in 2011 and 2012 under the LTIP.
The full beneficial interest will transfer to the Director only if the performance criteria applicable to the award are met.
2 T he Committee assessed the extent to which the performance conditions applicable to the 2011 awards were met and assessed that they did not achieve the threshold level of performance and the award lapsed in full.
The Committee also assessed the extent to which the performance conditions applicable to the 2012 awards were met and assessed that the scheme should vest at 25% of the original award granted.
3 The market price of the Companys shares as at 31 March 2015 was 276.0p.
Mitie Group plc 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors remuneration report Director share ownership Number of Ordinary Mitie shares Number of Ordinary Mitie shares beneficially owned as at beneficially owned as at 31 March 2014 31 March 2015 or date of appointment if later Executive Directors Ruby McGregor-Smith, CBE 566,283 565,403 Suzanne Baxter 214,553 213,673 Bill Robson 1,624,701 1,623,821 Non-Executive Directors Roger Matthews 100,000 100,000 David Jenkins 50,000 50,000 Larry Hirst, CBE 25,000 25,000 Crawford Gillies 10,000 10,000 Jack Boyer 5,000 2,000 1 Terry Morgan, CBE n a 0 2 Graeme Potts n a 15,000 Notes: 1 Terry Morgan CBE retired as a Non-Executive Director on 31 October 2013.
2 Graeme Potts retired as a Non-Executive Director on 9 July 2013.
Share dilution The Company manages dilution rates within the ABI guidelines of 10% of issued Ordinary share capital in respect of all employee schemes and 5% in respect of discretionary schemes.
In calculating compliance with these guidelines the Company allocates available headroom on a ten year flat-line basis, making adjustments for projected lapse rates and projected increases in issued share capital.
LTIP awards are satisfied through the market purchase of shares held by the Mitie Group plc Employee Benefit Trust 2008.
The potential dilution of the Companys issued share capital is set out below in respect of all outstanding awards granted under the Companys equity-based incentive schemes which are to be satisfied through the allotment of new shares or Treasury shares.
Share dilution at 31 March 2015 Dilution % All share plan maximum 10% 7.9% Discretionary share plans maximum 5% 4.5% Shareholder voting Mitie remains committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
During the financial year there have been continued discussions with major shareholders relating to the proposed changes to the Remuneration Policy.
Where there are substantial votes against resolutions in relation to Executive Directors remuneration, the group seeks to understand the reasons for any such vote, and will detail here any actions in response to it.
Number of Votes Votes in favour Votes against Votes withheld 2014 Directors Remuneration policy 238.9m 2.1m 0.9m 2014 AGM 98.7% 0.9% 0.4% 2014 Directors Remuneration report 173.8m 65.5m 2.5m 2014 AGM 71.9% 27.1% 1.0% The Committee understands that votes against the remuneration report resolution related to the lack of explanation around certain elements of 2013 remuneration e. g. the reduction in the EPS targets in the LTIP and the CEOs exceptional LTIP award.
We have sought to address these issues going forward as part of the review process conducted during the year as explained in the Chairmans Statement on page 58.
Mitie Group plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Directors report: other disclosures Principal group activities The Company is the holding company of the group.
The principal activity of the Company is to provide management services to the group.
The groups activities are focused on the provision of strategic outsourcing services.
The detailed strategy for the group can be found on pages 10 to 13 of the Strategic report.
Further details of the subsidiary undertakings of the Company principally affecting the profits or net assets of the group in the reporting period are listed in Note 39 to the financial statements.
The group operates in the UK, the Republic of Ireland, the Isle of Man, Guernsey, Jersey, Germany, France, Finland, Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands, Spain, Poland, Switzerland, Belgium, Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana and UAE.
Shares and shareholders Share capital and powers of shareholders The group is financed through both equity share capital and debt instruments.
Details of the Companys share capital are given in Note 30 to the financial statements and the detail of its debt instruments is set out in Note 29 to the financial statements.
The Company has a single class of shares being 2.5p ordinary shares Ordinary shares.
The Ordinary shares have no right to any fixed income and each share has the right to one vote per share at general meetings of the Company.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to participate in any dividends pro-rata to their holding.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Board may propose and pay interim dividends and recommend a final dividend for approval by the shareholders at the AGM.
A final dividend may be declared by the shareholders in a general meeting by ordinary resolution, but such dividend cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Articles of Association can be amended in accordance with its provisions, the Companies Act and related legislation.
Powers of the Company to issue or buy back its own shares At the 2014 AGM shareholders authorised: a the Directors to allot Ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,374,263 representing one-third of the issued share capital plus 12,395,869 Ordinary shares representing the outstanding commitment in respect of options granted under Mities share schemes such total equating to 40.15 % of the issued share capital as at 31 March 2014 : a the dis-application of pre-emption rights over allotted shares up to an aggregate nominal value equal to 466,905 or a maximum 18,676,200 Ordinary shares representing 5% of the issued share capital as at 31 March 2014 : and a the Company to make market purchases of its own shares up to a total of 37,352,400 Ordinary shares representing 10% of the issued share capital as at 31 March 2014.
Further details of these authorisations are available in the notes to the 2014 Notice of AGM and shareholders are referred to the 2015 Notice both are available at www.
com investors which contains similar provisions in respect of the Companys share capital.
During the reporting period, the Directors utilised the above authorities to allot 1,862,179 Ordinary shares to an aggregate nominal amount of 46,554 to employees participating in Mities share schemes and to minority shareholders in consideration for shares purchased in connection with Mitie Model investments.
The Company undertook market purchases of 3,746,160 of its own shares during the reporting period representing 1.0% of the called-up share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2014.
The shares equated to an aggregate nominal value of 93,654 and the total aggregate amount paid was 10,544,401.
The shares purchased are held in treasury so that they can be re-issued at a later date and used to hedge future share scheme issues.
The total number of shares held by the Group in treasury as at the end of the reporting period is 9,546,160.
It is not Mities current intention to operate a formal share purchase programme in 2015: however market purchases may be made to offset share scheme exercise activity, subject to the prior approval of the Board.
Mitie Group plc 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report: other disclosures Significant interests in the Companys share capital As at 15 May 2015, the Company has been notified of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Number of Percentage of Ordinary shares share capital Invesco Limited 18,642,841 5.06 FMR LLC 18,000,006 5.05 Massachusetts Financial Services Company 18,549,276 5.02 Heronbridge 18,366,728 5.00 The Capital Group 14,470,331 3.99 Details of the Directors interests in the share capital of the Company are detailed within the Directors remuneration report on pages 75 to 78.
Restrictions on the trading of Mitie shares Ordinary shares that are issued as consideration upon the acquisition by the Company of the shares of minority shareholders in subsidiaries of the group that participate in the Mitie Model have contractual restrictions placed upon them that both prevent the transfer of such shares and or attach specific claw-back provisions for periods of up to two years following allotment.
Recipients of Company shares received in this way are contractually restricted from selling the shares issued as consideration, generally for a maximum of two years.
The Board believes that this is a unique business model that has aided Mities past performance and continues to ensure a close alignment of interests between Company shareholders and the management and employees of the group.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of any shareholding or on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the provisions of the Articles of Association of the Company available at http: www.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements entered into by Company shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital.
Details of employee share schemes are set out below and in Note 35 to the Accounts.
The group operates a Share Trading and Insider Dealing Policy which provides a framework to identify persons who may have access to inside information relating to the Company and explains the rules applicable to them for dealing in Company shares.
Individuals who may have access to such information are informed individually and asked to read, understand and follow the procedures detailed in the policy.
Significant agreements change of control There are a number of agreements with provisions that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as bank facility agreements, employee share scheme rules and Articles of Association of certain Mitie Model companies.
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the normal course of business of the group.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs solely because of a takeover bid.
Shareholder engagement The Board is committed to an ongoing, pro-active dialogue with institutional and private investors, to further encourage engagement between the Company and its shareholders.
A full programme, led by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, of formal and informal events, institutional investor meetings and presentations are also held following the half year and full year results announcements.
Last year, the Board appointed a capital markets advisory firm to maintain the shareholder register and assist in register analysis, advise on investor relations strategy and obtain analyst and investor feedback.
Significant importance is attached to investor feedback on the groups performance, and as such the Board receives an investor relations report at each Board meeting detailing corporate news, share price activity, investor relations activity and major movements in shareholdings.
The Board is also regularly updated and is provided with investor feedback, broker updates and detailed analyst reports following the half year and full year results presentations.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Board is made aware of the issues and concerns of the major shareholders.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available for additional meetings with shareholders upon request.
The Board encourages an ongoing dialogue between the Directors and investors and as such all Directors were present at the 2014 AGM.
The Company hosted a Capital Markets Day in October 2014, which gave analysts, shareholders and other stakeholders the opportunity to have direct discussions with Directors as well as with the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
Mitie Group plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Latest group information, financial reports, corporate governance and sustainability matters, half yearly and full year results presentations, major shareholder information and all announcements are made available to shareholders via the Mitie website www.
com which has a specific area dedicated to investor relations.
Electronic communications The Directors remain committed to improving and extending the electronic methods by which the Company communicates with its shareholders, not only allowing the latest information on the group to be provided more efficiently but recognising the environmental benefits.
The Board encourages each shareholder to join the growing number of investors electing to receive their information electronically and further details on how to register are provided at the end of this report.
Directors Board of Directors The membership of the Board as at 31 March 2015 and biographical details of the Directors including details of committee chairmanships and other positions held are given on pages 42 and 43.
To comply with relevant provision of the Code, all Directors other than Crawford Gillies will submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM and details are provided in the Notice of AGM which is available at www.
During the year, Non-Executive Director independence was considered by the Board.
The Board determined that all Non-Executive Directors as at 31 March 2015 were independent in mind and judgement, and free from any material relationship that could interfere with their ability to discharge their duties effectively.
Director development and succession planning The Chairman regularly meets with both the Executive and Non-Executive Directors to discuss specific director development and training needs.
The annual Board evaluation also addresses these requirements and ensures that the appropriate level of knowledge, understanding and expertise of the Board is sufficiently maintained.
Succession planning is discussed in more detail on page 54 and 55.
Director appointments With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
Director conflicts The Board has a formal policy on the declaration and management of Director conflicts of interests in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company which has operated effectively during the reporting period.
Any potential situation or transactional conflict must be reported as soon as possible to the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Where a potential conflict is authorised under the statutory powers and powers granted under the Articles of Association to the Board, such conflict is kept under ongoing review.
Director indemnities The group maintains Directors and officers liability insurance, providing appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its Directors and or officers.
The Articles of Association of the Company extend the protection provided to Directors in respect of any litigation against Directors relating to their position as a Director of the Company, and specifically provide that the Company may indemnify Directors against any liability incurred in connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the Company and that the Company may fund defence costs.
Individual Directors would still be liable to pay damages awarded to the Company in any action against them by the Company and to repay their defence costs to the extent funded by the Company if their defence was unsuccessful.
Director commitments Executive Directors are permitted to accept appointments outside the group provided permission is sought from the Chairman and the Chief Executive and that the additional appointments do not interfere with the Directors ability to discharge their duties effectively.
The commitments outside the group of each Executive Director are detailed in the Directors remuneration report on page 67.
Executive Directors are entitled to retain any fees earned from these external appointments.
Statement of the Directors in respect of the Annual Report and financial statements As required by the Code, the Directors confirm that they consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
When arriving at this position the Board was assisted by a number of processes including the following: a the Annual Report and Accounts is drafted by senior management with overall co-ordination by the Head of Group Finance to ensure consistency across the relevant sections: a an internal verification process is undertaken to ensure factual accuracy: Mitie Group plc 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report: other disclosures a an independent review is undertaken by the Assurance team to assess whether the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and understandable using a set of pre-defined indicators such as consistency with internally reported information, investor communications and relative performance in the industry : a comprehensive reviews of drafts of the Annual Report and Accounts are undertaken by the Executive Directors and other senior management: a an advanced draft is reviewed by the Companys Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and external legal advisers: and a the final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to consideration by the Board.
Employees Employee involvement The Board remains committed to fostering and developing a culture of employee involvement in the business through communication with employees and equity participation whereby employees are enabled to build a stake in the Company through the Companys various equity-based incentive schemes.
The Board believes that the groups culture of employee equity involvement is a significant driver in the groups growth performance and that this assists in attracting and retaining skilled and committed employees.
During the year, the group has continued to operate the Mitie Long Term Incentive Plan to incentivise and reward senior members of the Mitie management team, the Executive Share Option Scheme for certain other employees and the Savings Related Share Option Scheme and Share Incentive Plan which are open to all eligible employees of the group.
In line with HMRC regulations the Company increased the maximum value of SIP free shares shares that can be awarded annually to an employee, and of SIP partnership shares shares an employee can purchase annually.
The maximum monthly amount that an employee can contribute to SAYE savings arrangements was also increased in line with HMRC regulations.
The group has historically grown by giving entrepreneurial managers the opportunity to create wealth by participating in the investment risk of starting a new business, taking equity stakes at fair value in those new businesses in conjunction with Mitie and then, dependent on a pre-agreed pricing structure, offering to sell without requiring Mitie to buy that stake to Mitie predominantly in exchange for Company shares.
Under the terms of certain shareholders agreements and Articles of Association relating to Mitie Model companies, minority shareholders in such companies may provide an option for the purchase by the Company of their minority shares.
The mechanism for calculating the price to be paid in respect of such transfer is transparent, on an arms-length basis, and in accordance with the pricing structure generally applicable for other transfers under the Mitie Model.
In consideration for these purchases, the Company generally has the option to settle payment in cash or in Company shares.
The group continues to back management teams with innovative ideas for starting mutually owned businesses.
The Board remains committed to supporting growing businesses, which builds on a long history of partnering with management teams to start up new business ventures.
During the year Mitie purchased 49% of the share capital of Direct Enquiries Holdings Limited for cash consideration of 5.6m, of which 1.8m was paid in the current year and 3.8m was paid in April 2015.
Communication with employees Communication with Mities employees remains a high priority, and has been the focus of a comprehensive review of employee engagement undertaken in the past year.
The group communicates with employees via multiple channels, including group-wide mailings, employee magazines and updates, employee-focused initiatives and events including group business roadshows, media networks and the provision of access to broadcasts of periodic financial presentations.
We are also committed to developing our use of social media tools as an effective way of communicating with our people because we recognise that these methods can provide great ways of allowing our people to give us feedback, share ideas and engage with the wider Mitie community.
Our social media tools are supported by a group-wide intranet system which has improved communication and information sharing across the business and includes blog updates from Executive Board members and functional teams.
Through this system employees are able to access key information such as online payslips, platforms such as eLearning, and key strategic messages as well as group news.
Each of the groups businesses is encouraged to ensure that employees are kept informed of group and individual business developments through the use of their own communication processes, and social networking sites continue to play an important part in engaging and communicating with employees.
Our group-wide Mitie Stars programme continues to grow year on year, and recognises and rewards exceptional performance displayed by Mitie people.
Mities Got Talent, the group-wide talent contest, continues to be supported and encourages employee engagement and recognition.
The group Sustainability report contains further details of these initiatives and is available from www.
Mitie Group plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Mities employees remain actively involved in the groups activities via an employee forum.
This year the forum held two meetings and included presentations by senior management or functional heads as requested by the employee representatives.
The Executive Board will continue to seek increasing involvement and activity of the employee representatives.
Our Speak Up service the whistleblowing programme continued to operate during the year, providing every employee with the ability to confidentially report any concerns or wrong-doings that they were aware of, if they felt unable to report these via our existing line management or human resources channels.
All Speak Up contacts are individually investigated.
The Audit Committee and Board receive regular reports on the status of material Speak Up investigations.
Employee diversity and inclusion The Board remains committed to developing a culture that encourages the inclusion and diversity of all of the groups employees through respecting and appreciating their differences and promoting the continuous development of employees through skills enhancement and training programmes.
Disabled persons As set out in our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Policy, Mities approach to business is underpinned by a belief that all individuals should be treated fairly and have access to equal opportunities, regardless of their status.
More specifically, the policy states that no job applicant or employee should receive less favourable treatment on grounds of, among others, disability.
Finance Financial results and dividends A detailed commentary on the operational and financial results of the group for the year is contained within the Strategic report and Financial review on pages 32 to 37 of this report.
The profit before taxation for the financial year is 41.5m 2014: 68.4m.
a The Directors declared an interim dividend of 5.2p per Ordinary share with a total value of 18.6m 2014: 17.6m which was paid to shareholders on 2 February 2015. a The Directors recommend a final dividend of 6.5p per Ordinary share with a total value of 22.9m 2014: 21.9m based upon the number of shares issued as at 18 May 2015.
The final dividend for the year will be paid on 4 August 2015, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, to ordinary shareholders on the register on 26 June 2015. a The total dividend per Ordinary share for the year ended 31 March 2015 is 11.7p 2014: 11.0p.
The Company operates a Dividend Re-investment Plan DRIP which allows shareholders to build their holding by using the cash dividend to purchase additional shares in Mitie.
Further details on the operation of the DRIP are included at the back of this report and are available from Mities Registrar.
During the reporting period, the trustees of the Companys Employee Benefit Trusts waived dividends on shares held.
Financing liabilities The groups financial instruments include bank loans, finance leases, overdrafts, US private placement loan notes and performance guarantees.
Various derivatives are used to manage interest, currency and other risks when necessary or material.
The principal objective of these instruments is to raise funds for general corporate purposes and to manage financial risk.
Further details of these instruments are given in Note 25 to the financial statements.
Events after the balance sheet date There have not been any significant events post the balance sheet date.
Future developments The Strategic report sets out the Boards view on the future developments of the group.
Research and development Given the nature of the groups activities, it does not carry out any material research and development work.
Political donations The company included a resolution in its 2014 AGM notice to shareholders in relation to the ability to make political donations.
Although, Mities long standing policy of not making any political donations will continue, it is possible that certain routine activities including charitable donations undertaken by Mitie might unintentionally fall within the wide definition of payments constituting political donations and expenditure as set out in the Companies Act 2006.
The resolution, which was duly passed, granted the Company the relevant statutory authority until the 2015 AGM subject to a total aggregate cap for Mitie and its subsidiary companies of 50,000.
Mitie Group plc 83 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors report: other disclosures Requirements of the Listing Rules Pursuant to listing rule 9.8.
4C, the table below provides references to where the relevant information required by listing rule 9.8.
Listing Rule requirement Long term incentive plans Directors remuneration report pages 57 to 78 Agreement to waive dividends Directors report page 83 Carbon reporting and the environment The Company is required to state the annual quantity of emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from activities for which the group is responsible, including combustion of fuel and the operation of facilities.
Details of our emissions during the year ended 31 March 2015 are set out in the Strategic report on page 41 and form part of the Directors report disclosures.
Going concern The Directors acknowledge the Financial Reporting Councils Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies issued in October 2009 and An update for Directors of Listed Companies: Responding to increased country and currency risk in financial reports.
The groups business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic report as referred to on pages 16 to 19.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial review, as part of the Strategic report, on pages 32 to 37.
In addition, Note 26 to the consolidated financial statements includes details of the groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The group benefits from a large number of long-term contracts with a broad range of public and private customers which provide a strong forward order book of 9.0bn and high visibility of secured work 85% of budgeted revenue for the financial year ending 31 March 2016.
These support the Directors belief that the group is well-placed to manage its business risks successfully.
In assessing the groups ability to continue as a going concern, the Board reviews and approves the annual budget including 12 month forecasts of cash flows and borrowing requirements.
The Board reviews the groups sources of available funds and the level of headroom available against its committed borrowing facilities.
The groups financial forecasts, taking into account possible sensitivities in trading performance, indicate that the group will be able to operate within the level of its committed borrowing facilities.
On 23 July 2014, the group announced the extension of its multi-currency revolving credit facility.
The group now benefits from a committed facility of 275m, which will mature in July 2019.
Together with the 252m US Private Placements, this gives the group total committed funding of 527m, of which 261m was undrawn at 31 March.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Disclosure of information to the auditors Each of the Directors in office as of the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts confirms that: a so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information being information required by the auditors in the preparation of their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and a he she has each taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of such information.
This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted, in accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
AGM Mities AGM will be held on 13 July 2015 at 2.30pm at Rothschild, New Court, St Swithins Lane, London EC4N 8AL.
By order of the Board James Ormrod Company Secretary 18 May 2015 Mitie Group plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial Directors report: statement of Directors responsibilities Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report, the remuneration report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are required to prepare the financial statements for the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard IAS Regulation and have chosen to prepare Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
In the case of IFRS accounts, IAS 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with IFRS where applicable.
The Directors are also required to: a properly select and apply accounting policies: a present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: a provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific IFRS requirements is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and, a make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
In the parent company accounts, the Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: a select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: a make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: a state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and a prepare financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, safeguarding of the assets, the reasonable steps taken for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities, and the preparation of a Directors remuneration report which complies with the relevant requirements of the Companies Acts, Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs.
The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company website.
Financial statements published by the Company on this website are prepared in accordance with UK legislation which may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
To the best of each Directors knowledge: a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards and contained within this Annual Report and Accounts, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: a the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and a the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the Board Ruby McGregor-Smith CBE Suzanne Baxter Chief Executive Group Finance Director 18 May 2015 18 May 2015 Mitie Group plc 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2015
