52 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Report on Directors remuneration The eating and drinking-out market continues to evolve.
Consumer expectations in relation to the quality, value and availability of offers will mean that our brands must adapt quickly to these challenges.
Phil Urban has outlined his priorities: we must maintain the right balance of brands across the estate through expansion and conversion: continue to deliver against our key metrics, to continuously improve standards: and be prepared to innovate as a way of improving returns and enhancing guest experience.
The Board are delighted to be able to recommend the resumption Imelda Walsh of a dividend, recognising our earnings growth in 2015.
Chair of the Remuneration Appointment of new Chief Executive and departure of former Committee Chief Executive As reported on 22 September 2015, Phil Urban was appointed to the Board as Chief Executive with effect from 27 September 2015.
Phil has Statement from the Committee Chair extensive experience and a strong track record in a number of senior roles across the hospitality industry.
Phil joined Mitchells & Butlers as Dear Fellow Shareholder, Chief Operating Officer in early 2015 and has already established strong relationships with the Board and Management team.
Phil has been I am pleased to present the Directors remuneration report in respect appointed on a salary of 510,000, which is lower than his predecessors of the financial year which ended on 26 September 2015. and will next be reviewed in January 2017.
The salary level reflects a first appointment to a CEO position and from 2017, any increase to this salary Background and business context will take into account improvements to business performance and also Total sales over the financial year grew by 6.6% with like-for-like salaries in comparator companies of a similar size and scale.
This is in line sales improving by 0.8% over the period.
The eating and drinkingwith the approved remuneration policy.
Full details of Phils remuneration out market as a whole has been relatively subdued, especially over were announced at the time of his appointment.
the summer months, contributing to this relatively modest increase 1 in like-for-like sales.
Profit Before Tax PBT increased by 12m to Details of the termination arrangements that applied to Alistair Darby 184m in FY 2015.
Consumer expectations continue to increase, were also fully disclosed at the time his leaving was announced and and stable teams help to deliver a great experience, therefore it are set out in full in the Annual Remuneration Report.
is encouraging that the level of staff turnover has now fallen to a historical low of 76%, a year-on-year reduction of 2ppts.
The benefit 2015 remuneration 1 of stable teams has also contributed to improvements in guest The 2015 bonus plan had two elements, PBT and Guest Service.
1 service, as measured by the Net Promoter Score NPS, which Whilst PBT has increased by 7% year-on-year and Net Promoter has improved by a further 2% over the year to 65%.
Scores are at their highest ever level, the stretching targets set by the Committee have not been met and therefore no annual bonus The full integration of the Orchid business acquired in 2014 has awards have been made to Executive Directors.
been completed, on time and on budget.
41 Orchid businesses have been converted to our brands, and returns from these The 2013-2015 Performance Restricted Share Plan PRSP performance conversions are strong.
condition also had two elements, growth in adjusted earnings per share EPS and total shareholder return TSR, each with a 50% weighting.
1 In the summer, the Chancellor announced the introduction of Over the performance period EPS growth has been 9.38% p. a. above a National Living Wage NLW from April 2016.
The NLW will the 8% p. a. threshold level of performance required for vesting, but see a significant increase to the overall wage bill and it will not be below the target for full vesting of 16% p. a. resulting in partial vesting.
possible to simply reduce costs as a way of absorbing the increase.
TSR performance has been below the median threshold required for We will look at efficiency gains through technology, and changes vesting, and therefore awards under this element of the performance to service models, and monitor our brand propositions to ensure condition will lapse.
As a result, overall vesting is 19%.
The Remuneration they remain appropriate to our customers.
Committee considers that this level of vesting is representative of the Companys overall performance over the three year period and have also taken into account other performance factors and key performance indicators as part of this assessment.
For example, over the PRSP performance period, the business has made good progress in enhancing its infrastructure, investment returns have improved and it has completed the acquisition and integration of Orchid.
In addition, staff turnover has reduced and NPS is at its highest ever level.
Adjusted Profit Before Tax, earnings per share and operating profit included in the report on Directors remuneration, are quoted before exceptional items as set out in note 2.2.
Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 53 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 During the year an award was made under the terms of the PRSP in respect of the 2015-2017 performance period and full details At a glance are set out on page 65.
This section briefly summarises the principles that underpin our Approach for 2016 remuneration policy, its link with our strategic priorities and highlights The Committee was pleased with the outcome of the vote on our performance and remuneration outcomes for FY 2015.
More detail can remuneration policy, where there was a 99.3% vote in favour of its be found in the annual report on remuneration on pages 62 to 69. implementation.
No changes to the policy are sought this year, but I would like to draw attention to the following points: Remuneration principles Shareholder alignment The bonus for 2016 will continue to be based 75% on profit A high proportion of reward is delivered in the form of equity, ensuring and 25% on Guest Service but for 2016, the financial metric Executives have a strong alignment with shareholders.
1 1 will be Operating Profit, replacing PBT.
The Committee believes 1 that Operating Profit is a better measure of trading performance Competitive and is a key headline figure used in the annual and half year reports.
Providing competitive reward that promotes the long-term success of The Committee will continue to set demanding targets for both the business whilst enabling the attraction, retention and motivation 1 Operating Profit and Guest Service.
Reflecting that approach and of high calibre senior Executives.
in line with typical practice, the Committee will set a Threshold at which point 6.25% will be payable, with 42.5% payable at Performance-linked Target and full pay-out at Stretch performance.
The earnings A significant part of an Executives reward is linked to the performance opportunity at on target is slightly lower than in 2015 50%.
of the business with a clear line of sight between business performance The Maximum opportunity remains at 100% of base salary.
and delivery of shareholder value.
The Remuneration Committee believes that setting long-term incentive plan targets should reflect the Companys strategy.
Straightforward The impact of the NLW, continued evolution of the market The remuneration structure is simple to understand for participants and and the priorities outlined by the new Chief Executive, will shareholders and is aligned to the strategic priorities of the business.
continue to shape strategy and further work is required to ensure that incentive plan targets remain appropriate.
With Strategic priorities this in mind the Committee has agreed to delay the grant of Focus the business on the most attractive market spaces within PRSP awards covering the 2016-18 performance period to eating and drinking-out.
allow for this work to be completed.
This delay will allow the Develop superior brand propositions with high levels of Committee further time to consider the structure of the PRSP consumer relevance.
performance condition, within the constraints of the agreed Recruit, retain and develop engaged people who deliver excellent remuneration policy.
Irrespective of the outcome of this review service for our guests.
it is the intention that TSR will remain as a measure, accounting Generate high returns on investment through scale advantage.
for at least 50% of any award and retaining the current comparator Maintain a sound financial base.
If significant changes to the current performance measures or targets are proposed then leading shareholders FY 2015 annual bonus 1 and shareholder representative bodies will be consulted, The annual bonus was based on two elements: 75% on PBT and 25% prior to any awards being granted.
on Guest Service as measured by our NPS.
Year-on-year improvements 1 No salary increases will apply for the Finance Director for 2016. have been made against both performance measures.
PBT increased by 7% to 184m but still falling short of the threshold level of This Annual Statement and the Annual Report on Remuneration performance set by the Committee.
will be subject to an advisory vote at the January 2016 AGM.
The Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the NPS scores increased by 2% over the year, and scores are now at their last AGM and while not required by the regulations, for ease of highest ever level at 65%.
However, as the threshold level of financial reference, is set out in full on pages 54 to 61. performance has not been achieved, no award under this element has been made.
The Committee is committed to maintaining an open and constructive dialogue with our shareholders on remuneration matters.
If you have No bonus awards have been made to Executive Directors in FY 2015. any comments or questions on any element of the report, please email me, care of Craig Provett, Director of Compensation & Benefits, at Remco@mbplc.
com Imelda Walsh Chair of the Remuneration Committee 23 November 2015 This report has been prepared on behalf of the Board and has been approved by the Board.
The report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act disclosure regulations the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
54 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Report on Directors remuneration continued At a glance continued FY 2015 PRSP vesting The PRSP awards granted in 2012 had a performance period ending on 26 September 2015.
50% of the award was based on relative TSR performance 1 and 50% on EPS growth.
Target Actual % vesting Total Shareholder Return relative to peer group Median to median x 1.35 Below median Nil 1 Compound annual adjusted EPS growth 8% 16% CAGR 9.38% 37.9 1 TSR performance was below median and therefore this part of the award lapsed.
EPS growth of 9.38% p. a. over the period will result in 37.9% of this part of the award vesting on 25 November 2015.
Overall, 19% of the total award will vest.
FY 2015 single figure remuneration for Executive Directors Short-term Pension related Long-term Total Basic salaries Taxable benefits incentives benefits incentives remuneration 000 000 000 000 000 000 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 Alistair Darby 540 18 95 225 878 Tim Jones 424 17 75 124 640 Total 964 35 170 349 1,518 Alistair Darby stepped down and resigned from the Board on 26 September 2015.
Phil Urban was appointed as Chief Executive and joined the Board on 27 September 2015.
Approach for FY 2016 Salary The new CEOs salary is 510,000 and will not be reviewed until 1 January 2017.
The Finance Directors salary remains unchanged at 426,500.
A pension contribution or cash equivalent of 20% of salary, will continue to apply.
Benefits and pension 1 Annual bonus No change to potential quantum 100% of salary.
75% will be based on Operating Profit the reasons for this change of profit measure are given on page 69 and 25% on Guest Service.
Half of any bonus payable will be deferred in shares and released in equal parts after 12 and 24 months.
The Committee has decided to delay the grant of PRSP awards covering the 2016-18 performance period.
This delay will allow the Committee further PRSP time to consider the structure of the PRSP performance condition, within the constraints of the agreed remuneration policy, to ensure that the measures and targets remain appropriate.
Policy report This section of the report sets out the Companys remuneration policy The Committee considers a broad range of internal and external as approved at the 2015 AGM and the performance scenario charts information in determining policy: this includes a review of external have been updated to reflect changes to remuneration from 2016. benchmarking information when reviewing Executive Directors base pay and as required on appointment of a new Executive Director The Committee is constituted in accordance with the recommendations or Executive Committee member.
While market data is provided of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The full terms to the Committee by its independently appointed advisers, such of reference of the Committee are available on our website: data provides the context for setting pay levels and the Committee www.
com investors businessconduct boardcommittees does not consider it in isolation.
The Committees responsibilities include: The remuneration policy for Executive Directors set out over the making recommendations to the Board on the Companys following pages supports the business needs of the Company, remuneration policy for Executive Directors and senior Executives ensuring it promotes the long-term success of the business whilst giving full consideration to the Code and setting the remuneration enabling the Company to attract, retain and motivate senior Executives for Executive Directors and the Chairman, including pension rights of a high calibre.
The Committee is satisfied that the remuneration and compensation payments: policy supports the Companys business strategy of growing long-term taking account of all factors necessary when determining the shareholder value and appropriately balances fixed and variable policy, the objective of which shall be to ensure remuneration policy remuneration.
With a high proportion of reward delivered in the promotes the long-term success of the Company without paying form of equity, this ensures that Executives have strong alignment more than is necessary: and with shareholders through the Companys share price.
aligning Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders by providing the potential to earn significant rewards where For clarity of reporting, references to the Sharesave Plan Sharesave, significant shareholder value has been delivered.
Share Incentive Plan SIP, Performance Restricted Share Plan PRSP and Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan STDIP refer The Committee is mindful of a broad range of stakeholders in the both to share awards under these original schemes and, following business and accordingly takes account of a range of factors when the expiry of these schemes for grant purposes, subsequent awards setting remuneration policy including market conditions, pay and under their respective replacement schemes on substantially the benefits in relevant comparator organisations, terms and conditions same terms.
Both the original schemes and their replacements in of employment across the Group, the Companys risk appetite and 2013 were approved by shareholders.
Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 55 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Policy table The table below summarises each element of the remuneration policy applicable to Executive Directors.
Purpose and Recovery or link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics withholding Base salary Provides a sound Salaries are normally subject to annual review.
Normally set broadly around mid-market Executive Directors performance is a factor No recovery or withholding basis on which levels with increases in line with that of considered when determining salaries.
Salary levels may be influenced by: to attract and the Companys UK workforce.
Performance is reviewed in line with the applies.
role, experience or performance: established performance review process retain Executives Percentage increases beyond those of appropriate Group profitability and prevailing market in place across the Group.
granted to the wider workforce may be calibre to deliver conditions: and awarded in certain circumstances such as the strategic periodic external benchmarking of similar when there is a change in the individuals objectives of roles at comparable companies by size role or responsibility or where there has the Group.
been a fundamental change in the scale To reflect the or nature of the Company.
Any increase is normally effective from market value of 1 January.
In addition, a higher increase may the role, personal be made where an individual had Payable in cash, four-weekly throughout the contribution, been appointed to a new role at below year.
experience and market salary while gaining experience.
Subsequent demonstration of strong performance may result in a salary increase that is higher than for the wider workforce.
There may also be circumstances where the Committee agrees to pay above mid-market levels to secure or retain an individual who is considered, in the judgement of the Committee, to possess significant and relevant experience which is required to enable the delivery of the Companys strategy.
Annual Performance Bonus cash and shares Provides a direct Bonus payment level is determined by the Currently, the normal maximum payment At least 75% of bonus will be based on financial Clawback and link between the Committee by reference to performance is 100% of base salary.
This may be a single measure or a mix malus will apply achievement of against the targets set by the Committee of metrics as determined by the Committee.
to the cash bonus At the discretion of the Committee, annual business prior to the commencement of the and deferred the maximum earnings potential may No more than 25% will be based on non-financial performance performance year.
The cash element of the shares where be increased in line with the plan rules measures or personal business objectives.
bonus is normally payable in December there has been up to 150% of base salary.
Payment of non-financial measures may be following the end of the financial year.
a misstatement Deferred bonus, subject to a financial performance threshold.
of the accounts, awarded in shares, Up to half of any bonus award is payable Up to 50% of bonus may be earned for achieving or other data, provides a retention in cash.
At least half of any bonus award a demanding target with full payout for or a serious element and is deferred as shares under the terms of achieving a second, more demanding target.
misdemeanour additional alignment the STDIP below.
or serious of interests to The nature of the performance measure s Key terms of the STDIP are: misconduct by shareholders.
and the targets are reviewed in advance of deferred bonus share awards are the participant each new award.
normally released in two equal amounts has occurred prior The Committee has the discretion to vary the 12 and 24 months after deferral: and to payment or mix of measures or to introduce new measures vesting or within at the discretion of the Committee to reflect business need.
two years of dividends paid between grant and As the bonus is subject to performance payment or vesting may accrue on vested shares.
conditions, any deferred bonus is not subject vesting of shares.
The Committee may alter the bonus outcome if it considers that the payout is inconsistent with the Companys overall performance taking account of any factors it considers relevant.
This will help ensure that payouts reflect overall Company performance during the period.
The Committee will consult with leading investors before any exercise of its discretion to increase the bonus outcome.
Performance Restricted Share Plan PRSP To incentivise Discretionary annual award of nominal The normal maximum annual award Performance condition is measured over Clawback and delivery of sustained cost options.
of nominal cost options is 200% of three financial years.
malus applies on growth through base salary.
the same basis as Vested options are exercisable immediately The current performance condition includes superior long-term the annual bonus.
The maximum award may be increased EPS growth and total shareholder return performance, in line with the plan rules to 250% of TSR relative to a peer group of comparator At the discretion of the Committee vested provide an element base salary.
Any increase to the normal companies.
options attract Dividend Accrued Shares of retention and maximum award of 200% of base salary, between award and vesting.
For each element, 25% of the award will increase alignment other than in exceptional circumstances vest for threshold performance.
Under the rules of the PRSP, conditional such as recruitment, would also be award will vest for maximum performance.
share awards may also be granted subject to prior consultation with Straight-line vesting applies between threshold although there is currently no plan leading investors.
The Committee has the flexibility to vary the Non-pensionable.
mix of measures or to introduce new measures.
The Committee will consult with leading investors before implementing any change.
The Committee may alter the vesting outcome if it considers that the level of vesting is inconsistent with the Companys overall performance taking account of any factors it considers relevant.
This will help ensure that vesting reflects overall Company performance during the period.
The Committee will consult with leading investors before any exercise of its discretion to increase the vesting outcome.
56 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Report on Directors remuneration continued Purpose and Recovery or link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics withholding All-Employee Share Plans To underpin All eligible employees, including the Sharesave: Maximum savings up to Sharesave: No performance metrics apply.
Sharesave: the employee Executive Directors, can participate in HMRC limits currently 500 per month No recovery SIP: No performance metrics apply.
engagement strategy the HM Revenue & Customs HMRC over a three or five year maturity period.
or withholding and encourage approved Sharesave and SIP.
SIP: Maximum Free Share award up to employees to have Sharesave: all eligible employees can HMRC limit currently 3,600 per tax SIP: No recovery a financial stake save over a three or five year maturity period.
Partnership Shares up to HMRC or withholding in the future of Proceeds from the savings contract may be limit currently with an initial value of applies.
used to acquire shares in the Company at up to 1,800 per tax year.
an option price fixed at the date of invitation.
SIP: all eligible employees are invited to participate.
A Free Share award is made annually.
Free shares are typically held in trust for at least three years.
In addition, eligible employees may purchase, from their gross pay, Partnership Shares.
Partnership Shares are held in trust and can be released at any time.
Income tax and National Insurance Contributions are normally payable on the value of shares released within five years of purchase.
The Committee has discretion under the SIP rules to operate Matching Share and Dividend Share elements, although there is currently no plan to do so.
Pension or cash allowance To provide a Payment into a Company Pension, Personal The Company contribution is a maximum No performance metrics apply.
No recovery of 20% of base salary.
or withholding market-aligned Individual Pension and or a cash allowance in retirement benefit lieu of Company pension contributions once applies.
statutory limits Fixed Protection and Annual Allowance are reached, or a combination of both.
Other benefits To provide Benefits include but are not limited to In line with market practice, the value No performance metrics apply.
No recovery market-aligned private healthcare, life assurance, annual of benefits may vary from year to year or withholding benefits.
health check, employee assistance depending on the cost to the Company applies other than programme, use of a Company vehicle from third-party suppliers.
if relocation costs or cash equivalent, and discounts on food were provided.
and associated drinks purchased in our A proportion of businesses.
Private healthcare is provided any relocation for the Executive, spouse or partner and costs may be dependent children.
recovered where a Director leaves Discount vouchers are provided on the the employment same basis to all employees and can be of the Group redeemed in any of our managed businesses within two years provided the purchase is a personal, of appointment or not a business, expense.
Relocation or the temporary provision of accommodation may be offered where the Company requires a Director to relocate.
Expatriate allowances may be offered where required.
Travel and, if relevant, related expenses such as accommodation may be reimbursed on a gross of tax basis.
Executive Directors may become eligible for any new benefits introduced to a wider set of other Group employees.
Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 57 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Purpose and Recovery or link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics withholding Shareholding policy To align the interests The Chief Executive is required to hold n a n a n a of the Executive Mitchells & Butlers shares to the value of Directors with a minimum of 150% of base salary.
Other shareholders and Executive Directors are required to hold promote a long-term Mitchells & Butlers shares to the value of approach to risk a minimum of 100% of base salary.
management Except for those sold to cover the acquisition cost together with the associated income tax and National Insurance Contributions, Executive Directors will normally be required to retain shares arising from share schemes until the minimum level of ownership required has been achieved.
It is expected that the guideline will normally be achieved within five years of appointment to the Board.
Only shares owned outright by the Executive Director or a connected person are included.
Shares or share options which are subject to a performance condition are not included.
Deferred shares and options which are vested but unexercised are also not included.
The value of the Shareholding will be the number of shares owned multiplied by the average share price over the previous three months up to the date of valuation.
Notes to the policy table Table 1 summarises the reasons behind the selection of the performance metrics, and sets out the categories of employee, other than Executive Directors, who are eligible to participate in each scheme.
Table 2 compares the remuneration and benefits received by Executive Directors with that received by other Group employees.
Table 1 Element Notes The main emphasis of the annual plan is to reward management for the achievement of financial targets such as profit growth, which is a key indicator of the Annual Performance Bonus Companys performance.
Non-financial measures are intended to measure whether management are delivering against key lead performance indicators.
Targets are determined annually by the Committee.
All salaried employees participate in a bonus scheme.
Save for certain operational and operational support roles where some, or all, of the annual bonus relates directly to the performance of the business or area for which the participant is responsible, a common annual bonus target applies across all participating employees.
Retail staff do not participate in any bonus scheme.
PRSP Senior employees, including Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee, participate in the PRSP.
No long-term incentive plans apply for any other employees.
Measures for Executive Directors include: 1 EPS growth which is a measure of overall profitability of the business for investors over the long term and therefore is a fundamental element of aligning shareholders interests with those of executives.
Relative TSR performance which provides a measure of long-term success of the Company relative to an appropriate group of peer comparators.
1 From 2015 onwards EPS will be the only measure for participants below Executive Committee level.
Table 2 Remuneration and Benefits Provision of Company A Company car or cash alternative is provided only where it is determined that there is a commercial requirement or business need to do so.
car or cash alternative Private healthcare The majority of employees entitled to receive private healthcare do so on an employee only basis.
Private healthcare is not provided to assistant management appointed on or after 30 September 2012, or to retail staff.
Health check A Company funded health check is available on request to senior and middle management retail support employees.
Other salaried employees have access to online health and wellbeing support through the Companys Employee Assistance Programme EAP.
Employee Assistance The EAP is available to all salaried employees and provides employees with confidential health and wellbeing help and support.
The EAP is not available Programme to retail staff.
Pension The Company contribution to the DC Choice pension plan is between 4.5% and 15% of base salary: assistant management and retail staff employees who are not eligible for the DC Choice pension plan receive a Company contribution of either 1x the member contribution up to 3% of Qualifying Earnings assistant management scheme or the statutory minimum automatic enrolment scheme.
Life assurance Assistant management and retail staff employees who are not eligible to join the DC Choice pension plan do not have life assurance.
Relocation Relocation may be made available to Retail Support Centre employees where the Company requires an employee to relocate for business purposes.
Relocation is not normally provided to retail management or retail staff.
Discount vouchers The discount voucher scheme is approved by HMRC: as the amount payable by the employee, after application of the discount, exceeds the cost of goods the scheme is not considered to be a benefit in kind for tax purposes.
Other benefits Other benefits such as childcare vouchers, bike to work and private dental cover are not listed above as a taxable benefit to the Executive Directors.
Where an Executive Director participates, he does so at his own cost as the benefit is administered by, but not funded by, the Company.
NICwise, a National Insurance efficient way for a member to make contributions to the pension plan, is provided at no cost to the employee or Company, The range of benefits offered to Executive Directors is offered to all senior management employees of the Group.
Shareholding policy The shareholding policy is only in place for Executive Directors.
58 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Report on Directors remuneration continued Legacy arrangements For the avoidance of doubt, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former Directors before the current legislation on remuneration policies came into force or before an individual became a Director such as the payment outstanding on incentive awards even where it is not consistent with the policy prevailing at the time such commitment is fulfilled.
Incentive plan discretions The Committee will operate the incentive plans described in the policy table according to their respective rules, the policy set out above and in accordance with the Listing Rules, applicable legislation and HMRC guidance where relevant.
The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of these plans.
These include but are not limited to the following: who participates in the plans: the timing of grant of award and or payment: the size of award and or payment, subject to policy limits: the choice of and adjustment of performance measures and targets for each incentive plan in accordance with the policy set out above and the rules of each plan: discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control or reconstruction: determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified categories for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment under the plan rules: and adjustments required in certain circumstances eg rights issues, corporate restructuring, on a change of control and special dividends.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees Purpose and Recovery or link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics withholding Fees To attract and retain Payable in cash, four-weekly throughout Where a Non-Executive Director No performance metrics apply.
No recovery Non-Executive the year.
undertakes additional responsibilities, or withholding Directors of appropriate other than the chairing of a committee, applies.
Fees are normally reviewed annually with calibre and experience.
additional fees may be set, eg for a any increase usually taking effect from Senior Independent Director.
The Chairmans fee is reviewed annually by the Committee without the Chairman present.
Remuneration policy for the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Company Chairman and Executive Directors by reference to companies of similar size and sector as well as time commitment and responsibilities.
Non-Executive Directors receive a base fee and an additional fee for chairing a committee.
Travel, accommodation and other related expenses incurred in carrying out the role will be paid by the Company including, if relevant, any gross up for tax.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Companys bonus arrangements, share schemes, benefit schemes other than the all-employee discount voucher scheme or pension plans.
Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 59 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Illustrations of application of remuneration policy A key principle of the Groups remuneration policy is that variable short and long-term reward should be linked to the financial performance of the Group.
The charts below show the composition of the new CEOs and the Finance Directors remuneration at minimum, on-target and maximum levels of performance in FY 2016.
Chief Executive 000 Finance Director 000 2,500 2,500 2,148 2,000 2,000 47.5% 1,542 1,500 1,500 38.7% 1,090 23.4% 849 1,000 1,000 23.7% 17.6% 27.7% 19.9% 618 21.4% 519 500 500 100% 56.7% 28.8% 100% 61.0% 33.6% 0 0 Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Fixed pay Short-term incentives Long-term incentives Fixed pay Short-term incentives Long-term incentives The performance scenarios demonstrate the proportion of maximum remuneration which would be payable in respect of each remuneration element at each of the performance levels.
In developing these scenarios the following assumptions have been made: Minimum Only the fixed elements of remuneration are payable.
The fixed element consists of base salary, benefits and pension.
Base salary is the salary effective at 1 January 2016.
Benefits are based on actual FY 2015 figures and include company car, healthcare and taxable expenses.
Pension is the cash allowance and or Company pension contribution payable in respect of base salary from 1 January 2016.
On-target In addition to the minimum, this reflects the amount payable for on-target performance under the short and long-term incentive plans: 42.5% of base salary is payable under the short-term incentive plan: and 25% of the award 50% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 35% of base salary for the Finance Director is payable under the long-term incentive plan.
Maximum In addition to the minimum, maximum payment is achieved under both the short and long-term incentive plans such that: 100% of base salary is payable under the short-term incentive plan: and 200% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 140% of base salary for the Finance Director is payable under the long-term incentive plan.
A breakdown of the elements included in the application of remuneration policy to the remuneration charts is shown in the table below: Fixed 000 Short-term plan 000 Long-term plan 000 Base Pay Benefits Pension Total Fixed On-target Maximum On-target Maximum Chief Executive 510 18 90 618 217 510 255 1,020 Finance Director 426.5 17 75 518.5 181.3 426.5 149.3 597.1 Note: The value received under the short-term plan is the gross value of awards before 50% is deferred into shares.
The values received under the short-term plan and long-term incentive plan do not take into account dividend accrued shares that are payable on the vesting of awards nor any changes in share price.
60 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Report on Directors remuneration continued Service contracts Executive Directors contracts The table below summarises key elements of the service contracts applicable to Executive Directors: Notice period Executive Directors are employed under service contracts that may be terminated by the Company at any time on one years notice.
a Any payment made in lieu of notice would comprise base salary only and may be payable in instalments in line with the established salary payment dates until the expiry of the notice period or, if earlier, the date on which alternative employment or other engagement is secured with the same or higher base salary.
If employment is secured at a lower rate of base salary, subsequent instalments of the payment in lieu of notice shall be reduced by the value of alternative income.
Service contracts contain a provision enabling the Company to put the Executive Director on garden leave after notice to terminate the service contract has been given by either party.
During this period, the Executive will be entitled to base salary only.
Termination If an Executive Directors employment with the Group ends during the financial year, normally any entitlement to bonus for that year is forfeited.
However, if the individual leaves by reason of ill-health, injury, disability, retirement, redundancy, death or sale of his employing business or company or if the Committee so decides in any other case, at the Committees discretion the Executive Director may receive a bonus pro-rated to time employed in the year or to such later date as the Committee may decide.
The Committee may decide, at its discretion, to pay the bonus all in cash.
If an Executive Director ceases employment following the end of the financial year but before payment of the bonus in respect of that year, there is no entitlement to a bonus but the Committee may, at its discretion, pay a bonus for that year.
Any such bonus, at the Committees discretion, may be all in cash.
If an Executive Director ceases employment prior to the release of Bonus Award Shares under the STDIP for the same specified good leaver reasons as set out above, the Committee, at its discretion, may release the Bonus Award Shares and associated Dividend Accrued Shares at the date of termination.
Otherwise, the shares will be released on the normal release date.
If the Director leaves for any other reason, his entitlement to Bonus Award Shares and associated Dividend Accrued Shares is forfeited, unless the Committee decides otherwise.
If an Executive Director dies before an Award under the PRSP has vested, vesting of the award and associated Dividend Accrued Shares will occur as soon as practicable based on performance and on a time pro-rated basis.
If the Executive Director ceases employment for the same defined good leaver reasons as are specified above, the Award and associated Dividend Accrued Shares will vest following the end of the normal performance period and on a time pro-rated basis.
If employment ceases for any other reason, the Award will normally lapse, unless the Committee decides otherwise except that if employment ceases by reason of gross misconduct the Award and associated Dividend Accrued Shares must lapse.
The Committee has no discretion in relation to shares or options held under the all-employee share plans SIP and Sharesave : on termination these will vest, become exercisable or lapse in accordance with the legislation governing tax favoured plans.
This arrangement applied to Alistair Darby and applies to Phil Urban.
Any payments in lieu of notice in respect of Tim Jones, whose appointment and service contract pre-dates 27 June 2012 the relevant date for the purposes of the regulations and does not fall within the current policy, will comprise base salary and contractual benefits only.
In the event that the Company terminates an Executive Directors service contract other than in accordance with the terms of his contract, the Committee will act in the best interests of the Company, and ensure there is no reward for failure.
When determining what compensation, if any, is to be paid to the departing Executive Director, the Committee will give full consideration to the circumstances of the termination, the Executive Directors performance, the terms of the service contract relating to notice and payments in lieu of notice, and the obligation of that Executive Director to mitigate any loss which he may suffer as a result.
Although the Company would seek to minimise termination costs, the Committee may in appropriate circumstances provide other elements in a leaving Directors termination package, including without limitation : compensation for the waiver of statutory rights in exchange for the Director executing a settlement agreement: payment of the leaving Directors legal fees in connection with his termination arrangements: and payment of outplacement fees.
In addition, the Committee may determine that the Director should continue to be engaged by the Company on consultancy or other terms following cessation of his directorship.
Details of the service contracts of Executive Directors are set out below.
Notice period Minimum notice Compensation on Director Contract start date Unexpired term from Company period from Director change of control a Alistair Darby 08 10 12 Indefinite 12 months 6 months No b Phil Urban 27 9 15 Indefinite 12 months 6 months No Tim Jones 18 10 10 Indefinite 12 months 6 months No a. Alistair Darby stepped down from the Board on 26 September 2015. b. Phil Urban became Chief Executive and joined the Board on 27 September 2015.
Phils continuous service date started on 5 January 2015, the date on which he joined the Company as Chief Operating Officer.
Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 61 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Executive Directors may accept one external Non-Executive In the event that a buyout award is necessary to secure the services appointment with the Companys prior approval, as long as this is not of an Executive Director then the structure of the award will mirror, as likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
Fees received may be retained by far as is possible, the arrangements in place at the incoming Executive the Executive Director.
On 30 October 2014 Tim Jones was appointed Directors previous employer, and may include cash and or an award as an independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit of shares.
Any share awards made outside of the Companys existing and Risk Committee of Poundland Group plc.
No other Non-Executive plans may have no or different performance conditions or a shorter appointments applied in the year to 26 September 2015. vesting period compared to the Companys existing plans.
Shareholders will be informed of any buyout arrangements at the time of the Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors appointment.
Non-Executive Directors, including the Company Chairman, do not have service contracts but serve under letters of appointment Recruitment of Non-Executive Directors which provide that they are initially appointed until the next AGM Chairman when they are required to stand for election.
In line with the Companys The Committee will recommend to the Board a fee appropriate to Articles, all Directors, including Non-Executive Directors, will the experience and responsibilities of the new appointee.
stand for re-election at the 2016 AGM.
This is also in line with the recommendations set out in paragraph B.
Other Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors appointments are terminable without The fee will be set in line with the fee structure for Non-Executive notice and with no entitlement to compensation.
Payment of fees will Directors in place at the date of appointment.
The dates of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors to the Committee are set out on page 62.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Committee is regularly updated throughout the year on pay and Douglas McMahon and Ron Robson were appointed to the Board conditions applying to Group employees.
Where significant changes pursuant to the terms of the Piedmont Deed of Appointment, are proposed to employment conditions elsewhere in the Group these information on which is set out on pages 38 and 39.
On 13 November are highlighted for the attention of the Committee at an early stage.
2015 Douglas McMahon stepped down from the Board and Josh Levy The Committee is informed of the base pay review budget applicable to was appointed as his replacement Piedmont representative.
other employees and is cognisant of changes to the National Minimum Wage when considering the pay of Executive Directors.
Hourly paid Copies of both the individual letters of appointment for Non-Executive employees received an average pay increase of 2.5% with effect from Directors, and the service contracts for Executive Directors are 27 September 2015.
During 2015 the Board considered in detail the available at the Registered Office of the Company during normal impact of the introduction of the NLW, and in particular how the business hours and on our website.
Copies will also be available introduction of the NLW will impact on the ability to retain and recruit to shareholders to view at the 2016 AGM.
employees of all ages across all retail job roles.
Recruitment of Executive Directors Employees are not specifically consulted on Executive Remuneration.
Where it is necessary to appoint a replacement or additional Executive All employees are, however, invited to take part in our annual Your Say Director, the Committee will set a base salary appropriate to the employee engagement survey in which they have an opportunity to experience and responsibilities of the new appointee and in line provide anonymous feedback on a wide range of topics of interest or with our policy set out on page 55. concern to them.
The results of the survey are reviewed by the Board: any significant concerns over remuneration would be considered The maximum level of variable pay is 400% of base salary 150% in separately by the Committee and, if appropriate, taken into account relation to annual cash bonus STDIP and 250% in relation to the PRSP.
when determining the remuneration policy.
Depending on the timing and responsibilities of the appointment Consideration of shareholder views it may be necessary to set different annual bonus STDIP performance This policy was set following consultation with major shareholders and measures and targets as applicable to other Executive Directors.
Major shareholders and their representative bodies will continue to be consulted where material changes to the Benefits including pension, Company vehicle or cash allowance, Executive Directors remuneration policy are being considered.
healthcare, life assurance, health check and, where applicable, relocation assistance would be consistent with the principles of the policy as set out on page 56.
For an internal appointment, his or her existing pension arrangements may continue to operate which may include participation as an employee deferred member in the defined benefit plan, which is closed to future accrual and any existing awards would continue over their original vesting period and remain subject to their terms as at the date of grant.
62 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Report on Directors remuneration continued Annual report This section details the remuneration of the Executive and Advice to the Committee Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman for the financial During the year, the Committee continued to receive advice from year ended 26 September 2015.
The report will be subject to an New Bridge Street NBS, a trading name of Aon Plc.
NBS were advisory vote at the AGM on 28 January 2016. appointed following a competitive tender in 2014.
Total fees payable in respect of remuneration advice in the reporting year totalled 1 Committee membership and operation 62,719.
Neither NBS nor Aon Plc provide any other services to Committee members were appointed on 11 July 2013.
date Imelda Walsh was appointed as Committee Chair.
Committee members are listed below.
Advice was also received from the Companys legal advisers, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, on the operation of the Companys Date of Date of employee share schemes and on corporate governance matters.
Name appointment Name appointment Eversheds LLP also provided advice in relation to pension schemes.
Imelda Walsh Chair 11 July 2013 Bob Ivell 11 July 2013 The Committee is satisfied that the advice received from its advisers Colin Rutherford 11 July 2013 Ron Robson 11 July 2013 was objective and independent.
Stewart Gilliland 11 July 2013 Eddie Irwin 11 July 2013 The Committee determines the policy and individual remuneration Independent Non-Executive Directors.
package for each Executive Director and the Company Chairman.
In addition, the Committee makes recommendations to the Board on Committee activity during the year any new long-term incentive plans, but such plans are approved by The Committee met five times during the year and agenda items the Board as a whole and, where necessary, by shareholders.
included the following: Members of management including Susan Martindale, the Group October 2014 HR Director and Craig Provett, the Director of Compensation & PRSP arrangements for the 2015 award Benefits, are invited to attend meetings on remuneration matters where appropriate.
They are not present when matters affecting their own November 2014 remuneration arrangements are decided.
The Company Chairman Review of Executive Directors salaries does not attend Board or Committee meetings when his remuneration Update on Directors shareholdings is under review.
Alistair Darby and Tim Jones were present at meetings Review of Directors expenses where the Companys long and short-term incentive arrangements and Release of the first tranche of the 2013 deferred bonus award share schemes were discussed.
However, each declared an interest in the matters under review.
March 2015 Impact of Accounting Standard IAS 19 on PRSP targets 1.
20% VAT was paid on the advisers fees shown above.
Impact of M&A activity on TSR measure applying to existing PRSP awards Update on Directors shareholdings June 2015 Projected PRSP vesting Executive Remuneration trends Consideration of terms and conditions across the Group 2016 bonus arrangements, initial discussion September 2015 Alistair Darbys settlement agreement Phil Urbans appointment terms Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 63 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Statement of voting at 2014 AGM At the 2014 AGM, the resolutions on the Directors Remuneration Policy and Annual Report on Remuneration received the following votes from shareholders: a b Votes cast Votes for % Votes against % Votes withheld Directors Remuneration Policy 349,508,055 347,071,910 99.30 2,436,145 0.70 190,129 Annual Report on Remuneration 348,545,026 348,330,462 99.94 214,564 0.06 1,153,158 a.
The For vote includes those giving the Company Chairman discretion.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the votes For or Against the resolution.
Votes For and Against are expressed as a percentage of votes cast.
Pay outcomes The tables and related disclosures set out on pages 63 to 67 on Directors remuneration, STDIP, share options, Share Incentive Plan and pension benefits have been audited by Deloitte LLP.
Directors remuneration The tables set out the single figure remuneration received by the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors during the reporting year.
Details of performance under the annual bonus plan are set out on page 64.
Taxable benefits for the year comprised car allowance, healthcare, taxable expenses and the award of free shares under the all-employee SIP as set out on page 66. b.
Based on the value of supplements paid in lieu of contributions to the Company Scheme.
c. As the share price at vesting for the 2012 PRSP award is unknown, its value based on the three month average share price to the end of the 2015 financial year of 385.7p.
d. Taxable benefits for Non-Executive Directors include cash payments made or accounted for by the Company relating to the reimbursement of expenses.
64 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Report on Directors remuneration continued Annual performance bonus and STDIP 1 The annual bonus and STDIP operate as set out in the policy section of this report.
For FY 2015, 75% was based on PBT and 25% was based on Guest Service measured by the Companys NPS.
1 The Group delivered PBT of 184m, a year-on-year increase of 12m, and 94.4% of target performance.
As a result no bonus is due in respect of the PBT measure.
NPS scores increased by 2% over the year, and scores are now at their highest ever level at 65%.
However, as the threshold level of financial performance has not been achieved, no award under this element has been made.
No bonus awards have been made to Executive Directors in FY 2015.
Long-term incentives vesting during the year During FY 2013 awards were made to Alistair Darby and Tim Jones under the terms of the PRSP to the value of 200% and 140% of their respective base salaries.
The performance condition has two independent elements, compound annual adjusted EPS growth and TSR performance against a group of peer companies, measured over a three year performance period ending 26 September 2015.
The table below summarises performance against each element of the performance condition.
2013-2015 PRSP performance conditions Target Actual % vesting Total Shareholder Return relative to peer group Median to median x 1.35 Below median Nil Compound annual adjusted EPS growth 8%-16% CAGR 9.38% 37.9% Enterprise Inns, Punch Taverns, Fuller Smith & Turner, Greene King, Marstons, Whitbread, J D Wetherspoon, Spirit Pub Company and The Restaurant Group.
From 2014 the reported adjusted EPS figure was affected by revisions to IAS 19 and as a result the net pensions finance charge is now deducted from underlying profit.
As this charge is not controllable by management, and can be significantly affected by the bond-market derived discount rate and triennial pensions valuation, the Committee has determined that the most appropriate and fair approach is to remove the impact of IAS 19 1 from the base and end EPS year in respect of this and future PRSP cycles to ensure a like-for-like comparison.
This approach has not changed the performance required to achieve vesting.
The table below sets out in detail how this decision has affected the vesting outcome of the 2013-2015 award: EPS p Reported 2012 EPS excludes IAS 19 charge 29.8 Reported 2015 EPS includes IAS 19 charge 35.7 IAS 19 Impact 3.3 Revised 2015 EPS for vesting excludes IAS 19 charge 39.0 1 As a result of adding back the IAS 19 charge to the 2015 EPS figure, the base and end years have been calculated on a consistent basis.
Compound annual growth over the period was 9.38% resulting in 37.9% of this element vesting.
Overall 19% of the 2013-2015 PRSP will vest.
The Remuneration Committee considers that this level of vesting is representative of the Companys overall performance over the three year period and has also taken into account other performance factors and key performance indicators as part of this assessment.
For example, over the PRSP performance period staff turnover has reduced, NPS is at its highest level and investment returns have improved.
In addition, the business has made good progress in enhancing its infrastructure and has completed the acquisition and integration of Orchid.
Alistair Darby will receive 58,216 shares and Tim Jones will receive 32,185 shares on 25 November 2015.
Payment for loss of office Alistair Darby stepped down as Chief Executive and resigned from the Company on 26 September 2015.
The Company was required to give Alistair Darby 52 weeks notice under the terms of his contract.
After careful consideration the Board determined it would not be in the best interests of the business for Alistair to work his contractual notice period, and therefore agreed to make a payment in lieu of notice of 52 weeks basic salary.
This will be paid in thirteen instalments, but each instalment will be reduced potentially to nil in the event that Alistair commences another role before 26 September 2016.
The Committee has agreed that Alistair should be treated as a good leaver for the purposes of incentive awards in recognition of his contribution to the business.
However, since the performance targets for the FY 2015 annual bonus were not achieved, no bonus is due to him.
The following applies for his outstanding share awards: The 2013 Deferred shares will be released in December 2015 in line with the normal cycle.
PRSP awards will be pro-rated for service and will vest subject to performance.
The 2013 award will vest in November 2015 at the normal time at 19%.
The Committee anticipates that the 2014 award will see little, if any, vesting, based on projected performance.
The 2014 SAYE and Free Share element of the all employee SIP have lapsed.
Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 65 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Company will make a contribution towards his legal fees in connection with these arrangements of up to 2,000 plus VAT.
These arrangements are all in accordance with the approved remuneration policy and were fully disclosed at the time Alistair Darbys leaving was announced to the London Stock Exchange.
Long-term incentive awards made in FY 2015 An award was made in accordance with the rules of the Performance Restricted Share Plan PRSP and as set out in the policy section of this report.
The independent elements of the performance measure for the November 2014 award, each of which accounts for 50% of the award, are summarised below: Threshold vesting target Maximum vesting target 1.
Compound annual adjusted Earnings Per Share EPS growth 25% will vest if the compound 100% will vest if compound annual 1 1 measured before exceptional items and other adjustments, annual EPS growth is 8%.
T otal Shareholder Return TSR relative to a peer group of 25% will vest for TSR performance 100% will vest for TSR performance comparator companies.
equivalent to the median of the equivalent to the upper quartile of comparator group.
The EPS and TSR conditions are measured over three years from the start of the financial year in which they are granted, ie the three financial years from 28 September 2014, ending in September 2017.
The TSR element of the award is also subject to a share price underpin and awards may only be exercised where the Mitchells & Butlers share price has equalled or exceeded the share price at the date of award within six months of the vesting date.
If this condition is not met, then the vested TSR element of the option will lapse.
Between threshold and maximum, vesting under each measure is on a straight-line basis.
Below threshold the award will lapse.
Comprises the constituents of the FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure group as at the date of grant.
Performance measurement under the PRSP, which is not re-tested, is reviewed and certified by the Companys auditor.
Details of awards made to Executive Directors under the PRSP are set out below.
Options Basis Market awarded of award price per Actual during the % of Basic share at planned Latest Face year to Annual Award award date vesting lapse value 26 09 15 Salary date p date date Executive Directors Alistair Darby 294,634 200 27 11 14 363.5 25 11 17 25 11 18 1,070,994 Tim Jones 161,856 140 27 11 14 363.5 25 11 17 25 11 18 588,346 Total 456,490 1,659,340 Face value is the maximum number of shares that would vest excluding any dividend shares that may accrue if the performance measure as described above is met in full, multiplied by the middle market quotation of a Mitchells & Butlers share on the business day immediately preceding the award.
196,423 of the options awarded lapsed on the termination of Alistair Darbys employment.
The aggregate option price of each award is 1.
All-employee Sharesave and SIP An award was made under each of the HMRC-approved all-employee share plans in line with the policy set out on page 56.
The tables below show the awards made to Directors under the Sharesave scheme and the free share element of the SIP award made during the year.
Sharesave Ordinary shares under option Shares awarded during the year Vested Exercised Closing Option Earliest Last Date of 28 09 14 during during balance at price exercise expiry grant to 26 09 15 period period 26 09 15 p date date Director Tim Jones 19 06 15 2,486 2,486 362.0 01 10 18 31 03 19 Total 2,486 2,486 66 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Report on Directors remuneration continued SIP Shares awarded Market price during Market price per share the year per share Normal at normal Lapsed 28 09 14 to Award at award vesting vesting date during 26 09 15 date p date p period Director Alistair Darby 776 19 06 15 463.8 19 06 18 776 Tim Jones 679 19 06 15 463.8 19 06 18 Total 1,455 776 Directors entitlements under the Partnership Share element of the SIP are set out as part of the Directors interests table on page 67.
PRSP, STDIP and other share awards The table below sets out details of the Executive Directors outstanding awards under the PRSP, STDIP and Sharesave SAYE.
50% of the PRSP award subject to a TSR condition and the other 50% is subject to adjusted EPS growth targets.
Adjusted EPS is affected by the adoption of IAS 19 and related changes in reporting: for the purposes of measuring EPS performance the impact of IAS 19 is excluded to ensure a like-for-like comparison between the base and end years.
The 2013-15 PRSP is due to vest in November 2015, at which point Alistair Darby will receive 58,216 shares and Tim Jones 32,185 shares.
c. Shares were pro-rated for service and lapsed on the termination of Alistair Darbys employment on 26 September 2015. d. Shares lapsed on the termination of Alistair Darbys employment on 26 September 2015. e. Shares released in two equal tranches 12 and 24 months after grant.
Date shown is the first release date.
Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 67 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Directors interests Executive Directors are expected to hold Mitchells & Butlers shares in line with the shareholding guidelines set out in the Remuneration Policy report.
Based on the valuation methodology as set out in the shareholding policy, Alistair Darbys shareholding was 75.9% 2014 63.8% of his basic annual salary and Tim Joness shareholding was 39.3% 2014 23.4% of his basic annual salary.
The shareholding policy requires that Executive Directors accumulate Mitchells & Butlers shares to the value of a minimum of 100% of salary within five years of appointment to the Board 150% for the CEO.
Tim Jones completed five years as an Executive Director on 18 October 2015.
The Committee continues to pay close attention to Mr Joness shareholding and will take into account the number of shares Mr Jones has purchased, the impact of incentive plan vesting and his ongoing commitment to meet the requirement over time.
Includes Free Shares and Partnership Shares granted under the SIP.
Options granted under the Sharesave as detailed in the table on page 65 and deferred bonus awards granted under the STDIP.
c. Options granted under the PRSP as detailed in the table on page 65.
No share options were exercised in the year by either Alistair Darby or Tim Jones.
Directors shareholdings shares without performance conditions include shares held by connected persons.
The above shareholdings are beneficial interests and are inclusive of Directors holdings under the Share Incentive Plan both Free Share and Partnership Share elements.
Tim Jones acquired 4,945 shares under the Sharesave plan and acquired 79 shares under the Partnership Share element of the Share Incentive Plan between the end of the financial year and 23 November 2015.
None of the Directors has a beneficial interest in the shares of any subsidiary or in debenture stocks of the Company or any subsidiary.
The market price per share on 26 September 2015 was 322.3p and the range during the year to 26 September 2015 was 475.3p to 322.3p per share.
The Executive Directors as a group beneficially own 0.036% of the Companys shares.
68 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Report on Directors remuneration continued TSR performance graph The Companys TSR performance for the last six financial years is shown below against the FTSE 250 index.
The FTSE 250 index has been chosen to show TSR performance as the Company is a member of the FTSE 250.
Total shareholder return from 25 September 2009 to 26 September 2015 re-based to 100 220 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Mitchells & Butlers plc Source: Datastream FTSE 250 CEO earnings history Year ended 25 09 10 24 09 11 29 09 12 28 09 13 27 09 14 26 09 15 Alistair Darby a Single figure remuneration 000 982 642 878 Annual bonus outcome % of max 71.0 LTIP vesting outcome % of max n a n a 19.0 Bob Ivell b Single figure remuneration 000 557 69 c c Annual bonus outcome % of max n a n a c c LTIP vesting outcome % of max n a n a Jeremy Blood Single figure remuneration 000 397 50 d c Annual bonus outcome % of max n a c LTIP vesting outcome % of max n a Adam Fowle e Single figure remuneration 000 1,315 483 Annual bonus outcome % of max 87.6 16.0 LTIP vesting outcome % of max 16.2 24.2 a. Alistair Darby formally took up the position of CEO on 12 November 2012 following a short period of induction and handover.
The figure shown reflects the date of his appointment to the Board 8 October 2012. b.
Figure shown is up to and including 11 November 2012 as Bob Ivell remained Executive Chairman to this date.
c. The Director was not a participant in the plan.
d. Jeremy Blood was not a participant in the short-term incentive plan: at the discretion of the Board a payment of 100,000 was made in respect of his contribution as Interim Chief Executive.
This payment is included in the single remuneration figure 397,000 above.
Earnings exclude the fee payable for the period 26 September 2010 to 14 March 2011 during which Mr Blood served as a Non-Executive Director.
e. Earnings disclosed are to 15 March 2011 when Mr Fowle stepped down as CEO.
Change in remuneration of the CEO Salary Taxable Benefits Bonus 2015 2014 % Change 2015 2014 % Change 2015 2014 % Change CEO 539,925 531,334 1.6 14,810 14,483 2.3 0 0 0 Salaried employees 31,380 30,474 3.0 759 771 1.6 1,671 1,922 13.1 The change in CEO remuneration is compared to the change in average remuneration of all full time salaried employees, which includes house managers, assistant managers and kitchen managers employed in our businesses excluding Orchid.
Strategicreport 233 Governance 3469 Financialstatements 70115  116 69 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The level of bonus paid to salaried employees in 2015 has fallen by 13% in the year, reflecting business performance, and in particular a fall in the number of individual businesses that achieved their bonus targets.
Salaried employees with part-year service in either FY 2014 or FY 2015 have been excluded from the comparison figures.
Retail staff employees have been excluded from the comparator group as they are hourly paid, largely part time and do not participate in any bonus plans.
The CEO figures do not include LTIP awards or pension benefits as disclosed in the single figure table.
Relative importance of spend on pay m 8.5% 600 548 505 400 0% -0.7% 188 188 200 149 150 75.5% 86 49 0 0 0 Wages and Principal taxes Pension deficit Debt Service Dividend and salaries contributions Share Buy Back From note 6, Accounts, excludes share-based payments FY 2015 FY 2014 Business Rates, Corporation Tax, Employers NI Figures shown for wages and salaries consist of all earnings, including bonus.
In FY 2015 1.58m 0.29% was paid to Executive and Non-Executive Directors 2014 1.54m 0.3%.
Implementation of Remuneration Policy in Financial Year 2016 Executive Directors Salary Review The Chief Executives salary was reviewed upon his appointment to the Board and will be 510,000 for FY 2016.
No salary increases will apply for the Finance Director: salaries are next due to be reviewed in January 2017.
Annual performance bonus The Committee has reviewed the performance measures and the following changes will take effect for FY 2016: The bonus for 2016 will continue to be based 75% on profit and 25% on Guest Service but, for 2016, it is proposed that the financial metric 1 1 will be Operating Profit, replacing PBT.
The Committee believes that Operating Profit is a better measure of trading performance and is a key headline figure used in the annual and half year reports.
1 The Committee will continue to set demanding targets for both Operating Profit and Guest Service.
The Committee will set a threshold target at which point bonus will begin to accrue, with 42.5% of salary payable at Target and full pay-out at Stretch performance.
The earnings opportunity at on-target is slightly lower than 2015 50% of salary.
Maximum opportunity remains at 100% of base salary.
There will be no payout on the NPS element if profit is below a pre-determined threshold, which for FY 2016 is 98% of target operating profit.
If this is achieved, the threshold level of payout will be 6.25%.
1 Operating profit and NPS targets are considered to be commercially sensitive and will not be disclosed in advance.
However, retrospective disclosure of targets and performance against them will be provided in next years Directors remuneration report.
Long Term Incentive Plans The Committee has decided to delay the grant of PRSP awards covering the 2016-18 performance period.
This delay will allow the Committee further time to consider the structure of the PRSP performance condition, within the constraints of the agreed remuneration policy, to ensure that the measures and targets remain appropriate.
Irrespective of the outcome of this review it is the intention that TSR will remain as a measure, accounting for at least 50% of any award and retaining the current comparator group.
If significant changes to the current performance measures or targets are proposed then leading shareholders and shareholder representative bodies will be consulted prior to any awards being granted.
Non-Executive Directors fee review The fee applicable to the Chairman will remain at 285,000.
Non-Executive Directors fees also will remain unchanged.
Imelda Walsh Chair of the Remuneration Committee 23 November 2015 70 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements 71 Independent auditors report to the 91 3.3 Provisions members of Mitchells & Butlers plc 91 3.4 Goodwill and other 74 Group income statement intangible assets 75 Group statement of comprehensive 93 3.5 Acquisitions income 94 Section 4 Capital structure 76 Group balance sheet and financing costs 77 Group statement of changes 94 4.1 Net debt in equity 94 4.2 Borrowings 78 Group cash flow statement 96 4.3 Finance costs and revenue Notes to the financial statements 96 4.4 Financial instruments 79 Section 1 Basis of preparation 101 4.5 Pensions 81 Section 2 Results for the year 104 4.6 Share-based payments 81 2.1 Segmental analysis 105 4.7 Equity 82 2.2 Exceptional items 107 Section 5 Other notes 82 2.3 Operating costs 107 5.1 Related party transactions 84 2.4 Taxation 107 5.2 Subsidiaries 86 2.5 Earnings per share 108 5.3 Five year review 87 Section 3 Operating assets and liabilities 109 Mitchells & Butlers plc Company financial statements 87 3.1 Property, plant and equipment 110 Notes to the Mitchells & Butlers plc Company financial statements 90 3.2 Working capital
