Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Remuneration report Introduction from the DLC remuneration committee chairman I am pleased to present the Committees report on directors remuneration.
Due to Mondis DLC structure and our need to comply with both South African and UK regulation the remuneration report has been left largely unchanged from last year and comprises the directors remuneration policy and the annual report on remuneration.
The annual report on remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder resolution at the 2016 AGMs.
The directors remuneration policy, which remains unchanged since it was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGMs, will be tabled for a non-binding advisory vote to Mondi Limited shareholders in 2016 in accordance with South African regulations.
Under UK regulations the policy report isrequired to be put to a binding shareholder resolution every three years orsoonerifchanges are proposed.
Our remuneration policy for executive directors continues to be based on the principle of pay for performance and alignment with shareholders.
Annual bonuses are dependent Anne Quinn Chairman of the DLC remuneration committee on a scorecard of financial and non-financial elements, and 50% of any bonus is deferred into Mondi shares for three years.
The LTIP rewards sustained financial performance, measured through our percentage Return on Capital Employed ROCE, and our relative TSR compared to other international companies in our sector.
Executive directors are also required to build a personal shareholding in Mondi.
As described in the Strategic report, Mondis financial performance in the year under review was very strong.
ROCE performance for 2015 was 20.5%, compared with 17.2% the previous year, and EBITDA was 1,325 million, 17.7% higher than in 2014.
Bonus performance outcomes against the targets that were set are outlined in the annual report on remuneration.
The Committee has reviewed the disclosure of bonus performance metrics with a view to enhancing the information provided, with due regard to commercial sensitivity.
We have disclosed EBITDA and ROCE performance requirements on a prior year retrospective basis and have, for the year under review, provided enhanced disclosure of safety and personal objectives.
Performance outcomes are reflected in the remuneration received by directors: Annual bonuses of approximately 90% to 91% of the maximum have been awarded in respect of performance in 2015.
This recognises the Groups financial performance and strong performance against personal operational and strategic objectives that were set at the start of the year.
As a result of the tragic and unacceptable fatality of an employee engaged in Mondi operations the payment under the safety element of the bonus was limited to the portion which was attributable to total recordable incidents, where performance was good.
The performance period for the 2013 LTIP ended on 31 December 2015.
Half of the award was based on ROCE performance and the other half on relative TSR performance.
ROCE for the three-year performance period was 17.7%, above the applicable performance range of 10% to 16%.
The Groups TSR over the period was in excess of 150% 150.6% for Mondi Limited and 151.9% for Mondi plc which placed it in the top 25% of the comparator group.
As a result of this performance both the ROCE and TSR elements, and therefore the overall LTIP award, vested in their entirety.
Base salary increases of circa 2% were implemented with effect from 1 January 2016, after consideration of percentage increases for the wider employee population.
The Committee believes that the remuneration policy will continue to motivate our senior team to achieve the Groups objectives and deliver sustainable returns for our shareholders.
We also believe that the remuneration of executives during 2015 reflects our successes to date in the delivery of our strategy.
We are proposing the renewal of the BSP and LTIP plans at the 2016 AGMs, a year before the end of their 10-year terms.
The proposed changes have been designed to materially continue with the elements of the existing plans that have been operated to date, but with flexibility to take account of prevailing best practice expectations, e. g. post award retention periods for LTIPs.
If the renewed plans are approved, no further awards will be made under the current plans.
I trust that you will feel able to support this years remuneration resolutions.
Anne C Quinn Chairman of the DLC remuneration committee Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 115
