Directors remuneration policy The report The report has been prepared by the DLC remuneration committee the Committee and approved by the boards of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc together the Boards.
Deloitte & Touche and Deloitte LLP have independently audited the items stipulated in the regulations: executive directors and non-executive directors remuneration and associated footnotes on page 122: the table of share awards granted to executive directors and associated footnotes on pages 128 and 129: and the statement of directors shareholdings and share interests on page 127.
Directors remuneration policy This part of the directors remuneration report sets out the remuneration policy for the Group and has been prepared in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The policy has been developed taking into account the principles of the governance codes in South Africa and the UK and the views of our major shareholders and describes the policy to be applied from 2014 onwards.
The policy report was put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 Annual General Meetings.
The Groups remuneration policy has been set with the objective of attracting, motivating and retaining high calibre directors, in a manner that is consistent with best practice and aligned with the interests of the Groups shareholders.
Remuneration policy for executive directors is framed around the following key principles: remuneration packages should be set at levels that are competitive in the relevant market: the structure of remuneration packages and, in particular, the design of performancebased remuneration schemes, should be aligned with shareholders interests and should support the achievement of the Groups business strategy and the management of risk: a significant proportion of the remuneration of executive directors should be performance-based: the performance-based element of remuneration should be appropriately balanced between the achievement of short-term objectives and longer-term objectives: and the remuneration of executive directors should be set taking appropriate account of remuneration and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
116 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Executive directors remuneration policy table The following table summarises key elements of the remuneration of executive directors in accordance with reporting regulations: Component Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Reviewed annually by the Committee, taking account of Group performance, There is no prescribed maximum salary or Base To recruit and reward individual performance, changes in responsibility and levels of increase for annual increase.
However, increases will salary executives of a suitable thebroader employee population.
normally be no more than the general level calibre for the role and of increase in the UK market or the market Reference is also made to market median levels in companies of similar size against which the executives salary duties required.
On occasions a larger The Committee considers the impact of any base salary increase on the total increase may be needed to recognise, for remuneration package.
example, development in role or change inresponsibility.
Salaries and other elements of the remuneration package may be paid in different currencies as appropriate to reflect their geographic location.
Details of the outcome of the most recent review are provided in the annual report on remuneration.
The Group typically provides: Maximum values are determined by Benefits To provide market reference to market practice, avoiding car allowance or company car: competitive benefits.
paying more than is necessary.
medical insurance: death and disability insurance: limited personal taxation and financial advice: and other ancillary benefits, including relocation and assistance  as required.
The policy authorises the Committee to make minor changes to benefits provision from time to time, including if appropriate implementing all-employee share plans up to the limits approved by tax authorities.
Defined contribution to pension, or cash allowance of equivalent value.
Only Company contribution of 30% of base Pension To provide market base salary is pensionable.
salary for the chief executive and 25% of competitive pension base salary for other executive directors.
Awards are based on annual performance against a balanced scorecard of The policy permits a maximum annual Bonus To provide incentive metrics as determined by the Committee from time to time such as EBITDA bonus of up to 150% of base salary.
Share and reward for and percentage ROCE and safety.
These have the highest weighting currently The Committees practice has been Plan BSP annual performance 70% of the total.
Individual performance is also assessed against suitable to apply a limit of 150% for the chief objectives, and currently has a 30% weighting.
To also executive, and 120% i. e. below the policy The policy gives the Committee the authority to select suitable performance maximum for other executive directors.
provide sustained metrics, aligned to Mondis strategy and shareholders interests, and to assess alignment with the performance outcome.
shareholders through a Half of the award is delivered in cash and half in deferred shares which deferred component.
normally vest after three years subject to service conditions, and with no matching element.
On vesting of deferred shares, participants receive a bonus of equivalent value to the dividends that would have been payable on those shares between the date when the awards were granted and when they vest.
Clawback provisions apply to awards made since January 2011.
Individuals are considered each year for an award of shares that normally vest The maximum grant limit in the plan Long-Term To provide incentive after three years to the extent that performance conditions are met and in rulesand under this policy is 200% Incentive and reward for the accordance with the terms of the plan approved by shareholders.
ofbase salary face value of shares at Plan LTIP delivery of the Groups grant, to any individual in a single year.
Under the plan rules, the Committee has the ability to cash-settle awards, strategic objectives, if necessary, in exceptional circumstances.
There is no current intention for Individual awards, up to this limit, are awards to the executive directors to be delivered in this way.
determined each year by the Committee.
and provide further The Committees practice has been to Awards are granted subject to continued employment and satisfaction of alignment with make grants below this policy maximum challenging performance conditions measured over three years, which are set shareholders through as detailed in the annual report on by the Committee before each grant.
For awards to be granted in 2016, metrics comprise Total Shareholder 25% of the grant is available for threshold Return against a suitable peer group, and percentage ROCE, each with a performance, rising on a straight-line scale 50% weighting.
The vesting outcome can also be reduced, ifnecessary, to to 100% of the grant for performance at reflect the underlying or general performance of the Group.
measured over three calendar years, starting with the year of grant.
For awards granted from 2013 onwards, an amount equivalent to dividends that would have been payable on the unvested share awards are rolled up and paid out in cash and or additional shares at the end of the vesting period based on the proportion of the award that actually vests.
The chief executive officer is required to build a shareholding, in unfettered Not applicable.
Share To align the interests of shares, equivalent to at least 150% of base salary, and other executive ownership executive directors with directors equivalent to 100% of base salary, over a period of not more than five policy those of shareholders.
years from the date of appointment to the Boards.
Executive directors are required to retain at least 50% of any vested shares, other than as necessary to meet tax obligations, under Mondis various share plans until the requirement is met.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 117 Directors remuneration policy Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting Bonus Share Plan BSP The table below shows the metrics for 2016, why they were chosen and how targets are set.
How targets are set EBITDA Earnings Before A key indicator of the underlying profit Targets and ranges are set each year by the Committee Interest, Tax, Depreciation performance of the Group, reflecting taking account of required progress towards strategic and Amortisation both revenues and costs.
goals, and the prevailing market conditions.
ROCE % Return on Capital A key indicator of the effective use Targets and ranges are set each year by the Committee Employed ofcapital.
taking account of the required progress towards strategic goals, and the prevailing market conditions.
Safety One of the key indicators of whether The Committee considers input from the Boards the business is meeting its sustainability sustainable development committee, and sets appropriate goal of zero harm.
Personal An indicator of the contribution Targets are set each year by the Committee, based on the performance each executive director is making specific priorities, and areas of responsibility of the role.
to the overall success of the managementteam.
The policy gives the Committee the authority to select suitable performance metrics, aligned to Mondis strategy .
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The table below shows the metrics for 2016 grants, why they were chosen and how targets are set.
How targets are set Total Shareholder Return TSR measures the total returns to The Committee sets the performance requirements for TSR, relative to a peer Mondis shareholders, so provides close each grant.
A peer group of packaging and paper sector group of competitors alignment with shareholder interests.
25% vests for median performance: 100% vests for upper quartile performance, with a straight-line scale between these two points.
ROCE % A key indicator of the effective use The Committee sets threshold and stretch levels, aligned Return on Capital ofcapital.
to the Groups strategic targets for ROCE.
Employed Nothing vests below threshold.
25% vests for threshold performance: 100% vests for stretch performance, with astraight-line scale between these two points.
Differences in remuneration policy for executive directors compared to other employees There are differences in the structure of the remuneration policy for the executive directors and employees, which are necessary to reflect the different levels of responsibility and market practices.
The key difference is the increased emphasis on performancerelated pay in senior roles.
Lower maximum incentive pay opportunities apply below executive level, driven by market benchmarks and the relative impact of the role.
Only the most senior executives in the Group participate in the LTIP and the BSP as these plans are targeted on those individuals who have the greatest responsibility for Group performance.
Executive directors existing service contracts, and policy on loss of office David Hathorn and Andrew King are employed under service contracts with both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc.
Peter Oswald is employed in Austria under a service contract with Mondi Services AG.
The service contracts for David Hathorn and Andrew King provide for one years notice by either party.
They include pay in lieu of notice provisions which may be invoked at the discretion of the Group.
The payment in lieu of notice would comprise base salary, benefits and pension contributions for the notice period and an amount in compensation for annual bonus only for that part of the financial year the individual has worked.
118 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Peter Oswald was recruited, and is based, in Austria.
His service contract is required under Austrian law to be for a fixed period, which renewable fixed period expires on 30 April 2019.
However, the contract has also been structured as far as possible to conform to the accepted practice for directors in the UK, and can be terminated on one years notice by either party.
Prior to 2008, he did not have a notice period, and was entitled to receive compensation on termination equivalent to remuneration for the unexpired term of the fiveyear fixed term contract.
The Committee renegotiated this contract in 2008 to substantially reduce the Groups potential liabilities, and introduced a standard 12-month notice period, together with an accompanying lump sum payment on termination, which was necessary to facilitate the transition from the previous contract.
In the event of termination by Mondi, other than for cause, the current contract provides for payment of base salary, benefits and pension contribution in respect of the 12-month notice period and eligibility for annual bonus in respect of the period he has worked.
He would also be eligible for a lump sum amount calculated as 908,800 plus interest on this amount accrued at the Euribor interest rate for the period since 1 January 2008.
Any share-based entitlements granted to an executive director under the Groups share plans will be determined based on the relevant plan rules.
The default treatment is that any outstanding awards lapse on cessation of employment.
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, disability, retirement or other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee taking into account the individuals performance and the reasons for their departure good Ieaver status can be applied.
For good leavers, vesting of BSP awards that are not subject to performance conditions is accelerated to as soon as practical after employment termination.
LTIP awards remain subject to performance conditions measured over the original time period and are reduced pro rata to reflect the proportion of the performance period actually served.
The Committee has the discretion to disapply the application of performance conditions and or time pro rating if it considers it appropriate to do so.
However, it is envisaged that this would only be applied in exceptional circumstances.
In determining whether an executive should be treated as a good Ieaver or not, the Committee will take into account the performance of the individual and the reasons for their departure.
Details of the service contracts of the executive directors who served during the period under review are as follows.
These contracts were all signed prior to 27 June 2012.
Executive director Effective date of contract Unexpired term notice period David Hathorn 3 July 2007 Terminable on 12 months notice Andrew King 23 October 2008 Terminable on 12 months notice Peter Oswald 1 January 2008 A fixed term expiring on 30 April 2019 but terminable atany time on 12 months notice A directors service contract may be terminated without notice and without any further payment or compensation, except for sums accrued up to the date of termination, on the occurrence of certain events such as gross misconduct.
Service contracts for new appointments Normally, for any new executive director appointments, the Groups policy is that the service contracts should provide for one years notice by either party.
The contract would provide that, in the event of termination by the company, other than for cause, the executive would be eligible for: payment of the base salary, pension contribution and benefits in respect of the unexpired portion of the 12-month notice period: annual bonus only in respect of the period they have served, payable following the relevant performance year end and subject to the normal performance conditions for annual bonus: and share-based awards they hold, subject to the plan rules, which include arrangements for pro ration of LTIP awards and continued application of performance conditions.
The Group would seek to apply the principle of mitigation to the termination payment by, for example, making payments in instalments that can be reduced or ended if the former executive wishes to commence alternative employment during the payment period.
In exceptional circumstances, such as to secure for the Group the appointment of a highly talented and experienced executive in a market such as Germany or Austria where it is common for the most senior executives to have three-year or five-year fixed term contracts, the Committee may need to offer a longer initial notice period that reduces progressively to one year over a set time period.
In such exceptional circumstances, the Committee would seek to ensure that any special contract provisions are not more generous than is absolutely necessary to secure the appointment of such a highly talented individual.
The Committee would also take account of the remuneration and contract features that the executive may be foregoing or relinquishing in order to join Mondi, in comparison with the overall remuneration package that Mondi is able to offer.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 119 Directors remuneration policy Approach to remuneration for new executive director appointments The remuneration package for a newly appointed executive director would be set in accordance with the terms of the Groups approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment.
The variable remuneration for a new executive director would be determined in the same way as for existing executive directors, and would be subject to the maximum limits on variable pay referred to in the policy table onpage 117.
For an internal appointment, any legacy pay elements awarded in respect of the prior role would be allowed to pay out according to their terms.
For internal and external appointments, the Group may meet certain relocation expenses, as appropriate.
For external appointments, the Committee may also offer additional cash and or share-based elements when it considers these to be in the best interests of Mondi and shareholders, to replace variable remuneration awards or arrangements that an individual has foregone in order to join the Group.
This includes the use of awards made under Section 9.4.
Any such payments would take account of the details of the remuneration foregone including the nature, vesting dates and any performance requirements attached to that remuneration.
1 Remuneration scenarios at different performance levels The charts below illustrate the total potential remuneration for each executive director at three performance levels.
120 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Remuneration policy for non-executive directors Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Non-executive To attract and retain high c alibre The joint chairmen each receive an The joint chairmens fees are chairmen fees chairmen, with the necessary allinclusive fee.
reviewed periodically by the experience and skills.
fees which take account of the time While there is not a maximum commitment and responsibilities feelevel, fees are set by reference ofthe role.
tomarket median data for companies of similar size and complexity toMondi.
Other nonTo attract and retain high-calibre The non-executives are paid a basic fee.
Non-executive directors fees are executive fees non-executives with the necessary reviewed periodically by the joint Attendance fees are also paid to reflect experience and skills.
To provide chairmen and executive directors.
therequirement for non-executive fees which take accountof directors to attend meetings in various While there is not a maximum fee the timecommitment and international locations.
level, fees are set by reference to responsibilities ofthe role.
market median data for companies The chairmen of the main board of similar size and complexity committees and the senior independent toMondi.
director are paid additional fees to reflect their extra responsibilities.
All non-executive directors have letters of appointment with Mondi Limited and Mondi plc for an initial period of three years.
In accordance with best practice, non-executive directors are subject to annual re-election at the Annual General Meetings.
Appointments may be terminated by Mondi with six months notice.
No compensation is payable on termination, other than accrued fees and expenses.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Groups remuneration policy for the remuneration of executive directors and other senior executives is set taking appropriate account of remuneration and employment conditions of other colleagues in the Group.
The Committee annually receives a report from management on pay practices across the Group, including salary levels and trends, collective bargaining outcomes and bonus participation.
At the time that salary increases are considered the Committee additionally receives a report on the approach management propose to adopt for general staff increases.
Both these reports are taken into account in the Committees decisions about the remuneration of executive directors and other senior executives.
The Group does not engage in formal consultation with employees on directors remuneration policy.
However, employees of the Group are encouraged to provide feedback on the Groups general employment policies.
In some countries where the Group operates, more formal consultation arrangements with employee representatives are in place relating to employment terms and conditions, in accordance with local custom and practice.
The Group also conducts periodic employee engagement surveys which gauge employees satisfaction with their working conditions.
The Mondi Boards are given feedback on these survey results.
Shareholder context The Committee considers the views of shareholders in its deliberations about the remuneration of executive directors and other senior executives, and consults directly with major shareholders when any material changes to policy are being considered.
Legacy arrangements For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this policy report, authority is given to the Group to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration reports.
Details of any payments to former directors will be set out in the annual report on remuneration as they arise.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2015 121
