66 Governance REMuNERATION REpORT A STATEMENT TO SHAREHOLDERS FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMuNERATION COMMITTEE I am pleased to present the Remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2015.
In last years report, my first as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I said that I was keen to ensure that the remuneration policy would be appropriate and relevant throughout the range of market conditions the Group faces, and that the remuneration policy and performance targets must ensure proper incentivisation of management to achieve Group strategies for growth whilst being aligned with the shortand long-term interests of shareholders.
The Committee has also been mindful of shareholder feedback on the simplification of remuneration generally, and on the use of share matching plans more specifically.
In reviewing 2015, some bonus will be paid for 2015 performance With this in mind I wrote to our largest shareholders in January 2016 due to the good performance on cash generation and the good to consult on proposed changes to the remuneration policy, approval progress made on personal objectives especially on technology for which will be sought at the 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM.
roadmaps which have provided a sound foundation for the strategic I also wrote to consult on 2016 incentive targets.
However, the 2013 LTIp awards will lapse in early 2016. a new Chief Executive Officer CEO who is taking a critical look The relative total shareholder return TSR component of the LTIp at the Companys portfolio and strategy, and the Remuneration has not vested for each of the last four cycles, despite Morgans strong Committee is therefore seeking to develop a remuneration policy absolute TSR performance over the past seven years c16% pa. that will offer incentives to support strategy development and execution, to maximise returns to shareholders.
The feedback The Committee decided that, considering the overall performance we have received on our overall proposals at the time of writing of the Group in 2015, there should be no base pay increases has been generally positive.
for the CEO and Chief Financial Officer CFO, and there will also be no increase to the 2016 fees for the Chairman and nonIn summary, the proposals are as follows: executive Directors.
The Bonus Deferral Share Matching plan BDSMp will no The difficult market conditions and the achievability of incentive longer be offered.
This scheme offered up to a 3x match on targets have again caused us to reflect on their motivational impact up to 50% of earned bonus ie a maximum opportunity of on retaining and attracting key executive talent.
We have therefore 150% of salary based on earnings per share EpS performance reconsidered performance measures and incentive targets to ensure over a three-year period.
We will continue to disclose our bonus they are aligned with our strategic aims, motivate and reward targets at the end of the relevant financial year to the extent management for delivering sustainable above-peer performance, they are no longer deemed to be commercially sensitive and support retention.
Malus and clawback will also apply to both the cash and share For the 2016 cycle, it is proposed that the return on capital employed component of bonus awards for the 2016 financial year onwards.
ROCE performance range remains unchanged 27-33%.
To help Going forward, the annual bonus opportunity will be increased ensure the relative TSR element of the LTIp balances relevance and from 100% to 150% of salary, but executive Directors will robustness, it is proposed to split the TSR element equally between be required to defer 33% of any bonus earned into Company two comparator benchmarks: the constituents of the FTSE All-Share shares for a further three-year period.
Industrials Index, as currently, and a tailored group of international The normal annual award opportunity under the Long-Term sector comparators.
The constituents of this sector benchmark Incentive plan LTIp, which will be the sole long-term incentive, are shown on page 82 of this Remuneration report.
will also be increased from 100% to 150% of salary the maximum annual award limit will be increased from 200% Following a review of the EpS performance range against multiple to 250% of salary, but the vesting outcome at threshold relevant reference points including the Groups strategic plan, performance will be reduced to 25% formerly 30%.
external market factors and broker forecasts, we propose revising Executive Directors minimum shareholding guideline will be the EpS performance range to 4%-11% pa, which we consider to increased to 200% of salary.
be appropriately stretching for this 2016 cycle.
As a result of these changes, the overall fair value of the proposed Over the last 12 months, we have engaged with our shareholders, package for executive Directors is broadly similar to the package and we value the views and feedback we have received.
As under the current remuneration policy.
mentioned above I have consulted with those with the largest shareholdings about our remuneration policy and annual incentive At the time of writing, the Group has also announced a consultation arrangements.
I have also followed up with those of the largest with the members of the senior section of the defined benefit shareholders who voted against the Annual Report on Remuneration pension scheme on proposals for its closure to future accrual.
One of the two executive Directors will be impacted by this if the proposals are approved.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance 67 During the year, the Committee met four times, and its activities This Report is intended to be consistent with the current reporting regulations for executive remuneration.
I hope we have been successful included: in achieving the clarity and transparency that will be of help to our A review of the Groups overall remuneration policy to support shareholders.
A review of external benchmarking of executive remuneration packages.
DOuGlaS CaSTEr Determination of the remuneration packages for the executive CHAIRMAN OF THE REMuNERATION COMMITTEE Directors and other Group executives, including for pete Raby, the new CEO, and in relation to Andrew Hostys cessation of employment.
A review of whether the measures for the bonus and share incentive schemes remain appropriate.
Determination of appropriate performance targets for bonus and share incentive schemes.
Determination of whether targets for the bonus and share incentive schemes were achieved.
A review of proposed arrangements should the senior section of the defined benefit pension scheme be closed to future accrual.
Compliance statement This Report covers the period 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015 and provides details of the Remuneration Committee and remuneration policy of Morgan Advanced Materials plc.
The Company has complied with the principles and provisions relating to Directors remuneration in the uK Corporate Governance Code with one exception, and this Remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large & Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The one exception is that the annual bonus plan does not currently include malus and clawback provisions.
However, the Remuneration Committee has approved the introduction of malus and clawback provisions for the 2016 financial year and onwards.
The Directors remuneration policy has been updated as set out in this Report, and these changes are proposed to take effect from the date this policy is approved.
Therefore, in accordance with Section 439A of the Companies Act, both a binding resolution on the remuneration policy and an advisory resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration will be proposed at the AGM on 6 May 2016. remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee determines and agrees with the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration, including pension rights and any compensation payments, of the Groups executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Groups website.
The Remuneration Committee consults the CEO and invites him to attend meetings when appropriate.
The Director of Human Resources attends meetings of the Committee by invitation.
The Committee also had access to advice from the CFO.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
No executive Director or other attendee is present when his own remuneration is being discussed.
Membership of the Committee is shown on page 75.
POliCy rEPOrT Key principles of the executive Directors remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee aims to ensure that all the remuneration packages offered are competitive and designed to promote the long-term success of the Company by ensuring that we are able to attract, retain and motivate executive Directors and senior executives of the right calibre to create value for shareholders.
The policy of the Committee is to ensure that a significant proportion of the total remuneration opportunity is performance-related, with an appropriate balance between shortand long-term performance, and is based on the achievement of measurable targets that are relevant to and support the business strategy.
The Remuneration Committee will keep remuneration policy under periodic review to ensure it remains aligned with the Groups strategy, and in line with the principles set out in the uK Corporate Governance Code in relation to Directors remuneration.
This includes ensuring that performance-related elements are transparent, stretching and rigorously applied, as well as reflecting the guidance of institutional investors and their representative bodies.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 68 Governance REMuNERATION REpORT continued Summary of morgan advanced materials plcs remuneration policy for executive Directors This section of the Report sets out a revised remuneration policy for executive Directors and non-executive Directors.
This policy is subject to a binding vote at the 2016 AGM and, if approved at the AGM, will come into effect on that date.
The policy will be put to shareholders again no later than the 2019 AGM.
A summary of the key changes from the policy approved at the 2014 AGM which was and which has been in operation since that date is set out in the notes to the future remuneration policy table on page 70. puRpOSE AND pERFORMANCE LINK TO STRATEGy OpERATION OppORTuNITy METRICS fixed pay base salary Base salaries are generally reviewed each Base salary increases are applied in line Not applicable.
provides the fixed element of the January, with reference to the salary with the outcome of the annual review.
Set at levels at companies of similar sector, size Salaries in respect of the year under competitive levels against the market.
The Committee also review and for the following year considers individual contribution and the are disclosed in the Annual Report range of salary increases applying across on Remuneration.
the Group when determining increases.
Salary increases for executive Directors will normally be within the range of increases for the general employee population over the period of this policy.
Where increases are awarded in excess of those for the wider employee population, for example in instances of sustained strong individual performance, if there is a material change in the responsibility, size or complexity of the role, or if an individual was intentionally appointed on a below-market salary, the Committee will provide the rationale in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension Defined benefit scheme subject Opportunities vary depending on the Not applicable.
provides post-retirement benefits for to a notional earnings cap with scheme in which an executive Director participants in a cost-efficient manner.
an above-the-cap allowance for participates.
Details are set out in the executive Directors who joined the Annual Report on Remuneration on Company before 1 August 2011. page 78.
Defined contribution scheme and Above-the-cap pension allowances will or a cash allowance in lieu thereof be established in line with our principle for executive Directors who joined to be broadly cost-neutral.
For new hires, defined contributions or cash in lieu thereof will be up to 20% of salary.
benefits Can include company car car allowance, Benefits values vary by role and are Not applicable.
Designed to be competitive in the health insurance and, where reviewed periodically relative to market.
market in which the individual is appropriate, relocation allowances employed.
It is not anticipated that the cost of benefits provided will change materially year on year over the period for which this policy will apply.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in exceptional circumstances eg relocation expenses, expatriation allowances etc or in circumstances where factors outside the Groups control have changed materially eg market increases in insurance costs.
Benefits in respect of the year under review are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance 69 puRpOSE AND pERFORMANCE LINK TO STRATEGy OpERATION OppORTuNITy METRICS variable pay annual bonus performance measures are set by the up to 150% of salary.
Bonuses for the executive Directors Incentivises the achievement of Committee at the start of the year may be based on a combination of specific goals over the short term and are weighted to reflect a balance The payout for threshold performance financial and non-financial measures.
that are also aligned to the long-term of financial and strategic objectives.
may vary year on year, but will not The weighting of non-financial business strategy.
exceed 25% of the maximum performance will be capped at 30% At the end of the year, the Remuneration opportunity.
Committee determines the extent to which these have been achieved.
Further details are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration To the extent that the performance on pages 76, 77 and 81. criteria have been met, up to 67% of the earned annual bonus is paid in cash.
The remaining balance is deferred into shares and released after a further period of three years, subject to continued employment only.
Cash and deferred share bonuses awarded for performance in 2016 onwards will be subject to malus and clawback for a period of three years from the end of the relevant performance year.
Further details of our clawback policy are set out at the end of this table.
long-Term incentive Plan lTiP The Remuneration Committee has the The LTIp provides for a conditional The vesting of awards is usually Aligns the interests of executives ability each year to grant an award under award of shares up to an annual limit subject to: and shareholders by delivering shares the LTIp.
to executive Directors and other the Groups performance over senior executives as a reward for The award levels and performance 25% of an award vests for achievement a three-year performance period, outstanding long-term performance.
conditions on which vesting depends are of the threshold level of performance.
currently a combination of TSR, reviewed prior to the start of each award EpS and ROCE.
cycle to ensure they remain appropriate.
The Committee has discretion to For awards made in 2016 onwards, extend the performance period and vested shares may also be subject to a adjust the measures, their weighting, post-vesting holding period.
Details of and performance targets prior to the any such holding period will be disclosed start of each cycle to ensure they in the Annual Report on Remuneration continue to align with the Groups for the year in which the relevant award strategy.
Further details of the measures Awards are subject to malus and or attached to the LTIp awarded in the clawback for a period of five years from year under review and the coming the date of grant.
Further details of our year are set out in the Annual Report clawback policy are set out at the end on Remuneration on pages 80 and 82. of this table.
Sharesave An HMRC-approved scheme where up to the savings limit as determined by None.
A voluntary scheme open to all employees may save up to a monthly HMRC from time to time, across all uK employees which aligns the savings limit out of their own pay Sharesave schemes in which an individual interests of participants with those towards options granted at up to has enrolled.
of shareholders through any a 20% discount.
Options may not growth in the value of shares.
be exercised for three years.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 70 Governance REMuNERATION REpORT continued malus and clawback policy Malus and clawback will apply on the annual bonus and LTIp as set out on page 69 in cases of misconduct or material misstatement in the published results of the Group or where, as a result of an appropriate review of accountability, a participant has been deemed to have caused in full or in part a material loss for the Group as a result of reckless, negligent or wilful actions or inappropriate values or behaviour.
Cash bonuses will be subject to clawback, with deferred shares subject to malus over the deferral period.
LTIp awards will be subject to malus over the vesting period and clawback from the vesting date to the fifth anniversary of grant.
Changes from the 2014 shareholder-approved remuneration policy for executive Directors The changes from the previous policy are as summarised in the table below: Element proposed 2016 policy 2014 policy annual bonus Maximum opportunity of 150% of salary.
Maximum opportunity of 100% of salary.
Mandatory deferral of at least 33% of earned bonus Voluntary deferral of up to 50% 75% in exceptional into shares for three years.
circumstances of earned bonus into shares for three years and with a matching opportunity under policy on clawback incorporated into policy.
long-Term incentive Plan Maximum award limit: 250% of salary.
Maximum award limit: 200% of salary.
lTiP 25% of an award vests at threshold.
30% of an award vests at threshold.
performance period of at least three years.
performance period of three years.
Flexibility to introduce a holding period in future years.
policy on clawback incorporated into policy.
bonus Deferral Share No new awards will be made under this plan, Deferred shares eligible for up to a maximum matching Plan bDSmP but outstanding awards will vest in accordance 3-for-1 matching opportunity subject to three-year with the BDSMp Rules and subject to the EpS compound annual growth rate CAGR performance conditions.
exceeding 20% pa. Payments under existing awards The Company will honour any commitment entered into, and Directors will be eligible to receive payment from any award granted, prior to the approval and implementation of the remuneration policy detailed in this Report ie before 6 May 2016, even if these commitments and or awards fall outside the above policy.
The Company will also honour any commitment entered into at a time prior to an individual becoming a Director if, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
Details of these awards are, and will be, disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Difference in policy between executive Directors and other employees The remuneration policy for other employees is based on principles broadly consistent with those described in this Report for the executive Directors.
Annual salary reviews across the Group take into account business performance, local pay and market conditions, and salary levels for similar roles in comparable companies.
All executives are eligible to participate in an annual bonus scheme.
Opportunities and performance measures vary by organisational level, geographical region and an individuals role.
Other senior executives participate in the LTIp on similar terms to the executive Directors, although award sizes may vary according to each individual, and by organisational level.
Below this level, executives are eligible to participate in the LTIp and other share-based incentives, by annual invitation.
use of discretion To ensure fairness and align executive Director remuneration with underlying individual and Group performance, the Committee may exercise its discretion to adjust, upwards or downwards, the outcome of any shortor long-term incentive plan payment within the limits of the relevant plan Rules for corporate or exceptional events including, but not limited to: corporate transactions, changes in the Groups accounting policies, minor or administrative matters, internal promotions, external recruitment, terminations, etc.
Any adjustments in light of corporate events will be made on a neutral basis, ie to not be to the benefit or detriment of participants.
Any use of discretion by the Committee during the financial year will be detailed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance 71 Performance measure selection The Committee considers carefully the selection of performance measures at the start of each performance cycle, taking into consideration the macro-economic environment as well as specific Group strategic objectives.
Annual bonus measures are selected to closely reinforce the Groups short-term KpIs.
Because these can change from year to year in line with the remuneration policy, the rationale for the selection of bonus measures for each year has been moved to the Annual Report on Remuneration.
LTIp performance measures are reviewed periodically to ensure they continue to align with the Companys strategy, as well as provide an appropriate balance between growth and returns, internal and external performance, and absolute and relative performance.
For 2016 awards, the TSR element of the LTIp will be split into two parts.
One half of the TSR element will vest subject to the Groups performance relative to the existing TSR benchmark comprising the c110 constituents of the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index.
This benchmark is robust to M&A activity and comprises companies that are subject to the same market influences as Morgan Advanced Materials plc.
The remaining half of the TSR element will vest subject to Morgans performance relative to a TSR benchmark comprising 17 listed international carbon, ceramics and other materials companies.
This benchmark was selected to complement the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index with a group of companies that better reflect Morgans business, the markets in which Morgan operates and the geographical footprint of the Group.
For each part of the TSR award, the vesting performance range is calibrated to be stretching and in line with common market practice for FTSE TSR-based long-term incentives.
EpS targets are set taking account of multiple relevant reference points, including internal forecasts, external expectations for future EpS performance at both Morgan Advanced Materials plc and its closest sector peers, and typical EpS performance ranges at other FTSE 350 companies.
LTIp EpS performance ranges are set to represent demanding and challenging performance targets over the three-year performance period.
ROCE targets are set using a similar approach referring to external reference points and reflecting the returns required to meet and exceed the Groups internal strategic plan.
Share ownership guidelines In order to encourage alignment with shareholders, individual shareholding guidelines are operated for executive Directors.
under such guidelines, executive Directors are encouraged to build and maintain over time a shareholding in the Company equivalent to at least 200% of basic salary previously 150% for the CEO and 100% for other executive Directors.
Current executive Director shareholdings are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 84.
External appointments With the approval of the Board in each case, and subject to the overriding requirements of the Group, executive Directors may accept external appointments as non-executive Directors of other companies and retain any fees received.
Details of external directorships held by executive Directors along with fees retained are provided on page 81.
Pay-for-performance: scenario analysis The graphs below provide detailed illustrations of the potential future reward opportunity for executive Directors, and the potential mix between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Below threshold, Target and Stretch.
These have been updated to illustrate the potential opportunity under the 2016 packages proposed for executive Directors.
PETE RABY CEO KEVIN DANGERFIELD CFO 30% 35% 35% 1,988k 30% 35% 35% 1,384k Stretch Stretch 52% 32% 16% 1,107k 53% 31% 16% 779k Target Target Below Below 100% 578k 100% 417k threshold threshold 000 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 000 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 Fixed pay base salary, pension and benefits Annual bonus LTIP AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 72 Governance REMuNERATION REpORT continued potential reward opportunities illustrated above are based on the policy which is proposed to apply in 2016, applied to the annual base salary in force at 1 January 2016.
For the annual bonus, the amounts illustrated are those potentially receivable in respect of performance for 2016 before mandatory deferral into shares.
The LTIp is based on the face value of awards to be granted in 2016 150% of salary.
It should be noted that any awards granted under the LTIp in a year do not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant.
This illustration is intended to provide further information to shareholders on the relationship between executive pay and performance.
The value of the LTIp assumes no increase in the underlying value of the shares, and actual amounts delivered will be further influenced by changes in factors such as the Companys share price and the value of dividends paid.
The following assumptions have been made in compiling the above charts: Scenario Annual bonus LTIp Fixed pay Stretch Maximum annual bonus.
performance warrants full vesting 100% of the award.
Latest disclosed Target On-target annual bonus.
performance warrants threshold base salary, vesting 25% of the award.
below threshold No annual bonus payable.
Details of executive Directors service contracts The executive Directors are employed under contracts of employment with Morgan Advanced Materials plc.
Contracts may be terminated on 12 months notice given by the Company or on six months notice given by the executive Director concerned.
Kevin Dangerfields contract ends on his anticipated normal retirement date.
The following table shows the date of the contract for each executive Director who served during the year: Notice period Date of service Executive Director position Date of appointment agreement From employer From employee pete Raby CEO 1 August 2015 30 January 2015 12 months 6 months Kevin Dangerfield CFO 4 August 2006 15 August 2008 12 months 6 months Andrew Hosty COO 28 July 2010 17 August 2010 12 months 6 months Andrew Hosty left the Group on 8 January 2016.
Exit payments policy The Groups policy is to limit severance payments on termination to pre-established contractual arrangements comprising base salary and any other statutory payments only.
In the event that the employment of an executive Director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in accordance with the terms of the service contract between the Company and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans.
The Group may terminate the employment of an executive Director by making a payment in lieu of notice equal to base salary, together with the fair value of any other benefits to which the executive is contractually entitled under his service agreement, for the duration of the notice period.
The Remuneration Committee will exercise discretion in making appropriate payments in the context of outplacement, settling legal claims or potential legal claims by the departing executive Director, including any other amounts reasonably due to the executive Director, for example, to meet the legal fees incurred by the executive Director in connection with the termination of employment, where the Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement and the individual must seek independent legal advice.
On termination of an executive Directors service contract, the Remuneration Committee will consider the departing Directors duty to mitigate his loss when determining the timing of when any payment in lieu of notice will be made.
There is no automatic entitlement to bonus or the vesting of long-term incentives on termination.
However, the table on the following page summarises the policy on how awards under the annual bonus, LTIp and BDSMp will normally be treated in specific circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to Committee discretion: Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance 73 Treatment of awards on cessation of employment and a change of control Reason for cessation Calculation of vesting payment Time of vesting Annual bonus All reasons The Committee may determine that a bonus is payable on cessation of employment, and the Committee retains discretion to determine that the bonus should be paid wholly in cash.
The amount of bonus payable will be determined in the context of the time served during the performance year, the performance of the Group and of the individual over the relevant period, and the circumstances of the Directors loss of office.
If Group or individual performance has been poor, or if the individuals employment has been terminated in circumstances amounting to misconduct, no bonus will be payable.
Mandatory deferred bonus share awards Injury, disability, death, Awards will normally vest in full ie not pro-rated for time.
At the normal vesting date, redundancy, retirement, unless the Committee decides or other such event as the that awards should vest earlier Committee determines eg in the event of death.
Change of control Awards will normally vest in full ie not pro-rated for time.
Awards On change of control.
may alternatively be exchanged for equivalent replacement awards, where appropriate.
All other reasons Awards normally lapse.
LTIP awards and BDSMP matching awards Injury, disability, death, Awards will normally be pro-rated for time and will vest based on At the normal vesting date, redundancy, retirement, performance over the original performance period unless the Committee unless the Committee decides or other such event as the decides to measure performance to the date of cessation.
that awards should vest earlier Committee determines eg in the event of death.
Change of control LTIp awards will be pro-rated for time and will vest subject to performance On change of control.
over the performance period to the change of control.
LTIp awards may alternatively be exchanged for equivalent replacement awards, where appropriate.
BDSMp matching awards will normally vest subject to performance over the performance period to the change of control and will be pro-rated for time.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion, where permitted by the scheme rules, to alter these default provisions on a case-by-case basis, following a review of circumstances and to ensure fairness for both shareholders and participants.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 74 Governance REMuNERATION REpORT continued approach to recruitment remuneration External appointment In cases of hiring or appointing a new executive Director from outside the Group, the Committee may make use of all existing components of remuneration, as follows: pay element policy on recruitment Maximum Salary Based on: the size and nature of the responsibilities of the proposed role: current market pay levels for comparable roles: the candidates experience: implications for total remuneration: internal relativities: and the candidates current salary.
pension Option to join the defined contribution scheme, and or to receive a cash allowance.
Benefits As described in the policy table and may include, but are not limited to, car, medical insurance, and relocation expenses and or allowances.
Sharesave New appointees will be eligible to participate on identical terms to all other In line with HMRC limits.
Annual bonus As described in the policy table and typically pro-rated for proportion of 150% of salary.
year served: performance measures may include strategic and operational objectives tailored to the individual in the financial year of joining.
LTIp New appointees may be granted awards under the LTIp on similar terms 250% of salary.
Other The Remuneration Committee may make an award under a different structure under the relevant Listing Rule to replace incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
Any such award would have a fair value no higher than that of the awards forfeited, taking into account relevant factors including performance conditions, the likelihood of those conditions being met and the proportion of the vesting period remaining.
Details of any such award will be disclosed in the first Annual Report on Remuneration following its grant.
Internal promotion to the Board In cases of appointing a new executive Director by way of internal promotion, the policy will be consistent with that for external appointees detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to executive Director, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements even if there are instances where they would not otherwise be consistent with the prevailing executive Director remuneration policy at the time of promotion.
Chairman and non-executive Directors remuneration policy purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity performance metrics Annual fee Annual fees paid to the Chairman Annual fees are applied in line None.
To attract and retain high-calibre and non-executive Directors are with the outcome of the review.
An additional fee is payable for the Senior Independent Director, and also in respect of Committee chairmanship.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance 75 None of the non-executive Directors has a service contract with the Company.
They do have letters of appointment.
The non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the incentive, share or share option plans.
The dates relating to the appointments of the Chairman and non-executive Directors who served during the reporting period are as follows: Non-executive Director position Date of appointment Date of letter of appointment Date of re-election Andrew Shilston Chairman 8 May 2012 30 March 2012 8 May 2015 Douglas Caster Non-executive Director 14 February 2014 15 January 2014 8 May 2015 Victoire fide Margerie Non-executive Director 8 May 2012 1 March 2012 8 May 2015 Andrew Reynolds Smith Non-executive Director 10 May 2013 14 February 2013 8 May 2015 Rob Rowley Non-executive Director 14 February 2014 15 January 2014 8 May 2015 Victoire fide Margerie stepped down from the Board on 4 February 2016.
Consideration of employment conditions The Group seeks to promote and maintain good relations with employee representative bodies including trade unions and works councils as part of its broader employee engagement strategy, and consults on matters affecting employees and business performance as required in each case by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
In making remuneration decisions, the Remuneration Committee also considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group, but the Committee does not currently consult with employees specifically on executive remuneration policy and framework.
prior to the annual salary review, the Remuneration Committee is briefed by the Director of Human Resources about pay increase data that individual business units will consider when deciding local pay awards for their specific businesses and countries.
This also forms part of the considerations for determining executive Director remuneration.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee considers shareholder views received during the year and at the AGM each year, as well as guidance from investor representative bodies more broadly, in shaping remuneration policy.
The Committee keeps the remuneration policy under regular review, to ensure it continues to reinforce the Groups long-term strategy, and aligns executive Directors with shareholders interests.
It is the Remuneration Committees policy to consult with major shareholders prior to any major changes to its executive remuneration policy.
2. aNNual rEPOrT ON rEmuNEraTiON The following section provides details of how the remuneration policy was implemented during the year.
remuneration Committee membership in 2015 The Remuneration Committee is currently composed of four non-executive Directors.
Each of the non-executive Directors is regarded by the Board as independent, except the Chairman of the Company who was considered independent upon appointment.
The Remuneration Committee met four times during the year.
Attendance at meetings by individual members is detailed in the Corporate governance report on page 53.
Committee members: Douglas Caster Chairman Andrew Shilston Rob Rowley Victoire fide Margerie Andrew Reynolds Smith Victoire fide Margerie stepped down from the Board on 4 February 2016.
Summary of shareholder voting at the aGm The following table shows the results of the latest binding vote on the remuneration policy at the 2014 AGM and advisory vote on the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2015 AGM.
Resolution For Against Withheld Remuneration report at 2015 AGM 57.36% 42.64% 2,226,102 Remuneration policy at 2014 AGM 97.84% 2.16% 421,245 Votes withheld are not votes in law and, therefore, have not been included in the calculation of the proportion of votes for or against the resolution.
The Company has always been proactive in engaging with its major shareholders, as well as discussing and considering issues raised by shareholders at its AGMs.
Noting the outcome of the vote on the Remuneration report at the 2015 AGM, the Remuneration Committee contacted major shareholders to discuss their concerns, which included the good leaver treatment of the previous CEO and the continued use of the BDSMp.
Following a review of remuneration in light of these comments, the Board has been consulting major shareholders in early 2016 on proposed changes to the package as set out in the policy report to address this feedback.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 76 Governance REMuNERATION REpORT continued Single total figure of remuneration for executive Directors The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2015 and the prior year.
The figures have been calculated as follows: 1.
Base salary: amount earned for the year.
pete Raby joined Morgan Advanced Materials plc on 1 August 2015.
For Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty, salary includes base pay plus an additional temporary allowance paid between January 2015 and July 2015 prior to the new CEO commencing employment as disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Benefits: the taxable value of benefits received in the year.
Includes private medical insurance and a company car or car allowance.
Annual bonus: the total bonus earned on performance during the year.
The maximum opportunity in 2015 for each executive Director was 100% of the total salary earned during the 2015 year.
BDSMp: the estimated value on 31 December 2015 of 2013 BDSMp matching shares and dividend equivalents vesting in 2016 subject to performance over the three-year period ended 31 December 2015.
The 2014 value represents the actual value including dividend equivalents of 2012 BDSMp matching shares at vesting on 21 March 2015.
LTIp: the estimated value on 31 December 2015 of 2013 LTIp shares vesting in 2016 subject to performance over the three-year period ended 31 December 2015.
The 2014 value represents the actual value of 2012 LTIp shares at vesting on 27 February 2015.
6. pension: in respect of pete Raby, the figure is a cash allowance in lieu of pension.
In respect of Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty, the figure is 20x the increase in the value of their accrued benefit net of inflation over the year, less Directors contributions, plus the value of any Company contribution.
Other: for Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty, comprises the value of Sharesave options granted in the year, based on the embedded value at grant 20% of the grant-date share price multiplied by the number of options granted.
Full details of executive Director Sharesave options are available on pages 86 to 88 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
For pete Raby in 2015, reflects the value at grant of the one-off awards on recruitment disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration.
This value comprises a one-off cash award of 50,000 and a restricted share award with a face value on grant of 400,000. please see page 80 for further details of this award.
incentive outcomes for the year ended 31 December 2015 Annual bonus in respect of 2015 performance Targets for the annual bonus are set by the Remuneration Committee, taking into account the shortand long-term requirements of the Group.
Challenging goals are set, which must be met before any bonus is paid.
This approach is intended to align executive reward with shareholder return by rewarding the achievement of stretch targets.
For 2015, the bonus targets for the CEO, CFO and COO were split between Group EBITA before restructuring weighted 40%, cash generation weighted 40% and individual strategic personal objectives weighted 20%.
The targets were set to incentivise the executive Directors to deliver stretching profit and cash performance for the Group.
In addition to the achievement of the targets set, in considering any awards to be made, the Committee also takes into account the quality of the overall performance of the Group.
The table on the following page sets out retrospectively the assessment of performance relative to the 2015 bonus targets for the CEO, CFO and COO.
Actual bonus payments are shown in the single total figure of remuneration table above.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance 77 Annual bonus in respect of 2015 performance continued performance range Actual % of Threshold Maximum performance % payout of % salary performance measure maximum bonus 0% payout 100% payout outcome element earned Below Group EBITA 40% 115.4m 126.0m threshold 0% 0% Cash generation 40% 136.0m 150.0m 146.8m 77.1% 30.9% personal objectives pete Raby 20% 95.0% 19.0% please see narrative below Kevin Dangerfield 20% for further details on objectives and 90.0% 18.0% performance against these Andrew Hosty 20% 90.0% 18.0% % of salary earned Maximum bonus Group Cash Total Total Overall outcome % salary EBITA generation personal outcome payable pete Raby 100% 0% 30.9% 19.0% 49.9% 97,721 Kevin Dangerfield 100% 0% 30.9% 18.0% 48.9% 197,281 Andrew Hosty 100% 0% 30.9% 18.0% 48.9% 186,227 Note: For both the EBITA and cash generation metrics, there was a straight-line payout between the threshold and maximum figures and all figures were calculated using 2015 budgeted exchange rates.
pete Rabys personal objectives after joining in the third quarter of 2015 included developing a forward vision for the Group as a basis for the strategic review, achieving the implementation of the Group-wide safety programme against agreed targets, completing an initial review of leadership capability and implementing agreed changes.
Kevin Dangerfields personal objectives, as acting CEO and as CFO, were: to deliver a sound half-year financial performance: to develop technology roadmaps for all the Groups major technology areas: to achieve the implementation of the Group-wide safety programme against agreed targets: and to deliver organic growth against agreed targets.
His objectives as CFO for the fourth quarter were also to support the strategic review of the Group.
The organic growth target was not met.
Andrew Hostys personal objectives were: to deliver the benefits of the restructuring of the carbon portfolio: to review, agree and implement plans for the ongoing RCF to Superwool product transition: to make improvements to the operating effectiveness and reorganization of specified business units: and to deliver organic growth against agreed targets.
From the third quarter, his objectives were to advise the new CEO on future technology strategy and its implications for the strategic review.
2013 BDSMP award vesting The performance period for the 2013 BDSMp in which Andrew Hosty was the only executive Director to participate ended on 31 December 2015.
Over the period, Morgan Advanced Materials plcs EpS growth was below the threshold annual growth rate of 8% pa.
Accordingly, Andrew Hostys matching share award of 22,422 shares and any associated matching dividend shares will lapse in full on 25 March 2016.
Maximum Matching Matching potential Matching Matching dividend Matching dividend Investment matching dividend Match shares shares shares shares Director shares shares shares earned released released lapsed lapsed Date of vesting Andrew Hosty 7,474 22,422 22,422 25 March 2016 Calculated using the award price of 2.8640 the market value of one Morgan Advanced Materials plc Ordinary share on 22 March 2013, the dealing day immediately preceding the grant date.
Shares in this table are stated on a pre-tax basis.
Shares awarded on a pre-tax basis are subject to tax when sold.
Andrew Hosty left the Group on 8 January 2016.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 78 Governance REMuNERATION REpORT continued 2013 LTIP award vesting Awards granted to executive Directors in 2013 were subject to relative TSR performance, EpS growth and Group average ROCE over a three-year period ended 31 December 2015.
The EpS target applying to one-third of each award required three-year EpS growth of 8% pa for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting for EpS growth of 15% pa or higher.
Over the period Morgan Advanced Materials plcs actual EpS growth was below threshold and accordingly none of the award will vest under this criterion.
The TSR target applying to one-third of each award required Morgan Advanced Materials plcs three-year TSR performance to rank at median against constituents of the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting if Morgan Advanced Materials plcs TSR ranked at or above the upper quartile against this Index.
Morgan Advanced Materials plcs TSR was 16.9%, which was below median versus the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index.
Accordingly, none of the award will vest under this criterion.
The Group average ROCE target applying to the remaining one-third of each award required three-year Group average ROCE of 33% for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting for Group average ROCE of 37% or higher.
Morgan Advanced Materials plcs Group average ROCE was 27.4%, which was below the 33% threshold for this part of the award, and therefore none of the award will vest under this criterion.
This combined performance resulted in none of the 2013 LTIp awards vesting and these will lapse in full.
Details of the awards to executive Directors are set out in the table below: Maximum Maximum potential LTIp-CSOp potential LTIp LTIp-CSOp LTIp award LTIp-CSOp award Director award award vested award vested exercised Date of vesting Kevin Dangerfield 100,147 1,981 20 May 2016 Andrew Hosty 101,233 10,750 20 May 2016 Calculated using the award price of 2.7906 the average share price over the five dealing days from 13 May 2013 to 17 May 2013.
From the vesting date, participants have seven years to exercise LTIp-CSOp awards.
The interest in the 2013 LTIp retained by Mark Robertshaw who left the Company on 31 December 2014 will not vest and will lapse in full.
Pension In the year under review, two of the three executive Directors participated in the Morgan Group Senior Staff pension and Life Assurance Scheme the Senior Scheme which is a contributory, HMRC-registered, defined benefit, funded occupational pension scheme.
With effect from 6 April 2006 the basis of the scheme switched from final salary to career average and the normal pension age increased by five years.
Its main features are now: A normal pension age of 65. pension at normal pension age based on two-thirds of career average pensionable salary, for those with at least 20 years 26 years and eight months for joiners since 2006 potential service to age 65 on joining.
Life assurance of four times basic salary.
pensionable salary in the Senior Scheme is the members basic salary restricted to an earnings cap of 117,375 for Kevin Dangerfield and 128,200 for Andrew Hosty.
The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
Additional information 2015 2014 Value of increase Value of increase in scheme benefit in scheme benefit Accrued pension Accrued pension less Directors less Directors 31 December 31 December contributions contributions 2015 2014 Executive Director 000 000 000 pa 000 pa Kevin Dangerfield 27 41 49 46 Andrew Hosty 23 39 62 59 pete Raby joined the Company on 1 August 2015 and is not accruing benefits within the Senior Scheme.
He receives a cash allowance in lieu of pension of 20% of basic salary.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance 79 Single total figure of remuneration for non-executive Directors The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each non-executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2015 and the prior year.
Other 5,329 Total 51,525 46,000 47,000 48,715 55,000 44,681 Appointed Senior Independent Director in January 2015. payments made on behalf of Victoire fide Margerie by the Company in respect of uK tax filings.
Scheme interests awarded in 2015 2015 BDSMP awards In March 2015, Kevin Dangerfield deferred 25% of his 2014 bonus into shares under the BDSMp, which was equivalent to 16.3% of 2014 salary and was granted a maximum matching award of shares under the BDSMp equivalent to three times his investment.
The three-year performance period over which EpS performance will be measured began on 1 January 2015 and will end on 31 December 2017.
This award will normally be eligible to vest on 23 March 2018.
Investment shares Matching shares as % 2014 Executive Director Number bonus Number Face value Earliest date of vesting Kevin Dangerfield 14,775 25% 44,325 154,030 23 March 2018 Calculated using the award price of 3.475 the market value of one Morgan Advanced Materials plc Ordinary share on 20 March 2015, the dealing day immediately preceding the grant date.
The performance conditions attached to this award are as follows: BDSMP matching shares 3.0x EpS performance Vesting of matching shares compound annual growth as a multiple of investment shares 2.0x 20% pa 3x match 16% pa 2x match 1.0x 12% pa 1x match 8% pa Zero 0.0x 8% 12% 16% 20% Three-year EPS growth pa Awards will vest on a straight-line basis between these points.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS Matching shares 80 Governance REMuNERATION REpORT continued 2015 LTIP awards In 2015, pete Raby, Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty were granted awards as follows: Value of awards at grant Number of Number of LTIp LTIp-CSOp as % of Executive Director shares granted shares granted salary Date of vesting pete Raby 127,543 8,696 470,000 100% 3 August 2018 Kevin Dangerfield 95,715 315,000 100% 27 February 2018 Andrew Hosty 95,715 315,000 90.83% 27 February 2018 Calculated using the award price of 3.4498 the average share price over the five dealing days from 27 to 31 July 2015.
Based on annualized salary on recruitment.
Calculated using the award price of 3.291 the average share price over the five dealing days from 20 to 26 February 2015.
The Committee discusses and reviews the performance criteria for new three-year LTIp awards before they are granted.
For the awards granted in 2015, the Committee considered the balance of measures in light of the Groups business plan and shareholder feedback, and decided to maintain the equal one-third weighting of the three performance criteria introduced in 2012.
The following targets were agreed: % of award % of award % of award TSR against FTSE All-Share Industrials Index that vests EpS growth that vests Group ROCE that vests upper quartile 33.33% 15% pa 33.33% 33% 33.33% Median 10% 6% pa 10% 27% 10% Below median Nil 6% pa Nil 27% Nil 2015 recruitment award to Pete raby On 3 August 2015, an award over 114,351 Ordinary shares in the Company valued on the date of award at 400,000, calculated using the share price on 3 August 2015 of 3.4980 was made to pete Raby.
This award was granted in accordance with Morgans policy on recruitment, and was made in recognition of the fair value of incentive awards which he forfeited on leaving his former employer.
The award will vest in two tranches, on the dates given below, subject to pete Raby not having resigned or been dismissed in specified circumstances.
There are no performance conditions attaching to this award.
The structure of this recruitment award broadly mirrors that of the award forfeited on his joining Morgan.
Number of shares subject to award Vesting date 57,176 31 December 2016 57,175 31 December 2017 pete Raby was also paid a one-off cash sum of 50,000 on 3 August 2015, to reflect the fair value of the bonus opportunity forfeited on leaving his former employer and the cost of his relocation.
No further relocation allowances will be payable.
Exit payments made in year The auditors are required to report on this information.
No exit payments were made to Directors in the year under review.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance 81 Terms of andrew hostys redundancy Andrew Hosty left the Group on 8 January 2016 as a result of the role of COO being made redundant.
Details of payments due to him on cessation of employment were published on 2 October 2015.
In accordance with the terms of his service agreement, the Company agreed to make three equal payments to Andrew Hosty in lieu of notice for the remainder of his contractual notice period, comprising base salary, the cash equivalent of pension contributions and other benefits.
The first of these payments was made on his termination date and the last will be made no later than September 2016.
If Andrew Hosty obtains an alternative remunerated position prior to 1 October 2016 the Company will be entitled to make a corresponding reduction to these payments.
The Company paid overall outplacement fees of 39,000 on Andrew Hostys behalf.
Andrew Hostys gross payment in lieu of notice was therefore reduced by 19,000 in response to the fact that the Company incurred outplacement fees in excess of the amount of 20,000 previously agreed with Andrew Hosty.
Because his termination was as a result of redundancy, the Committee agreed to apply the good leaver provisions set out in the remuneration policy pro-rated for time, and subject to performance measures, as approved by shareholders for his retained share awards.
Details of these unvested awards are shown in the corresponding tables on page 87.
Payments to past Directors The auditors are required to report on this information.
No payments were made to past Directors in the year, other than the cash settlement of the bonus for the 2014 financial year paid to Mark Robertshaw in March 2015 previously disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report on Remuneration.
External appointments Details of external appointments held by executive Directors and the fees retained in 2015 are provided in the table below: Executive Director Company Role Fees retained Kevin Dangerfield e2v Technologies plc Non-executive Director 47,500 Andrew Hosty Consort Medical plc Non-executive Director 38,500 British Ceramic Research Ltd Non-executive Director 4,000 Andrew Hosty resigned from his post as non-executive Director of British Ceramic Research Ltd in June 2015. implementation of remuneration policy for 2016 Base salary Executive Directors salaries will not be increased in 2016.
The table below shows the base salaries in 2015, and which will continue to apply from 1 January 2016: Base salary at: Executive Director position 1 January 2016 1 January 2015 Increase pete Raby CEO 470,000 470,000 0% Kevin Dangerfield CFO 322,500 322,500 0% Andrew Hosty COO 354,000 354,000 0% Effective from appointment on 1 August 2015.
The Committee wishes to draw shareholders attention to pete Rabys salary.
Although we believe that this appropriately reflects his recent appointment as CEO, we are committed to rewarding future performance and potential.
The Committee may therefore wish to increase his salary in future years by more than the average increase for the general employee population, if necessary to reflect his performance in the role and in line with our remuneration policy.
Annual bonus in respect of 2016 performance The maximum bonus opportunity has been increased to 150% of salary.
In addition, 33% of any bonus earned will be deferred into shares for a further three-year period.
The bonus measures are unchanged from 2015.
For 2016, cash generation will be weighted at 40% of the total bonus opportunity.
Cash generation is defined as EBITA plus depreciation and adjusted for the impact of working capital movements.
The EBITA measure will also be weighted at 40%, with the remaining 20% of the bonus opportunity continuing to be based on strategic personal objectives.
The Committee believes that the cash generation target incentivises management to maintain focus on operating efficiency in difficult markets, as generating cash continues to be an important aspect of Group performance.
The equal weighting with profit helps reinforce the Boards strategy of targeting sustainable, steady profit growth over the medium to long term.
The actual performance targets set at the beginning of the performance period are not disclosed as they are considered commercially sensitive at this time, given the close link between performance measures and the Groups longer-term strategy.
This is particularly relevant in the context of some of the Groups close and unlisted competitors who are not required to disclose such information, and for whom the assumptions in our targets would provide valuable information in the current trading year.
We will disclose these targets retrospectively, a practice we have implemented since 2013, at such time as these targets have become less commercially sensitive, and within three years of the end of the performance year.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 82 Governance REMuNERATION REpORT continued 2016 LTIP awards The Committee intends to grant LTIp awards shortly after the 2016 AGM under the proposed future remuneration policy, which is subject to shareholder approval at that meeting.
If approved by shareholders, it is proposed that awards with face values of 150% of salary be made to the executive Directors, which will vest subject to the achievement of three-year performance targets.
The performance measures and their weightings will remain unchanged from those attached to the 2015 LTIp awards see pages 71 and 80 although, as explained in the introduction to this Report, some changes to the target ranges are proposed: The EpS performance range to be 4%-11% pa, to align with the Groups long-term strategic plan, analyst forecasts and external expectations for the performance of markets in which Morgan operates and competes.
This range, set taking into account Morgans strategic plan as well as broker forecasts for Morgan and its peers, is considered by the Committee to be appropriate, but still very stretching, in the prevailing macro-economic environment.
To help ensure the relative TSR element of the LTIp balances relevance and robustness, it is proposed to split the TSR element equally between two comparator benchmarks: the constituents of the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index, as currently, and the following tailored group of international sector comparators: BASF, British polythene Industries, Carborundum, Ibiden, Imerys, Krosaki Harima, LyondellBasell, Magnesita, Mersen, Minerals Technologies, RHI, SGL Carbon, Sumitomo Chemical, Toyo Tanso, Worley parsons, Vesuvius and Victrex.
Each TSR element will operate independently, with vesting determined based on Morgans TSR rank relative to constituents of each TSR benchmark.
The performance range will remain median to upper quartile.
The ROCE performance range remains unchanged at 27%-33%, to support the Groups strategy for sustainable long-term growth over the next three years whilst continuing to represent an appropriately demanding target.
For all three measures, awards will continue to vest on a straight-line basis between threshold and maximum, with 25% of each element 2015 awards: 30% vesting at threshold.
Pension At the time of preparing this Report, the Company is consulting with members of the Morgan Group Senior Staff pension and Life Assurance Scheme the Senior Scheme on proposals to close the Senior Scheme to future accrual.
pete Raby is not impacted by these proposals, as he is in receipt of a pension cash allowance only.
Kevin Dangerfield is a member of the Senior Scheme.
Any decisions taken by the Board following the consultation and any consequent implications for Kevin Dangerfields pension arrangements will be set out in the 2016 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Chairman and non-executive Director fees The Chairmans and non-executive Directors fees were reviewed in December 2015.
There will be no change to these fees for 2016.
Fees will be reviewed again in December 2016.
The following fees will again apply in 2016: Role Fee pa Chairman 178,500 Non-executive Director 47,000 Committee chairman additional fee 8,000 Senior Independent Director additional fee 8,000 Percentage change in CEO remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in CEO remuneration 2015 on 2014 compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for other uK-based employees.
The uK employee workforce was chosen as a suitable comparator group as the CEO is based in the uK albeit with a global role and responsibilities and pay changes across the Group vary widely depending on local market conditions.
Although similar remuneration principles apply across the wider Group, pay decisions for this subset are impacted by similar external market forces eg wage inflation, local practice with respect to the provision of benefits, etc.
CEO % change in 2015 vs 2014 for other Elements of remuneration 2015 2014 % change employees Base salary received during the year 470,000 507,500 -7.4% 1.5% Taxable benefits excluding pension 13,274 13,462 -1.4% -3.7% Annual bonus 234,530 330,890 -29.1% -23.2% pete Raby commenced employment on 1 August 2015.
The above figures have been annualized.
The figures for 2014 relate to Mark Robertshaw, the previous CEO.
Mark Robertshaw left the Group on 31 December 2014.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance 83 relative importance of spend on pay The graphs below show shareholder distributions ie dividends and share buybacks and total employee pay expenditure for the financial years ended 31 December 2014 and 31 December 2015, and the percentage change year on year.
SHAREHOLDER DISTRIBUTIONS TOTAL EMPLOYEE PAY EXPENDITURE 4.0% change 1.8% change 35m 350m 30.2m 31.4m 294.3m 299.7m 30m 300m 25m 250m 20m 200m 15m 150m 10m 100m 5m 50m 0m 0m 2014 2015 2014 2015 advisers Kepler was appointed by the Committee in 2010 as its executive remuneration adviser and was retained during the most recent financial year.
In 2015, Kepler, now a brand of Mercer, provided independent advice on performance measurement, the setting of incentive targets, TSR analysis and the structure of long-term incentives, and provided market data in respect of senior executive remuneration and non-executive Director fees.
Kepler reports directly to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and does not provide any other material services to the Group nor does Keplers parent company, Mercer, and is considered to be independent.
The Committee also received remuneration advice from Aon Hewitt New Bridge Street in relation to the appointment of the new CEO.
Kepler and Aon Hewitt New Bridge Street are signatories to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants.
Fees paid during the year to advisers for advice to the Remuneration Committee, charged on a time and materials basis, were as follows: Adviser Fees incl.
VAT Kepler 61,405 Aon Hewitt New Bridge Street 3,500 Comparison of Company performance The graph below shows the value, at 31 December 2015, of 100 invested in Morgan Advanced Materials plcs shares on 31 December 2008 compared with the current value of the same amount invested in the FTSE 350 Index.
The FTSE 350 Index of which the Company is a constituent has been chosen to replace the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index going forward because it is more widely followed by the uKs investment community and more easily tracked over time.
400 350 Morgan Advanced Materials plc 300 289 FTSE 350 Index 250 Data source: Datastream 197 200 150 100 50 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Financial year ending 31 December AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 84 Governance REMuNERATION REpORT continued The table below details the CEOs single figure of remuneration over the same seven-year period.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 CEO M Robertshaw M Robertshaw M Robertshaw M Robertshaw M Robertshaw M Robertshaw p Raby CEO single figure 676,512 1,045,984 3,371,302 1,285,556 648,932 1,001,448 788,252 Annual bonus % max 20% 100% 100% 0% 0% 65% 50% BDSMp vesting % max n a 0% 60% 100% 0% 0% n a LTIp vesting % max n a 0% 100% 50% 0% 0% n a Directors interests in shares Shares owned outright The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
The shares held by each person who was a Director of Morgan Advanced Materials plc as at 31 December 2015 together with shares held by their connected persons in the Ordinary share capital of the Company: As at 1 January 2015 As at As at or date of joining 31 December 2015 23 February 2016 Executive Directors pete Raby 10,928 10,928 Kevin Dangerfield 273,306 289,933 289,933 Andrew Hosty 144,988 138,368 n a Non-executive Directors Andrew Shilston 30,000 70,000 70,000 Douglas Caster Victoire fide Margerie 2,000 2,000 n a Andrew Reynolds Smith 5,000 5,000 5,000 Rob Rowley 5,000 5,000 The date of this Report.
pete Raby joined the Board on 1 August 2015.
Andrew Hosty stepped down from the Board on 8 January 2016.
Directors qualifying shareholding requirement removed when the Companys current Articles of Association were approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
Victoire fide Margerie stepped down from the Board on 4 February 2016.
As at 7 March 2016, Douglas Casters holding was 18,000 shares.
Helen Bunch, appointed non-executive Director on 24 February 2016, does not hold shares in Morgan Advanced Materials plc.
Executive Directors shareholding guidelines The table below shows the shareholding of each executive Director against their respective shareholding guideline as at 31 December 2015.  Shares Shares tested but Shares subject Options Current guideline owned subject to unvested to BDSMp vested but shareholding Guideline % 2015 salary outright performance shares deferral unexercised % 2015 salary met?
2013 LTIp and LTIp-CSOp awards and 2013 BDSMp matching awards for the three-year performance period ended 31 December 2015.
The 2013 LTIp will lapse on 20 May 2016 and the 2013 BDSMp will lapse on 25 March 2016.
Estimated net number of shares voluntarily deferred under the BDSMp.
Options granted under the Sharesave scheme for Kevin Dangerfield and Andrew Hosty.
Based on an executive Directors 2015 salary and the share price at 31 December 2015, comprising shares owned outright and shares subject to deferral estimated net number of shares voluntarily deferred under the BDSMp.
His performance-tested but unvested share award relates to the recruitment share award made on 3 August 2015.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance 85 unless otherwise stated, figures given in the tables on pages 85 to 87 are for shares or interests in shares.
Pete raby The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
LTIP As at Allocations Released Lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 August during during during 31 December at date of on date of Status at 31 December 2015 plan 2015 the year the year the year 2015 allocation release performance period 2015 127,543 127,543 344.98p 01.01.15 31.12.17 2015 8,696 8,696 344.98p 01.01.15 31.12.17 Funding Share options As at Allocations Released Lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 August during during during 31 December at date of on date of Status at 31 December 2015 plan 2015 the year the year the year 2015 allocation release performance period Subject to performance 2015 LTIpconditions CSOp 8,696 8,696 344.98p 01.01.15 31.12.17 Recruitment award As at Allocations Released Lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 August during during during 31 December at date of on date of Status at 31 December 2015 plan 2015 the year the year the year 2015 allocation release performance period Subject to continued service only 2015 114,351 114,351 349.80p Total interests in share plans As at 1 August 2015 As at 31 December 2015 259,286 pete Raby joined the Board on 1 August 2015.
Includes a funding award of 8,696 shares to be used to the extent required to pay the exercise price arising on exercise of the CSOp and therefore not transferable to pete Raby.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 86 Governance REMuNERATION REpORT continued Kevin Dangerfield The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
LTIP As at Allocations Released Lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of on date of Status at 31 December 2015 plan 2015 the year the year the year 2015 allocation release performance period No further performance 2012 80,101 80,101 355.80p 02.01.12 31.12.14 conditions, lapsed # 2013 100,147 100,147 279.06p 01.01.13 31.12.15 No further performance conditions, not yet 2013 1,981 1,981 279.06p 01.01.13 31.12.15 # released Funding 2014 81,436 81,436 338.34p 01.01.14 31.12.16 Subject to performance 2014 7,232 7,232 338.34p 01.01.14 31.12.16 conditions Funding 2015 95,715 95,715 329.10p 01.01.15 31.12.17 Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan As at Allocations Released Lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of on date of Status at 31 December 2015 plan 2015 the year the year the year 2015 allocation release performance period 2012 11,346 11,346 330.50p 329.90p Investment No further performance 2012 conditions, released 34,038 34,038 330.50p 02.01.12 31.12.14 Matching lapsed 2012 1,199 1,199 Various 329.90p Dividend 2015 14,775 14,775 347.50p Investment Subject to performance 01.01.15 31.12.17 conditions 2015 44,325 44,325 347.50p Matching Share options As at Allocations Released Lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of on date of Status at 31 December 2015 plan 2015 the year the year the year 2015 allocation release performance period 2013 LTIp- 1,981 1,981 279.06p 01.01.13 31.12.15 # CSOp Subject to performance conditions 2014 LTIp- 7,232 7,232 338.34p 01.01.14 31.12.16 CSOp Subject to continued 2014 3,515 3,515 256.00p 01.12.14 30.11.17 service only Sharesave Total interests in share plans As at 1 January 2015 As at 31 December 2015 329,009 358,339 # The 2013 LTIp will not vest and will lapse in full.
Dividend shares received on 2012 Investment shares.
The price used for BDSMp dividend shares is the closing share price of one Morgan Advanced Materials plc Ordinary share trading on the London Stock Exchange on the dividend payment date.
Includes a funding award of 9,213 shares to be used to the extent required to pay the exercise price arising on exercise of the CSOp and therefore not transferable to Kevin Dangerfield.
Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REpORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance 87 andrew hosty The auditors are required to report on the information in this table.
LTIP As at Allocations Released Lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of on date of Status at 31 December 2015 plan 2015 the year the year the year 2015 allocation release performance period No further performance 2012 87,830 87,830 - 355.80p 02.01.12 31.12.14 conditions, lapsed # 2013 101,233 101,233 279.06p 01.01.13 31.12.15 No further performance conditions, not yet 2013 10,750 10,750 279.06p 01.01.13 31.12.15 # released Funding 2014 93,101 93,101 338.34p 01.01.14 31.12.16 Subject to performance conditions 2015 95,715 95,715 329.10p 01.01.15 31.12.17 Bonus Deferral Share Matching Plan As at Allocations Released Lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of on date of Status at 31 December 2015 plan 2015 the year the year the year 2015 allocation release performance period 2012 44,988 44,988 330.50p 345.75p Investment No further performance 2012 conditions, released 134,964 134,964 330.50p 02.01.12 31.12.14 Matching lapsed 2012 4,766 4,766 Various 345.75p Dividend 2013 7,474 7,474 286.40p No further performance Investment conditions, not yet 01.01.13 31.12.15 2013 released 22,422 22,422 286.40p # Matching Share options As at Allocations Released Lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of on date of Status at 31 December 2015 plan 2015 the year the year the year 2015 allocation release performance period No further performance 2013 LTIpconditions, not yet 10,750 10,750 279.06p 01.01.13 31.12.15 # CSOp released 2011 3,380 3,380 213.00p 349.00p 01.12.11 30.11.14 Sharesave Subject to continued 2012 841 841 214.00p 01.12.12 30.11.15 service only Sharesave 2014 2,812 2,812 256.00p 01.12.14 30.11.17 Sharesave Total interests in share plans As at 1 January 2015 As at 31 December 2014 520,545 345,098 # The 2013 LTIp and 2013 BDSMp matching share award will not vest and both will lapse in full.
Includes a funding award of 10,750 shares to be used to the extent required to pay the exercise price arising on exercise of the CSOp and therefore not transferable to Andrew Hosty.
AnnuAl report 2015 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS 88 Governance REMuNERATION REpORT continued Details of plans LTIP plan Details Awards granted to executive Directors in 2013 and 2014 are subject to relative TSR, EpS and ROCE.
The EpS target applying to a third of each award requires three-year EpS growth above a threshold of 8% pa of that element to vest, commencing at 30% vesting for that element, and rising to full vesting for EpS growth of 15% pa or higher.
The TSR target applying to another third of each award requires Morgan Advanced Materials three-year TSR performance to rank at median against the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index for 30% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting if Morgan Advanced 2013 2015 Materials TSR ranks at or above the upper quartile against the companies in this Index.
For the 2013 and 2014 awards, the ROCE element has been set for a 33-37% pa range, vesting on a straight-line basis, with 30% of the measure vesting at the 33% threshold.
ROCE is measured as the average annual ROCE over the three-year performance period for the 2013 cycle, and as the ROCE in the final year of the performance period for the 2014 cycle.
The 2015 awards were on the same basis as the 2014 awards described above, except that the EpS target range was 6%-15% pa and the ROCE target range was 27%-33% in the final year of the performance period.
Bonus Deferral Matching Plan plan Details Deferral of bonus on a gross basis.
Matching awards granted to executive Directors in 2013, 2014 and 2015 are subject to three-year EpS growth.
The EpS target requires three-year EpS growth above a threshold of 8% pa before any matching, 2013 2015 12% pa for a 1x match, 16% pa for a 2x match, and 20% pa or higher for a 3x match.
There is straight-line vesting between these points.
Share options plan Details LTIp 2013: For the CFO and former COO, awards were structured as an Approved performance Share plan ApSp and comprise three elements: i HMRC-approved options CSOp over shares to the value of up to 30,000 with an exercise price of 279.06 pence per share: ii an LTIp award in the form of a conditional award of free shares to the value of the remainder of the award above this limit: and iii a funding award, also in the form of a conditional award of free shares, over such numbers of shares whose value at exercise at the approved option equals up to 30,000.
For the CEO, the 2013 award was structured as an LTIp award in the form of a conditional award of free shares.
The provisions of these CSOp options, funding awards and LTIp awards was linked so that the maximum aggregate number of shares that could be acquired on exercise of LTIp and CSOp awards the funding award being used to pay the exercise LTIp CSOp price arising on exercise of the CSOp was limited to that number of shares that had a market value on the date of the awards equal to 100% of Kevin Dangerfields 2012 base salary and 100% of Andrew Hostys 2012 base salary.
Vested funding awards were not transferable to the participant.
LTIp 2014: The CFOs award was structured as an ApSp as described above.
For the former COO, the 2014 award was structured as an LTIp award in the form of a conditional award of free shares.
LTIp 2015: The CEOs award was structured as an ApSp as described above.
For the CFO and former COO, the 2015 award was structured as an LTIp award in the form of a conditional award of free shares.
2013 Sharesave HMRC-approved all-employee Sharesave scheme.
Exercise price set at 20% discount to share price on date of grant.
2014 Sharesave Options vest after three years of continuous service and must be exercised within six months of vesting.
Details of options held by Directors under Sharesave are outlined in the individual Director shareholding tables above.
2015 Sharesave Other transactions involving Directors are set out in note 26 Related parties to the Financial statements.
This Report was approved by the Board on 23 February 2016.
Signed on behalf of the Board DOuGlaS CaSTEr CHAIRMAN OF THE REMuNERATION COMMITTEE Morgan aDVanCED MaTErIaLS annuaL rEporT 2015
