Fixed pay salary as paid in year, benefits and pension provision.
On target fixed pay plus target annual bonus 50% of the maximum of 75% of salary for the chief executive and 62.5% of salary for the finance director plus target LTIP awards of 37.5% of salary for the chief executive and 31.25% for the finance director.
Maximum fixed pay plus maximum annual bonus of 150% of salary for the chief executive and 125% for the finance director plus maximum LTIP awards of 150% of salary for the chief executive and 125% for the finance director.
Salary levels on which other elements of the packages are calculated are based on those effective from 1 June 2014.
The value of taxable benefits is based on an estimated cost of 19,000 in respect of the chief executive and 17,000 for the financial director and includes a car allowance and health insurance.
Pension provision is 15% of salary for the chief executive and 12% for the finance director.
Executive directors service contractual constraints, accept phased on an executive directors cessation of agreements and termination policy payments.
The committee seeks to employment with the company.
Where ensure that there are no unjustified the director may be entitled to pursue a It is the companys policy that executive payments for failure.
Neither of the legal claim, the company will be entitled directors should have contracts with an executive directors contracts provides to negotiate settlement terms that the indefinite term providing for a maximum of for liquidated damages.
There are no committee considers to be in the best 12 months notice.
special provisions contained in any of the interests of the company and to enter The policy is that the company does not executive directors contracts that provide into a settlement agreement to effect the make payments beyond its contractual for longer periods of notice on a change terms agreed under the service contract obligations on termination.
In addition, of control of the company.
Furthermore, and any additional statutory or other executive directors are expected to there are no special provisions claims.
Potential termination payments are mitigate their loss or, within existing providing for additional compensation summarised below: Name Date of contract Potential termination payment Angela Spindler 1 July 2013 12 months salary and benefits Dean Moore 20 December 2004 12 months salary and benefits Craig Lovelace 6 January 2015 12 months salary and benefits 38 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
