Directors Remuneration Report It summarises the current remuneration companys annual and long-term strategy, aligned with the groups strategic plan: policy for the executive directors which are appropriate in quantum and capable aligned with shareholders interests: was approved by shareholders at the of attracting, motivating and retaining measured against stretching targets, executive directors.
The policy aims to 2014 annual general meeting.
The both in absolute and relative terms: policy report has been reproduced for reward executive directors and senior information and updated to reflect the executives by offering them competitive competitive and sufficiently flexible to passage of time, such as change in tense remuneration packages, which are support the recruitment needs of the and page references and the Directors prudently constructed, sufficiently business: current packages for the purposes of the stretching and linked to long-term paid in a combination of cash and scenario chart.
profitability and which do not encourage shares: and excessive risk taking.
The committees policy is designed to linked to performance measured over ensure that the main elements of the In particular, the committee strives to annual and three-year performance remuneration package are linked to the ensure that remuneration packages are: periods.
Summary of components of executive directors remuneration The table below summarises the committees policy for the main components of remuneration.
Purpose and link Performance Element to strategy Operation Maximum assessment None, although overall Salary Reflects the performance Reviewed annually, taking Salary increases will of the individual, their skills account of absolute normally be in line with individual performance is a factor considered when and experience, and the group profitability and increases awarded to other responsibilities of the role.
performance against employees of the group.
personal & corporate Provides an appropriate More significant increases objectives.
level of basic fixed income.
may be awarded at Set with reference to the discretion of the the levels of base salary committee, for example: for similar positions where there is a change with comparable status, in responsibilities or responsibility and skills in scope of the role: to reflect competitor organisations individual development and of comparable size and performance in the role complexity, in particular e. g. for recent hires : or in those in the home shopping exceptional circumstances.
When reviewing salary increases the committee takes into account the impact of any increase to base salaries on the total remuneration package.
Any changes normally take effect from 1st June.
34 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Directors Remuneration Report Purpose and link Performance Element to strategy Operation Maximum assessment Annual Drives and rewards Targets are reviewed Chief executive: A significant majority of the annual Bonus annual delivery of annually to ensure that they up to 150% of bonus will normally be determined financial, corporate and are appropriate to the current base salary p. a. by reference to performance against personal goals.
market conditions, the longstretching group profit measures.
Other executive term strategy of the company Annual performance directors: up to Additional targets linked to and that they continue targets are aligned to the 125% of base corporate performance and to remain stretching and long-term strategic KPIs salary p. a. individual targets will be applied.
of the company and aimed Personal objectives will be at increasing shareholder From 2014 15 onwards, measurable and linked to goals value, whilst being prudent bonuses will be paid 60% in that are consistent with the groups and safeguarding the cash, with 40% deferred as a longer-term goals.
Performance below threshold results Deferral provides Vesting of future deferred in zero payment.
Payment rises alignment with shares is at the end of three from 0% to 100% of the maximum shareholders and assists years from the award of the opportunity for levels of performance with retention.
bonus, subject to continued between threshold and maximum, employment save in good with 50% of the maximum normally leaver scenarios.
The payment of any earned Includes a clawback mechanism in bonus remains ultimately at the the event of material misstatement discretion of the committee.
of the groups financial results or Executives may also be individual misconduct.
entitled to receive the value of dividends that would have been paid on vested shares during the deferral period.
Long-term Provides appropriate Annual grants of nil-cost Normal Awards made from 2014 onwards incentive incentives to reward options or conditional awards maximum of are subject to targets based on plan LTIP sustained success of shares, which vest subject 150% of salary.
growth in adjusted EPS in excess of through the achievement to the groups performance RPI 60% of the award and relative Exceptional of challenging business measured over three years.
TSR against a peer group of other circumstances targets, thereby retailers 40% of the award.
The Participation and all awards maximum of aligning the interests committee will have the discretion to are subject to the discretions 200% of salary.
of shareholders and set different weightings and select given to the committee in the executives.
different peer groups for future plan rules.
The peer groups for 2015 Executives may also be and prior years are disclosed in the entitled to receive the value of Annual Report on Remuneration.
dividend payments that would EPS targets are set by the otherwise have been paid remuneration committee prior on vested awards during the to each grant.
Targets for both vesting period.
EPS and TSR will be based on a sliding scale.
For each measure performance below threshold results in zero payment.
Payment rises from 25% at threshold or median to 100% of the maximum opportunity at a maximum or upper quartile performance level.
Includes a clawback mechanism in the event of a material misstatement of the groups financial results or individual misconduct.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 35 Directors Remuneration Report Purpose and link Performance Element to strategy Operation Maximum assessment AllAll employees, including The group operates an The plans are subject N A employee executives, are able HM Revenue & Customs to statutory individual share to acquire shares by approved savings related limits as amended from schemes participating in the Groups share option scheme for the time-to-time.
These SAYE and all-employee share plan benefit of group employees are broad-based plans SIP at the discretion of the provided that they have and are not subject to Committee.
completed at least six performance targets.
Participation in the SIP may also be offered.
Pension Provides retirement The company operates a Up to 15% of salary as N A benefits that reward defined contribution plan a company contribution sustained contribution.
and may also provide cash to a defined contribution pension contributions or cash pension scheme and or supplements in lieu.
Other Provides a competitive Main benefits currently include Car and fuel N A Benefits package of benefits that private medical insurance and allowance up to assists with recruitment a car allowance.
Other benefits will be in-line with market.
The value of each benefit it based on the cost to the company and is not predetermined.
Copies of the LTIP rules are available are regularly reviewed.
Whilst there are on request from the company secretary.
some differences in the structure of 1.
A description of how the company the remuneration policy, these reflect intends to implement the policy set out 5.
LTISP awards granted prior to 2014 individuals differing responsibilities, in this table for 2015 16 is set out in the are subject to performance conditions with the principal difference being the Annual Report on Remuneration.
described in the Annual Report on increased emphasis on performance Remuneration.
The remuneration policy for the executive related pay for the more senior executives directors and other senior executives within the organisation.
The company also operates share is designed with regard to the policy for ownership guidelines requiring Although the committee does not consult employees across the group as a whole.
executive directors to acquire and directly with employees on directors pay, However, there are some differences in hold a specified level of shareholding.
the committee does take into consideration the structure of the remuneration policy The current level of holding expected the pay and employment conditions of for senior executives.
In general, these under the guidelines is described in the all employees when setting the policy for differences arise from the development Annual Report on Remuneration.
The committee of remuneration arrangements that is also mindful of any changes to the pay How employees pay is taken are market competitive for the various and benefit conditions for employees more into account categories of individuals.
They also generally when considering the policy for reflect the fact that, in the case of The remuneration policy for the executive directors pay.
the executive directors and senior directors is designed with regard to executives, a greater emphasis tends to the policy for employees across the be placed on performance-related pay in group as a whole.
ability to meet growth expectations and 3.
All-employee share plans do not have compete effectively is dependent on performance conditions.
Executive the skills, experience and performance directors are eligible to participate in the of all of our employees.
As a result our SAYE and SIP on the same terms as employment policies, remuneration other employees.
and benefit packages for employees 36 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
