Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report Annual Statement bytheChairman of the Remuneration Committee expectations.
During 2015, our share price contracted staff will benefit as the Living Dear shareholder, increased by 34% which far exceeded the Wage is rolled out over the course of the I am pleased to introduce my first Directors returns of our direct competitors.
Remuneration Report as Chair of the addition, the Executive Directors performed Committee, having taken over the role from Following shareholder approval, the National strongly against the non-financial targets Sir Andrew Foster on 6 May 2015.
Andrew Express 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan 2015 set for 2015.
Bonuses equal to 192% of chaired the Committee from May 2012 and LTIP was implemented with the first awards salary for the Group Chief Executive and Iwould like to take this opportunity to thank being made under the 2015 LTIP in June.
150% for the Group Finance Director were him, on behalf of the Board, for his work as Awards of nil cost options were granted to the therefore determined by the Remuneration Chair and his support during our handover Executive Directors and to a small number of Committee for the year to reflect the strong period.
In addition, I would like to take the Senior Management Group whom the performance of the Executive Directors.
In thisopportunity to welcome Matthew Committee considers in a position to drive the accordance with the Remuneration Policy, Crummack who joined the Committee Groups performance.
The awards were made a portion of their bonus has been deferred on6May 2015. subject to stretching performance targets over into shares.
This will assist with retention of a period of three years.
The performance Revised Remuneration Policy the Executive Directors and will align their conditions set for the 2015 awards were Following our extensive shareholder interests with shareholders.
The Long-Term based equally on a third each of EPS, consultation process, which concluded Incentive Plan LTIP awards granted in ROCEand TSR split between 50% FTSE 250 during the early part of this year, the 2013 are due to vest in 2016 at 73.4% of comparator group and 50% bespoke index of Remuneration Committee was pleased to maximum which is also reflective of strong competitors.
In the case of the Executive note that the revised Remuneration Policy, corporate performance.
Directors, the Committee determined that the which was put to a binding vote at the We appointed Matthew Ashley to the role additional two-year holding period of shares Companys 2015 AGMin May, received a ofGroup Finance Director at the end of post vesting and the malus and clawback very positive 98.91% support in favour.
The Committee set provisions under the 2015 LTIP would apply.
changes made to ourRemuneration Policy, Matthews base salary at 300,000 with the Full details of the awards made to the which applied from6May 2015, seek to intention to increase this as he develops in Executive Directors under the 2015 LTIP ensure effective alignment of the interests of his role.
Matthew has made a significant in2015 are set out on pages 87 to 89 of the management withthose of shareholders and contribution to the business in his first year Annual Report on Remuneration.
to reward forthe long-term success of and performed strongly against the National Express.
The full list of issues considered by the objectives set for him at the start of the Committee during the year are summarised For this year, the current Remuneration year.
Therefore the Committee has on page 83 of the Annual Report on Policy is once again set out in full on determined that it would be appropriate Remuneration.
pages74 to 82. toincrease his salary from 300,000 to 325,000 in line with our intention to bring Looking forward The Annual Report on Remuneration on him to a more competitive level of base pay I am confident that the provisions of our pages83 to 95 sets out in detail how the over time.
This new increase positions his current Remuneration Policy, which received Company has implemented its Remuneration base pay between the lower quartile and such a positive vote of shareholder support, Policy for Directors during 2015 and how it median against a comparator group of will ensure that the leaders of National will be implemented for 2016. similarly sized businesses.
Express are focused on delivering superior Company highlights for the returns for shareholders.
The introduction of The Committee is also increasing the 2015financial year the post-vesting holding period for shares, salarylevel of our CEO from 561,000 The following financial results were the tightening of the malus and clawback to589,000 which maintains the market achieved in 2015: provisions and the increase in the competitiveness of his salary when shareholding guidelines to 200% measured compared against direct peers and Group revenue of 1.92 billion, a 3.8% at the end of a five-year period, will all companies of similar size.
In the last five increase on 2014 on a constant contribute toa longer-term focus from the years, he has only received one increase currencybasis.
Executive Directors on behalf of 2% in 2014.
A 5% increase also reflects Normalised Group profit before tax of shareholders.
the aggregate average annual employee 150.1 million which was a 29.3% increase increase over the last few years and over a onaconstant currency basis from the On behalf of the Board, I would like to period during which corporate performance prioryear.
thankshareholders for their continued has been strong.
Statutory Group profit before tax of support.
I am always happy to hear from 124.4 million, which was an 87.1% the Companys shareholders and you can Looking at the wider pay environment increase from the prior year.
contact me via the Company Secretary if forthe Group, I was delighted to learn Free cash flow was 111 million and net you have any questions on this Report or thatNational Express has become an debt was 746 million 2014: 664m.
more generally in relation to the Companys accredited Living Wage employer and the remuneration framework.
UKs first private transport group to pay the Summary of major decisions Living Wage.
With our UK Bus division madein2015 leading the way, hundreds of workers The Groups financial performance for across our UK Bus, Coach and Rail 2015 was considerably ahead of businesses including all agency and Jane Kingston Chair of the Remuneration Committee 72 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 25 February 2016 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION provide the foundation for overall reward At a glance Notes and remuneration beyond the specific Introduction This Directors Remuneration Report has roles falling within the direct remit of the In this section, we summarise the purpose been prepared in accordance with Schedule .
of our Remuneration Policy and its linkage 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies to our corporate strategic objectives, and and Groups Accounts and Reports In implementing its policy, the Committee we highlight the performance and Amendment Regulations 2013 the gives full consideration to the principles set remuneration outcomes for the 2015 Regulations and the provisions of the2014 out in the Code with regard to Directors financial year.
More detail can be found in UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
remuneration and due regard is given to the Annual Report onRemuneration.
theguidance issued by investor protection The report consists of the following sections: bodies and institutional investors Our principles of remuneration The Annual Statement by the moregenerally.
The Remuneration Policy is based on Remuneration Committee Chairman: thefollowing broad principles set by the Remuneration policy is reviewed on an The At a glance section providing Committee to: ongoing basis against the Committees asummary overview: broad principles and in light of emerging provide a competitive remuneration package The current Remuneration Policy best practice in corporate governance.
to attract and retain quality individuals: reportwhich sets out the Companys align remuneration to drive the overall Remuneration Policy for directors and Link to strategy objectives of the business: thekey factors that were taken into Our focus is to deliver sustainable growth align the interests of management with account in setting the policy.
This policy and profitability and we seek to achieve this the interests of shareholders: and iscurrently in operation, having been through the following strategic initiatives: approved at the 2015 AGM.
It is intended that the policy will apply until the Strategic initiatives Measurement through the Incentives conclusion of the 2018 AGM: and Revenue growth Short term through the profit targets in the The Annual Report on Remuneration annual bonus plan andlonger term through which sets out payments made to the EPS growth targeted by the LTIP.
directors and details the link between Company performance and Cost efficiency and better margins Targeted through the ROCE metric under remuneration for the 2015 financial year.
the Performance Shares andindirectly through relative TSR condition attached The Chairmans Annual Statement and the to the Performance Shares.
Annual Report on Remuneration will be Operational excellence safety, Measured by non-financial metrics in the subject to an advisory vote at the AGM.
customers, people, community annual bonus plan.
Superior cash and returns Measured by free cash flow metric intheannual bonus plan and ROCE andTSRconditions attached to the PerformanceShares.
Creating new business opportunities Measured by non-financial metrics in the annual bonus plan.
How we have performed in 2015 Bonus KPIs m Threshold Target Maximum Actual Normalised profit before tax 122.8 136.4 150.0 150.1 Free cash flow 85.2 94.7 104.2 111.0 Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors for 2015 Pension Base Taxable PerformanceValue of related 2015 2014 2 000 salary benefits related bonus LTIP vested benefits Total Total Group Chief 561 27 1,077 1,395 196 3,256 1,562 Executive Dean Finch Group Finance 276 126 413 457 69 1,341 N A Director 1 Matthew Ashley 1 Appointed on 28 January 2015.
2 The increase in the single total figure for the Group Chief Executive from 2014 to 2015 is primarily due to the vesting of the 2013 LTIP award at 73.4% of maximum.
The value of the LTIP vested is based upon the average share price for the last quarter of 2015 3.07.
There was no LTIP vesting in 2014. www.
com 73 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy Report of the business and shareholders whilst also enabling the Remuneration structure from 2015 Companyto effectively recruit and motivate key individuals.
The table below sets out the key elements of the Companys Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors which was Consideration of shareholder views approved at the AGM held on 6 May 2015 and will continue to The Committee is committed to an ongoing dialogue with apply for the period of three years from that date.
The policy shareholders and seeks shareholder views when any significant balances the desire to align remuneration to the long-term success changes are being made to remuneration arrangements.
Remuneration policy table for Executive Directors Element How element supports business strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions and assessment Base salary To provide a competitive level of The salary of individual Executive Directors is paid monthly in cash and The Committees policy is to set base salary Not applicable.
salary as themain component of is normally reviewed annually.
at an appropriate level taking into account fixed remuneration.
Enables the the factors outlined in this table.
In determining base salaries, the Committee considers: Group to recruit and retain The maximum annual salary increase will not Executive Directors of the calibre pay levels at companies of a similar size and complexity in the FTSE 250: normally exceed the average increase which required tofulfil the role and is key external market conditions: applies across the wider workforce.
However, to developing and implementing general performance of the Company: larger increases may be awarded in certain business strategy without paying pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group: and circumstances including but not limited to: more than is necessary to do so.
individual performance, skills, experience in post andpotential.
increase in scope of responsibilities of the role: When considering pay increases the Committee will use comparator to apply salary progression for a newly groups that will be based ongroups of transport leisure and general appointed Director: and sectorcompanies of a similar size.
The Committee retains discretion to where a Directors salary has fallen significantly amend the comparator groups as necessary in order to remain relevant.
Any changes to the comparator groups will be disclosed in the part of In these circumstances, subsequent increases thereport setting out the operation of the policy for the future year.
may be staged over a number of years until the target positioning and desired performance is reached.
In such circumstances, the increase will not exceed RPI 10%.
The Company will set out in the section headed Statement of implementation of Remuneration Policy in the following financial year the salaries for that year for each of the Executive Directors see page 93.
Pension-related To provide competitive benefits in Executive Directors are provided a cash allowance in lieu ofapension The Committees policy is that the maximum Not applicable.
benefits line with market practice.
To provision in line with market practice.
cash allowance payable in lieu of a pension provide funds to allow Executives will be 35%.
The Group CEO receives a cash supplement in lieu of pensionat35% to save for retirement.
benefits are a fixed element of remuneration.
The Group FD receives a pension contribution or a cash supplement in lieu of pension at 25% ofsalary.
Only basic salary counts for the purpose of the allowance.
Benefits To provide competitive benefits as Executive Directors receive family private healthcare, death in service and The cost to the Company of providing Not applicable.
part offixed remuneration in line life assurance cover 4xbase salary, long-term sickness and disability the benefits may vary fromyear to year with market practice to enable the insurance, acash alternative to a fully expensedcar, free travel on the in accordance with market conditions and Group to recruit andretain talent.
Companys services and professional membership subscriptions.
will, therefore, determine the maximum amount that would bepaid inthe form The Committee has discretion to provide additional benefits orremove of benefits during the policy period.
benefits in order to remaincompetitive or to meet theneeds of the business, for example to provide relocation expenses, including financial, tax and legal advice if applicable.
Any change to benefit provisionwillbe detailedonanannual basis.
74 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION In particular, the Committee consulted with a number of major In addition to the components described below, it is the policy shareholders in the formulation of the current Remuneration of the Company to honour any commitments made to a Director Policy to understand their views and to inform the Committees before thispolicy took effect or before he she became a Director.
The Committee believes that the feedback received Such commitments include the Group Chief Executives unfunded has been crucial in the development of the new structure which pension arrangement, which is described on page 80 and his is now in place.
Five Year Award, which is described in the Annual Report onRemuneration.
com 75 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy Report continued Remuneration policy table for Executive Directors continued Element How element supports business strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions and assessment PerformanceTo incentivise delivery of Bonus payments are based on the achievement of specified corporate Maximum 200% of base salary.
The targets for the bonus in respect of 2016 are as follows: related bonus performance objectives which are financialand non-financial objectives over a one-year performance period.
75% bonus is subject to normalised profit and free cash flow targets.
directly linked to thefinancial and A proportion of the bonus payments is subject to mandatory deferral 25% is subject to non-financial targets.
intoshares for one year from award as follows: The Committee retains discretion in exceptional circumstances to amend the A portion of bonus is deferred 25% of the bonus earned up to 125% of salary.
weightings of the financial and non-financial elements of the bonus from year intoshares, assisting retention of 50% of the bonus earned from 125% to 150% of salary.
to year and for each Executive as appropriate.
Executive Directors and aligning 75% of the bonus earned above 150% of salary applicable to GroupCEOonly.
their financial interests with those The targets attached to the financial condition will typically relate to profit and or of shareholders.
Dividends or dividend equivalents which may assume notional re-investment cash generation, are set on an annual basis and are intended to be achievable at threshold and stretching at maximum.
The numerical values of the target will are paid on these shares.
not be disclosed in advance as the Committee considers this information The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to standardise the commercially sensitive.
Actual targets, performance achieved and awards will be percentage of the bonus deferred into shares if this is deemed appropriate in published at the end of the performance period in order that shareholders can the future.
Unless the Committee determines otherwise, the market price per fully assess the basis for any payouts under the annual bonus.
share on the date of the award will be calculated on the basis of the average market price share in the five days preceding the date of the grant.
The non-financial targets will be set annually based on strategic objectives for the year.
The non-financial targets include safety, customer, operational excellence Bonus payments are paid following year end and are not pensionable.
and people objectives and will be determined by the Committee on an annual basis.
The proportion of the bonus determined by performance against nonOnly the Executive Directors currently participate in the Companys bonus financial targets will only become payable when the Company achieves a deferral arrangements.
Other employees may be invited to participate in threshold level of normalised profit.
future years at the Committees discretion.
It is a pre-condition to the award of any bonus that the Remuneration Committee Achievement of each element of the bonus is assessed independently.
has determined that there has been an improvement in safety processes, Provisions exist that require the deferred shares to be forfeited orrepaid procedures and outcomes during the year in the relevant business unit before should it be necessary for the Company to restate materially the financial any bonus is paid.
results upon which the bonus was awarded within a two-year period For further details on the measures and targets which applied to bonuses in 2015, following the deferred bonus being awarded.
The proportion of the bonus please see pages 85 and 86. that would be subject to this provision would depend on the extent to which theoriginal bonus payment turned out to be false following The annual bonus contains malus and clawback provisions.
Long-Term To drive performance, aid Performance Share Awards in the form of conditional awards, nil cost The Group CEO is eligible to receive a Awards will be subject to stretching performance targets over aperiod of IncentivePlan retention and align the interests options or forfeitable shares are granted annually and vesting is conditional award ofPerformance Shares up three years.
Performance ofExecutive Directors with dependenton the achievement of performance conditions measured to an equivalent of 200% of salaryperannum.
The Committee may change the balance of the measures, or use different Shares shareholders.
The Group FD is eligible to receive a measuresfor subsequent awards, as appropriate.
No material change will be The performance conditions An additional two-year holding period has been introduced toincrease conditional award of Performance Shares made to the type of performance conditions without prior shareholder consultation.
are aligned with the long-term alignment with shareholders.
Dividend equivalents can be paid on up to an equivalent of 150% of base salary For 2016, the awards will be based equally as follows: performance of the business, these shares.
thereby driving participants 1 3 earnings per share EPS.
Awards are reviewed annually to ensure that grant levels, performance toachieve outcomes that 1 3 return on capital employed ROCE.
criteria and other features remain appropriate totheCompanys current realiseshareholder value.
1 3 total shareholder return split between 50% FTSE 250 comparator group and circumstances.
Malus and clawback provisions are attached to awards made under the Achievement of threshold performance in respect of the EPS and TSR targets LTIPwhich apply over a two-year period post vesting.
results in 30% vesting for each part of the award.
Achievement of threshold performance in respect of the ROCE target results in 0% vesting.
There is no ability to retest any of the performance conditions.
The Committee retains discretion under the rules of the LTIP to amend existing performance conditions to take account of any events that may arise which would mean in its opinion, if such adjustments were not made, the performance condition would not constitute a fair measure of the Companys performance over the period.
Shareholding Executive Directors are encouraged to build up a shareholding over a five-year period from 2015.
The requirement requirement for the Group CEO is equivalent to 200% of salary and for the Group FD the requirement is 150% of base salary.
Adherence to these guidelines is a condition of continued participation in the equity incentive arrangements.
This policy ensures that the interests of Executive Directors and those of shareholders are closely aligned.
76 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Element How element supports business strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions and assessment PerformanceTo incentivise delivery of Bonus payments are based on the achievement of specified corporate Maximum 200% of base salary.
com 77 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy Report continued Elements of remuneration applying under the previous policy applicable for 2015 Element How element supports business strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions and assessment Long-Term Incentive To drive performance, aid retention and Executive Directors are eligible to receive awards of Matching The maximum value of investment in any year is 30% Half of any award will be subject to EPS growth.
The remaining Plan Matching align the interests of Executive Directors Shares that are based on a personal investment in National ofbasesalary.
half will be subject to the relative TSR of the Company measured Shares with shareholders.
Express Group PLC shares funded either through using an against an appropriate group of companies.
annual bonus award to purchase shares or through the Participants only receive Matching Achievement of threshold performance results in 30% vesting pledgingof shares held not already allocated to the LTIP.
foreach part of the award.
Sharessubject to investing into the Matching awards are made on the basis of up to four business and therefore this mechanism MatchingShares being awarded based on the value of There is no ability to retest either performance condition.
adds an element of buy-in to the theinvestment for each National Express share pledged remuneration.
The Committee retains discretion under the rules of the LTIP to orpurchased.
amend existing performance conditions to take account of any The performance conditions are aligned Reviewed annually to ensure that grant levels, performance events that may arise which would mean in its opinion, if such with the long-term performance of the criteria and other features remain appropriate to the adjustments were not made, the performance condition would business, thereby driving participants Companyscurrent circumstances, and to ensure that there notconstitute a fair measure of the Companys EPS or TSR toachieve outcomes that realise areno features of the plans that could inadvertently motivate growthover the period.
Performance conditions for the National Express Group PLC 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan 2015 LTIP EPS, TSR and ROCE were chosen for the 2015 LTIP as appropriate measures of the Groups long-term performance.
The table below summarises the rationale for the inclusion of these measures in the 2015 LTIP: Measure Rationale for performance measure EPS Important growth measure considered within the Company and a driver ofshareholdervalue.
Provides a transparent and accessible method of gauging the financial performance ofthe Company.
Ensures the annual profit performance targeted by the annual bonus plan flows throughto long-term sustainableEPS growth.
The Company calculates performance against this measure by reference to the EPS figures reported in the Companys audited accounts.
Consistent with the Companys objective of providing superior long-term returns toshareholders.
ROCE Demonstrates how efficiently the Company is operating with the resources available.
If the Committee changes the performance conditions within the life of the Remuneration Policy, it will inform shareholders of the changes made and the reason for making any change.
On a change of control, Performance Shares will vest, except to the extent they are exchanged for awards over shares in the acquiring company.
Vesting will be subject to any performance conditions and will normally be reduced to reflect early vesting, unless the Remuneration Committee determines that a reduction in the number of vested shares is considered inappropriate.
The number orclassofshares under award may be adjusted on a rights issue, variation of capital, demerger or similar transaction.
Comparison with approach to remuneration across the Group National Express Group operates internationally and accordingly, the remuneration policy for employees generally reflects the legislative and labour market requirements in each separate jurisdiction.
The Group will always meet or exceed national minimum standards for terms and conditions of employment in each of our business areas, offering pay, terms and conditions that are appropriate to each labourmarket in which we operate.
Base pay is set at a level that allows us to recruit and retain staff in each relevant labour market and performance-related pay arrangements are based on the achievement of business unit and individual goals, objectively assessed.
Other than for a small number of senior Executives in each business unit, long-term incentive plans are only applicable at Executive Director level.
78 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Elements of remuneration applying under the previous policy applicable for 2015 Element How element supports business strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance conditions and assessment Long-Term Incentive To drive performance, aid retention and Executive Directors are eligible to receive awards of Matching The maximum value of investment in any year is 30% Half of any award will be subject to EPS growth.
Performance conditions for the National Express Group PLC 2015 Approach to recruitment remuneration of Executive Directors In the event that the Company recruits a new Executive Director either from within the organisation or externally when determining Long-Term Incentive Plan 2015 LTIP appropriate remuneration arrangements, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors including but not limited to EPS, TSR and ROCE were chosen for the 2015 LTIP as appropriate measures of the Groups long-term performance.
The table below quantum, the type of remuneration being offered and the jurisdiction the candidate was recruited from to ensure that arrangements summarises the rationale for the inclusion of these measures in the 2015 LTIP: areinthe best interests of both the Company and its shareholders without paying more than is necessary to recruit an Executive oftherequired calibre.
Measure Rationale for performance measure The Committees policy is for all Executive Directors to have rolling service contracts with a notice period of 12 months, unless on an EPS Important growth measure considered within the Company and a driver ofshareholdervalue.
exceptional basis to complete an external recruitment successfully, when a longer initial period reducing to 12 months may be used.
Ensures the annual profit performance targeted by the annual bonus plan flows throughto long-term The Committee would generally seek to align the remuneration of any new Executive Director following the same principles as for the sustainableEPS growth.
current Executive Directors set out in the table above.
The Company calculates performance against this measure by reference to the EPS figures reported in the The elements that would be considered by the Company for inclusion in the remuneration package for a new Director are: Companys audited accounts.
salary and benefits including defined contribution pension participation or a salary supplement in lieu of pension provision: TSR Improves shareholder alignment.
participation in the performance-related bonus pro-rated for the year of recruitment to reflect the proportion of the year for which the Consistent with the Companys objective of providing superior long-term returns toshareholders.
newrecruit was in post maximum of 200% of salary.
If the commencement date is after 1 September in the year, no award would ROCE Demonstrates how efficiently the Company is operating with the resources available.
normally be made for that year: participation in the LTIP.
The Performance Shares granted will be in line with the grant levels for that grade.
In the case of the appointment of a new Group Chief Executive, this grant would be a maximum of 200% and for any other position a grant of150% would If the Committee changes the performance conditions within the life of the Remuneration Policy, it will inform shareholders of the changes be made.
The grant may be pro-rated depending on the time of appointment through the year: and made and the reason for making any change.
costs relating to but not limited to relocation: London allowance: legal, financial, tax and visa advice, and pre-employment medical checks.
On a change of control, Performance Shares will vest, except to the extent they are exchanged for awards over shares in the acquiring The Committee may make awards on appointing an Executive Director to buy out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a company.
Vesting will be subject to any performance conditions and will normally be reduced to reflect early vesting, unless the previous employer.
The Committee would take into account both market practice and any relevant commercial factors in considering Remuneration Committee determines that a reduction in the number of vested shares is considered inappropriate.
The number whether any enhanced and or one-off annual incentive or long-term incentive award was necessary.
Awards made by way of orclassofshares under award may be adjusted on a rights issue, variation of capital, demerger or similar transaction.
compensation for forfeited awards would be made on a comparable basis, taking account of performance achieved or likely to be Comparison with approach to remuneration across the Group achieved, the proportion of the performance period remaining and the form of the award.
Compensation could be in cash or shares.
National Express Group operates internationally and accordingly, the remuneration policy for employees generally reflects the legislative In the event of recruitment or retention other than buy-out awards as described above, the Committee may also grant awards to a new and labour market requirements in each separate jurisdiction.
The Group will always meet or exceed national minimum standards for orexisting Executive Director under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 up to an equivalent of 200% of salary per annum.
The Remuneration Committee terms and conditions of employment in each of our business areas, offering pay, terms and conditions that are appropriate to each does not currently intend to exercise this discretion to grant total awards in excess of 200% of salary and is committed to fully disclose labourmarket in which we operate.
Base pay is set at a level that allows us to recruit and retain staff in each relevant labour market the nature and reasons for any such discretion used in future.
and performance-related pay arrangements are based on the achievement of business unit and individual goals, objectively assessed.
com 79 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy Report continued Executive Directors The contract dates and notice periods for the Executive Directors are shown in the table below: Executive Directors service contracts and notice periods Notice period from Notice period from Director Contract date theCompany theDirector Dean Finch 16 December 2009 12 months 6 months Matthew Ashley 16 July 2015 12 months 6 months The service contract of Dean Finch, which is a rolling contract, contains a provision, exercisable at the option of the Company, to pay an amount on termination of employment equal to one years salary, salary supplement in lieu of pension and car allowance.
The Director will not be obliged to mitigate his loss in relation to any payment in lieu of notice.
The Company will use the payment in lieu of notice provisions when the speed, certainty and protection of restrictive covenants afforded by such clauses are thought to be in the best interests of the Company and the circumstances surrounding the departure of the Director justify their use.
The service contracts for the current Executive Directors are available to view on request from the Company Secretary.
The Committee continuously reviews its policies on Executive remuneration and severance in the best interests of shareholders.
Guidance on best practice expectations is taken into account prior to agreeing Directors contractual provisions.
The Group Chief Executive is entitled, under an unfunded pension arrangement, to a pension based on the value of notional contributions of 25% of his salary, plus a 5% per annum notional return.
On 3 June 2015, the Group Chief Executive was given 12 months notice of thecessation of this ongoing accrual.
The benefits under the unfunded pension arrangement will cease to accrue on 5 June 2016.
Thepension normally becomes payable, at the earliest, on 1 April 2022.
All or part of it may be paid as a lump sum.
Executive Directors are also provided with Directors and Officers liability insurance and are indemnified by the Company against certain liabilities incurred in the course of their duties, including the costs of defending actions against them.
Executive Directors external appointments Under the terms of their service agreements, Board approval is required before any external appointment may be accepted by an Executive Director.
The Executive Director is permitted to retain any fees paid for such services.
Details of the fee received by the Group Chief Executive in 2015 are shown below: Director Fee External appointment Dean Finch 13,700 Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust 80 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Executive Directors termination payments The Company may at its discretion pay in lieu of notice.
Payment in lieu of notice could potentially include up to 12 months base salary, benefits and pension which may be payable in instalments and subject to mitigation.
The table below sets out the treatment of other elements of remuneration that would normally apply for Executive Directors whose service with National Express terminates: Salary and Performance-related Unvested deferred Reason for termination contractualbenefits bonusawards bonusawards Unvested LTIP awards Other Retirement, disability, Payment equal to Bonus awarded Award vests on the Awards vest on the Fees for redundancy, death, the aggregate of subject to date of cessation date of cessation of outplacement sale of part of the basic salary satisfaction of ofemployment.
employment, unless and legal advice Company that and the value of performance the Remuneration may be paid.
employs participant, any contractual targets for Committee or any other reason benefits for the therelevant determines it should that the Remuneration notice period financialyear.
vest at normal vesting Committee decides.
accrued but The amount of award untaken holiday.
vesting will be subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions as at the date the award is deemed to vest.
Awards will normally be reduced time pro rata to reflect time elapsed between grant and cessation ofemployment.
1 Pursuant to Dean Finchs service contract dated 16 December 2009, if his contract is terminated for reasons other than for an event of default by the Executive such as gross misconduct, he is entitled, subject to the applicable performance conditions, to a pro rata bonus calculated up to the termination date from the commencement of the relevant bonusyear in which termination takes place.
Subject to the circumstances surrounding the termination, the Committee in its discretion may treat the individual as an approved leaver ie, under the first section in the table above.
The Committee will consider factors such as personal performance and conduct, overall Company performance and the specific circumstances of the Executives departure including, but not restricted to, whether the Executive is leaving by mutual agreement with the Company.
In addition, the Committee will consider the above circumstances in considering whether awards in respect of approved leavers should bepro-rated to reflect the service completed.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith: in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors office or employment.
Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors appointments The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company and do not participate in the Groups pension scheme, annual bonus scheme or long-term incentive schemes.
Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment and are appointed for an initial three-year term.
Non-Executive Directors are typically expected to serve for two three-year terms, although their appointment can beterminated either by them or by the Company on one months written notice.
It is open to the Company to invite a Non-Executive Director to serve for a further period after the expiry of two three-year terms.
The letters of appointment for the current Non-Executive Directors can be found on the Companys website, www.
Non-Executive Directors are also provided with Directors and Officers liability insurance and are indemnified by the Company against certain liabilities incurred in the course of their duties, including the costs of defending actions against them.
com 81 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy Report continued In accordance with the requirements of the Code, all Directors are required to stand for election or re-election by shareholders each year.
The original appointment dates of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are shown in the table below.
The remuneration of any new Non-Executive Director will be determined following the same principles as for the current Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors appointment dates Notice period by either Director Date of appointment Company or Director Sir John Armitt CBE 1 January 2013 3 months Joaqun Ayuso 1 June 2011 1 month Jorge Cosmen 1 December 2005 0 months 1 Sir Andrew Foster 1 August 2004 1 month 1 Jackie Hunt 13 September 2012 1 month Chris Muntwyler 11 May 2011 1 month Lee Sander 1 June 2011 1 month Jane Kingston 26 February 2014 1 month Matthew Crummack 6 May 2015 1 month Mike McKeon 3 July 2015 1 month 1 Retired from the Board on 6 May 2015.
The table below sets out the current Companys Remuneration Policy for the Non-Executive Directors which became effective from the 2015 AGM: Element Purpose Operation Maximum potential value Non-Executive To attract and retain The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are set by The Committees policy fees persons of a suitable the Board as a whole and those of the Chairman are istoset base fees at an calibre for a group of set by the Remuneration Committee.
The fees are appropriate level taking thissize and to pay reviewed at appropriate intervals normally onceevery intoaccount the factors feeswhich are reflective year.
The review takes account of feespaid for outlined in this table.
of responsibilities and similar positions in the market, the time commitment competitive with required from the Director estimatedto be 60 days peercompanies per year for the Chairman and 20 days per year for withoutpaying more the other Non-Executive Directors and any additional thanis necessary.
responsibilities undertaken, such as acting as Chairman to oneofthe Board Committees or fulfilling the roleofSenior Independent Director.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to receive pension entitlements or bonuses and may not participate in long-term incentive arrangements.
A travel allowance may be paid to Non-Executive Directors for attendance at Board meetings held outside the continent in which the Non-Executive Director is resident.
Statement of conditions elsewhere in the Group The Group operates across a number of countries and accordingly sets terms and conditions for employees which reflect the different legislative and labour market conditions that operate in each of our jurisdictions.
We set Global People Standards to provide a framework for recognition and rewards internationally.
We will always meet or exceed national minimum standards for terms and conditions of employment in each of our business areas.
Pay arrangements in our businesses also reflect local performance with personal increases based on achievement, individually assessed.
National Express believes in the value of continuous improvement, both for the individual and for the Company.
The Company did not consult with employees in drawing up the Directors Remuneration Policy.
When determining the remuneration of Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee takes into account business unit performance, including both financial performance and safety improvements in the year.
Because of the wide variety in labour market conditions and inexchange rate movements, pay rates locally are not normally considered when considering Executive Director base pay reviews.
The Remuneration Committee reviews and notes the salaries of the Senior Management Group.
LTIP awards are cascaded down below Executive Director level to the Senior Management Group, aligning the senior team to deliver value for the Group.
82 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration The relevant sections of this report have been audited, as required by the Regulations.
Remuneration Committee composition and terms of reference The individuals who served on the Remuneration Committee during 2015, and those individuals who attended Remuneration Committee meetings, are set out below: Member biographies appear on pages 54 and 55 Position Appointment Date Jane Kingston Committee Chair Chair from 6 May 2015 and member since 26 February 2014 1 Sir Andrew Foster Committee Chairman Chairman from 10 May 2012 until 6May2015 Lee Sander Senior Independent Director 22 November 2011 Matthew Crummack Independent Non-Executive Director 6 May 2015 1 Retired from the Board on 6 May 2015.
Role and responsibilities The key responsibilities of the Committee are to: determine the fees of the Chairman: determine the remuneration and conditions of employment including any termination arrangements of the Executive Directors and theCompany Secretary: review the remuneration and conditions of employment of the Senior Management Group: and select and appoint any remuneration consultants who advise the Committee.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website at www.
Meetings The Committee met seven times during the year.
Details of attendance at the formal Committee meetings can be found on page 58.
Remuneration Committee activity The key areas of Committee activity during the year were as follows: Completed the extensive shareholder consultation commenced in 2014 in connection with the formulation of a revised Directors Remuneration Policy which was put to a binding vote at the 2015 AGM.
Considered and approved a new long-term incentive plan for the Executive Directors and Senior Management Group, including the types and range of performance conditions to be used, which was approved at the 2015 AGM.
Approved the remuneration arrangements for the incoming Group Finance Director.
Reviewed salary levels for the Executive Directors, Company Secretary and Senior Management Group.
Approved annual bonus payments to the Executive Directors, Company Secretary and Senior Management Group having duly considered the overall strong financial performance of the Company.
Considered and approved 2015 award levels under the new 2015 LTIP.
Tested performance conditions for awards made under the previous 2005 LTIP granted in 2012.
Reviewed approach to measuring EPS performance in the light of a change in accounting treatment for bid costs.
Set targets for the Groups 2015 bonus scheme.
Reviewed the fees paid to the remuneration advisers.
Reviewed corporate governance and legal and regulatory compliance with regard to Directors remuneration.
Reviewed and updated the Committees terms of reference.
Undertook an internal review of the effectiveness of the Committee, concluding that it continued to operate effectively.
Reviewed and approved the Committees report for inclusion in the 2015 Annual Report.
com 83 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued The Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any information that it requires from any employee of the Group.
The Committee members and management attendees did not participate in any discussions directly relating to their own remuneration orperformance during the year.
Advisors to the Committee Material advice or services were provided to the Committee during the year by:  LLP PwC Independent Remuneration Consultants: Dean Finch Group Chief Executive: Matthew Ashley Group Finance Director: Mike Goddard Group HR Director: and Sandra Forbes Group General Counsel & Company Secretary.
The Group Chief Executive attends meetings of the Committee to make recommendations relating to the performance and remuneration of theSenior Management Group.
The Group HR Director guided the Committee on reward matters relating to the Executive Directors and the Senior Management Group and the broader Group HR strategy and policy.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to theCommittee.
During 2015, PwC provided advice to the management of the Group on various matters including pensions, international taxation and business consulting.
From time to time, the Company submits the remuneration consultant function to tender.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and the voluntary code of conduct of that body is designed to ensure objective and independent advice is given to remuneration committees.
The Committee is satisfied that advice received was appropriate, objective and independent.
Advisor Fees in relation to remuneration advice 000 PwC 170 Single total figure of remuneration Executive Directors The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Executive Director in post during the 2015 financial year.
Comparative figures for 2014 have also been provided.
2015 2014 PerformanceValue  PensionBase Taxable related of LTIP related Base Taxable related of LTIP related 1 2 3 1 3 000 salary benefits bonus vested benefits Total salary benefits bonus vested benefits Total Dean Finch 561 27 1,077 1,395 196 3,256 561 27 778 0 196 1,562 4 Matthew Ashley 276 126 413 457 69 1,341 n a n a n a n a n a n a 1 Taxable benefits comprise a cash alternative to a fully expensed car 20,000 for Dean Finch and 10,500 for Matthew Ashley, health insurance and death in service and life assurancecover.
Taxable benefits for Matthew Ashley also include 112,000 in respect of relocation expenses.
2 The value of LTIP vested is based upon the average share price for the last quarter of 2015 3.07.
3 In addition, Dean Finch has an entitlement under an unfunded pension arrangement as described on page 80.
From 5 June 2016, benefits under this arrangement will cease to accrue.
Base salary For 2015, the Committee determined that the salary for the Group Chief Executive should remain unchanged at 561,000.
Matthew Ashley was appointed to the role of Group Finance Director on 28 January 2015.
His base salary was set at 300,000 which will be increased based upon development in role.
84 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Performance-related bonus A summary of the 2015 performance-related bonus scheme is summarised below.
The maximum potential bonus payable for 2015 to the Group Chief Executive was 200% of salary and, in respect of the Group Finance Director, 150% of salary.
For the Group Chief Executive, 25% of the bonus earned up to 125% of salary, 50% of the bonus earned from 125% to 150% and 75%of the bonus earned from 150% to 200% of salary was to be deferred.
For the Group Finance Director, 25% of the bonus earned up to 125% of salary and 50% of the bonus earned from 125% to 150% ofsalary was to be deferred.
The amounts deferred under the bonus plan in 2015 are deferred into shares awarded under the Executive Deferred Bonus Plan EDBP for one year.
Receipt of the deferred shares is subject to continued service and good leaver provisions under the EDBP.
The 2015 bonus also includes provisions that require the deferred shares to be forfeited or repaid should it be necessary for the Company to restate materially its 2015 results within a two-year period following the deferred bonus being awarded.
The proportion of the bonus that would besubject to these provisions would depend on the extent to which the original bonus payment turned out to be false following the publication of corrected results.
The Committee has reviewed the performance against the conditions attached to the performance-related bonus and, in addition, madean assessment of the performance of the Group as a whole during 2015.
The Committee has full discretion in the payment of annual bonuses.
For any financial element to be payable, the Group must have achieved a threshold level of normalised profit target for the year.
In addition, it is a pre-condition to the award of any bonus that the Remuneration Committee has determined that there has been an improvement in safety processes, procedures and outcomes during theyear.
In respect of the targets applying to the annual bonus for 2015 for the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, a maximum of 150% and 112.5% respectively of salary was payable based on achievement against a sliding scale of challenging financial targets.
A maximum of 50% of salary for the Group Chief Executive and 37.5% for the Group Finance Director was payable based on non-financial targets that encompassed customer, operational excellence and people objectives.
The targets set in relation to non-financial performance are key strategic Group objectives that are tailored to the responsibilities of eachindividual Executive Director and, in aggregate, are considered to be similarly challenging to the range of financial targets set.
The tables below summarises the performance conditions attaching to the 2015 awards and the actual performance and bonus valueachieved: Bonus structure for 2015 Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Percentage of base salary Percentage of base salary Details Maximum bonus potential 200% 150% Proportion of bonus subject to mandatory deferral into Company shares for one year from award Bonuspotentialat 90% of 0% 0% Awarded on achieving thresholdlevel budgetednormalised profit beforetax PBT On-target bonus potential at 100% 50% 37.5% Awarded on achieving budget ofbudgeted normalised PBT Stretch bonus for 110% of budgeted 100% 75% Awarded on achieving a stretch target normalised PBT of 110% of normalised PBT Bonus potential at 90% of budgeted 0% 0% Awarded on achieving threshold level freecash flow On-target bonus potential at100% 25% 18.75% Awarded on achieving budget ofbudgeted free cashflow Stretch bonus potential at 110% 50% 37.5% Awarded on achieving a stretch target ofbudgeted free cash flow of 110% of budgeted free cash flow Non-financial targets underpinned 50% 37.5% Awarded on meeting key strategic byachievementof90% of budgeted Group objectives tailored to each normalised PBT Executive Directors responsibilities www.
com 85 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued A summary of performance during 2015, the targets set and the extent to which the targets were met is set out in the following tables: Summary of bonuses paid Bonus value achievable for Threshold On-target Maximum meeting threshold and Actual bonus Performance performance performance Performance Actual maximum performance value achieved condition Weighting required required required performance Percentage of salary Percentage of salary Dean Matthew Dean Matthew Finch Ashley Finch Ashley Normalised profit 50% 122.8m 136.4m 150.0m 150.1m 0%-100% 0%-75% 100% 75% Free cash flow 25% 85.2m 94.7m 104.2m 111.0m 0%-50% 0%-37.5% 50% 37.5% Non-financial targets 25% See detail below 0%-50% 0%-37.5% 42% 37.5% Total awarded 192% 150% 1 salary salary 1,077,120 413,784 Of which deferred 75.25% 43.75% inshares salary salary 422,153 120,687 Of which paid incash 116.75% 106.25% salary salary 654,967 293,097 1 Figures are pro-rated based on salary received since joining the Board on 28 January 2015.
Summary of non-financial conditions for 2015 Dean Finch Objective Performance Safety Total harm measured by the FWI has further reduced year on year Deliver a year-on-year improvement in the Fatalities and by0.5% a 56% reduction since 2011 WeightedInjuries index FWI for like-for-like operations CEO externally recognised for strong and effective leadership on Safety Achieve a successful Arthur D Little audit matters.
World Class Driver initiative launched.
During 2015 all drivers Develop and implement plans to improve professional across the Group have undertaken practical defensive driving training driving anddefensive driving techniques across the Group Business development Acquisitions in North America contributed a combined $5.3 million Allocate growth capital to North America and identify of profit during 2015, net of deal and synergy costs bolt-onacquisition opportunities that are value enhancing UK Coach has continued to develop its revenue management capability Develop revenue management systems in UK Coach and grown profits for the third consecutive year: Spain has successfully andinSpain rolled out its revenue programme but has still to deliver full benefits Increase liaison with Non-Executive Directors on strategy CEO provided clear direction on key strategic issues referring back to NED guidance to ensure delivery Operational Whilst customer satisfaction targets were positive, punctuality Maintain and improve punctuality, reliability and customer improvements in UK Bus and Coach were not fully met satisfaction targets across the Group Bahrain bus contract successfully mobilised in new region, opening Successfully launch Bahrain and RME upthe Middle East.
In Germany, RME succesfully launched in earlyDecember Talent development National Express Network launched for graduates across all divisions: Develop graduate and apprenticeship schemes apprenticeship programmes have been developed in a number of Succession planning disciplines across the UK busineses Greater focus on MD succession and good progress on identification oftalent have been undertaken Investor relations Success recognised by a 34% increase in the value of the Group Continue to promote strong investor relations and buying inayear when the FTSE 250 increased by 8.4% supportfor National Express shares 86 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Matthew Ashley Objective Performance Safety Total harm measured by the FWI has further reduced year on year Deliver a year-on-year improvement in the FWI for by0.5% a 56% reduction since 2011 like-for-like operations External recognition of strong leadership of the Executive team Achieve a successful Arthur D Little audit ingovernance of safety across the Group Business development Acquisitions in North America contributed a combined $5.3m of profit Allocate growth capital to North America and identify during 2015 net of deal and synergy costs bolt-on acquisition opportunities that are value enhancing Took the lead review on property and station management, property Support the bid for the East Anglia franchise, in particular andretail income, digital and IT.
CFOs challenges were considered fair ensuring the integrity of the model and the completeness and constructive and his input deemed critical to the bid submission ofrevenue and costs Operational Financial control improvements identified and appropriate resources Put in place robust financial review mechanisms for the allocated to implement them.
Internal audit follow-ups verified the tight newstart-up businesses Bahrain and German rail controls now in place Develop and implement a plan for the refinancing of Following a competitive process, six banks appointed as bookrunners the350 millionbond expiring in January 2017 including and 450 million bridge facility negotiated to allow the Group to repay appointment ofbookrunners the bond when it expires in 2017 Talent development Significant effort has been made in upgrading the finance talent, Review the strength of the finance teams and develop plans bothatdivisional and corporate level, accomplished through both toupgrade talent across the business developing and promoting internally and also bringing in fresh talent Quickly become established as the Group Finance Director Significant effort has been made in acting as a conduit for information developing positive working relationships with the Group between the businesses and the CEO.
Recognition by the NonChiefExecutive, Chairman, and the Board and Committees Executive Directors on clarity of the budget process was made Investor relations CFO has developed in the role significantly during the year and has Continue to promote strong investor relations and buying become established in the wider finance community as the Group support for National Express stock Finance Director Establish strong personal relations with key investors CFO has now met with most significant shareholders and has had and analysts success in presenting the investment case for the Group Based on the above assessment against the objectives set, the Committee determined that the performance of Dean Finch warranted 42% payout out of a maximum 50% of salary, and MatthewAshley warranted maximum payout for the non-financial elements of their respective bonuses.
LTIP awards Performance Share Awards and Matching Share Awards granted under the LTIP in 2013 are scheduled to vest in 2016.
The performance period relating to these Awards ended on 31 December 2015.
Details of the performance conditions and the extent to which they have been satisfied are set out below: Performance Shares and Matching Shares Threshold Maximum performance performance Actual Performance condition Weighting required 30% vesting required 100% vesting performance % vesting 1 Between 46.7% TSR 50% Median of Upper quintile comparator ofcomparator median and upper quintile group group 7th out of 15 companies 2 EPS 50% 2015 EPS of22.1p 2015 EPS of 24.7p 24.8p 100% Total 100% 73.4% 1 TSR was measured against a bespoke comparator group of transport companies taken predominantly from the FTSE Industrial Transportation and FTSE Travel & Leisure sectors.
2 The Committee considered and agreed changes to the performance conditions for outstanding awards made under the previous 2005 LTIP whereby the growth in EPS for outstanding awards under this plan would be based on a consistent accounting basis to exclude actual bid costs incurred.
This adjustment serves to ensure that the EPS element of the LTIP continues to incentivise and reward delivery of normalised EPS growth now that bid costs, with effect from 1 January 2015, are treated as a normalised expense which has the impact of reducing normalised EPS in 2015 and subsequent years.
Bid costs of 9.2 million for 2015 were added back to the normalised EPS of 23.4p to give an outcome of24.8p for the LTIP awards tested at the end of the year.
Vesting of Awards Dean Finch was awarded 280,898 Performance Shares and 337,076 Matching Shares in 2013 and therefore, following 73.4% of the performance conditions being met, a total of 453,283 shares are due to vest in 2016.
Matthew Ashley was awarded 94,484 Performance Shares and 108,000 Matching Shares in 2013 and therefore a total of 148,522 shares are due to vest in 2016. www.
com 87 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Pension entitlements and cash allowances Under the terms of their service agreements, Executive Directors are not entitled to become members of one of the Group pension schemes.
The Group Chief Executive receives a 35% salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions.
Benefits under the Group Chief Executives unfunded pension arrangement will cease to accrue with effect from 5 June 2016.
The Group Finance Director receives a combination of pension contribution and salary supplement worth 25% of salary in total.
Long-term incentives awarded in 2015 The tables below set out the details of any long-term incentive award granted in the 2015 financial year where vesting will be determined according to the achievement of performance conditions that will be tested in future reporting periods.
In addition, the Company has granted market value options to Dean Finch under the Company share option plan section of the LTIP CSOP Options over shares with a face value of 30,000.
The exercise price of each CSOP Option is 3.149 per share.
The number of shares that is capable of exercise will be reduced by such number of shares as has a market value at the date of exercise of the linked CSOP Option equal to the gain made on the exercise of the CSOP Option.
Overall, the participants pre-tax economic gain from the award is the same as if the CSOP Option was not in place.
Dean Finch Percentage of award Face value vesting at threshold 1 Basis on which of award performance Performance Performance Grant date Award type award made 000 ROCE: 0% period end date conditions 11.06.15 LTIP Nil cost options 200% 1,123 30% 31.12.17 TSR, EPS and of salary ROCE equally weighted Matthew Ashley Percentage of award Face value vesting at threshold 1 Basis on which of award performance Performance Performance Grant date Award type award made 000 ROCE: 0% period end date conditions 11.06.15 LTIP Nil cost options 150% 450 30% 31.12.17 TSR, EPS and of salary ROCE equally weighted 1 The face value in the tables above has been calculated by multiplying the maximum number of shares that could vest by the closing share price at the date of grant.
The share price was 315.4p on 11 June 2015.
Performance conditions for LTIP awards made in 2015 Part C TSR condition v FTSE 250 comparator Part D TSR condition 1 Part A EPS Part B ROCE group rank over three years to v Index over three years Performance condition 1 3 condition 1 3 31 December 2017 to 31 December 2017 Vesting percentage 1 level of the award of the award 1 6 of the award 1 6 of the award of the award Below threshold Less than 24.8p Below 9% Below median Below Index 0% Threshold 24.8p 9% Median Equal to Index 30% with exception of ROCE for which threshold is 0% Target 26.3p 10% Straight line between Straight line 50% median and upper quintile between Index and Index 10% pa Maximum 28.6p or above 12% or above Upper quintile Equal or above 100% Index 10% pa 1 Index comprising of the total returns of three comparator companies.
Straight-line vesting occurs between intermediate points.
88 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Indicative percentage of LTIP awards vesting based on performance to 31 December 2015 The table below sets out the percentage of each extant award that would have vested if the performance conditions had been tested at31December 2015 without making any allowance for pro rata reduction for any period of time that is less than the length of the performance period.
EPS ROCE TSR measure 1 TSR measure 2 Total Award Weighting Vesting Weighting Vesting Details Weighting Vesting Details Weighting Vesting max 100% 2012 Chief 50% 0% Bespoke 50% 0.0% n a 0% Executives Five comparator YearAward group 2013 Chief 50% 50% Bespoke 50% 46.7% n a 48.4% Executives Five comparator YearAward group 2014 Performance 50% 100% FTSE 250 25% 56.5% Bespoke 25% 70.9% 81.9% Shares and Matching index Shares 2014 Chief 50% 51.4% FTSE 250 25% 56.5% Bespoke 25% 70.9% 57.6% Executives Five index YearAward 2015 Performance 33.3% 30% 33.3% 90% FTSE 250 16.7% 95.3% Bespoke 16.7% 100% 72.6% Shares index The National Express Group Executive Deferred Bonus Plan EDBP Deferred bonuses awarded in 2015 based on performance during 2014 will vest on 18 March 2016 as set out in the table below: As at During year At Market 1 January 31 December price at date Date of Date of 2015 Granted Vested Lapsed 2015 of vesting grant vesting Dean Finch 2014 73,378 73,378 0 291.0p 28.02.14 02.03.15 2015 76,643 76,643 18.03.15 18.03.16 The market price per share on the date of award was calculated on the basis of the average market price share in the five days preceding the date of the grant.
Deferred shares will be required to be forfeited or repaid should it be necessary to restate materially the Companys 2014 and 2015 results within a two-year period following the award of the bonus.
The proportion of the bonus subject to these provisions would depend on the extent to which the original bonus turned out to be false following the publication of corrected results.
Non-Executive Directors The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Non-Executive Director serving during 2015.
The table includes only those columns in respect of elements of remuneration received by Non-Executive Directors.
2015 fees 2014 fees 000 000 Notes Sir John Armitt CBE 225 225 Joaqun Ayuso 51 51 Jorge Cosmen 47 47 Sir Andrew Foster 24 57 Resigned on 6 May 2015 Jackie Hunt 26 60 Resigned on 6 May 2015 Jane Kingston 54 40 Chris Muntwyler 63 61 Lee Sander 73 71 Matthew Crummack 32 Appointed on 6 May 2015 Mike McKeon 28 Appointed on 6 July 2015 Included in the above is a travel allowance of 4,000 payable to each of Joaqun Ayuso, Chris Muntwyler and Lee Sander for attendance at each Board meeting held outside the continent in which the Non-Executive Director is resident.
Lee Sander attended five meetings outside the continent in which he is resident.
com 89 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued There was no increase in the fees for either the Chairman or the Non-Executive Directors from 1 January 2015.
Payments to past Directors Other than the payment made to Jez Maiden in respect of the cash element of his performance-related bonus for 2014, as disclosed inlast years Directors Remuneration Report, there were no payments made to past Directors.
Payments for loss of office There were no loss of office payments made during the year to any person who has served as a Director of the Group.
Statement of Directors shareholdings Directors shareholdings Executive Directors interests and share ownership guidelines In order to align the interests of the Directors more closely with the shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has determined that theExecutive Directors are encouraged to build up a shareholding over a five-year period from 2015 as set out in the share ownership guidelines as described on page 76 of the Remuneration Policy.
From 2015, the requirement for the Group Chief Executive is the equivalent of 200% ofsalary and, for the Group Finance Director, the requirement is the equivalent of 150% of salary.
Matthew Ashleys shareholding will continue to be built up following his appointment in January 2015.
The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Executive Directors in office and their connected persons as at 31 December 2015 andthe details of long-term incentive interests are shown below: Other Shares held directly shares held Current shareholding as at 31 EDBP interests LTIP interests Shareholding December not subject to subject to Shareholding requirement 2015 Beneficially performance performance requirement 1 Percentage of salary Percentage of salary owned conditions conditions currently met?
Executive Directors Dean Finch 200% 220% 294,598 76,643 2,148,121 Yes Matthew Ashley 150% 76% 68,597 0 496,727 No 1 The share price of 332.8p as at 31 December 2015 has been taken for the purpose of calculating the current shareholding as a percentage of salary.
Please see the appendix on page 95 for more information on outstanding LTIP awards.
Directors shareholdings Non-Executive Directors interests Non-Executive Directors are not subject to a shareholding requirement.
Details of their interests in shares and those of their connected persons as at 31 December 2015, all of which are held outright with no attaching performance conditions, are shown below: At 31 December 2015 Sir John Armitt CBE 6,000 Joaqun Ayuso 0 1 Jorge Cosmen 88,860,685 Chris Muntwyler 0 Lee Sander 0 Jane Kingston 0 Matthew Crummack 0 Mike McKeon 5,000 1 Jorge Cosmens holding includes shares held by European Express Enterprises Ltd which are shown on page 98 in the list of major shareholdings in the Company.
The Register of Directors interests maintained by the Company contains full details of the Directors holdings of shares and options over shares in the Company.
The closing price of the Companys ordinary shares at 31 December 2015 was 332.8p 2014: 248.4p and the range during the year ended 31 December 2015 was 247.9p to 334.4p.
90 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Changes since year end There have been no changes in the shareholdings of the Directors between 31 December 2015 and the date of signing of this AnnualReport.
History of CEOs pay The table below sets out the total remuneration delivered to the Chief Executive over the last six years, valued using the methodology applied to the single total figure of remuneration: Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 1 Chief Executive R Bowker D Finch D Finch D Finch D Finch D Finch D Finch Total remuneration 000 465 1,356 1,454 1,701 1,553 1,562 3,256 Annual bonus payment 0% 100% 100% 78% 95% 93% 96% % maximum opportunity 2 LTIP vesting level achieved n a n a n a 32.5% 0% 0% 73.4% % maximum opportunity 1 R Bowker resigned as Chief Executive on 10 July 2009.
2 The incumbent Chief Executive during each of 2010 and 2011 did not have entitlement to any LTIP awards with attaching performance conditions whose final year of performance ended during that year.
Comparison of overall performance The first graph below shows a comparison of National Express Group PLCs seven-year total cumulative shareholder return against that achieved by the FTSE 250 Index.
This index has been selected because the Company is a constituent of this index and the Committee, therefore, feels that this is the most appropriate index with which to represent the Companys relative performance.
The second graph shows a comparison of National Express Group PLCs cumulative shareholder return and annual return since the commencement of the turnaround of the business from 31 December 2009 and subsequent recruitment of the current CEO in February 2010 and also over the last three years against that achieved by the FTSE 250 Index.
Shareholder returns seven-year history FTSE 250 Cumulative return FTSE 250 Annual return National Express Group Cumulative return National Express Group Annual return 240 220 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 -20 -40 31 12 2008 31 12 2009 31 12 2010 31 12 2011 31 12 2012 31 12 2013 31 12 2014 31 12 2015 Shareholder returns six-year history FTSE 250 Cumulative return FTSE 250 Annual return National Express Group Cumulative return National Express Group Annual return National Express Group Cumulative return last three years FTSE 250 Cumulative return last three years 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 -20 31 12 2009 31 12 2010 31 12 2011 31 12 2012 31 12 2013 31 12 2014 31 12 2015 www.
com 91 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued The Group achieved a very strong performance during 2015, with revenues, profits and margins up in every division beating the budgeted profit before tax by 10%.
This excellent result, underpinned by a strong and sustainable free cash flow, merited an increase in the full year dividend by 10%.
Rails first full year running its new 15-year c2c franchise achieved growth in revenues of 10%: the division ended the year successfully mobilising its first German rail services.
Good revenue growth combined with tight cost control saw UK Coach increase its margin by 130basis points and UK Bus by 100 basis points.
ALSAs revenue management programme in Spain contributed to revenue growth of 3%:revenue in Morocco grew by 14%.
Profit in North America grew by 6% on a constant currency basis due to a successful bid season, delivery of the contract margin improvement up or out strategy and bolt-on acquisitions net of deal and synergy costs.
The Group also commenced operations in a second new market in the year, running bus services in Bahrain.
Together, this performance contributed to a very strong share price performance in the year compared to both our peer group and the market.
Group Chief Executive pay increases compared with total remuneration for UK employees The following table sets out the change in certain elements of the remuneration paid to the Group Chief Executive from 2014 to 2015compared with the average percentage change for the UK employee population.
The Group uses the UK workforce who receive taxable benefits and bonus as an appropriate comparator group as this avoids complicated exchange rate adjustments that would have to be used if we included employees in the Groups overseas operations inthecalculation.
The Group Chief Executives remuneration disclosed in the table below has been calculated to take into account base salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus including any amount deferred on the basis used for determining the single figure.
The UK employee remuneration is based on the base salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus of those UK employees who received taxable benefits andbonuses.
Average percentage increase decrease from 2014 to 2015 Base salary Taxable benefits Performance-related bonus 1 Group Chief Executive 0% 0% 38.4% UK employee remuneration 2.0% -8.0% 43.9% 1 Under the current Remuneration Policy, the total variable pay for the CEO reduced from 470% to 400% of salary weighted equally between an increase in short-term from 150% to 200% and balanced by a reduction in long-term from 320% to 200% remuneration.
The increase from 2014 to 2015 is therefore primarily due to an increase in maximum bonus opportunity.
Relative importance of the spend on pay The table below sets out the total spend on pay in the 2015 financial year and 2014 financial year compared with distributions toshareholders: 2015 2014 % increase from m m 2014 to 2015 Overall Group spend on pay including Directors 879.1 850.3 3.4% Profit distributed by way of dividend 54.4 51.6 5.4% Profit distributed by way of share buyback Statement of voting at 2015 AGM At the AGM held on 6 May 2015, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors remuneration were as follows: For Against Percentage Percentage Percentage of issued Number of proxy Number of proxy Total share capital Votes 1 2 Resolution text of votes votes cast of votes votes cast votes cast voted withheld 2.
To approve the 413,984,166 99.10 3,757,165 0.90 417,741,331 81.63 11,201,974 Annual Report on Remuneration 1 The total voting rights in the Company as at the date of the meeting were 511,738,648 ordinary shares of 5p each, each carrying one vote on a poll.
2 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of votes for or against the resolutions.
92 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Statement of implementation of Remuneration Policy in 2016 Executive Directors base salaries The Committee determined that the salary for the Group Chief Executive would be increased from 561,000 to 589,000 with effect from1 January 2016.
The Committee agreed that this increase was warranted in order to maintain the market competitiveness of his salary when compared against direct peers and companies of similar size.
In the last five years, Dean Finch has only received one increase 2% in 2014 over a period during which corporate performance has been strong.
His base salary upon appointment was set at 300,000.
As Matthew has made a significant contribution to the business in his first year and performed strongly against the objectives set for him, the Committee determined that it would be appropriate to increase his salary from 300,000 to 325,000, in line with our intention to bring him to a more competitive level of base pay over time.
This new increase, effective from 1 January 2016, positions his base pay between the lower quartile and median against a comparator group of similarly sized businesses, and still allows for future salary progression as he completes his development in the role.
Pension entitlements and cash allowances The Group Chief Executive will receive a 35% salary supplement and the Group Finance Director will receive a pension contribution and salary supplement worth 25% of salary in total.
Performance-related bonus The annual bonus for the 2016 financial year will operate on the same basis as the arrangements in place during 2015.
The structure of the annual bonus for 2016 will be as follows: a maximum bonus of 200% of salary for the Group Chief Executive and of 150% of salary for the Group Finance Director: the proportion of the bonus linked to non-financial measures will be 25% based on operational excellence, safety standards and other strategic objectives: a proportion of bonus earned will be deferred in shares for one year.
For 2016, 25% of the bonus earned up to 125% of salary, 50% of the bonus earned from 125% to 150% of salary and, for the Group CEO, 75% of bonus earned above 150% of salary will be deferred: and the remaining 75% of the bonus will be based on achievement of financial targets, namely profit before tax and free cash flow.
When setting the bonus target for 2016, the Committee has taken into account: stock market consensus for 2016 profit: the Directors commitment to continue to record all bid costs as normalised operating expenses: the significant increase in rail franchise premium in c2c compared with 2015: the increased competitive pricing pressure from RENFE in Spain: and the intercity concession renewal process in Spain.
Targets will be set on a basis consistent with accounting measures, ie, without reference to exceptionals.
The Committee will set calibrated targets for the bonus measures and intends to disclose actual performance against these targets in next years Directors Remuneration Report.
As a matter of commercial sensitivity, the Committee has decided not to disclose performance targets in advance.
Long-term incentives Long-term incentive awards granted in the 2016 financial year will be granted in accordance with the policy detailed in the Remuneration Policy section of this report.
Awards will be made worth 200% of salary for the Group Chief Executive and 150% of salary for the Group Finance Director.
The performance measures, their weightings and targets for the 2016 awards will be as set out below.
EPS targets will be set consistent with normalised EPS for accounting purposes, in particular after the deduction of bid costs.
Threshold EPS, TSR: 30% vesting Metric Weighting ROCE: 0% vesting Target 50% vesting Maximum 100% vesting 2018 financial year EPS 1 3 25.6p 27.1p 29.5p Average ROCE financial years 2016-2018 1 3 9% 10% 12% Relative TSR vs FTSE 250 1 6 Median Upper quintile 1 Relative TSR vs Bespoke Index 1 6 Equal to Index Index 10% pa 1 Notional index comprising Go-Ahead Group, First Group and Stagecoach Group.
Straight-line vesting will occur between intermediate levels of performance.
Performance will be measured over a three-year period and awards will be subject to a two-year holding period post vesting.
com 93 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Illustrations of application of Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors The chart below illustrates the remuneration that would be paid to each of the Executive Directors under three different performance scenarios: i Minimum: ii On-target: and iii Maximum: Fixed Annual variable PSP variable Remuneration 000 3,500 3,000 2,500 37% 2,000 1,500 20% 37% 35% 1,000 33% 18% 35% 500 30% 47% 100% 26% 52% 100% 30% 0 Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Dean Finch Matthew Ashley The elements of remuneration have been categorised into three components: i Fixed: ii Annual variable: and iii Multiple reporting period, which are set out in the future policy table below: Element Descriptions Fixed Total amount of salary, pension and benefits Annual variable Performance Related Bonus including deferred element Multiple reporting variable Long-Term Incentive Plan Assumptions used in determining the level of payout under given scenarios are as follows: Salaries are as at 1 January 2016 for both the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
Benefits are those paid to both the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director in 2015 excluding one-off relocation benefits.
Performance Share Awards are granted at the maximum level permitted under the policy.
Minimum performance scenario assumes fixed pay only and no variable payments.
On-target performance scenario assumes performance in line with the Companys expectations, resulting in 30% of maximum vesting inrespect of long-term incentive awards and 50% of maximum payout, assuming 50% achievement of personal objectives, in respect of the annual bonus.
Whilst the bonus scheme has targets for threshold, on-target and maximum, the LTIP only has targets for threshold and maximum for some metrics.
The value shown above in the on-target scenario includes the values for on-target bonus and threshold LTIP performance.
Maximum performance scenario assumes outstanding level of performance, ie maximum bonus and full vesting of long-term incentives.
Share price appreciation is not allowed for.
Non-Executive Directors fees With effect from 1 January 2016, it was agreed that, in order to maintain market positioning, the Chairmans fee would be increased by 2.2% from 225,000 to 230,000 to reflect general levels of movement in Chairman fees.
The fees of the Non-Executive Directors would be increased by4.26% from 47,000 to 49,000 to reflect general levels of increase in Non-Executive Director fees.
The current fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1 January 2016 are as follows: Role Fees 000 Chairman 230 Non-Executive Director 49 Senior Independent Director 5 Chairman of Board Committee 10 In addition, a travel allowance of 4,000 is payable to Joaqun Ayuso, Chris Muntwyler and Lee Sander for attendance at Board meetings held outside the continent in which the Non-Executive Director is resident.
