Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Directors remuneration report 2015 Letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman Dear shareholder This year I am writing to you on the back of an outstanding performance by management and to outline the initial actions which the Remuneration Committee have taken, and feel are appropriate, to start to align executive remuneration with the size of the organisation, the increased scope of the roles and market positioning.
TRANSFORMATION AND GROWTH As shareholders will be aware, 2015 was a very busy and successful year for us, and a year during which management, with the Boards support: Developed an updated Group strategy to grow significantly through acquisition: Put in place a long-term financing structure to ensure that the Group is well financed for this next period of growth: Focussed on developing a number of healthcare verticals to make available to our patients a fully integrated care pathway: Executed a significant number of accretive acquisitions towards the achievement of our strategy: Continued to focus on our existing businesses producing an improved performance in the year which can be seen in our Group Strategy Report on pages 6 to 39: and Completed development of our flagship NMC Royal Hospital, Khalifa City, which when fully opened will operate 250 licensed beds and provide all multi-specialty care.
These actions have built on the solid base developed by the Group in the period since IPO in: Implementing the considerable step-change in culture from the requirements of a privately owned family business to a thriving public company: The successful execution of the initial organic and then subsequent acquisitive growth strategy: and Continued effective management of a vastly different and more complex Group, which has grown more than 50% since 2014.
As a result of the progress made by the management team, the Remuneration Committee has discussed its approach to rewarding and incentivising management in the future.
A number of factors were considered to ensure an informed debate, including Company performance and external market data.
Over the 2015 financial year, our market value has increased by 82.7% bringing the total increase since IPO to 300%.
An independent report requested by the Remuneration Committee in considering its plans for 2016 remuneration has shown that the Company is within the top three of all FTSE250 companies across a number of short and long term metrics, including total shareholder return both over one year and the last three years.
For example, our three year TSR has been c. 300% compared to an average of 52% in the FTSE 250.
The Committee also considered external market data prepared by Deloitte LLP when determining the approach to pay for our Executive Directors.
Companies positioned within the top quartile of the FTSE 250 based on their financial size were chosen by the Committee as a relevant reference point, therefore we have sought to ensure that our Executive Directors are competitively positioned against this group.
The market data shows that the Executive Directors have in prior years received remuneration at levels well below comparative market levels.
The Committee has therefore decided to take a phased approach to aligning Executive Director remuneration to appropriate market levels.
Given this background, the Remuneration Committee has increased in 2016 the base salary of the Executive Vice Chairman & CEO to 650,000 and the Deputy CEO to 550,000.
The Committee felt it was important to recognise: the fundamental role our Executive Directors have played in the Groups progress which, supported by the Board and shareholders, have translated into a significant and sustained increase in value for our shareholders: and the importance of our management team in achieving our future strategic objectives and the need to retain them.
We have therefore sought to position them competitively against the relevant market reference point.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65 Governance Directors remuneration report 2015 continued Letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman continued INCREASE IN STIP OPPORTUNITY IN 2016 In relation to the operation of the STIP for the 2016 financial year, the Companys intention is to increase the maximum STIP opportunity for the Executive Directors to 150% of base salary.
The way in which any award from the 2016 STIP will be delivered will also change from previous years, with one-third of any STIP award being made in cash and two-thirds deferred into shares, half of which will vest one year after the award is made and the other half two years after the award.
The measures and targets against which the 2016 STIP will be assessed is set out on pages 76 to 77.
This change to the operation of the STIP is outside the scope of the Companys remuneration policy approved at the 2014 AGM and is therefore subject to approval of shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
FUTURE REMUNERATION POLICY The Committee is satisfied that, with the exception of the level of maximum STIP opportunity which shareholders will be asked to increase for 2016, the current remuneration policy continues to be appropriate, no further changes should be proposed this year with all remaining elements of remuneration will be in line with the remuneration policy that was previously approved by our shareholders at our 2014 AGM.
The remuneration policy must be approved every three years and the Committee will conduct a full review of the current remuneration policy in advance of submitting a new policy for shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM.
LORD CLANWILLIAM Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 66 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Directors remuneration report 2015 INTRODUCTION This Directors Remuneration Report is divided into two sections.
Firstly the Remuneration Policy summarises our policy on remuneration which was approved by shareholders at the Companys AGM in June 2014.
The Committee believes that, with the exception of a change in the way in which the Remuneration Committee wishes to operate the STIP in 2016 as set out in the Letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman above, the remainder of the remuneration policy continues to support the Groups strategy and therefore no other changes in the policy are being proposed this year.
Therefore, the remuneration policy set out below is in summary form only for shareholder information and a copy of the full Directors Remuneration Policy document can be found on our corporate website at www.
Secondly, the Annual Remuneration Report details of how our remuneration policy was implemented in the year ended 31 December 2015, and what remuneration was paid to the Directors for that period, and then how we intend for the policy to apply for the year ending 31 December 2016.
The Annual Remuneration Report will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM.
Where the information is subject to audit in this Directors Remuneration Report this is identified in the relevant heading.
SUMMARY OF EXISTING REMUNERATION POLICY In this remuneration policy section, we summarise the remuneration policy for the Board which shareholders approved at the Companys 2014 AGM.
The full remuneration policy can be found on the Companys website.
CONSIDERATIONS FOR REMUNERATION POLICY The Committee is aware of the need to be mindful of potential risks associated with elements of executive remuneration.
The Committee is keen to ensure that variable remuneration is not structured in such a way as to encourage the taking of undue business risks for the purposes of achieving higher remuneration.
However, given the Boards acquisitive growth strategy, the Committee feels that executives should be incentivised significantly to ensure that this strategy is executed well thus creating increased shareholder value over the longer term.
The policy is also designed to ensure that there is mitigation against key business risks through the setting of performance targets.
In particular, the policy includes: The Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP which encourages management to focus on long term share value enhancement: The Short Term Incentive Plan STIP under which Executive Directors and the Senior Management Team are targeted with both financial and operational measures each year, with the targets set depending on the Groups key focus in any particular financial year: The deferral of 50% of STIP awards into shares for a three year period: Market practice malus provisions allow the Company to forfeit the delivery of share related benefits to plan participants.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67 Governance Directors remuneration report 2015 continued SUMMARY OF EXISTING REMUNERATION POLICY continued EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION POLICY SUMMARY The table below summarises the key components of the remuneration package for the Executive Directors.
Remuneration Purpose and link to element remuneration strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary To attract and retain Salaries are reviewed annually.
There is no maximum None, although an management of the salary level.
individuals performance When setting base salaries, calibre required to deliver in the role will be consideration is given to a the Groups strategy considered when number of factors including without paying more reviewing base individual and performance than is necessary.
To reward executives for the performance of their role.
Benefits To provide benefits that The Group provides a The cost of benefit None.
are competitive relative range of benefits which provision will depend to the employees local reflect typical benefits offered on the cost to the market.
in the UAE including family Company of providing accommodation, Private individual items Medical Insurance and Life and the individuals and Permanent Health circumstances and Insurance cover.
therefore there is no maximum value.
Retirement To provide a market The Company currently does The Committee None.
benefits competitive retirement not operate any pension will determine the benefit.
arrangements, but an end of level of benefit based service benefit, payable to the on local market employee when he leaves the practice, individuals Group, is accrued annually in circumstances and accordance with local UAE laws.
STIP To provide an annual Bonus measures and The maximum bonus Performance is based bonus to attract, retain performance targets are set opportunity is 100% of on a mix of key financial, and motivate senior annually dependent on the base salary.
operational strategic executives of the calibre deemed strategic priorities metrics and individual required to manage the for that year.
KPIs measured over business and to align one financial year.
The annual bonus is normally the interests of senior paid 50% in cash and 50% is executives with those deferred into Company shares of shareholders by which vest three years from linking a significant award subject to continued proportion of the employment.
potential remuneration to Malus provisions apply.
performance and delivery of strategic objectives.
LTIP To incentivise long-term Awards vest based on Maximum award is It is intended that value creation and performance measured normally 150% of base awards will be based exceptional business over a three year period salary.
In exceptional 50% on earnings per performance through against set targets.
circumstances the share growth and the achievement of Committee may grant 50% on relative total Awards are subject to stretching Group awards of up to 200% shareholder return malus provisions.
growth against our key healthcare peers.
Share option To incentivise executive Awards under the plan are Maximum award would In the event that plan SOP directors to increase the in the form of market value normally be 150% of base an award was to share price and deliver share options.
In exceptional be granted under this value for shareholders.
circumstances the plan in exceptional It is intended that awards Committee may grant circumstances the would only be made under awards of up to 200% Committee would this plan in exceptional of base salary.
performance conditions at that time.
68 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements In addition the following policies also apply: Shareholding guidelines Executive directors are expected to build a shareholding of 200% of base salary over a period of 5 years.
The current shareholding of, and share awards held by, each of the Executive Directors is set out on page 80.
Committee discretion The Committee has retained some discretion in a number of areas of the remuneration policy approved by shareholders including: where the terms of any payment were agreed before the policy came into effect: where arrangements were agreed at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company: the amendment of performance conditions applicable to the LTIP or Share Option Plan awards in certain circumstances: any payment which is not explicitly provided in this policy which is it obliged to make under UAE other relevant local laws: or minor amendments required for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation.
Remuneration policy on recruitment The Policy includes a number of principles which the Committee would seek to apply for newly appointed Executive Directors.
These are not summarised here but can be reviewed within the Directors Remuneration Policy document.
Service Agreements The Committee policy is that notice periods will not exceed 12 months.
Termination of employment policy The policy includes a number of elements which the Committee will consider when individuals leave their Executive positions with the Company.
These are not fully summarised here but can be reviewed within the Directors Remuneration Policy document.
In general terms, if an individual leaves as a result of ill health, injury, disability, death, sale of employing company or business from the Group or for any other reason at the Committees discretion, the Committee will normally pay contractual salary and retirement benefits and allow the retention of any incentive awards pro-rated to the date of cessation.
For all other leavers, the contractual salary and benefits will be paid over any notice period to the date of cessation of employment, but unvested awards made under the Companys incentive arrangements would normally lapse.
In the event of termination, the Company would also make any payments which it is contractually obliged to do under UAE law.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION POLICY SUMMARY The table below summarises the key components of the remuneration package for the Non-Executive Directors.
Purpose and link to remuneration strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Chairman and To provide an The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors The maximum level of NonNon-Executive appropriate reward is approved by the Executive Directors following Executive Director remuneration is Director fees to attract and recommendations and discussions with the set out in the Companys articles of retain high-calibre Chairman of the Company and the Chairman association.
This may be amended individuals.
from time to time subject to shareholder approval.
Non-Executive Directors do not currently receive any benefits.
However, benefits may be provided in the future if this was considered appropriate.
ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE IN 2015 Details of the members of the Committee during the 2015 financial year, and its role and responsibility within the Groups Board and governance structure, is set out on pages 58 to 59 of the Governance report.
Principal matters considered in 2015 The significant discussions in relation to the structure of Executive Director and Senior Management remuneration had taken place during 2013, before being approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
No changes to the Remuneration Policy were considered in 2015 and therefore the Committees primary discussions during the year related to the operation of each element of the Executive remuneration package as well as consideration in relation to the level of remuneration for management given the Groups growth and strategic acquisition growth plan.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69 Governance Directors remuneration report 2015 continued ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT continued THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE IN 2015 continued Principal items discussed by the Committee included: A review and discussion of management proposals for the operation of the 2015 STIP: A review of the levels and targets set in relation to the 2015 LTIP.
No changes were made to the targets set, and the initial level of LTIP awards made during the year, although a decision was taken to grant an LTIP award to the Executive Directors in September 2015 such that their 2015 LTIP grant equated to 150% of their average base salary for the year which is in line with our Policy as opposed to an LTIP grant of 100% of base salary which had been the case before this change : Further consideration was given to the remuneration levels of the Executive Directors and the Senior Management Team given the excellent execution of the initial phase of the Groups strategic acquisition plans, management performance in delivering this as well as relevant market data.
This resulted in an increase in base salaries for the Executive Directors and recommendations made in relation to the base salaries for the remainder of the Senior Management Team.
Details of the remuneration paid to the Executive Directors in 2015 are set out in the single figure pay table on page 71.
Support and External Advice The Remuneration Committee seeks and considers advice from Deloitte LLP, independent remuneration advisers.
Deloitte were appointed by the Remuneration Committee and have acted as advisors to the Company since 2012, specifically providing the Committee with objective and independent advice on executive remuneration matters.
Deloitte is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Deloitte have provided some tax advisory services to the Group in Spain and transaction services advice to the Group in the UAE, but none of this advice has related to remuneration matters in the Group and none of these teams have any connection with the engagement partner and team advising the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice they have received from Deloitte during the year has been objective and independent and that the Deloitte LLP engagement partner and team, which provide remuneration advice to the Committee, do not have connections with NMC that might impair their independence.
The Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
The Remuneration Committee has direct access to Deloitte as and when required.
The Group Company Secretary liaises with Deloitte where necessary to ensure that all Committee requests and decisions are dealt with and implemented, but does so under the guidance of the Remuneration Committee Chairman.
Deloitte attend meetings of the Committee as required.
During the year, Deloitte provided the following services and advice to the Committee: Assistance in preparation of the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report: The tracking of performance against targets set in relation to awards granted under both the STIP and LTIP incentive arrangements: and Assistance in relation to the review of certain parts of the remuneration package available to Executive Directors and Senior Management and scenario modelling of the same.
Deloitte received fees of 32.2k charged on a time plus expenses basis for advice received during the year.
RESULTS OF VOTING ON REMUNERATION MATTERS AT THE COMPANYS 2015 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The following summarises voting at the 2015 AGM in respect of the advisory vote resolution proposed in relation to the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report.
Number of Resolution For Against votes withheld To approve the Directors Remuneration Report 97.59% 2.41% 4,081,168 The Committee is appreciative of the support which shareholders have given in relation to Directors remuneration matters.
REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS THROUGHOUT THE GROUP The remuneration philosophy is the same throughout NMC that individuals should be remunerated based on their role, responsibilities, experiences and market practice.
NMC has a variety of different roles from senior executives, to doctors to administrators and therefore remuneration levels and structures vary to reflect the different requirements and expectations of these roles.
The Committee does consider that it is important, however, that Executive Directors and senior executives as a group are remunerated in a similar way to ensure that they are incentivised to collectively deliver the Groups strategy and create long term value for shareholders.
Executive Directors and senior management therefore all participated in the STIP and LTIP arrangements in 2015.
70 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Committee also retained the existing benefits structure which applied to UAE based Executive Directors and Senior Management in previous years.
The benefits included reflect the expatriate nature of senior management in the UAE and are similar in nature to the types of benefits which are available to other expatriate employees in the Group.
The benefits include private medical insurance, which is mandatory for employees in Abu Dhabi, where the Group is based.
SHAREHOLDER VIEWS AND CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP Communication with our Shareholders The Committee maintains an open dialogue with our shareholders and is available to discuss remuneration matters concerning shareholders at any time.
Consideration of pay and conditions of employees The Committee considers pay information in relation to senior management when determining Executive Directors pay, to ensure that pay structures are appropriately aligned.
However, given the Groups wide geographic reach in relation to both its business interests and shareholders, and the significant corporate and public company responsibilities which are not reflected in roles in the rest of the Group, the Committee do not feel that Executive Director and Senior Management remuneration needs to be specifically aligned with other remuneration within the business.
The Committee did not consult with employees when setting Executive Director pay.
2015 REMUNERATION THIS SECTION IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT This section outlines how the remuneration policy was applied in 2015, together with the outcomes for actual remuneration paid in relation to the financial year under review.
This is shown in two parts Remuneration paid to Executive Directors and a separate section in relation to Non-Executive Directors.
Executive Director Remuneration 2015 Remuneration paid in 2015 single pay figure The table below sets out the remuneration paid to or received by each Executive Directors of the Company who served during the financial year ended 31 December 2015.
Our management team have been fundamental in the successful execution of the Groups strategy, which has led to a significant increase in the size and complexity of the Group since listing.
During the salary review, the Committee took into account the increase in the scope and responsibilities given the enlarged, more complex Group the future acquisitive growth strategy as well as the market positioning of the remuneration packages.
The Committee has been mindful that base salaries set can become uncompetitive over a relatively short timeframe.
Therefore, having recognised the exceptional performance of the executive directors the Committee reviewed Executive Directors base salaries during the year and approved an increase in base salaries resulting in average base salaries for the year being 333k for the Executive Vice Chairman and CEO and 290k for the Deputy CEO.
Benefits There was no change to the benefits available to the Executive Directors during the year.
The Benefits paid included the following items: Provision of family Annual family return flights accommodation Private medical insurance Life insurance cover to home country $000 $000 $000 $000 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Executive Director Dr B. R. Shetty 160.6 153.2 2.2 2.2 0.0 0.0 2.5 2.5 Prasanth Manghat 0.0 0.0 4.4 4.4 0.6 0.6 15.2 15.2 Outcome of 2015 STIP The Group made significant progress during the year.
In addition to the continued execution of the Groups strategic plan through the opening of new facilities, whilst the Group was acquisitive during 2015, the significant proportion of time and commitment of the Executive Directors and Senior Management in relation to the acquisition program was not included as a target for the 2015 STIP.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71 Governance Directors remuneration report 2015 continued ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT continued 2015 REMUNERATION THIS SECTION IS SUBJECT TO AUDIT continued However, the business performed very well both operationally and financially and, as a result, both the Executive Directors achieved 100% of the 2015 STIP targets for the year.
Therefore a bonus entitlement of 100% of average base salary was paid to each of the Executive Directors in respect of the 2015 financial year.
50% of the bonus awarded to the Executive Directors is paid in cash and the other 50% is deferred into shares for a period of three years under the terms of the Deferred Share Bonus Plan, for which additional performance conditions or other conditions, with exception of continued employment, do not apply.
The bonuses awarded were based on the achievement of stretching financial and non-financial targets set by the Remuneration Committee: Financial performance measures Weighting Executive Outcome Purpose and link Vice percentage to remuneration Chairman Deputy of and CEO CEO maximum Measure strategy Description of measure Target and performance Healthcare Grow Achieve a minimum Continuing growth from existing 33.3% 20% 100% Revenues organisational level of healthcare healthcare operations is a key focus for revenues revenues set by the Board and the management team.
the Committee Existing operations and Clinica Eugin including revenues collectively performed above expectations.
from existing facilities, Clinica Given that reported healthcare numbers Eugin, new facilities were not used as a target in relation to to open in FY 2015, this measure i. e. because the measure pharmacies and was not adjusted to take account of other management fees.
consolidated acquisitions completed later in 2015, specific targets are not being published in this report as these are considered to be commercially sensitive.
However the Committee can confirm that achievement of management against the set targets was at stretch level.
EBITDA Optimize cost Achieve minimum The maintenance of good levels of 33% 35% 100% of services levels of EBITDA set EBITDA are also a key focus for the Board by the Committee and the management team during a including EBITDA period of significant acquisitive growth.
from existing Existing operations and Clinica Eugin facilities, Clinica collectively performed above expectation.
Eugin, new facilities to open in FY 2015, Again, given that reported healthcare pharmacies and numbers were not used as a target in management fees.
relation to this measure i. e. because the measure was not adjusted to Additionally, this take account of other consolidated targeted level of acquisitions completed later in 2015, EBITDA had to be specific targets are not being published achieved before any in this report as these are considered STIP entitlement to be commercially sensitive.
However could be earned in the Committee can confirm that relation to FY2015.
achievement of management against the set targets was at stretch level.
Revenue Grow Revenue patient to As a principal financial driver for the 10% 100% per patient organisational achieve minimum Group, the Committee set a stretch target revenues average levels set of $121 revenue per patient against $114.5 by the Committee.
Target performance was set at $117 or greater.
The revenue per patient achieved for FY2015 was $121.1.
72 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Weighting Executive Outcome Purpose and link Vice percentage to remuneration Chairman Deputy of and CEO CEO maximum Measure strategy Description of measure Target and performance Patient Optimize cost Patient occupancy Utilisation of assets is key to performance 10% 100% Occupancy of services to achieve minimum and therefore growth in patient occupancy Levels average levels set by levels are a continuing target for the the Committee.
Significant progress had already target excludes any been made in the growth of this KPI in new facilities opened previous years as assets matured and a in 2014 and 2015 stretch target of 75% or more occupancy as they were against 71.3% achieved in 2014 was set.
considered to be Target performance was set at 74% or in ramp-up phase greater.
Occupancy achieved under this with expected measure for FY2015 was 76%.
Non-financial performance measures Weighting Executive Outcome Purpose and link Vice percentage to remuneration Chairman Deputy of and CEO CEO maximum Measure strategy Description of measure Target and performance JCI Strengthen Achievement of set Quality standards are key for the Groups 33% 100% Accreditation and maintain targets in relation to healthcare business.
The Committee set NMCs the monitoring of a target of an overall compliance rate corporate those clinical and against JCI quality standards of 97% or image quality indicators greater to achieve the stretch target in which are required relation to this KPI.
Target performance to reach a certain was set at 95% or greater.
An average of standard under 98.1% compliance was achieved during the the Groups JCI financial year accreditations.
Organisational Build new Specific targeted The Groups flagship Khalifa City Royal 15% 100% capability patient milestones set by Hospital opened in 2015, and given the serving the Committee excellent ramp-up performance of other facilities and for capital and new facilities opened, the Committee implement technology determined that this target had been state-ofenablement met at its stretch level.
the-art programs to infrastructure be met.
Human Attract and Targets set by The Committee wanted to ensure that 10% 100% capital develop the Committee up to five key management positions had capable and in relation to the succession plans in place during FY 2015. motivated enhancement of This was achieved.
manpower succession planning capabilities within the Group given the Companys growth and acquisition plans for 2015.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 73 Governance Directors remuneration report 2015 continued ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT continued 2015 LTIP Awards for Executive Directors under the LTIP were granted for the first time in 2014 and therefore no LTIP grants have yet reached their vesting point.
Awards made in 2015 During 2015, LTIP grants were made to the Executive Directors at 150% of base salary, in line with our approved Policy.
Initially, an award of 100% of salary was made in February 2015.
In September 2015 a grant of 50% of salary was made to incentivise the Executive Directors towards sustained improvements in the long-term financial performance of the enlarged Group and further align them with the long-term interests of our shareholders.
The details of the awards granted under the LTIP during 2015 are set out within the Directors shareholdings and interests section on page 80.
Performance targets The following performance targets were used in relation to all LTIP awards granted in 2015.
Companys Earnings per Share EPS growth This measures the Companys annual compound growth in EPS and represents 50% of the total award.
The table below sets out the EPS targets for the 2015 award and the corresponding level of vesting: Annual compound growth in EPS over the three-year Performance Period Vesting percentage of target 15% or more 100% Between 6% and 15% On a straight-line basis between 25% and 100% 6% 25% Less than 6% 0% Total Shareholder Return TSR growth This measures the Companys TSR compared against a comparator group of companies and represents 50% of the total award.
The table below sets out the TSR targets for the 2015 award and the corresponding level of vesting: Companys TSR over the three-year performance period compared to the comparator group Vesting percentage of target Upper quartile or above 100% Between median and upper quartile Pro rata between 25% and 100% on a ranking basis Median 25% Below median 0% The Remuneration Committee has chosen a comparator group of international companies that are of a similar size and business scope to the Company.
The table below sets out our comparator group: Company Country of listing KORIAN MEDICA FRANCE AL NOOR HOSPITALS GP UK SPIRE HEALTHCARE GP UK RAFFLES MEDICAL GP SINGAPORE BANMEDICA CHILE SYNERGY HEALTH UK KPJ HEALTHCARE MALAYSIA NIB HOLDINGS AUSTRALIA AL-MAIDAN DNL CLINIC KUWAIT 74 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Pension contributions There were no pension contributions in 2014 or 2015.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION 2015 Remuneration paid in 2015 single pay figure The fee paid in cash to each Non-Executive Director during the year ended 31 December 2015 is set out in the following table: FY2015 FY2014 Director Position 000 000 H. J.
Mark Tompkins Independent Non-Executive Chairman 215.0 170.0 Dr Ayesha Abdullah see Note 1 below Independent Non-Executive Director 85.0 25.2 Abdulrahman Basaddiq see Note 1 below Non-Executive Director 85.0 42.3 Jonathan Bomford Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 100.0 59.5 Lord Clanwilliam Independent Non-Executive Director 85.0 50.0 Salma Hareb see Note 1 below Independent Non-Executive Director 85.0 25.2 Heather Lawrence Independent Non-Executive Director 85.0 50.0 Keyur Nagori see Note 1 below Non-Executive Director 85.0 25.2 Binay Shetty see Note 2 below Non-Executive Director 85.0 See Note 2 below Dr Nandini Tandon see Note 1 below Independent Non-Executive Director 85.0 25.2 Notes: 1.
The fees in FY2014 for each of Dr Ayesha Abdullah, Abdulrahman Basaddiq, Salma Hareb, Keyur Nagori and Dr Nandini Tandon were not in relation to a full financial year as they were all appointed during FY2014.
Mr Binay Shetty was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of the Company on 1 January 2015 having previously been an Executive Director.
Mr Shettys total remuneration in relation to his previous executive role with the Company for FY2014 was US$460.8k.
None of the NonExecutive directors received any benefits, pension, STIP or LTIP entitlements or payments during FY2014 and FY2015.
Given the extension of the Companys growth strategy in 2015 and the complexity of business challenges faced during the year, there was a significant increase in the time commitment required from our Non-Executive Directors.
To reflect this increase in the provision of services to the Group, the Executive Directors agreed to make a payment to each of the Non-Executive Directors during the year.
The fees paid to reflect the additional time commitment were 25k for each Non-Executive Director, 30k for the Senior Independent Director and 35k for the Chairman and are in line with our shareholder approved Policy.
These amounts are included in the FY2015 Remuneration in the table above.
2016 REMUNERATION Executive remuneration in 2016 This section summarises the expected implementation of the remuneration policy in 2016.
As noted in the Chairmans letter, the Committee reviewed the remuneration for our Executive Directors during the year and made changes to recognise the exceptional performance of the Company.
In addition, we took into account the need to retain our management team as they will be critical in successfully executing our future strategic ambitions.
The Committee also considered the positioning of current remuneration against the top quartile of companies in the FTSE 250 based on their financial size, and sought to ensure that our Executive Directors are positioned appropriately against this reference point.
Base salaries for 2016 Given the background outlined above, the Remuneration Committee has increased in 2016 the base salary of the Executive Vice Chairman & CEO to 650,000 and the Deputy CEO to 550,000.
The Committee felt it was important to recognise: the fundamental role our Executive Directors have played in the Groups progress which, supported by the Board and shareholders, have translated into a significant and sustained increase in value for our shareholders: and the clear and significant gap between executive remuneration levels paid in previous years and relevant market comparative remuneration levels confirmed by Deloitte, the Committees independent advisers.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 75 Governance Directors remuneration report 2015 continued ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT continued 2016 REMUNERATION continued Operation of the STIP for 2016 As set out in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans letter above, following a review of the operation of the Companys STIP incentive arrangement against market data prepared by Deloitte LLP, the Remuneration Committee has determined that it intends to increase the maximum STIP opportunity for the Executive Directors to 150% of base salary.
It is further proposed that the way in which any award from the 2016 STIP will be delivered will also change from previous years, with one-third of any STIP award being made in cash and two-thirds deferred into shares, half of which will vest one year after the award is made and the other half two years after the award.
The increase in the maximum STIP opportunity is outside the scope of the Companys remuneration policy approved at the 2014 AGM and is therefore subject to approval of shareholders and will be subject to a vote at the 2016 AGM.
The performance targets that will apply for the 2016 financial year have been set after considering the Groups priorities for the year.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the specific targets are commercially sensitive at this stage as they could disclose details of budgeting and strategy for 2016 to the Companys competitors.
The Remuneration Committee will disclose details in respect of the targets when it is satisfied that these are no longer commercially sensitive, likely in the 2016 Directors Remuneration Report.
Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Percentage weighting for Purpose and link to relevant Measure remuneration strategy Performance measure Target individuals Financial Optimize cost EBITDA target and Achieve minimum levels of EBITDA set by the 25 of services gateway hurdle Committee including EBITDA from all Group businesses as at the date of this report.
This target recognises that minimum levels of EBITDA must be achieved for the financial year, ensuring that new acquisitions in FY2015 and Q1, 2016 perform well and that the new facilities opened by the Company, including NMC Royal Hospital, Khalifa City, ramp-up well after opening.
Additionally, a targeted level of EBITDA must be achieved before any STIP entitlement is earned in relation to FY2015.
Non-financial Strengthen and JCI Accreditation Achievement of set targets in relation to the 25 maintain NMCs monitoring of those clinical and quality indicators corporate image which are required to reach a certain standard under the Groups JCI accreditations.
Strategic growth Expansion into Part of the Strategic growth plan agreed by the 25 new geographies Board includes the expansion of the Healthcare division into new geographic locations, principally other GCC countries outside of the UAE.
The Remuneration Committee has set targets related to this geographic expansion.
New facility Ramp-up of NMC NMC Royal Hospital, Khalifa City, is the Groups 25 performance Royal Hospital, newest and largest facility, and will be a regional Khalifa City flagship hub for the Groups Healthcare division.
The Committee has set targets relating to the number of operational beds in this facility, and average occupancy of those beds, for 2016 as this will have a direct impact on both revenue and EBITDA levels for the Group 76 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Deputy Chief Executive Officer Percentage weighting for Purpose and link to relevant Measure remuneration strategy Performance measure Target individuals Financial Optimize cost EBITDA target and Achieve minimum levels of EBITDA set by the 25 of services gateway hurdle Committee including EBITDA from all Group businesses as at the date of this report.
Non-financial Strategic growth Expansion into Part of the Strategic growth plan agreed by the 25 new geographies Board includes the expansion of the Healthcare division into new geographic locations, principally other GCC countries outside of the UAE.
The Committee has set targets relating to the number of operational beds in this facility, and average occupancy of those beds, for 2016 as this will have a direct impact on both revenue and EBITDA levels for the Group.
Group efficiencies Establishment of This measure relates to plans to open a centralised 25 Central Laboratory laboratory structure within the Groups Healthcare division.
This target has been set to ensure as many facilities as possible are using the central laboratory for their laboratory testing requirements in the short term.
This target specifically promotes efficiencies within the Healthcare division and will assist in maintaining high laboratory standards.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 77 Governance Directors remuneration report 2015 continued ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT continued 2016 REMUNERATION continued Operation of the LTIP for 2016 The operation of the LTIP for 2016 will be consistent with the Companys Remuneration policy approved by Shareholders at the Companys 2014 Annual General Meeting and similar in operation to the LTIP commenced in 2014.
The award level for achieving maximum performance will be 150% of base salary.
The performance targets that will apply for awards made under the plan in the 2016 financial year will be as follows: Percentage weighting Purpose and link to for relevant Individual subject Measure remuneration strategy Performance measure Target individuals to target Total To incentivise TSR growth compared 25% of this element 50% Executive Vice shareholder management to a comparator group of the award will vest Chairman and CEO return TSR to deliver long of companies.
for performance equal Dr B. R. Shetty term returns to to the median of the shareholders The Committee has decided comparator group with Deputy CEO to change the comparator 100% vesting for upper Prasanth Manghat group of companies as the quartile performance previous comparator group or better.
does not include directly comparable business.
It has Vesting is on a straight been agreed therefore to use line basis between the constituents of the FTSE these points.
250 excluding investment trusts as the relevant comparator group for 2016.
Earnings per To incentivise Annual compound growth in 25% of this element 50% Executive Vice share EPS management EPS between the base year of the award vests Chairman and CEO to deliver i. e. 2015 and the end of the for compound EPS Dr B. R. Shetty bottom line performance period.
growth of 6% per earnings growth annum with 100% Deputy CEO vesting for EPS growth Prasanth Manghat of 15% per annum.
Vesting is on a straight line basis between these points.
Non-Executive Directors Remuneration in 2016 For 2016, the fees payable to the non-executive directors effective as at 1 January 2016 are as follows: 000 Chairman 180 Senior Independent Director 70 Non-executive director 60 Additional fees may be also payable to non-executive directors from time to time for additional board responsibilities this may include fees for additional time commitments.
No additional fees are payable in relation to the Chairmanship or membership of any Board Committees.
Details of the remuneration paid to each of the non-executive directors who served during the year are included in the table on page 75.
Non-executive directors do not participate in any bonus or incentive plan or other form or performance-related remuneration.
The Company does not provide any contribution to their pension arrangements.
78 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS SERVICE AGREEMENTS AND LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT Executive Directors service agreement and employment contracts Each of the following served as Executive Directors for all of the 2015 financial year and were subject to service agreements entered into with NMC Healthcare LLC, one of the Companys subsidiaries.
Date of agreement Dr B. R. Shetty 19 March 2012 Prasanth Manghat 1 May 2011 Dr B. R. Shetty is employed by NMC Healthcare LLC pursuant to a service agreement dated 19 March 2012.
The service agreement provides for an indefinite term of employment unless terminated earlier in accordance with the terms of the service agreement.
The service agreement provided that, unless otherwise agreed between the parties, the service agreement can only be terminated on twelve months prior written notice given by either Dr B. R. Shetty or NMC Healthcare LLC.
Mr Prasanth Manghat is employed by NMC Healthcare LLC pursuant to an employment contract dated 1 May 2011.
The contract provides for a renewable two year term of employment unless terminated earlier in accordance with the terms of the contract.
The Contract provides that, unless otherwise agreed between the parties, the contract can be terminated on one months prior written notice given by either Prasanth Manghat or NMC Healthcare LLC.
Copies of the Service Agreement for Dr B. R. Shetty and employment contract for Mr Prasanth Manghat are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys Registered Office, and are available for inspection at the Companys annual general meeting.
For future executives the Committee policy is that notice periods will not exceed 12 months.
There are no matters for which the Company requires approval of shareholders for the purposes of Chapter 4A of Part 10 of the Companies Act 2006. Letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements with the Company, but instead have letters of appointment.
The appointment of each of the Non-Executive Directors is stated for an initial term until the next annual general meeting of the Company at which, and at subsequent annual general meetings, they need to submit themselves for re-election if they so wish.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors have a minimum time commitment that they need to give to the Company in any year.
The letters of appointment for each Non-Executive Director are summarised below: Company and Director Date of appointment notice period Director Position H. J.
Mark Tompkins Non-Executive Chairman 7 March 2012 3 months Dr Ayesha Abdullah Independent Non-Executive Director 26 June 2014 3 months Abdulrahman Basaddiq Non-Executive Director 24 February 2014 3 months Jonathan Bomford Senior Independent Director 27 June 2013 3 months Lord Clanwilliam Independent Non-Executive Director 7 March 2012 3 months Salma Hareb Independent Non-Executive Director 26 June 2014 3 months Keyur Nagori Non-Executive Director 26 June 2014 3 months Binay Shetty Non-Executive Director 1 January 2015 3 months Dr Nandini Tandon Independent Non-Executive Director 26 June 2014 3 months There is no compensation payable upon the early termination of a Non-Executive Directors appointment.
Copies of the above Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys Registered Office, and available for inspection at the Companys annual general meeting.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 79 Governance Directors remuneration report 2015 continued OTHER INFORMATION continued DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AND SHARE INTERESTS SUBJECT TO AUDIT Directors shareholdings The table below shows details of the Directors holdings of Ordinary Shares in the Company as at 1 January 2015 and at 31 December 2015.
Share options over Ordinary shares of 10p each Ordinary shares of 10p each 1 January 31 December 1 January 31 December 2015 2015 2015 2015 Director H. J.
Mark Tompkins in relation to the ordinary shares of the Company include the shares held in the name of his wife and by a family trust of which he is considered a beneficiary.
The interests in relation to both ordinary shares and options over ordinary shares of the Company for Dr B. R. Shetty include the shares and options in the name of his wife, Dr C R Shetty.
Heather Lawrence resigned as a Director of the Company on 12 January 2016.
None of the Directors received any loans, advances or other form of credit granted by the Company, nor were any guarantees of any kind provided by the Company on behalf of any Directors during the year ended 31 December 2015.
Except as stated above, none of the Directors who held office during the year held any Ordinary Shares or options over Ordinary Shares of the Company during the year.
There have been no changes in the above shareholdings between 31 December 2015 and the date of this Directors Remuneration Report.
Executive directors are expected to build a shareholding of 200% of base salary over the 5 year period to the end of 2019.
The first share incentive awards granted to the Executive Directors do not vest until October 2017.
The Executive Vice Chairman & CEO is a significant shareholder in the Company and therefore already meets this shareholding requirement.
The Deputy CEO holds shares valued at 69.8k based on the share price at 31 December 2015.
These have a value of c. 20% of salary based on salary at 31 December 2015.
80 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Directors interests in shares The following tables show details of the share awards made to Executive Directors that have not yet vested.
Long Term Incentive Plan Market price % vesting for Performance at date of Exercise Shares Face value minimum Type of interest period ending Award Date award price awarded of award performance Vesting date Dr B. R. Shetty LTIP award 31 December 29 October 494.9p 0p 50,923 252,018 25% of 29 October subject to 2016 2014 award 2017 performance Dr B. R. Shetty LTIP award 31 December 25 February 520p 0p 57,692 300,000 25% of 25 February subject to 2017 2015 award 2018 performance Dr B. R. Shetty LTIP award 31 December 8 September 760.5p 0p 26,298 200,000 25% of 8 September subject to 2017 2015 award 2018 performance Mr Prasanth LTIP award 31 December 29 October 494.9p 0p 40,738 202,834 25% of 29 October Manghat subject to 2016 2014 award 2017 performance Mr Prasanth LTIP award 31 December 25 February 520p 0p 50,000 25% of 25 February 260,000 Manghat subject to 2017 2015 award 2018 performance Mr Prasanth LTIP award 31 December 8 September 760.5p 0p 23,011 25% of 8 September 175,000 Manghat subject to 2017 2015 award 2018 performance Details of the performance measures attached to the LTIP awards are set out on page 74.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan Financial year Market price share award made Award at date of Exercise Shares Face value Type of interest in respect of date award price awarded of award Vesting date Dr B. R. Shetty Deferred shares subject to 2013 29 October 494.9p 0p 15,510 29 October 76,759 continued employment 2014 2017 Dr B. R. Shetty Deferred shares subject to 2014 25 February 520.0p 0p 17,470 25 February 90,844 continued employment 2015 2018 Mr Prasanth Deferred shares subject to 2013 29 October 494.9p 0p 12,408 61,407 29 October Manghat continued employment 2014 2017 Mr Prasanth Deferred shares subject to 2014 25 February 520p 0p 13,702 71,250 25 February Manghat continued employment 2015 2018 Mr Binay Deferred shares subject to 2013 29 October 494.9p 0p 9,926 49,123 29 October Shetty continued employment 2014 2017 No options vested or were exercised during the year.
NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 81 Governance Directors remuneration report 2015 continued PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND HISTORIC EXECUTIVE VICE CHAIRMAN & CEO REMUNERATION OUTCOMES The following graph shows the Total Shareholder Return performance of NMC Health plc shares against the FTSE 250.
The Committee believes that the FTSE 250 Index is an appropriate comparator index used to compare performance given that the Company is a constituent of this Index and the lack of direct competitor comparators available in the London market.
The table below summarises the Executive Vice Chairman & CEOs single figure for total remuneration since listing.
This table is also required to show the long-term incentive vesting as a percentage of the maximum for each year, however LTIP grants were made for the first time in 2014 and none have yet vested.
2012 2013 2014 2015 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Executive Vice Chairman & CEO Dr B. R. Shetty Single remuneration figure 550.6 787.4 849.7 1,252.1 STIP payout % of maximum n a 75% 95% 100% LTI vesting % of maximum n a n a n a n a The Company did not operate the STIP in respect of 2012.
PAY ACROSS THE GROUP The table below sets out the increase in total remuneration of the Executive Vice Chairman & CEO and that of all employees during the 2015 financial year: Salary Annual bonus Benefits % Executive Vice Chairman & CEO 33.3% 92.1% 4.8% All-employees 8% n a 5% Note: the Company does not operate bonus plans for all employees.
82 NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The graph below shows the total group-wide remuneration expenditure and dividends for the last two years.
300 250 239.2 200 150 158 100 82.2 76.6 50 13.8 15.3 0 Profit for the Distributions to Total employee financial year shareholders $m pay $m attributable to equity shareholders $m 2014 2015 It is my pleasure to submit this report to shareholders.
The Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board and is signed on its behalf by: LORD CLANWILLIAM Chairman of the Remuneration Committee NMC Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 83
