Remuneration Committee Report continued Directors remuneration policy This sets out the remuneration policy the Policy for the Peer group Board which was approved by shareholders at the 2015 For the purposes of benchmarking appropriate Annual General Meeting held on 26 May 2015 and took compensation, the committee currently regards the effect from this point.
Whilst we do not envisage making any following companies as the most relevant peer group changes to our policy prior to the Companys 2018 Annual forNostrum: General Meeting, we conduct annual reviews to ensure that 76 FRPSDQLHV RI D VLPLODU VL]H WR 1RVWUXP it continues to support the strategy of the Company.
If we feel it is necessary to make a change to our policy prior to 2LO DQG JDV 3 FRPSDQLHV JOREDOO ZKLFK FRPSHWH the end of this three year period we will seek shareholder forscarce skills within the industry.
&RPSDQLHV RSHUDWLQJ SUHGRPLQDQWO LQ WKH 68 ZKLFK No changes have been made to our remuneration policy compete for expatriate and local staff.
since the 2015 Annual General Meeting and the policy has Risk management been included in full below as set out in the 2014 Annual The committee will review incentive arrangements regularly Report.
to ensure that they comply with the risk management Policy coverage systems, and that controls are operating effectively.
The This policy applies automatically to the following: 1 all committee also ensures that inappropriate operational or executive directors of the Company and the company financial risk-taking is neither encouraged nor rewarded secretary, 2 any other senior members of the executive through the Companys remuneration policies.
Instead, management of the Group, 3 any other member of the asensible balance will be struck between fixed and variable executive management of the Group as may be required pay, shortand long-term incentives and cash and equity.
bythe Board, and 4 any grant of shares, options or similar The committee has access to the Audit Committee and securities or rights relating to more than 10,000 Company senior executive management as and when required to shares.
discuss any matters of risk assessment.
Policy objectives Nostrum operates in an industry that is inherently subject to This policy is designed to: operational risks.
Particular emphasis is therefore placed on 1.
Provide a structure and level of pay that attracts and ensuring that health and safety best practice is reinforced by retains high calibre directors, managers and employees this policy.
The committee consults regularly to ensure that capable of delivering the Companys strategic objectives.
Provide clear and transparent performance incentives in a Ongoing review of policy manner that is consistent with best practice and aligned The committee will periodically review whether this policy is with the interests of the Companys shareholders.
Any actions arising from this review will be assigned to an appropriate person with a deadline to 3.
Align the remuneration of executives and senior report back to the committee.
The level and structure of the managers with the interests of the Companys compensation system will also be reviewed annually by the shareholders, and ensure that rewards are justified by committee.
Ensure that the pay of the executive directors and senior The table on page 99 sets out the key components ofthe members of the executive management takes into reward package for executive directors.
account: i pay and conditions throughout the Company: and ii corporate governance best practice including health & safety, environmental, social and governance risks.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 98 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures Executive directors remuneration policy table Element of pay Purpose and Maximum Operation Performance link to strategy opportunity criteria 7R SURYLGH 7KHUH LV QR SUHVFULEHG %DVH VDODU LV UHYLHZHG DQQXDOO DQG 1RQH Base pay market-competitive base maximum annual fixed for 12 months.
The Committee takes into account remuneration levels at peer group companies together with the performance of the Company and each individuals personal contribution.
7R UHIOHFW PDUNHW SUDFWLFH 7KH DJJUHJDWH YDOXH %HQHILWV LQFOXGH 1RQH Benefits and provided in line with ofsuch benefits should medical peer companies.
not constitute a life insurance significant proportion permanent health insurance of any employees long-term disability or income compensation.
protection insurance a company car is provided to the CEO.
[HFXWLYH GLUHFWRUV PD, Q JHQHUDO PD[LPXP 7KH DQQXDO ERQXV LV GHWHUPLQHG RRG SHUIRUPDQFH DV GHWHUPLQHG Annual beeligible for anannual opportunity of 40% by reference to performance in the atthe Boards discretion.
cash bonus for good of base salary prior calendar year.
Q H[HUFLVLQJ LWV GLVFUHWLRQ WR bonus performance as compensation.
$QQXDO ERQXVHV DUH JHQHUDOO SDLG determine whether there has been determinedat the $Q ODUJHU ERQXV incash inAugust of each year.
good performance by executive Boards discretion.
directors the Board shall have regard willbe set based on specific medium-term primarily to the extent to which the objectives that have performance target set by the Board been agreed in for such executive directors have been advance by the achieved.
7DUJHWV IRU ERQXVHV DUH WKRVH WR ZKLFK individuals can personally contribute by strong performance and not based on macro variables such as market cap, oil prices, etc.
that are not within the control of individuals.
7KH %RDUG SODFHV JUHDW 6KDUH DZDUGV ZLOO RQO OLDQ PSOR HH %HQHILW 7UXVWHH LPLWHG Phantom importance on minimising be made on the basis administers the Plan and is responsible dilution of existing of achieving concrete for granting rights under the Plan.
Share long-term objectives DFK ULJKW HQWLWOHV KROGHUV WR UHFHLYH awards will therefore defined in advance by onexercise, a cash amount equal to plan onlybe made to senior the committee.
Share theexcess of the market value on the management who are awards will vest over exercise date of the ordinary shares of able to make a material several years.
the Company to which it relates over contribution to a base value set at the date of grant.
shareholder value that $OO H[HFXWLYH GLUHFWRUV RI WKH &RPSDQ substantially exceeds the are eligible to participate in the Plan value of any share awards atthe discretion of the Board.
$ZDUGV YHVW RQ WKH EDVLV GHVFULEHG in the notes on the following page.
RQJ WHUP REMHFWLYHV DUH WR EH reviewed atevery committee meeting to ensure that they are appropriate, relevant and rigorous.
6KDUH DZDUGV PDGH LQ IXWXUH PD EH reduced at any time prior to vesting, at the discretion of the committee, following events such as but not restricted to a material misstatement of results, failure of risk management, breach of health and safety regulations or serious reputational damage to the Company.
1RW FXUUHQWO SURYLGHG Q D Q D Pensions $OLJQV LQWHUHVWV RI [HFXWLYH GLUHFWRUV 7KH &RPPLWWHH PRQLWRUV WKH KROGLQJV Shareholding executive directors with are encouraged to of executive directors.
maintain a holding in the Company to align their interests with shareholders.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 99 Remuneration Committee Report continued Directors remuneration policy Phantom share option plan According to the policy of the Board, benefits are not The Company operates the Plan in accordance with the expected to be a significant component of remuneration.
Planrules, the Listing Rules, the Disclosure and In2015, only Mr Kessel is expected to receive benefit Transparency rules and other applicable rules.
Benefits are not paid to Mr Monstrey toretain talent, options are generally granted in tranches andMr Muller.
Instead, Mr Monstrey and Mr Muller are exercisable at the following times: paida base salary out of which they may arrange any benefits themselves.
DV WR RI WKH RUGLQDU VKDUHV LQ UHVSHFW RI ZKLFK DQ option is granted, from the first anniversary of the date The bar charts below do not include any amounts in relation ofgrant: to the Phantom share option plan because: DV WR D IXUWKHU RI WKH RUGLQDU VKDUHV LQ UHVSHFW RI i as at the timeof this Annual Report the Board is not able which an option is granted, from the second anniversary to determine whether any options will be issued under the ofthe date of grant: Phantom share option plan in 2015 as described in the Directors remuneration policy, option awards will only DV WR D IXUWKHU RI WKH RUGLQDU VKDUHV LQ UHVSHFW RI bemade on the basis of achieving concrete long-term which an option is granted, from the third anniversary objectives defined in advance by the committee and will ofthe date of grant: vest over several years : and DV WR D IXUWKHU RI WKH RUGLQDU VKDUHV LQ UHVSHFW RI ii as at the date of this annual report, any options vesting in which an option is granted, from the fourth anniversary 2015 in respect of awards made from prior years would not ofthe date of grant: and generate proceeds to the executive directors at the current share price.
DV WR WKH UHPDLQLQJ RI WKH RUGLQDU VKDUHV LQ UHVSHFW of which an option is granted from the fifth anniversary Kai-Uwe Kessel, Chief Executive Officer ofthe date of grant.
amounts in USD thousand The Board retains discretion over a number of areas relating 1,600 1,350 to the operation and administration of the Plan, which 1% 1,207 1,400 include, but are not limited to: i who participates: ii the 1% 28% timing of the grant of award: and iii the size of the award.
1,200 968 20% 1% Treatment of existing arrangement 1,000 71% 99% 79% For the avoidance of doubt, authority is given to the 800 Company to honour any commitments entered into with 600 current or former directors notwithstanding the approval ofthe Policy.
This will last until the existing incentives vest 400 orlapse or the benefits of any contractual arrangements 200 no longer apply.
0 Minimum On target Maximum Remuneration scenarios for executive directors The bar charts below provide estimates of the potential Salary Bonus Benets remuneration of the executive directors for 2015 and therefore do not reflect the latest remuneration information.
Frank Monstrey, Chairman of the Board Three scenarios are presented for each executive director: amounts in USD thousand i minimum remuneration, reflecting no bonus award: ii on target remuneration, where the Boards expectations 1,600 for the executive directors performance have been met 1,400 1,275 anda bonus of 25% of base salary is awarded: and iii 1,138 29% 1,200 maximum remuneration, where the Boards expectations 20% for good performance by the executive director have been 1,000 911 exceeded and a bonus of 40% of base salary is awarded.
80% 100% 71% 800 Atpresent, the executive directors do not receive any 600 pension or any long-term compensation.
400 200 0 Minimum On target Maximum Salary Bonus Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 100 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures 7KH QHHG LQ RUGHU WR UHFUXLW WKH EHVW FDQGLGDWHV IRU WKH Jan-Ru Muller, Chief Financial Officer Company to offer forms of sign-on remuneration the amounts in USD thousand necessity and level of which will depend on circumstances.
1,600 :KHUH DQ LQGLYLGXDO LV UHORFDWLQJ LQ RUGHU WR WDNH XS 1,400 arole, the Company may provide certain one-off benefits 1,200 including, but not limited to, reasonable relocation expenses, accommodation, housing allowance and 1,00 790 assistance with visa applications.
800 705 29% 564 In making any decisions on remuneration for new joiners the 20% 600 committee will endeavour to balance the expectations of 100% 80% 71% 400 shareholders with current market and corporate governance best practice and the requirements of any new joiner and 200 would strive to pay no more than is necessary to attract the 0 Minimum On target Maximum right talent to the role.
Salary Bonus Service agreements Summary details of each directors service agreement are Recruitment as follows: The committee expects any new executive directors to be Service Salary as at engaged on terms that are consistent with this Policy but agreement 1 January thecommittee acknowledges that it cannot always predict date 2015 US$ the circumstances under which any new executive director Frank Monstrey 19 May 2014 911,216 maybe recruited and so accordingly, in each case, the Kai-Uwe Kessel 19 May 2014 955,996 committee will consider: 1 Jan-Ru Muller 19 May 2014 564,409 7KH REMHFWLYH RI DWWUDFWLQJ PRWLYDWLQJ DQG UHWDLQLQJ thehighest calibre directors in a manner that is consistent The appointment of each of the executive directors continues until the Companys Annual General Meeting and with best practice and aligned with the interests of the Companys shareholders.
their ongoing appointment is subject to being re-elected asa director at each subsequent Annual General Meeting.
6DODU EHQHILWV DQQXDO ERQXV DQG ORQJ WHUP LQFHQWLYHV Each executive director may be required to resign at any will be determined within the framework of the time in accordance with the Companys Articles or for any remuneration policy table on page 99. regulatory reason such as the revocation of any approvals required from the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
:KHUH DQ LQGLYLGXDO ZRXOG EH IRUIHLWLQJ YDOXDEOH TheCompany may lawfully terminate the executive remuneration in order to join the Company, the need directors employment in the following ways: toretain flexibility should be considered in order for thecommittee to be able to set base salary at a level DW DQ WLPH XSRQ PRQWKV ZULWWHQ QRWLFH necessary to facilitate the hiring of the highest calibre candidates including awards or payments to compensate ZLWKRXW QRWLFH LQ FLUFXPVWDQFHV ZKHUH WKH &RPSDQ LV for remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving entitled to terminate for cause.
The committee would require The lawful termination mechanisms described above are reasonable evidence of the nature and value of any without prejudice to the employers ability in appropriate forfeited compensation and would, to the extent circumstances to terminate in breach of the notice period practicable, ensure any compensation awarded was referred to above, and thereby to be liable for damages to nomore valuable than the forfeited award.
-XGJHPHQW ZLOO EH H[HUFLVHG WR GHWHUPLQH WKH DSSURSULDWH The executive directors are not permitted to take up any measure of compensation for any forfeited award by office or employment with, or have any direct or indirect taking account of relevant factors such as the value of interest in any firm or company which is in direct or indirect anylost award, performance conditions and the time competition with the Company or any other member of the overwhich they would have vested or been paid.
Group or any company in which any member of the Group :KHUH DQ H[LVWLQJ HPSOR HH RI WKH &RPSDQ LV SURPRWHG has an interest, without the consent of the Board.
to the Board, the Company will honour any commitment toremuneration made in respect of a prior role including any outstanding awards of options under the Plan.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 101 Remuneration Committee Report continued Directors remuneration policy In addition, the executive directors are subject to certain restrictive covenants in their service agreements relating to share dealings and non-competition and non-solicitation covenants in relation to relevant Group companies for six months from the date of termination of the relevant executives service contract.
Copies of the executive directors service agreements and the non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
Payments for departing executive directors Provision Policy Notice period and PRQWKV QRWLFH IURP WKH &RPSDQ WR WKH H[HFXWLYH GLUHFWRU compensation for loss of 8S WR PRQWKV EDVH VDODU LQ OLQH ZLWK QRWLFH SHULRG 1RWLFH SHULRG SD PHQWV ZLOO HLWKHU office in service contracts be made as normal if the executive director continues to work during the notice period oris on gardening leave or they will be made as monthly payments in lieu of notice subject to mitigation if alternative employment is found.
Treatment of annual 1R HQWLWOHPHQW bonus on termination Treatment of unvested $Q H[HFXWLYH GLUHFWRUV DZDUGV ZLOO JHQHUDOO ODSVH WR WKH H[WHQW WKH KDYH QRW YHVWHG RQ WKH share option awards date of voluntary cessation of employment and any portion that remains outstanding but unexercised after 12 months following such cessation will lapse.
In particular circumstances, an arrangement may be agreed to facilitate the exit of a particular individual.
Any such arrangement would be made bearing in mind the desire to minimise costs for the Group and only in circumstances where itis considered in the best interests of shareholders.
Non-executive directors remuneration policy table Fee structure Approach to setting fees Other remuneration 1RQ H[HFXWLYH GLUHFWRUV 7KH &KDLUPDQ RI WKH %RDUG %XVLQHVV H[SHQVHV LQFXUUHG LQ UHVSHFW RI WKH receive a fixed annual fee and the executive directors performance of a non-executive directors duties will for their directorship.
determine the remuneration be reimbursed by the Company.
Such expenses of all non-executive directors, couldinclude travel between the home and office $GGLWLRQDO DQQXDO IHHV including members of the orbetween the home and the location of a Board arepayable to any director committees.
whoserves as senior independent director 1RQ H[HFXWLYH GLUHFWRUV DUH QRW HOLJLEOH WR SDUWLFLSDWH orasaBoard committee in the Plan.
Non-executive directors The Chairman and executive directors set the remuneration package for non-executive directors in line with the non-executive directors Remuneration Policy Table and subject to the Companys Articles of Association the Articles.
Non-executive director appointment letters All non-executive directors of the Company were appointed on 19 May 2014.
The Company intends to comply with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code and accordingly all directors will stand for re-election by shareholders at future Annual General Meetings until the Board determines otherwise.
Each appointment is for an initial term of three years, subject to being re-elected at each Annual General Meeting, save that a non-executive director or the Company may terminate the appointment at any time upon one months written notice, or that a non-executive director may be required to resign at any time in accordance with the Articles of the Company, the UK Corporate Governance Code or for any regulatory reason such as the revocation of approvals required from the FCA.
Each of the non-executive directors is entitled to an annual fee paid quarterly and to reimbursement of reasonable expenses.
There is no entitlement for non-executive directors to participate in the Plan.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC 102 Annual Report 2015 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial report Regulatory information Additional disclosures The non-executive directors are not permitted to take up any office or employment with, or have any direct or indirect interest in any firm or company that is in direct or indirect competition with the Company without the consent of the Board.
Upon termination of the appointment and where such termination is for any reason other than due to the non-executive directors gross misconduct, material breach of the terms of the appointment, act of fraud or dishonesty or wilful neglect ofthe non-executive directors duties, the non-executive director will be paid a pro rated amount of their fees in respect of the period between the beginning of the quarter in which termination took place and the termination date.
Otherwise none of the non-executive directors are entitled to any damages for loss of office and no fee shall be payable in respect of any unexpired portion of the term of the appointment.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company We have not consulted with employees on the executive remuneration policy.
However, when determining the policy forexecutive directors we have been mindful of the pay and employment conditions of employees across the Group as awhole.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views Senior executive management of the Company regularly meets with shareholders and solicits their views on the Companys policies in relation to director and executive remuneration, and takes such views into account when formulating remuneration policies and remuneration levels in specific cases.
Nostrum Oil & Gas PLC Annual Report 2015 103
