Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 20.
Directors Remuner ation Report Annual Statement from the Remuneration Committee Chairman Douglas McCallum Dear Shareholder, Key Changes to Executive Remuneration Committee Director Remuneration On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for 2015.
We believe that our remuneration framework Chairman helps support and drive our strategy, and ensures We believe that the remuneration of the Executive the Group retains a management team with Directors appropriately and fairly reflects the the skills and expertise necessary to deliver our performance of the Group.
In 2015, the retail long-term commercial priorities.
In addition to business grew formidably in a turbulent retail determining fixed elements of remuneration, environment.
The business performance is aligned we seek to ensure that the AIP, the LTIP and the with the relatively high achievement in the period GIP contain specific performance measures against the AIP objectives and over the previous We are focused on that support the strategy and objectives of high three years for the LTIP objectives.
providing clear Relationship Between Pay Base salaries of the Executive Directors were and Performance reporting on past reviewed and increased by 2% in April 2015 which We have, in accordance with the Directors is in line with employee salary increases.
remuneration and Remuneration Policy and the rules of the 2015 AIP, During the financial year, we undertook a review recommended a bonus payment based on 65% of the Executive Director AIP structure and future policy, and to 67% achievement against objectives under the concluded that the financial measures of EBITDA plan for the period.
This echoes the strong growth we welcome and Gross Sales Retail remained aligned with of the retail business, with the Groups Gross Sales the Companys strategy and should be retained Retail for the period increasing 14.7% and the your feedback.
for 2016 in order to encourage continued strong Groups EBITDA increasing 13.8%.
The proportion allotted During the period, we reviewed the performance to individual objectives for the 2015 AIP has against the 2013 LTIP awards, which had a been maintained at 30%, to reflect the increased performance period ending at the end of the importance of delivering key strategic objectives in financial year.
Based on the 2015 results, the 2016, notably the Ocado Smart Platform.
Directors achieved 100% against the performance The performance measures for the 2015 and 2016 condition, EBIT.
The Groups earnings before Read the Chairmans Governance LTIP awards are intended to reward financial Introduction on pages 52 and 53 interest and tax and exceptional items for the performance through the financial targets, but period was 21.4 million, an increase of 28.9% on also to reward delivery of economic efficiency of 2014.
The 2013 LTIP awards are expected to vest in Read the Statement of Corporate the new proprietary infrastructure solution.
Governance on pages 54 to 62 Board is looking to drive the cost and operational efficiency of the new infrastructure solution to help support the success of the Ocado Smart Platform business over the coming years.
80 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Directors Remuneration Report Changes to Non-Executive Director Remuneration The Non-Executive Directors annual fees were reviewed and remained unchanged from the previous year.
Directors Remuneration Policy The Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting which took place on 7 May 2014 and will continue in force until 2017.
There are no proposals to amend the Directors Remuneration Policy at the present time as we believe that the policy continues to remain both appropriate and effective.
All of our decisions regarding executive remuneration for the period have been made in line with the policy.
Shareholder Feedback and Remuneration Disclosure Each year, we review how shareholders voted on the remuneration report, together with any feedback received.
We are aware of shareholders concerns regarding transparency of performancerelated remuneration given that to date, this has not been published.
To enhance our reporting of performance we have included in this years report actual performance targets for incentive schemes.
We are focused on providing clear reporting on past remuneration and future policy, and we welcome your feedback.
I will be available at the AGM to answer any questions about the work of the Remuneration Committee.
Douglas McCallum Remuneration Committee Chairman 2 February 2016 81 slugline
