Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 20.
Directors Remuner ation Report continued Remuneration Policy Report Introduction This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the Companys policy for the remuneration of its Directors.
The Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting which took place on 7 May 2014 and took effect from that date.
Since then the Remuneration Committee reviewed the Directors Remuneration Policy and concluded that it remained appropriate for the foreseeable future.
Given there were no proposals to revise the policy it remains valid and will not be put for shareholder approval at the AGM.
It is expected that the Company will next propose a resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy at the annual general meeting to be held in 2017, or sooner in the event of proposed revisions to the policy.
The Directors Remuneration Policy is extracted in full from the 2013 annual report without amendment and it is in the form approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting which took place on 7 May 2014, except: i for this introduction: ii to reflect shareholder approval of the GIP and 2014 ESOS: iii references to Jason Gissing, former director: and iv minor amendments such as page or cross references and changed defined terms.
Remuneration Principles for Senior Executives The Directors Remuneration Policy and reward strategy is underpinned by the remuneration principles.
These principles relate to the core values of the Company.
The main principles of senior executive remuneration are set out below: Support long-term success and sustainable long-term shareholder value.
Be aligned to the business strategy and achievement of planned business goals.
Be compatible with the Groups risk policies and systems.
Link maximum payout to outstanding results.
Ensure that performance related pay constitutes a significant proportion of the overall package.
Provide a balance between attracting, retaining and motivating the right calibre of candidates, and taking into account the entrepreneurial culture of the business.
Link with Strategy The Companys reward strategy continues to evolve in parallel with the Companys development.
The key objective to be achieved through the Directors Remuneration Policy is to support the Groups main strategic objectives of expansion and high growth.
The AIP, the LTIP and the GIP contain specific performance measures designed to support the objectives of accelerating core business performance in the short and medium term for example, EBITDA and sales growth targets and the objectives of creating long-term success and sustainable long-term shareholder value for example, EPS target and share price growth targets.
The Directors Remuneration Policy, outlined on the following pages, provides the detailed structure of each element of remuneration and how each element is determined.
The remuneration package of the Executive Directors is made up of elements of fixed and variable remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee is mindful of the weighting of fixed and variable pay and balance of short and long-term awards, and sought to position a larger proportion of the remuneration package as equity based and performance related, in order to support the Companys strategic objectives of high growth and expansion and to create shareholder alignment.
The balance of the remuneration of the Executive Directors is set out at Illustration of Directors Remuneration Policy on page 97.
The Remuneration Committee introduced share deferral in the AIP, minimum shareholding requirements and the GIP to help ensure a longer-term focus for the business from the Executive Directors.
84 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Directors Remuneration Report Reflects the value of the individual, their role, skills, Base Fixed Salary experience and contribution to the business.
Benefits Aligned with all other employee arrangements.
Pension Ensures remuneration is comprehensive.
Annual Incentive Incentivises achievement of annual objectives.
Plan Deferred Aligns Director and shareholder interests by delivering Bonus bonus payments in deferred shares.
Under AIP LongIncentivises generation of long-term shareholder value.
Term Incentives One-O Motivates key individuals to achieve specific long-term Variable Plans targets and exceptional levels of performance.
Remuneration Committee Discretion and Judgement In formulating the Directors Remuneration Policy, the Remuneration Committee has sought to allow it sufficient operational flexibility over Director remuneration for the next three years.
While the policy provides the boundaries for remuneration arrangements, the policy is intended to provide some isolated discretion for the Remuneration Committee to use in various circumstances relating to particular components of remuneration.
The Directors remuneration policy does not provide for the exercise of discretion over any aspect of the policy.
The Remuneration Committee may not use any discretion outside the policy without separate shareholder approval.
85 slugline Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 20.
Directors Remuner ation Report continued The Remuneration Committee operates the share schemes according to their respective rules and in accordance with the Listing Rules and other rules and regulations, where relevant.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion, in a number of regards to the operation and administration of these plans.
The discretions include, but are not limited to, those set out in the table below.
Area of Discretion AIP LTIP JSOS GIP The participants Y Y Y Y The timing of grant of an award or payment Y Y Y Y The size of an award up to a predetermined maximum Y Y Y Y The determination of vesting or payment Y Y N Y Discretion required when dealing with a change of control or restructuring of the Group Y Y Y Y Determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen Y Y Y Y Adjustments required in certain circumstances for example, rights issues, corporate restructuring events and dividends Y Y Y Y Adjust or change the performance conditions if anything happens which causes the Remuneration Committee reasonably to consider it appropriate for example, Board approved strategic initiative or transaction provided that any changed performance condition will be equally difficult to satisfy as the original condition would have been had such circumstances not arisen Y Y N Y The annual review of performance measures and weighting, and targets from year to year Y Y Y N Adjustment to level of payments, even when targets met for example, to reflect individual or Company performance Y N N N Application of malus and clawback Y Y N Y In addition, the terms of the Chairmans Share Matching Award provide that the Board has discretion with respect to dealing with change of control and treatment of leavers.
The use of discretion in relation to the Companys ESOS, Sharesave and Share Incentive Plan will be as permitted under HMRC rules and the other relevant rules and regulations.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Directors Remuneration Report and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee may also apply judgement or a qualitative assessment, for example in assessing achievement against role specific objectives under the AIP.
Development of Directors Remuneration Policy Shareholder Context The Remuneration Committee has sought alignment between the Directors Remuneration Policy and shareholder interests.
When proposing changes to the Executive Directors remuneration arrangements, the Remuneration Committee has sought the views of the Companys largest shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee sought shareholder input on the Directors Remuneration Policy and new incentive arrangements for 2013 and 2014.
Changes have been made to incentive arrangements in response to the feedback received for example, changes to the design and performance measures for the LTIP and changes to the GIP.
The Company is committed to ongoing dialogue with shareholders on the Directors remuneration and will continue to seek their views on any significant changes to the remuneration arrangements or exercises of discretion.
86 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Directors Remuneration Report Employee Context The Directors Remuneration Policy is designed in line with the remuneration principles outlined on page 84, which reflect the remuneration principles for the Group.
A key remuneration principle for the Group is that share schemes be used to recognise and reward good performance and attract and retain employees, wherever possible and appropriate.
This is reflected by the operation of the ESOS which allows all employees an opportunity to share in the Groups success via share ownership.
This philosophy will be maintained via awards to all employees under the Share Incentive Plan, rather than the ESOS.
The remuneration arrangements for employees below Board level reflect the seniority of the role.
The components and levels of remuneration for different employees differ from the remuneration framework for the Executive Directors.
The Group operates some tailored bonus and long-term incentive arrangements for certain groups of employees, but has not adopted a universal approach to these elements of remuneration for all employees.
The Remuneration Committee receives an annual report from management on Group-wide remuneration.
This review covers changes to pay, benefits, pension and share schemes for all employees in the Group, including the percentage increases in base pay for monthly and hourly paid employees.
The Remuneration Committees work includes monitoring and commenting on the level and structure of remuneration for the Management Committee in relation to various changes to base pay and incentive plans.
This provides some of the context for the Remuneration Committees decisions concerning changes to base pay and other elements of remuneration for the Executive Directors.
The Company did not consult with employees when drawing up the Directors Remuneration Policy, nor take into account any remuneration comparison measurements.
Remuneration Policy Table: Elements of Director Remuneration The Directors Remuneration Policy as it applies to the Executive Directors consists of the elements set out in the table below: Purpose and Link Recovery or to Strategy How it Operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Withholding Fixed pay Base pay Paid monthly in cash.
To avoid setting the No contractual Attract and retain Reviewed annually by the expectations of Executive provisions for the right calibre of Remuneration Committee, with Directors and other employees, clawback or senior executive any changes normally becoming no maximum salary is set malus.
required to support effective in April each year.
However, the long-term normally, maximum salary The review takes into account a interests of the increases for Executive number of factors including: the business.
Directors will be within the Groups annual review process, normal percentage range and business performance, total guidelines that are applied to remuneration, appropriate market the monthly paid employees of data for comparable roles for the Company in that year.
companies of equivalent size and complexity in similar sectors and Where appropriate and geographical locations to the necessary, larger increases Company, and an individuals may be awarded in exceptional contribution to the Group.
circumstances: for example, if a role has increased significantly in scope or complexity.
Larger awards may also be considered appropriate and necessary to bring a recently appointed executive in line with the market and the other executives in the Company where their initial salary has been positioned below the market.
87 slugline Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 20.
Directors Remuner ation Report continued Purpose and Link Recovery or to Strategy How it Operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Withholding Benefits The Company provides a range of Not performance linked.
Benefits for Executive Directors No contractual Attract and retain benefits which are aligned with are set at a level which the provisions for the right calibre of those provided to monthly paid Remuneration Committee clawback or senior executive employees.
These may include: considers to be appropriate malus.
required to support private medical insurance, life against appropriate market the long-term assurance, travel insurance, critical data for comparable roles interests of the illness cover, travel allowance, free for companies of equivalent business.
parking, access to financial and size and complexity in similar legal advice and Company-wide sectors and geographical employee benefits including an locations to the Company.
employee assistance programme, staff product discount and subsidised staff canteens and discounts.
Any travel arrangements or travel costs required for business purposes will be provided by the Company.
Additional benefits or payments in lieu of benefits may also be provided in certain circumstances, if required for business needs.
Any benefits allowances will be paid in cash monthly and will not form part of pensionable salary.
Pension Contributions, allowances and Not performance linked.
Contributions to the defined No contractual Attract and retain pension choices for the Executive contribution scheme for provisions for the right calibre of Directors are on the same terms as Executive Directors will clawback or senior executive for other employees.
normally be in line with the malus.
required to support other scheme participants: Executive Directors can choose the long-term however, the Remuneration to participate in the defined interests of the Committee may exceed this contribution Group personal business.
standard maximum in order pension scheme or an occupational to be market competitive and money purchase scheme.
attract and retain the right Where lifetime or annual pension calibre of senior executive allowances have been met, talent needed to support the employer contributions may be long-term interests of the paid into a personal pension business.
These will not be Pension contributions for UK treated as salary for the purposes of Executive Directors will not incentive awards.
The Groups contributions under For Executive Directors the defined contribution scheme outside the UK, provision for are set as a percentage of salary an executive pension will be based on length of scheme set taking into account local membership.
the occupational money purchase scheme are aligned with the legislative minimum.
88 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Directors Remuneration Report Purpose and Link Recovery or to Strategy How it Operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Withholding Variable Pay: Short-Term Incentives Annual Incentive Measures and targets are set The Remuneration Committee The maximum bonus is 200% The AIP rules Plan AIP annually and bonus payments are sets annual targets that are closely of base salary.
provide for Provide a direct determined by the Remuneration aligned to the delivery of the clawback and For the 2015 performance year, link between Committee following the year-end Groups strategic objectives for that malus for three the maximum bonus is 100% measurable and based on performance against the year.
years from date of base salary for the Executive predictable annual targets.
of payment of a These will be a mix of strategic and Directors and 125% for the Company and bonus or grant Bonus payments, if made, are financial targets with the majority Chief Executive Officer.
or role specific of a deferred payable in cash after the results of being financial.
performance and award in certain the Group have been audited.
For threshold performance, 25% of exceptional To the extent that an Executive the maximum opportunity will be circumstances.
Incentivise the Director does not meet the earned.
For stretch performance, achievement minimum shareholding the maximum opportunity will be of outstanding requirement, up to 50% of any earned.
A straight-line sliding scale results aligned bonus payment will be deferred applies between the threshold and to the business into shares, vesting after a period of the maximum.
The performance conditions for the relevant financial year are described in the Annual report on remuneration.
Variable Pay: Longer-Term Incentives Long Term An award over a fixed number of The Remuneration Committee sets The Remuneration Committee Clawback and Incentive shares is granted annually.
Awards targets that are closely aligned to may grant awards, with a malus provisions Plan LTIP made in the form of nil-cost options the delivery of the Groups strategic maximum total market value may be applied Attract, retain and or conditional share awards will objectives for the performance of 150% of annual base salary to LTIP awards incentivise senior ordinarily vest three years from period.
These may be a mix of of a participant.
In the case of in certain executives.
award, subject to continued strategic and financial targets with the Chief Executive Officer, the exceptional service and the achievement of the majority being financial.
maximum total market value circumstances.
Align the interests performance conditions and other of an LTIP Award is 200% of of the senior For threshold performance, 25% conditions.
executives and the of the maximum opportunity will shareholders.
Dividend equivalents may be paid vest.
For stretch performance, the In exceptional circumstances, in cash or additional shares on LTIP maximum opportunity will vest.
the Remuneration Committee awards that vest.
Vesting will be on a straight-line may grant awards with a basis between the threshold and maximum total market value of The award may be satisfied either the maximum.
300% of annual base salary of a by a new issue of shares, the participant or, in the case of the transfer of treasury shares or shares The measurement period for Chief Executive Officer, 400% of held in the Companys EBT or by performance conditions will annual base salary.
ordinarily comprise at least three financial years of the Company.
The performance conditions for the final year of the three-year vesting period are described in the Annual report on remuneration.
89 slugline Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 20.
Directors Remuner ation Report continued Purpose and Link Recovery or to Strategy How it Operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Withholding Joint Share The JSOS was established prior Interests in shares vest annually The JSOS rules contain a Certain leaver Ownership to the Companys listing on the over a four-year period subject to 7.5% issued share capital limit provisions Scheme JSOS London Stock Exchange in 2010. leaver provisions.
The participant for the cumulative total of described on Attract, retain and benefits from the increase in awards under the plan and the page 96 allow The participants and Appleby Trust incentivise senior value of the shares above a ABIs 5% and 10% in ten year the Company Jersey Limited, the EBT Trustee, executives.
predetermined market price for dilution limit for total awards, to recover share acquire separate beneficial interests each tranche the hurdle price.
which constrain the number interests in certain Align the interests in ordinary shares of the Company.
of interests that may be issued circumstances.
of the senior The participant may lose his Awards under the JSOS will have under the JSOS.
executives and the interest in the shares.
no value unless the hurdle price is shareholders, by achieved.
No future annual awards will be driving share price made under the JSOS to Executive Interests in the Companys shares growth over four Directors.
are granted in tranches, with years.
a different hurdle rate for each tranche.
Growth Incentive Awards will be granted on a one-off Options will be subject to a single Four million shares will be Clawback and Plan GIP basis.
An Executive Director will be performance condition to be awarded to the Chief Executive malus provisions Attract, retain and granted options over shares in the satisfied over the five years from the Officer.
may be applied incentivise senior Company with a nil exercise price.
to GIP awards One million shares will be executives.
in certain The share price of the Company While all Executive Directors are awarded to each of the exceptional Align the interests is the sole performance measure eligible to participate in this plan, other participating Executive circumstances.
of senior executives and will be assessed relative to the only the Chief Executive Officer and Directors.
and shareholders, growth of the FTSE 100 Share Index two existing Executive Directors Awards to new participating by incentivising over that period.
will receive an initial grant.
New Executive Directors will not senior executives to Executive Directors may be Performance will be assessed exceed the proposed award deliver exceptional invited to participate at a level based on the three month average levels to existing participants.
levels of growth dependent on the point during the share price of the Company and and return to the performance period at which they of the FTSE 100 Share Index at shareholder over joined.
the beginning and end of the the long term.
To participate, the Executive The performance target schedule is Directors are required to hold a as follows: level of shares throughout the Growth of less than the FTSE 100 performance period.
For the Chief Share Index plus 5% p. a. : 0% of Executive Officer, this shareholding the award vests.
must be at least one times salary and for other Executive Directors, Growth in FTSE 100 Share Index this shareholding must be at least plus 5% p. a. : 25% of the award half times salary.
Growth in FTSE 100 Share Index plus 10% p. a. : 50% of the award vests.
Growth in FTSE 100 Share Index plus 15% p. a. : 75% of the award vests.
Growth in FTSE 100 Share Index plus 20% p. a. or more : 100% of the award vests.
90 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Directors Remuneration Report Purpose and Link Recovery or to Strategy How it Operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Withholding All-Employee Share Plans Sharesave All employees are eligible to Not performance linked.
Options may be granted at The scheme Provide all participate in this HMRC approved a maximum discount to the rules do not employees, employee share scheme.
The market price up to a maximum provide for malus including Executive Company grants options over amount in line with HMRC or clawback Directors, the shares in the Company to limits.
opportunity to employees, including the Executive Employees are limited to voluntarily invest Directors.
saving a maximum in line with in Company shares To obtain an option an eligible these HMRC limits.
and be aligned individual must agree to save a with the interests fixed monthly amount for three of shareholders.
years up to the maximum monthly amount in line with HMRC limits.
The amount saved will determine the number of shares over which the option is granted.
Options are granted at a discount to the market price at the time of grant.
Options may be exercised in a six month period three or five years from the date of grant, subject to continued service.
Share Incentive All employees are eligible to Not performance linked.
Maximum opportunity for The scheme Plan SIP participate in this HMRC approved awards will be in line with rules do not Provide all employee share scheme.
provide for malus employees, allows for: or clawback including Executive provisions.
the Company to grant free Directors, the shares to all employees opportunity to allocated on an equal basis: receive and invest in Company shares all employees to buy and be aligned partnership shares monthly with the interests from their gross salary: and of shareholders.
the Company may offer matching shares to employees who purchase partnership shares.
Dividend shares are also covered by the SIP arrangements.
91 slugline Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 20.
Directors Remuner ation Report continued Purpose and Link Recovery or to Strategy How it Operates Performance Conditions Maximum Opportunity Withholding Executive Share All employees are eligible to If awards are made the Maximum opportunity for The scheme Option Scheme participate in this HMRC approved Remuneration Committee will awards will be in line with rules do not ESOS employee share scheme and the set targets.
Targets will be closely HMRC limits for the HMRC provide for malus Provide all unapproved part of the scheme.
aligned to the delivery of the approved part of the scheme.
or clawback employees, Groups strategic objectives.
The Company grants options Maximum opportunity for including Executive may be a mix of strategic and over shares in the Company to awards under the unapproved Directors, the financial targets with the majority employees.
There are currently part of the scheme are limited opportunity to being financial.
no plans to make awards to the by the scheme rules which receive Company Executive Directors under this plan.
For threshold performance, up to limit an award to 300% of share options and 25% of the maximum opportunity annual base salary, except in be aligned with Options over shares vest on the would be received.
the interests of third anniversary of grant, subject to shareholders.
continued service and satisfaction of any performance conditions.
If vested, the options may be exercised at any time between the third and tenth anniversaries of grant at the executives discretion.
2014 Executive The 2014 ESOS was approved by Same as for ESOS described above.
Same as for ESOS described Same as for ESOS Share Option shareholders at the 2014 annual above.
The 2014 ESOS is ESOS based on the ESOS, described above.
Provide all There are currently no plans to make employees, awards to the current Executive including Executive Directors under this plan.
Directors, the opportunity to receive Company share options and be aligned with the interests of shareholders.
92 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Directors Remuneration Report The Directors Remuneration Policy as it applies to Non-Executive Directors consists of the elements set out in the table below: Purpose and Link to Strategy How it Operates Non-Executive Director Fee Paid monthly in cash.
Core element of remuneration, Fee structure includes an annual base fee for a Non-Executive Director and a Senior Independent Director, and paid for fulfilling the role in additional fees for being a Board Committee chair.
Reviewed annually by the Executive Directors and Chairman, with any changes normally becoming effective in April each year.
The review takes into account a number of factors including: the Groups annual review process, business performance and appropriate market data for comparable roles for companies of equivalent size and complexity to the Company.
Non-Executive Directors are not usually eligible for annual bonus, all-employee share incentive schemes, pensions or other benefits with the exception of the staff product discount offered to all employees.
Chairman Fee Paid monthly in cash.
Core element of remuneration, Reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee, with any changes normally becoming effective in April each year.
paid for fulfilling the role in question.
Chairmans Share The Chairman is not usually eligible for annual bonus, any incentive schemes, pensions or other benefits.
Matching Award The current Chairman received a one-off initial share award upon his appointment as Chairman.
Shares will not vest until To attract and retain the right the Chairman has served for three years.
The Chairman will not be entitled to sell any shares awarded to him until the first calibre of Chairman necessary anniversary of when he ceases to be a member of the Board.
The award is not subject to performance conditions.
Certain to support the long-term leaver provisions described on page 96 allow the Company to recover the award in certain circumstances.
Notes to the Policy Table: 1.
No other items in the nature of remuneration are provided by the Company to its Non-Executive Directors, save for the amounts paid to Robert Gorrie as described on page 104.
The Non-Executive Directors are entitled to be reimbursed for out of pocket expenses incurred in carrying out their responsibilities to the Company.
Other than as described in the policy table, there are no components of the Executive Directors remuneration that are not subject to performance measures.
In the case of the Sharesave and SIP, these HMRC approved all-employee schemes are subject to rules constrained by legislation and so awards are made on the same terms not comprising performance conditions to all employees including Executive Directors.
Prior to the Companys listing in 2010, some option awards were made to the Executive Directors under the ESOS without performance conditions.
Although awards will not usually be made to existing Executive Directors, the rules of the ESOS and 2014 ESOS require the Remuneration Committee to impose performance conditions on any awards made to a Director under each plan.
The Chairmans Share Matching Award was a one-off award of shares made to the Chairman on appointment.
No performance conditions attached to the receipt of the award only continued service as Chairman until the end of the threeyear vesting period.
In structuring the Chairmans Share Matching Award without any performance related elements, the Remuneration Committee complied with the Code and sought to ensure the Chairmans independence on appointment.
The Chairman is not entitled to sell any awarded shares until a year after he leaves the Board.
The award was approved by shareholders at the 2013 annual general meeting.
Performance targets apply to the AIP, LTIP and GIP.
a. AIP the Remuneration Committee adjusts the design including measures and weightings of the AIP each year to incentivise the delivery of key business objectives and individual performance for that financial year.
Management proposes suitable metrics and levels of performance to form the threshold and stretch levels of performance.
Any individual objectives applicable for the AIP are linked to the Executive Directors role and or his business area s and are in line with the Groups strategy.
The measurable objectives are agreed between the Executive Director and the Chief Executive Officer or in the case of the Chief Executive Officer, between him and the Chairman.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the proposed targets to assess whether they are appropriately aligned with the strategy and shareholders interests and whether the reward that would accrue to the Executive Director is appropriate in the circumstances.
Usually, full vesting will only occur where exceptional performance levels have been achieved and significant shareholder value created.
Details of the performance measures applying to the 2015 AIP are outlined in the Annual report on remuneration.
b. LTIP the Remuneration Committee reviews the design of the LTIP each year to ensure that the performance conditions remain relevant to the Companys key strategic objectives.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance measures in light of the long-term strategic plan and agrees the threshold and stretch conditions that must be achieved.
Full vesting will only occur where exceptional performance levels have been achieved and significant shareholder value created.
In light of shareholder feedback from the shareholder consultation conducted in March 2013, the Remuneration Committee revised the targets from 2013 and decided to put in place two performance objectives for the 2014 awards.
The underlying measurement period for performance conditions will ordinarily comprise at least three financial years of the Company.
In the case of the 2013 and 2014 awards the measurement period is the last financial year.
c. GIP the GIP performance measure was designed to incentivise outstanding growth in value of the Group over the five-year performance period.
The performance measure requires the growth in the Company share price to be significantly more than the growth of the FTSE 100 Share Index over that period.
This helps to ensure alignment with shareholders, as full vesting will only occur where outstanding shareholder value is created.
The GIP was approved by shareholders at the 2014 annual general meeting.
The Directors Remuneration Policy contains formal components for short and long-term incentives with performance conditions attached.
While the Group has a policy of remunerating its employees through share scheme participation, it does not have formal arrangements for all employees akin to the components of Directors remuneration.
Senior management participate in an annual bonus plan and the long-term incentive schemes, including the LTIP and JSOS, with award levels set at lower percentages of salary than those of the Directors.
The performance conditions and other terms of these schemes are the same as for the Executive Directors.
The bonus plan does not include provision for share deferral of a payment.
The Group operates some tailored bonus and long-term incentive arrangements such as the JSOS for other small groups of employees but aside from the JSOS and the all-employee share schemes the SIP, the ESOS and the Sharesave, the variable remuneration of employees is not closely aligned with that of Directors.
93 slugline Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 20.
Directors Remuner ation Report continued Director Shareholding Obligation It is the policy of the Company that the Directors are expected to build up over a period of time, and hold, a minimum level of shareholding in the Company.
This is considered an effective way to align the interests of the Executive Directors and shareholders in the long term.
These shareholding requirements are outlined in the table below.
Director Shareholding Requirement Executive Directors Executive Directors are required to hold 100% base salary 150% for the Chief Executive Officer in shares.
This can be built up over three years from appointment.
Share awards may count if vesting is not subject to any further performance conditions or other conditions such as continued employment.
Share interests and share awards which are vested, but remain subject to a holding period and or clawback, may count towards the holding requirement.
Until the minimum shareholding is met, an Executive Director must defer up to 50% of any cash bonus payable under the AIP as an award of shares.
Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors are required to hold the equivalent of one years annual fee in shares.
This can be built up over three years.
Chairman The Chairman is required to hold the equivalent of one years annual fee in shares.
Should the requirement be achieved but the market value of the Companys shares subsequently fall below the required level, compliance with this requirement will be based on the higher of the original share purchase price or current market price.
Approach to Remuneration of Directors on Recruitment Recruitment of Executive Directors When determining the remuneration of a newly appointed Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will apply a number of principles.
The Remuneration Committee will seek to align the remuneration package of a newly appointed Executive Director with the Directors Remuneration Policy outlined above.
However, the Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to include any other remuneration component or award in the remuneration package which it considers to be appropriate.
In determining the remuneration arrangements for a new Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will take into account all relevant factors including but not limited to the specific circumstances, the calibre of the individual, the market practice for the candidates location, the nature of the role they are being recruited to fulfil and any relevant market factors, including any competing offers the candidate may be considering.
The Remuneration Committee is at all times conscious of the need to pay no more than is necessary.
The Remuneration Committees considerations would be subject to the overall limit on variable remuneration outlined below.
Where promotion to an Executive Director role is from within the Company, any performance-related pay element arising from their previous role will continue on its original terms, provided such element was not made in contemplation of such person becoming an Executive Director.
To facilitate recruitment, the Remuneration Committee may, to the extent permitted by relevant plan rules or Listing Rules, make a one-off award to buy out incentives or any other compensation arrangements forfeited by the appointee on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so the Remuneration Committee will ensure that any such awards offered should be on a comparable basis, taking into account all relevant factors including any performance conditions, the likelihood of those conditions being met, the proportion of the vesting or performance period remaining and the form of the award.
In determining whether it is appropriate to use such judgement, the Remuneration Committee will ensure that any awards made are in the best interests of both the Company and its shareholders.
In addition, one-off payments in respect of relocation or ongoing relocation allowances may be made to a newly appointed Executive Director.
However, these payments must reflect actual financial loss or cost of moving the Executive Director, their family or assets, and the market practice in the geographical location to which the Executive Director is moving to or from.
The Company may provide relocation costs by funding services or cash payment or a combination of both.
The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded upon recruitment excluding any buy out awards or costs and allowances on relocation and awards made to appointees under the GIP is 600% of base salary.
GIP awards will be subject to the award limits set out in the remuneration policy table.
Recruitment of Non-Executive Directors The remuneration package for newly appointed Non-Executive Directors will be in line with the structure set out in the remuneration policy table for NonExecutive Directors.
94 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Directors Remuneration Report Loss of Service or Termination Policy Service Contracts for Executive Directors Each of the Executive Directors is employed pursuant to a service contract with Ocado Central Services Limited.
The Directors Remuneration Policy provides that an Executive Directors employment may be terminated by the Company giving to the Executive Director not less than 12 months notice or by the Executive Director giving to the Company not less than six months notice.
The Directors Remuneration Policy provides that if an Executive Directors service contract is terminated without cause, Ocado Central Services Limited can request that the Executive Director work their notice period, take a period of garden leave or pay an amount in lieu of notice equal to one times their basic salary, benefits and pension for the remainder of their notice period.
While the service contracts do not specify this, the Companys remuneration principles provide that any payments should be reduced in certain circumstances where the Executive Directors loss has been mitigated, for example, where he moves to other employment.
The service contracts do not contain any specific provisions relating to a change of control of the business.
If employment is terminated by the Company, the Remuneration Committee retains a discretion to settle any other amounts reasonably payable to the Executive Director including legal fees incurred by the Executive Director in connection with the termination of employment and obtaining independent legal advice on a settlement or compromise agreement, and the relocation costs for returning the departing Executive Director and his family to their original country of origin.
The Company may provide relocation costs by funding services, or cash payment or a combination of both.
Other than described above, there are no relevant contractual provisions that are, or are proposed to be, contained in any Executive Director service contract that could give rise to remuneration payments or payments for loss of office, but which are not disclosed elsewhere in the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Letters of Appointment for Non-Executive Directors Each of the Non-Executive Directors has a letter of appointment with the Company.
The Directors Remuneration Policy provides that a Non-Executive Directors appointment may be terminated by either party giving to the other not less than one months notice, or in the case of the Chairman, not less than six months notice.
Other than described above, there are no relevant contractual provisions that are, or are proposed to be, contained in any Non-Executive Directors letter of appointment that could give rise to remuneration payments or payments for loss of office, but which are not disclosed elsewhere in the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Payments on Cessation of Employment for Executive Directors The Executive Director service contracts do not oblige the Company to pay a bonus if the Executive Director is under notice of termination.
But under the rules of the AIP, the Executive Director may receive a proportion of the bonus or deferred award that the Remuneration Committee determines would otherwise have been payable or granted to him under the rules for the financial year.
The treatment of outstanding share awards is governed by the relevant scheme rules, all of which have been approved by shareholders.
The table on page 96 provides a summary of these leaver provisions.
The Remuneration Committee generally has discretion to determine the treatment of a leaver, but will be conscious of the remuneration principle that it should not reward poor performance or behaviour.
Payments on Cessation of Service for Non-Executive Directors The table on page 96 provides a summary of the leaver provisions applicable to the Chairmans Share Matching Award.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion in defining the type of leaver category applicable to the departing Chairman.
95 slugline Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 20.
Directors Remuner ation Report continued Share Scheme Leaver Provisions Remuneration Element Bad Leavers Good Leavers JSOS If a participant is a bad leaver i. e. he is The participants interest shall continue to vest on the same dates as if that neither a good leaver nor a very bad participant had remained in employment so long as the participant remains a leaver, he would retain his vested interests good leaver.
but unvested interests may be acquired by the Should the participant die before a tranche vests, the participants interest will EBT Trustee for the lower of the market value vest entirely on the date of death.
and the initial subscription price.
In the case of a very bad leaver i. e. has or could have been dismissed for cause or is in material breach of an obligation binding after termination, both vested and unvested interests may be acquired by the EBT Trustee for the lower of the market value and the initial subscription price.
LTIP Generally, unvested LTIP awards and vested If a participant ceases to be an employee of the Group for a good leaver reason LTIP options will lapse on the date the e. g. ill health, injury or permanent disability, then his awards which have not participant ceases to be an employee.
vested will vest on the vesting date or earlier as the Remuneration Committee shall determine but only to the extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied subject to operation of malus and clawback provisions.
Unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise, the award will be reduced pro rata to reflect the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed to the date of cessation of employment.
If a participant dies, his LTIP awards will vest on the date of his death and the performance conditions will not apply but unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise the LTIP award will be reduced pro rata to reflect the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed at the date of death.
To the extent that LTIP options vest in accordance with the above provisions, they may usually be exercised for a period of 12 months following vesting and will otherwise lapse at the end of that period.
To the extent that a participant who leaves in circumstances other than dismissal for cause or who dies holding vested LTIP options, they may be exercised at any time during the usual exercise period and will otherwise lapse at the end of that period.
GIP See LTIP above, as the same leaver rules See LTIP above, as the same leaver rules apply.
Deferred Shares Under Deferred share awards will lapse on the An Executive Director will retain his deferred share award on ceasing employment the AIP date the Executive Director ceases to be an with the Group and will receive the award at the usual vesting date in accordance employee.
with the plan rules, subject to the operation of clawback and malus provisions.
All-Employee Share Leavers will be treated within the HMRC Leavers will be treated within the HMRC approved scheme rules.
Chairmans Share If the Chairman ceases to be a Director of the If the Chairman ceases to be a Director of the Company prior to vesting for a good Matching Award Company prior to vesting for any reason other leaver reason death, illness, injury or disability or any other reason determined than a good leaver reason, the share award by the Board then a pro rata proportion of the share award will vest and the will be forfeited.
96 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Directors Remuneration Report Change of Control The incentive schemes contain change of control provisions, as set out in the relevant scheme rules.
Under the LTIP, in the event of a takeover of the Company, LTIP awards will vest early subject to: i the extent that the performance and other conditions have been satisfied at that time, ii the operation of malus or clawback, and iii unless the Remuneration Committee decides that pro-rating would be inappropriate in the particular circumstances pro-rating to reflect the proportion of the normal performance period that has elapsed at the date of that event.
Under the GIP, if there is a change of control of the Company, options may be exercised early subject to the performance target being satisfied, and in proportion to the amount of the performance period that has elapsed.
Under the AIP, deferred share awards vest early on a change of control, though the Remuneration Committee has discretion to not release the award early and instead roll the award into an equivalent award in the acquiring company.
Under the terms of the Chairmans Share Matching Award, in the event of a change of control a pro rata proportion of the share award will vest, subject to the Boards discretion to determine that a greater number of shares should vest.
Under the terms of the JSOS rules, in the event of an offer a participant may request the EBT Trustee to accept the offer with respect to shares that have vested under the JSOS.
For further information on agreements impacted by a change of control see the Directors Report on pages 74 to 75.
Other Remuneration External Appointments for Executive Directors It is the Companys policy and a requirement of the contract of employment that the Executive Director may not take up non-executive directorships or other appointments without the approval of the Board.
Any outside appointments are considered by the Nomination Committee or the Board to ensure they would not cause a conflict of interest and are then approved by the Board.
The Board would not usually agree to an Executive Director taking on more than one nonexecutive directorship of a listed or public company or the chairmanship of such a company.
It is the Companys policy that remuneration earned from such appointments may be kept by the individual Executive Director.
Remuneration Arrangements Prior to Policy The Remuneration Committee has the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Directors Remuneration Policy, where the terms of the payment were agreed either before the policy came into effect or at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company, and in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes, payments includes the Remuneration Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Illustration of Directors Remuneration Policy The bar charts on page 98 provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunity for each of the Executive Directors based on the Directors Remuneration Policy outlined on pages 84 to 98.
Base Salary, Benefits and AIP LTIP Pension Minimum Performance is below threshold on each metric.
Performance is below threshold on each metric.
Fixed Target or at Expectation Threshold performance is reached on each metric.
Threshold performance is reached on each metric.
Fixed Maximum Maximum performance is achieved on each metric.
Maximum performance is achieved on each metric.
Fixed 97 slugline Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 20.
Directors Remuner ation Report continued The figures use the 2013 base salary and pension see 2013 annual report on pages 88 and 89 and value of benefits received for 2013 see 2013 annual report on page 89.
The performance related pay figures are based on the potential awards for 2014 see 2013 annual report on pages 102 and 103, but it should be noted that LTIP awards granted in a year do not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant.
For the purposes of illustrating the Directors Remuneration Policy, it is assumed that the LTIP awards granted in 2014 will also be vesting in 2014.
The impact of the GIP has not been included.
The estimated remuneration for each Executive Director is based on three different levels of performance, set out below.
In all scenarios, the impact of share price movements on the value of LTIP awards has been excluded.
Tim Steiner, Chief Executive Officer m Mark Richardson, Chief Operations Officer m Minimum 93% 7% Minimum 93% 7% 3% 3% Target 39% 24% 34% Target 34% 25% 38% 2% 2% Maximum 28% 28% 42% Maximum 23% 29% 46% 0 0.5 1 1.5 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 Salary and benefits Salary and benefits Pension Pension AIP AIP LTIP LTIP Duncan Tatton-Brown, Chief Financial Officer m Neill Abrams, Group General Counsel m Minimum Minimum 97% 3% 93% 7% 3% 1% Target Target 39% 25% 35% 39% 24% 34% 2% 2% Maximum Maximum 28% 28% 42% 28% 28% 42% 0 0.5 1 1.5 0 0.5 1 1.5 Salary and benefits Salary and benefits Pension Pension AIP AIP LTIP LTIP 98 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Directors Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration 2015 Introduction This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the Directors remuneration paid in respect of the 2015 financial year.
It sets out the payments to Directors and details of the link between Company performance and remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer.
This part, together with the Description of the Remuneration Committee section on pages 82 and 83 constitutes the Annual Report on Remuneration, and will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the Companys AGM.
Highlights for 2015 audited This table briefly summarises the highlights of the Directors remuneration arrangements for the financial year.
Base Pay and Benefits Pension AIP Long-Term Incentives All-Employee Schemes Base pay increase of 2% for Company contributions Total bonus earned by Awards were granted under No awards or options the Executive Directors, in to pensions for Executive Executive Directors for 2015 the LTIP.
vested under any allline with other employees.
Directors in line with the based on 65% to 67% of employee share schemes 100% of target achievement Directors Remuneration target achievement was during the period.
No pay increases for the for the 2013 LTIP awards, Policy.
1,115,370 2014: 912,415 Non-Executive Directors in which are due to vest in Certain options exercised period.
March 2016. under ESOS during period, where options were due to No change to taxable expire.
Ongoing participation in the SIP and Sharesave schemes.
Total Director Remuneration audited The total remuneration paid to all of the Directors during the period was 13,205,000.
The detailed remuneration breakdown for the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors is set out separately.
99 99 slugline Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 20.
Directors Remuner ation Report continued Executive Directors Total Remuneration audited The total remuneration for the period for each of the Executive Directors is set out in the table below.
Total cash-based remuneration paid to the Executive Directors was 2,814,000 in 2015, which was 4.5% higher than in 2014 2,692,000.
The prior year figure includes remuneration paid to former Executive Director Jason Gissing in that period see note 3 to the Total Remuneration table.
The value of LTIP awards for 2013 has been estimated based on 100% vesting and the three-month average share price from 1 September 2015 to 27 November 2015 of 348.02 pence per share, as these awards are not capable of vesting until after the end of the period, on 31 March 2016.
This value assumes no dividends will be payable.
The value assumes that the participant will not be required to pay an amount to acquire the conditional shares, being the nominal price of 2 pence per share.
These estimated figures will be restated in next years annual report.
Tim Steiners taxable benefits have been restated for 2014 in relation to the use of a chauffeur-driven car.
Total remuneration for both Tim Steiner and the Executive Directors for 2014 has been restated accordingly.
Former Executive Director Jason Gissing, who retired from the Board on 7 May 2014, received the following remuneration during the prior period which is not included in the table 000 : salary - 144: taxable benefits - 1: pensions - 12: total fixed pay - 157: total remuneration in cash - 157: JSOS - theoretical gain - 3,669: total for share plans - 3,669: total remuneration - 3,826.
An explanation of each element of remuneration paid in the table is set out in the following section.
The Company has obtained a written confirmation from each Executive Director that they have not received any other items in the nature of remuneration from the Group, other than those already disclosed in this report.
Base Salary audited During the period, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the salaries of the Executive Directors.
After taking into account a number of relevant factors which are discussed in more detail below, the Remuneration Committee recommended that all basic salaries be increased.
The following table shows the change in each Executive Directors salary.
com Directors Remuneration Report The changes to base salary were made in line with the Directors Remuneration Policy.
The Executive Directors received an increase in base pay of 2% which was in line with the percentage salary increases for the monthly paid employees of the Group in the period.
The increases, which position the salaries broadly around the market median for a company of the Companys size and complexity, also aim to help retain the Executive Directors.
Taxable Benefits audited The Executive Directors received taxable benefits during the period, notably private medical insurance, travel insurance and use of a chauffeur-driven car.
The Executive Directors also received other benefits, which are not taxable, including income protection insurance, life assurance and Group-wide employee benefits, such as an employee product discount.
The remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors do not include a company car or car cash allowance, but the directors have access to a chauffeur-driven car.
This service was used almost exclusively by Tim Steiner during the period and accordingly is shown as a taxable benefit in the Total Remuneration table.
Pensions audited The Company made pension contributions on behalf of the Executive Directors to the defined contribution Group personal pension scheme which is administered by Standard Life.
The employer contributions to the pension scheme in respect of each Executive Director are made in line with the Group personal pension scheme for all employees the rates being, for employees and Executive Directors joining the pension scheme before May 2013, from 3% up to 8%, and for employees joining the scheme after May 2013, from 3% up to 6%, depending on the number of years the employee or Executive Director has participated in the scheme.
The contributions during the period made on behalf of the Executive Directors were 8% of base salary, except in the case of Duncan Tatton-Brown, which was 7% of base salary up to 31 December 2015, in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
These contributions were made in line with the Directors Remuneration Policy which allows the Company to make employer contributions of up to 30% of base salary.
Pension contributions can be made to the Executive Directors and any other employee as a cash allowance where the Executive Director has reached either the HMRC annual limit or HMRC lifetime allowance limit for pension contributions as provided for in the Directors Remuneration Policy.
In accordance with this policy, Duncan Tatton-Brown has elected to receive his pension contributions as an equivalent cash allowance.
Annual Incentive Plan audited The Remuneration Committee re-examines the design of the AIP each year to incentivise the delivery of key business objectives and individual performance for that financial year.
The 2015 AIP was based on the performance targets and weightings set out below.
Financial performance measures, namely Gross Sales Retail and EBITDA, were the primary targets, with 70% of the annual bonus being determined by performance against targets set by the Remuneration Committee at the start of the financial year, by reference to the Companys budget for the period.
Of the balance, 30% related to individual objectives for each of the Directors, largely independent of the financial objectives.
The weighting of the individual objectives increased from 20% in 2014 to 30% in 2015 in order to align incentives with the Companys increased emphasis on achieving certain strategic objectives.
The Remuneration Committee has agreed threshold and maximum conditions that must be achieved.
A bonus is not payable unless a threshold level of the performance condition has been achieved.
At threshold performance for a financial performance measure, 8.75% of total bonus is payable and at maximum performance, 35% of total bonus is payable.
A straight line sliding scale will apply in relation to the intermediate points between the threshold and maximum.
Each target was discrete and could be earned separately.
The Chief Executive Officer had a maximum bonus opportunity of 125% of salary and the other Executive Directors had a maximum opportunity of 100% of salary.
Tim Steiner Duncan Tatton-Brown Mark Richardson Neill Abrams Financial objectives EBITDA % of total target 35 35 35 35 Gross Sales Retail % of total target 35 35 35 35 Individual objectives % of total target 30 30 30 30 1.
Develop strategic plans under Ocado Smart Platform.
Drive efficiency and Prepare and execute Improve performance Develop Groups patent progress key projects financing strategy to and capacity in line with function.
include UK and annual order growth.
international Examples of business area objectives requirements.
Develop and drive long Continue to operate Deliver Andover CFC Continue oversight of term strategy.
an efficient and ahead of its capacity legal, HR, CR and Risk effective finance being required and in line functions.
101 slugline Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 20.
Directors Remuner ation Report continued Financial Targets and Individual Targets Each Executive Director had between four and six individual objectives, with different weightings, under the plan.
They related to specific programmes relevant to each Executive Directors business area for which they have primary responsibility.
All of the Executive Directors had an individual objective which concerned the development of strategic plans for internationalising the business with the Ocado Smart Platform.
The Remuneration Committee also considered environmental, social and governance issues when setting the individual objectives, in particular for Neill Abrams who has responsibility for the Groups CR policy.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance of each Executive Director against the measurable performance metrics and based their judgment on a report by the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman.
The Groups Gross Sales Retail for the period were 1,115.7 million, which was above the threshold of 1,104.6 million set under the 2015 AIP.
The Groups EBITDA pre-exceptional items for the period was 81.5 million, which was above the threshold of 75.5 million set under the 2015 AIP.
The Remuneration Committee, in assessing performance, took into account the level of the Groups trading performance compared with UK grocery retail peers and the Groups progress against its strategic objectives.
All Executive Directors met to some extent their individual objectives, with achievement between 75% and 80% of maximum.
There is no threshold or maximum target set for the individual objectives.
Each objective is weighted and scored to provide a total score out of 30.
Performance may range from zero to 30.
The applicable salary used for calculating the bonus payment under the rules of the 2015 AIP is the applicable base salary on the date of payment.
Disclosure of Targets Following a change in policy agreed by the Remuneration Committee, the threshold and maximum targets and achievement against the targets have been disclosed in respect of the financial targets for the AIP.
A broad description of some of the Executive Directors individual objectives has been provided, but specific details concerning the individual objectives and performance against them has not been disclosed in this report.
Although the Remuneration Committee is conscious of the regulations and the Code requirement that performance targets should be transparent, it considers that the individual objectives were and remain commercially sensitive to the Company and if disclosed could damage the Companys commercial interests.
These individual objectives mostly relate to important business plans and actions and consequently could hinder the progress of the business or the Groups competitive advantage if publicly disclosed.
The Remuneration Committee does not expect to disclose this information at a later date.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the targets were stretching and have been rigorously applied.
102 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Directors Remuneration Report Summary of Bonus Earned The Remuneration Committee has, in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Policy and the rules of the 2015 AIP, recommended an aggregate bonus payment of 1,115,370 2014: 912,415 under the plan for the period.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this level of bonus payment appropriately reflects the performance of the business and individual performance during the period, which saw strong trading for the Group in a very competitive market.
The table above summarises the bonus payments for each Executive Director for the 2015 AIP.
The cash payments are expected to be made in February 2016.
No amount has been deferred to a later date given that under the rules of the AIP deferral does not apply as all of the Executive Directors have met the minimum shareholding requirements under the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Share Plans Awards granted under long-term incentive plans only count towards the total remuneration figure for the period in which they vest or where achievement of performance targets is determined in the period.
Awards under most of the Companys share plans are subject to three-year vesting periods and therefore awards made or exercised during the period will not necessarily be reflected in the total remuneration figure for this period.
Further details on all the existing share incentives held by the Executive Directors are set out below.
JSOS There are no JSOS interests that vested during the period, therefore no value is shown in the total remuneration table for the period.
The fourth and final tranche of JSOS shares vested on 1 January 2014.
For a detailed description of the valuation of the JSOS in the 2014 column of the table, see page 112 of the 2014 annual report.
LTIP The LTIP is the primary long-term incentive for the Executive Directors.
The LTIP awards help retain and reward the Executive Directors for the delivery of longterm business objectives.
The three year performance period for the 2013 LTIP award expired at the end of the Financial Year.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance against the 2013 LTIP performance target, which was the Groups earnings before interest and tax and pre-exceptional items and prior to the cost of the LTIP awards for management, for the financial year.
As noted on page 127 of this Annual Report, the Groups earnings before interest and tax and exceptional items for the period was 21.4 million, which was an increase of 28.9% on 2014.
The performance target also takes into account the share based management incentive charges which were 7.8 million see page 138.
The Groups earnings before interest and tax and pre-exceptional items and before the LTIP award costs for management was 29.2 million, which exceeded the maximum performance target of 25.2 million for the 2013 LTIP awards.
Accordingly, achievement against the performance condition was 100%.
Details of performance against the EBIT target is set out in the table below.
The value of the 2013 LTIP awards in the total remuneration table is estimated based on the average Company share price for the final three months of the period.
The expected vesting date of the 2013 LTIP award is 31 March 2016.
Subject to the continued satisfaction of the award conditions, final vesting will be determined.
EBIT Performance Target Achievement Director Threshold Maximum Actual % of maximum Tim Steiner 17.5m 25.2m 29.2m 100% Duncan Tatton-Brown 17.5m 25.2m 29.2m 100% Neill Abrams 17.5m 25.2m 29.2m 100% Mark Richardson 17.5m 25.2m 29.2m 100% 1.
25% of an award vests for threshold performance with full vesting for achieving or exceeding maximum performance.
Vesting is a straight line between these two points.
Details of the number of conditional shares awarded to each Director for the 2013 LTIP awards are shown in the table on page 108.
Recovery of Sums Paid audited No sums paid or payable to the Executive Directors were sought to be recovered by the Group.
103 slugline Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 20.
Directors Remuner ation Report continued Non-Executive Directors Total Fees audited The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman during the period are set out in the remuneration table below.
With the exception of the Chairman who has received the Chairmans Share Matching Award, which is noted on page 112 and Robert Gorrie who receives other remuneration as set out below, the Non-Executive Directors received no remuneration from the Group other than their annual fee.
Taxable Pension Long-Term Recovery of Total Fees Benefits Entitlements Annual Bonus Incentives Sums Paid Remuneration Non-Executive 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Director 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Lord Rose 200 200 200 200 David Grigson 70 67 70 67 Ruth Anderson 60 57 60 57 Robert Gorrie 48 45 48 45 Jrn Rausing 48 45 48 45 Douglas McCallum 60 56 60 56 Alex Mahon 48 45 48 45 The remuneration arrangements for the Non-Executive Directors except the Chairman were reviewed by the Executive Directors and the Chairman during the period and remained unchanged.
The review was carried out by the Executive Directors and Chairman in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Policy and accordingly took into account the responsibility and time commitments of the roles of the Non-Executive Directors and Board committee chairmen, the financial position and trading performance of the business, and the appropriate benchmark data obtained from third party providers for comparable roles for companies of equivalent size and complexity to the Group.
The Chairmans fees were not subject to review in 2015 as it was agreed on appointment that the Chairmans fee would not be reviewed by the Remuneration Committee for a minimum of three years from appointment.
Other Remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors audited In addition to the fees, the Non-Executive Directors are entitled to a staff shopping discount in line with the Groups employees.
The Chairman received the Chairmans Share Matching Award on becoming Chairman in May 2013.
The details of the award are outlined on page 112.
Robert Gorrie chairs the meetings of the Ocado Council and occasionally provides advice on various employee matters, in addition to his role as a NonExecutive Director.
He provides these services through Robert Gorrie Limited of which he is the sole shareholder and is paid a per diem fee for these services.
These fees are included in the related party transactions with key management personnel in Note 5.4 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Company has obtained a written confirmation from each Non-Executive Director that they have not received any other items in the nature of remuneration from the Group, other than those already referred to in this report.
Recovery of Sums Paid audited No sums paid or payable to the Non-Executive Directors were sought to be recovered by the Group.
Other Remuneration Disclosures Executive Directors Service Contracts audited Each of the Executive Directors has a service contract with the Group.
The terms of these contracts are consistent with the Directors Remuneration Policy, though the contracts provide for payment in lieu of notice of one times basic salary only and do not include other fixed elements of pay, which are permitted by the policy.
The service contracts for each of the Executive Directors are continuous until terminated by either party on 12 months notice if terminated by the Company, or six months notice if terminated by the Director.
104 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Directors Remuneration Report Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment audited The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts and were appointed by letter of appointment for an initial period of three years, subject to annual reappointment at the annual general meeting.
There are no provisions in the letters of appointment for payment for early termination.
A Non-Executive Director appointment may be terminated on one months notice, except in the case of the Chairman, which requires six months notice.
A copy of a pro forma Non-Executive Director letter of appointment is available on the Companys corporate website.
Copies of the letters of appointment and the service contracts of the Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Deferral or Holding Periods audited The Executive Director share schemes do not contain any requirements for share deferral or additional holding periods except the Company operates deferred remuneration under the AIP to the extent that the minimum shareholding requirement for the Director has not been met.
However, the Remuneration Committee feels that their absence is materially mitigated by the existing large shareholdings held by the Executive Directors in the Company and by the lengthy five-year vesting period that applies to the GIP.
Such factors help create a longer term focus from the Executive Directors and strong alignment with shareholders, as envisaged by Code principle D. 1.
Director Retirement Arrangements audited As noted on page 68, David Grigson will retire from the Board at the Companys AGM on 4 May 2016.
As announced on 28 January 2016, it was determined in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Policy that the arrangements set out below should apply in relation to David Grigsons remuneration on retirement.
Element of Remuneration Treatment Remuneration Payments All outstanding fees will be paid up to 4 May 2016 in accordance with the terms of David Grigsons letter of appointment.
No payments are expected after the date of retirement.
Payment for Loss of Office No payment for loss of office or other remuneration payment was made or is expected to be made.
Share Schemes David Grigson has never participated in a Group share scheme.
Director Appointment Arrangements audited As announced on 28 January 2016, Andrew Harrison was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 March 2016.
Andrew Harrisons remuneration is in line with the approved recruitment policy detailed on page 94.
On appointment, Andrew Harrisons basic annual fee is 48,000.
Andrew Harrison will not receive any other benefits or payments in line with the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Payments to Past Directors The Company does not have any arrangements for payments to any former Directors of the Company.
Enforcing the Directors Remuneration Policy The Company has not made any payments to a Director outside of the Directors Remuneration Policy.
All of the Remuneration decisions regarding executive remuneration for the period have been made in line with the Directors Remuneration Policy.
No Director has options over Company shares outside one of the Companys recognised share schemes.
External Remuneration for Executive Directors As at the date of this Annual Report: In addition to his role as Executive Director of the Company, Neill Abrams is an alternate non-executive director of Mr Price Group Limited, listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
The role does not involve any remuneration paid or payable to Neill.
In addition to his role as Executive Director of the Company, Duncan Tatton-Brown is an independent non-executive director, senior independent director and audit committee chairman of Zoopla Property Group plc, listed on the London Stock Exchange.
For his services to Zoopla Property Group plc Duncan is paid a fee of 62,500 per annum.
In addition to his role as Executive Director of the Company, Mark Richardson is a non-executive director of Paneltex Limited.
This role does not involve any remuneration paid or payable to Mark.
105 slugline Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 20.
Directors Remuner ation Report continued Director Shareholdings audited The beneficial interests in the Companys shares of Directors serving at the end of the period, and their connected persons, as shareholders and as discretionary beneficiaries under trusts, were: Ordinary Shares of 2 Pence Ordinary Shares of 2 Pence each held at 29 November 2015 each held at 30 November 2014 Director Direct Holding Indirect Holding Direct Holding Indirect Holding Tim Steiner 14,478,423 14,291,200 14,404,145 14,291,314 Lord Rose 750,000 750,000 Robert Gorrie 415,660 415,660 Neill Abrams 597,007 1,314,339 560,054 1,313,853 Douglas McCallum 20,000 10,000 Duncan Tatton-Brown 97,865 60,650 97,865 60,163 Ruth Anderson 80,000 80,000 David Grigson 35,000 35,000 Alex Mahon 11,099 11,099 Jrn Rausing 69,015,602 69,015,602 Mark Richardson 694 208 1.
The indirect holding for Neill Abrams includes holdings of Caryn Abrams wife of Neill Abrams who holds 79,745 2014: 79,745 ordinary shares, and as a discretionary beneficiary of a trust holding 133,100 2014: 133,100 ordinary shares.
The indirect holding for Duncan Tatton-Brown includes a holding by Kate Tatton-Brown wife of Duncan Tatton-Brown who holds 60,000 2014: 60,000 ordinary shares.
There have been no changes in the Directors interests in the shares issued or options granted by the Company and its subsidiaries between the end of the period and the date of this Annual Report, except shares held pursuant to the SIP, as set out on page 110.
There have been no changes in the Directors beneficial interests in trusts holding ordinary shares of the Company.
No Director had an interest in any of the Companys subsidiaries at the beginning or end of the period.
On 17 May 2013, in respect of various contracts for the transfer of shares as described on pages 235 and 238 of the Prospectus, Tim Steiner and Neill Abrams delayed the date on which completion under the contracts for transfer would take place to 30 June 2016, or such later date as the parties may agree.
Where applicable, the above indirect holdings include SIP Partnership Shares held under the SIP, which are held in trust.
Director Shareholding Requirement audited The table below shows current compliance with the Director shareholding requirements in the Directors Remuneration Policy as at the date of this Annual Report.
All Directors comply with the Director shareholding requirements.
Minimum Shareholding Requirement % of Base Salary Complied with Shareholding Director or Fee Requirement?
Basis for Compliance Tim Steiner 150 Yes Indirect and direct shareholdings Duncan Tatton-Brown 100 Yes Indirect and direct shareholdings Neill Abrams 100 Yes Indirect and direct shareholdings Mark Richardson 100 Yes JSOS and SIP interests Lord Rose 100 Yes Direct shareholdings Robert Gorrie 100 Yes Direct shareholdings Douglas McCallum 100 Yes Direct shareholdings Ruth Anderson 100 Yes Direct shareholdings David Grigson 100 Yes Direct shareholdings Alex Mahon 100 Yes Direct shareholdings Jrn Rausing 100 Yes Indirect shareholdings 106 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Directors Remuneration Report The assessment for compliance is based on the current annualised salary or fee as set out in the total remuneration tables which applied on 20 January 2016 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report and the higher of the original purchase price s or the current market price being 265 pence per share on 20 January 2016, of the relevant shareholdings.
Director Interests in Share Schemes audited JSOS audited At the end of the period the Executive Directors interests in ordinary shares in the Company pursuant to the Groups JSOS were as follows: Number of Hurdle Price Director Type of interest Date of issue share interests Vesting Date Tim Steiner Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 2,513,100 1.73 01 01 11 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 2,513,100 1.91 01 01 12 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 2,513,100 2.08 01 01 13 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 2,513,000 2.28 01 01 14 Neill Abrams Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 1,017,200 1.73 01 01 11 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 1,017,200 1.91 01 01 12 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 1,017,200 2.08 01 01 13 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 1,017,100 2.28 01 01 14 Duncan Tatton-Brown Joint interest in shares 01 11 12 365,000 1.70 01 01 13 Joint interest in shares 01 11 12 1,100,000 1.80 01 01 14 Mark Richardson Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 223,300 1.73 01 01 11 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 223,300 1.91 01 01 12 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 223,300 2.08 01 01 13 Joint interest in shares 03 02 10 223,200 2.28 01 01 14 Joint interest in shares 30 11 12 711,975 1.70 01 01 13 Joint interest in shares 30 11 12 776,700 1.80 01 01 14 Granted: No awards of JSOS shares interests were made during the period.
The Remuneration Committee does not, as at the date of this Annual Report, have any intention of making a further award of share interests under the JSOS scheme to the Executive Directors.
The JSOS scheme which was put in place prior to the Companys Admission in 2010, involves the Executive Directors investing their own funds to purchase a shared interest in the Companys shares at the market value at that time.
These investments were made in 2010 in the case of Tim Steiner, Neill Abrams and Mark Richardson and in 2012 in the case of Duncan Tatton-Brown and Mark Richardson again.
The Executive Directors invested from their own resources.
The purchased interests entitle the Executive Directors to a return only if, in the future, the share price exceeds the relevant hurdle rate.
The Executive Directors would lose their investment if the share price were not to exceed the hurdle price.
For a detailed description of the JSOS scheme refer to pages 249 to 252 of the Prospectus.
Vested: No JSOS share interests vested during the period.
Sold: No JSOS share interests have been sold by an Executive Director since inception of the scheme.
Lapsed: No JSOS share interests lapsed during the period.
107 slugline Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 20.
The LTIP awards are conditional awards under the rules of the LTIP, which is a right to receive free shares in the Company, subject to the achievement of performance conditions over a three-year performance period.
The 2013 LTIP award was determined based on a price of 131.2 pence per share.
The 2013 LTIP awards have one performance condition which is the Companys earnings before interest and tax EBIT pre-exceptional items for the financial year ended 29 November 2015.
At threshold performance, 25% of an LTIP award will vest and at maximum performance, 100% of an LTIP award will vest.
Vesting will be on a straight-line basis between the threshold and the maximum.
The 2014 LTIP award was determined based on a price of 515.5 pence per share.
The 2014 LTIP award is subject to two equally weighted performance conditions, which are the levels of diluted and adjusted earnings per share and Group Revenue, for the 2015 2016 financial year.
The 2015 LTIP award is outlined below.
The 2013 LTIP awards are not capable of vesting until after the end of the period, on 31 March 2016.
Granted: LTIP awards were made in respect of 2015 of up to 150% of annual base salary and in the case of the Chief Executive Officer, an LTIP award with a total market value of 200% of annual base salary.
Such awards were made in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Policy.
The number of shares subject of an LTIP award was determined based on a price of 378 pence per share, being the volume weighted average price of the Companys ordinary shares on the three trading days prior to 13 March 2015 being the LTIP grant date.
The 2015 LTIP awards are conditional awards under the rules of the LTIP, which are a right to receive free shares in the Company, subject to the achievement of four equally weighted performance conditions for the 2016 2017 financial year, being the third year of a three-year performance period.
The performance metrics relate to the retails business and the platform business.
The Remuneration Committee believes that these performance conditions encourage the delivery of crucial strategic objectives of the Group, and provide a better basis for assessing performance for the performance period than the two measures that were used for the 2014 LTIP awards.
The performance conditions concerning the financial performance of the Group, both earnings before tax and revenue, will be focused on the Groups retail business performance and will be weighted 25% each.
The new proprietary infrastructure solution performance conditions will each have a 25% weighting.
The first concerns the operational efficiency of the Andover CFC in the 2016 2017 financial year and the second concerns the capital cost for an Ocado Smart Platform module.
108 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Directors Remuneration Report The rationale for, and basis of measurement of, the performance metrics was as follows: Performance target Commercial rationale Basis of measurement Retail business 50% Rewards top line sales growth for the retail business in Group Revenue and earnings before tax for the retail line with the Groups strategy and the creation of financial business for the 2016 2017 financial year.
Platform business 50% Rewards progress and achievement with the proprietary Operational efficiency of Andover CFC and the capital cost infrastructure solution, which is a key strategy objective.
per Ocado Smart Platform modules for the 2016 2017 financial year.
No LTIP award will vest unless a threshold level of the performance condition has been achieved.
At threshold performance for a performance target, 6.25% of an LTIP award will vest and at maximum performance, 25% of an LTIP award will vest.
Each target is discrete and can be earned separately.
The performance conditions for the 2015 LTIP awards will be tested in relation to the financial year ending in 2017 to determine what percentage of the LTIP awards has been achieved, and will vest during 2018 to the extent that the performance conditions have been achieved.
The specific performance conditions are not disclosed due to their commercial sensitivity on the basis that if disclosed it would be likely to damage the Companys commercial interests.
The Company will disclose the performance conditions after the end of the performance period, to the extent that the targets are not considered commercially sensitive at the time.
Vested: No awards under the LTIP vested during the period, though the performance period for the 2013 LTIP awards finished as noted above.
Sold: As no awards under the LTIP have vested, no shares held under the LTIP have been sold by an Executive Director.
Lapsed: No LTIP awards lapsed during the period.
GIP audited At the end of the period the Executive Directors total GIP awards were as follows: Number End of Date of of share Face value performance Director Type of interest grant options period Exercise period Tim Steiner Option with nil exercise price 08 05 14 4,000,000 12,744,000 08 05 19 08 05 19 31 05 24 Mark Richardson Option with nil exercise price 08 05 14 1,000,000 3,186,000 08 05 19 08 05 19 31 05 24 Duncan Tatton-Brown Option with nil exercise price 08 05 14 1,000,000 3,186,000 08 05 19 08 05 19 31 05 24 1.
The face value of the options which are the subject of a GIP award was determined based on a price of 318.60 pence per share.
A condition of vesting is that each participant holds, and retains throughout the performance period, shares in the Company.
The Chief Executive Officer is required to hold shares equivalent, at the date of the award, to the value of his annual salary.
Both other participants are required to hold shares equivalent, at the date of the award, to the value of half of their annual salary.
The GIP award is subject to the achievement of a single performance condition to be satisfied over five years commencing on the date of grant of the awards.
The share price of the Company is the sole performance measure, and will be assessed relative to the growth of the FTSE 100 Share Index over that period assessed using a three-month averaging period.
The performance schedule is set out in the table below: Percentage of award Performance target vesting % Growth of less than the FTSE 100 Share Index 5% p. a.
0 Growth in the FTSE 100 Share Index 5% p. a.
25 Growth in the FTSE 100 Share Index 10% p. a.
50 Growth in the FTSE 100 Share Index 15% p. a.
75 Growth in the FTSE 100 Share Index 20% p. a. or more 100 Granted: No awards under the GIP were granted during the period.
Vested: No awards under the GIP vested during the period.
The awards are expected to vest in May 2019 if and to the extent that the vesting criteria are met.
Sold: No awards under the GIP have been exercised or sold by an Executive Director.
Lapsed: No awards under the GIP lapsed during the period.
109 slugline Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 20.
Directors Remuner ation Report continued ESOS audited At the end of the period, the Executive Directors held options under the ESOS as follows: Type of Number of Exercise Price Face value Director interest Date of Grant share options Exercise Period Mark Richardson Option 31 05 09 70,000 1.20 84,000 31 05 12 30 05 19 Duncan Tatton-Brown Option 12 08 13 9,923 3.02 29,967 08 07 16 07 07 23 Granted: The Remuneration Committee does not, as at the date of this Annual Report, have any intention of making a further award of options under the ESOS scheme to the existing Executive Directors.
Existing options held by the Executive Directors under the ESOS were granted prior to the Companys listing in 2010 except those granted in 2013 to then new appointee Director, Duncan Tatton-Brown.
None of the grants of ESOS options to the Executive Directors are subject to performance conditions.
Vested: No awards under the ESOS vested during the period.
Accordingly, no value is shown in the total remuneration table for the period.
Sold: Tim Steiner and Neill Abrams exercised ESOS options during the period.
Had the options not been exercised they would have expired at the end of the exercise period, on 15 May 2015.
Both Directors also sold sufficient of the resulting shares to cover the cost of the exercise and the tax liabilities due.
The details of each ESOS option exercise and resulting share sale are set out below.
Date of Shares Number of Options Exercise Price Exercise and Shares Sold on Share Sale Retained on Director Date of Grant Exercised Sale Exercise Price Exercise Tim Steiner 16 05 05 200,000 1.15 13 05 2015 125,722 3.8735 74,278 Neill Abrams 16 05 05 50,000 1.15 08 05 2015 31,616 3.785 18,384 16 05 05 50,000 1.15 13 05 2015 31,431 3.8735 18,569 Lapsed: No options under the ESOS lapsed during the period.
2014 ESOS audited No awards have been granted to the Executive Directors under the 2014 ESOS, and the Remuneration Committee does not have any intention of making an award of options under the 2014 ESOS scheme to the Executive Directors.
SIP audited At the end of the period interests in shares held by the Executive Directors under the SIP were as follows: Total Partnership Matching Total Face Value of SIP Shares Unrestricted Shares Shares Free Shares Free Shares and Total SIP that Became SIP Shares Acquired in Awarded in Awarded in Matching Shares Shares Held Unrestricted Held at Director the Year the Year the Year Awarded in the Year 29 11 2015 in the Period 29 11 2015 Tim Steiner 486 69 1,068 3,852 2,914 Duncan Tatton-Brown 487 69 1,029 3,721 2,868 Mark Richardson 486 70 1,029 3,725 2,919 Neill Abrams 486 70 863 3,166 2,575 1.
Unrestricted shares are those which have been held beyond the three-year forfeiture period.
The value of the share awards made under the SIP is based on the middle market quotation of a share on the trading day immediately preceding the date of grant.
Granted: The Directors continued their SIP participation during the period.
The SIP scheme is made available to all employees.
The SIP allows for the grant of a number of different forms of awards.
An award of free shares was made to the Executive Directors in September 2015 under the terms of the SIP and the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Free shares are where up to 3,600 of ordinary shares may be allocated to any employee in any year.
Free shares are allocated to employees equally on the basis of salary, as permitted by the relevant legislation.
110 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Directors Remuneration Report An award of matching shares was made to those Executive Directors who purchased partnership shares using deductions taken from their gross basic pay under the terms of the SIP and in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Policy.
Partnership shares are where employees are invited to purchase ordinary shares directly from their earnings.
The market value of such partnership shares which an employee can purchase in any tax year currently may not exceed 1,800 or 10% of the relevant employees remuneration, if lower.
Matching shares are additional free shares which may be allocated to an employee who purchases partnership shares.
The rules of the SIP reflect current UK legislation and allow for a maximum match of two to one.
The matching ratio adopted by the Company for the SIP during the period was a ratio of one matching share for every seven partnership shares purchased, considerably lower than the maximum permitted ratio.
There are no performance conditions attached to awards made under the SIP, although free and matching shares are subject to a three-year forfeiture period.
Partnership shares are purchased by the employees and therefore forfeiture does not apply.
Free and matching shares awarded under the SIP are subject to a holding period of no less than three years but no more than five years.
Partnership shares purchased by employees will not be subject to a holding period.
The Executive Directors continued their membership in the SIP after the end of the period and were therefore awarded further matching shares pursuant to the SIP rules.
Since the end of the period and 20 January 2016, being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report, the Executive Directors acquired or were awarded further shares under the SIP as set out in the table below: Total face value of free Partnership Matching shares Total SIP shares shares Free shares and matching shares held at Director acquired awarded awarded shares 20 01 2016 Tim Steiner 101 15 45 3,030 Duncan Tatton-Brown 101 15 45 2,984 Mark Richardson 101 14 41 3,034 Neill Abrams 101 14 41 2,690 Vested: No awards under the SIP vested during the period.
Free and matching shares awarded under the SIP are subject to a three-year forfeiture period starting from the date of grant.
This means that if an Executive Director ceases to be employed by the Group during the three-year period, the free and matching shares will be forfeited.
As 2015 was the second year of operation for the SIP, no such forfeiture period had expired in respect of free or matching shares awarded to the Executive Directors.
Partnership shares purchased under the SIP are not included in the total remuneration table as these are purchased by the Executive Directors from their salary, rather than granted by the Company as an element of remuneration.
Sold: No shares held under the SIP have been sold by an Executive Director.
Lapsed: No shares held by an Executive Director under the SIP lapsed during the period.
Sharesave Scheme audited At the end of the period the Executive Directors option interests in the Sharesave scheme were as follows: Type of Number of Exercise Price Face Value Director Interest Date of Grant share options Exercise Period Tim Steiner Options 01 10 13 2,987 3.01 8,997 01 12 16 31 05 17 Options 01 04 15 2,777 3.24 8,998 01 05 18 01 11 18 Neill Abrams Options 01 10 13 2,987 3.01 8,997 01 12 16 31 05 17 Options 01 04 15 2,777 3.24 8,998 01 05 18 01 11 18 Duncan Tatton-Brown Options 01 10 13 2,987 3.01 8,997 01 12 16 31 05 17 Options 01 04 15 2,777 3.24 8,998 01 05 18 01 11 18 Mark Richardson Options 01 04 15 5,555 3.24 17,998 01 05 18 01 11 18 Granted: The Executive Directors elected to participate in the 2015 invitation under the Ocado Sharesave Scheme, where the Directors were granted options to purchase ordinary shares of 2p each in the Company on the same terms as all other employees, at an exercise price of 3.24 per ordinary share, as set out in the table above.
Vested: No awards matured under the Sharesave scheme during the period.
Exercised: No awards under the Sharesave were exercised or sold by the Executive Directors during the period.
Lapsed: No Sharesave awards lapsed during the period.
111 slugline Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 20.
Directors Remuner ation Report continued Chairmans Share Matching Award audited At the end of the period, the Chairmans Share Matching Award was as follows: Type of Number of Face Value End of Vesting Director Interest Date of Grant Shares Period Lord Rose Restricted shares 17 05 13 452,284 400,000 10 05 2016 1.
The face value of the award has been calculated using a price of 88.44 pence per share, being the volume weighted average share price of the Companys ordinary shares on the three trading days prior to 22 January 2013 the date of the announcement of the Chairmans appointment.
The basis for the award was to match up to 400,000 of Company shares where such shares were acquired by the Chairman.
The award is not subject to any performance conditions other than continued service.
Dilution Dilution Limits Awards granted under the Companys Sharesave, ESOS, 2014 ESOS and SIP schemes are met by the issue of new shares when the options are exercised or shares granted.
The allocation of awards under the JSOS were met by the subscription for new shares by the participant and the EBT.
Awards granted under the LTIP and GIP may be met by the issue of new shares, the transfer of shares from treasury, or the purchase or transfer of existing shares by the EBT.
The Chairmans Share Matching Award was met by the new issue of shares on the date of grant.
The share deferral provisions in the AIP have not been approved by shareholders and accordingly awards will be satisfied only by the purchase of existing shares by the EBT until such shareholder approval is obtained.
There are limits on the number of shares that may be allocated under the Companys share plans.
These dilution limits were recommended by the Remuneration Committee and incorporated into the rules of the various share schemes, which have been approved by the Companys shareholders.
The dilution limits restrict the commitment to issue new ordinary shares or reissue treasury shares under all share schemes of the Group to 10% of the nominal amount of the Companys issued share capital and under the JSOS, the LTIP and the GIP and any other selective share scheme to 5% of the nominal amount of the issued share capital of the Company in any rolling ten-year period.
These limits are consistent with the guidelines of institutional shareholders.
The JSOS rules have additional overriding limits on the number of shares that may be allocated under the JSOS.
Up to 7.5% of the Companys ordinary issued share capital may be held under the JSOS.
Impact on Dilution The Company monitors the number of shares issued under these schemes and their impact on dilution.
The charts below show the Companys commitment, as at the last practical date prior to the publication date of this Annual Report being 20 January 2016, to issue new shares in respect of its share schemes assuming all performance conditions are met, all award holders remain in employment to the vesting date and all awards are settled in newly issued shares.
For these purposes, no account is taken of ordinary shares allocated prior to the Companys Admission.
Discretionary Share Plans All Share Plans Actual 4.87% Actual 2.94% Limit Limit 10.00% 5.00% 112 slugline Stock Code: OCDO www.
com Directors Remuneration Report Review of Changes in Remuneration and Company Performance This part of the report provides some context for the Directors remuneration arrangements including information concerning the Companys performance, shareholder returns and the Groups total expenditure on employee pay.
Chief Executive Officer Historical Remuneration The table below summarises in respect of the Chief Executive Officer the single figure of total remuneration, the AIP or bonus plan payment as a percentage of maximum opportunity, and the long-term incentives as a percentage of maximum opportunity for the current period and the previous five financial years.
Chief Executive AIP or Bonus Long-Term Officer Payment as Incentives as Total a Percentage Value of a Percentage Remuneration of Target AIP or Bonus of Maximum including JSOS Achievement Payment Opportunity Year 000 % 000 % 2015 5,880 65.0 459 100 2014 6,483 56.0 385 100 2013 1,011 98.3 528 0 2012 483 29.7 104 0 2011 987 0 0 100 2010 599 n a 220 0 1.
The Chief Executive Officer total remuneration figures prior to the 2013 period represent the previously presented audited information with necessary adjustments for amounts required to be included in the single total figure of remuneration such as pension amounts.
From 2010, the Company had the JSOS as the main form of long-term incentive plan.
For the 2012 and 2013 financial years, the JSOS interests did not have any value at the vesting date.
In 2014, the final tranche of JSOS shares vested in that period the value of such remuneration is noted in the single total figure of remuneration table.
In 2011, the first tranche of JSOS shares vested in that period.
The LTIP was implemented in 2013 but the first award has a performance period ending in 2015 and a vesting date in 2016 so is estimated for the 2015 Total Remuneration table.
The GIP and SIP were both implemented in 2014, but have vesting dates in 2019 and 2017 respectively.
For an explanation of JSOS and the theoretical remuneration represented in the Chief Executive Officers total remuneration, see page 112 in the 2014 Annual Report.
Chief Executive Officer percentage change versus representative employee group To put the Directors remuneration into context, the table below sets out the change in salary, benefits, and bonus of the Chief Executive Officer and of all of the Groups UK employees from the preceding period to the current period.
Chief Executive All UK Officer employees Percentage change in salary from 2014 to 2015 2% 2.4% Percentage change in taxable benefits from 2014 to 2015 18.9% 14.7% Percentage change in AIP earned from 2014 to 2015 19.2% 0% 1.
Most of the Groups employees are not entitled to earn an annual bonus payment as part of their remuneration.
The change in salary data for the Groups UK employees is on a per capita basis.
113 slugline Directors Remuneration Report Ocado Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the 52 weeks ended 29 November 2015 20.
Directors Remuner ation Report continued Relative Importance of Spend on Pay The following table shows the Companys profit and total Group-wide expenditure on pay for all employees for the period and last financial year.
The Company has not paid a dividend or carried out a share buyback in the current year or previous year.
The information shown in this chart is: Profit Group profit before tax taken from the table on page 127 of the financial statements.
Total gross employee pay total gross employment costs for the Group including pension, variable pay, share-based payments and social security as stated on page 138 of the financial statements.
29 November 30 November 2015 2014 m m Profit before tax 11.9 7.2 Total gross employee pay 239.9 190.5 Company Share Price The closing market price of the Companys shares as at 27 November 2015, being the last trading day in the period ended 29 November 2015, was 366.50 pence per ordinary share 2014: 325.00 pence and the share price range applicable during the period was 312.60 pence to 470.80 pence per ordinary share.
Total Shareholder Return The following graph shows the TSR performance of an investment of 100 in the Companys shares from its Admission to the end of the period compared with an equivalent investment in the FTSE 250 Index which was chosen because it represents a broad equity market index of which the Company is a constituent.
The TSR was calculated by reference to the movements in share price.
The Company has not paid a dividend since its Admission so the Companys TSR does not factor in dividends reinvested in shares.
