Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Directors Remuneration Policy In this section we set out our Remuneration Policy, how it supports Under the revised Remuneration Policy, remuneration will continue our strategy, how the Committee intends to operate it, the selection to be structured with two elements: fixed remuneration consisting of performance metrics and why we believe they support our of base salary, benefits including non-contributory health insurance strategy and are appropriately stretching and other relevant and life assurance and pension contributions and variable information about the Directors service agreements.
remuneration annual bonus scheme and a long-term incentive scheme.
However, the long-term incentive scheme, as detailed The effective date of the Policy is 10 May 2016, which is the date below, is to be reworked to better fit with the Companys strategy shareholder approval is being sought for the revised policy at the AGM.
The schemes long-term focus is considered entirely As detailed in the Chief Executives review, unlike full cycle E&P appropriate for an industry where decisions taken have multi-year companies, Ophirs focus is on becoming a self-financed explorer time horizons.
The scheme will ensure clear alignment between using production assets to fund exploration.
As we move to Executives and shareholders.
A full summary of the principal terms achieve this objective, shareholder returns are generated through of the scheme is set out in the Notice of AGM, with summary the monetisation of our exploration assets at the appropriate time details of the operation of the plan included below: rather than looking to continually increase production.
Remuneration will only be earned if we deliver long-term How successful we are in implementing this Big E, little p strategy growth in NAV per share, which is measured based on is captured through our success in growing our NAV per share and, well-defined NAV events.
When an event does take place, therefore, the change to our Remuneration Policy from 2016 12.5% of the increase in NAV above the prior Benchmark primarily relates to the introduction of a new long-term incentive NAVis used to create a reward pool.
scheme, based on growth in NAV per share, to replace our NAV will be calculated based on the SEC definition of Net conventional Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Present Value at a 10% discount rate NPV.
Every $1 spent on development reduces Benchmark NAV, so At the same time as replacing our Long-Term Incentive Plan, we payouts under the scheme only take place, in principle, when are also reducing the emphasis on short-term performance with there is a return on our investment decisions through value annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors reduced from creation.
There are only certain well defined events that count 150% of salary to 50% of salary earned based on performance towards testing the prevailing Benchmark NAV, with these against a balanced scorecard of key performance indicators events potentially triggering a reward if the reduced NAV andtoughening our share ownership requirements.
dueto development spend has been more than offset by In terms of the replacement long-term incentive scheme, thevalue attributable to the NAV event.
participants will no longer benefit from annual awards of shares that vest in three years time subject to performance targets and continued employment.
Under the new scheme, opportunity for reward only takes place when value is created measured based on NAV per share growth through the long-term development of our assets.
Once value is created, reward is payable in a combination of cash 25% and shares 75% which vest over five years and all shares net of tax must be retained for a minimum of five years Annual Report and Accounts 2015 67 Directors Remuneration Policy continued NAV NAV rises: Opening falls with New NAV monetisation, Benchmark development Benchmark: FID or First NAV spend Reward pool Production NAV events will be monetisation events, which have defined 75% of NAV scheme rewards are delivered as deferred values, or the risked value of development assets once a Final shares that vest after three, four and five years for Investment Decision FID is taken.
The list of NAV events is Executive Directors.
However, the total number of after asfollows: taxshares must be retained for a minimum of five years: farm-outs: Recovery and withholding provisions apply to ensure that asset sales: only true value creation is the basis of rewards.
Trigger FID events: events for recovery of value overpaid include i when first production: and anFID is taken but the development is subsequently a gross sales agreement renegotiation since this cancelled prior to production or ii the Company is the effectively revalues the asset.
subject of a lawsuit that is successfully pursued by a third If one of the above events takes place, then a calculation of party in relation to a NAV event under which a reward current Group NAV per share will be undertaken to ascertain poolwas generated.
whether the previous Benchmark NAV has been exceeded.
When testing whether or not a NAV event has resulted in Since the above scheme will apply to all employees in the Group theopening Benchmark NAV per share being exceeded and albeit tailored by employee level, a single 10% in 10 years thereby creating a reward pool, the historic benchmark will dilutionlimit will operate in relation to the award of shares berebased, as appropriate for i current forward strip throughthe scheme.
commodity prices to ensure that the reward pool is not In addition to the deferral requirements under the NAV scheme, artificially inflated or deflated by the commodity cycle and tougher share ownership guidelines will apply.
These will require ii any cash distributions to shareholders or funds raised from the Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer to move to shareholders and or the issue or cancellation of shares so that a 200% guideline from 100% of salary with the Chief Executive these events are neutral to the operation of the scheme: Officer continuing to have a 300% of salary guideline.
In the event that a NAV event has triggered a reward, the poolwould be distributed to all employees, with the following Transitioning to the new scheme features applying to Executive Directors: The new scheme will operate subject to shareholder approval in The maximum variable pay annual cash bonus plus 2016.
Therefore rewards earned in relation to the 2015 financial NAVscheme that an Executive Director may receive in year will take place in line with current policy with performance any calendar year has been limited to 500% of base salary having been tested against the original targets i. e. annual i. e. 50% annual cash bonus and 450% NAV scheme.
NAV bonuses and long-term incentive awards as detailed in the events are unlikely to occur regularly in each financial year: AnnualReport on Remuneration on pages 78 to 88 will be paid two or more events may occur in any given year, or and awarded as per the Remuneration Policy approved by conversely none may occur in any given year.
Since there shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
are likely to be periods where NAV events do not take place in multiple years, but their value when they do has the Following the above awards, from the 2016 AGM, all future potential to be substantial, if a NAV event occurs in a year employee share awards will operate in accordance with the new where there has not been a NAV event in the prior year policy i. e. lower annual cash bonuses plus participation in the that triggers a reward pool, the maximum variable pay NAVscheme.
annual cash bonus plus NAV scheme will be increased to750% of salary in that year: 68 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Policy table The table below sets out the key elements of Executive Director pay: Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Framework used to assess performance Base Salary To provide the core Reviewed annually and effective from Salaries will be eligible for increases during the threeThe Committee considers individual salaries at the appropriate reward for the role.
year period that the Remuneration Policy operates from Committee meeting each year after having due regard to the the Effective Date AGM date.
factors noted in operating the salary policy.
Sufficient level to Decision influenced by: help recruit and During this time, salaries may be increased each year Role, experience and personal retain employees.
in percentage of salary terms in line with increases performance granted to the wider workforce where they are based.
Reflects role and Average change in total workforce experience of salary in the location where they Increases beyond those granted to the wider workforce individual.
arebased in percentage of salary terms may be awarded in Total organisational salary budgets certain circumstances such as where there is a change Company performance and other in responsibility, experience or a significant increase in economic conditions the scale of the role and or size, value and or complexity of the Group.
Salaries are benchmarked periodically and are set by reference to companies Where new joiners or recent promotions have been of a similar size and complexity.
placed on a below market rate of pay initially, a series ofincreases above those granted to the wider workforce in percentage of salary terms may be given over the following few years subject to individual performance and development in the role.
Benefits To recruit and Directors are entitled to health The value of benefits may vary from year to year n a retain employees.
insurance, life assurance, medical depending on the cost to the Company from thirdevacuation insurance, travel party providers.
insurance, holiday pay, sick leave andother Group-wide benefits offered by the Company.
Other ancillary benefits including relocation expenses may be offered, as required.
Pension To provide longThe Company operates a defined The Executive Directors receive a Company n a term savings via contribution pension scheme or may contribution into the Group or their personal pension provision.
contribute directly into an Executive pension plan or a salary supplement in lieu of Directors personal pension, or pay a pension to the greater of the statutory minimum salary supplement in lieu of pension.
Annual To incentivise Targets are renewed annually and The maximum award under the annual bonus Details of the performance measures used for the current Bonus theexecution of relate to the business as a whole.
scheme is 50% of salary reduced from 150% yearand targets set for the year under review and business strategy.
ofsalary in relation to the year ending performance against them is provided in the Annual Report Bonus level, payable in cash, is Rewards the 31December2015.
The Companys bonus is based on the determined by the Committee achievement of achievement against a range of business objectives and key following the end of the financial year annual financial performance indicators.
and is based on performance against and strategic targets set at the start of the year.
Given the nature of an exploration led business, measures business targets andtheir weightings may change each year reflecting the Recovery and withholding provisions and delivery changing business priorities.
The key performance measures apply that enable the Committee to ofpersonal may include and are not limited to the following: recover value overpaid in the event objectives.
ofa material misstatement of the Exploration Companys results within a two-year Operations period this can be through the Financial strength & returns withholding of variable pay awards Business model orrequiring a repayment.
Stakeholder engagement Leadership The Committee retains discretion to reduce the bonus payment inthe event of a serious HSE incident or series of incidents.
For the bonus measures which operate using a sliding scale oftargets, the proportion of maximum bonus earned for achieving threshold performance is set from 0% of that part of the bonus with 100% of the maximum opportunity payable for superior performance.
Bonuses for performance between threshold and maximum are determined on a pro-rata basis.
Some elements of the current bonus structure include a subjective assessment of performance as opposed to operating on a sliding scale e. g. bonus earned in relation toHSE CR performance and some personal objectives.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 69 Directors Remuneration Policy continued Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Framework used to assess performance 2011 LongTo incentivise The Companys Long-Term Incentive The maximum annual award is 200% of salary, Awards vest based on the Companys Total Shareholder Term theachievement Plan LTIP was approved by although the Committee is able to grant an award Return TSR performance over a three-year performance Incentive of business shareholders in 2011 and amended of up to 300% in exceptional circumstances.
25% of the award vests at median, rising on a straight line thelonger term.
No further Annual awards of free shares in the basis to 100% for upper quartile performance.
awards will form of conditional awards or nil No vesting occurs for below median performance.
be granted nominal cost options are granted An underpin applies that enables the TSR vesting result from the which vest after three years subject tobescaled back if the vesting result is not consistent with 2016 AGM tochallenging performance targets underlying financial performance and or key operational and continued service.
financial metrics have not been achieved.
Awards will be determined using the weighted average share price for the period for the three-month period upto the time that the Committee normally approves the individual LTIP allocations i. e. normally around February.
This is considered to result in the number of shares comprising individual awards to better reflect theinformation presented to the Committee at the time of approving the awards in principle.
Awards are granted as soon as the preliminary results are announced orlater if a close period continues toapply as of that date.
The normal LTIP performance period is three calendar years beginning on 1January of the year of grant and ending on 31 December of the thirdyear.
To the extent that dividends were to be paid, a provision would operate which would enable dividends to accrue on shares at the time of vesting.
Recovery and withholding provisions apply that enable the Committee to recover value overpaid in the event ofa material misstatement of the Companys results within a two-year period this can be through the withholding of variable pay awards orrequiring a repayment.
70 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Framework used to assess performance Long Term To reward for the A reward pool comprising 12.5% of 500% in any calendar year or 750% of salary A high watermark Benchmark NAV is set either at the outset Value creation of NAV thegrowth in NAV is available for ifthere was no NAV event in the prior year.
ofthe scheme or following a NAV event where the previous Creation per share.
distribution to all employees following Benchmark NAV is exceeded and a payment can only become The limits are inclusive of any bonus payments Plan2016 a NAV event which takes the NAV per payable once the previous high watermark Benchmark NAV relating to the calendar year e. g. should a bonus sole longshare of the Company above the isexceeded.
inrespect of the year ending 31 December 2016 term previous high watermark Benchmark beearned to the maximum of 50% of salary then incentive NAV per share.
the maximum pay-out under the scheme in relation plan to For Executive Directors following a to the same year is limited to 450% of salary.
operate from NAV event 25% of an individual share the 2016 of the pool is paid in cash with 75% AGM payable in deferred shares.
Deferred shares vest equally after years three, four, and five.
A holding period applies to vested shares requiring a minimum of the after tax number of shares to be retained for a minimum period offive years from grant.
To the extent that dividends were to be paid, a provision would operate which would enable dividends to accrue on shares at the time of vesting or to the conclusion of anyholding period.
Recovery and withholding provisions apply in the event that value is overpaid as a result of i an FID istaken but the development is subsequently cancelled prior to production or ii the Company is the subject of a lawsuit that is successfully pursued by a third party in relation toa NAV event under which a reward pool was generated.
Share To align the The Chief Executive Officer has a n a n a ownership interests of 300% of salary holding requirement Directors with and other Executive Directors are those of the required to build up a holding of 200% Companys of salary through the retention of 50% shareholders.
of the after tax number of shares vesting under the Companys longterm incentive plans.
NonTo provide a The fees for the Companys Chairman The fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis, with n a Executive competitive fee and Independent Non-Executive reference to the time commitment of the role and Directors which will attract Directors are determined by the market levels in companies of comparable size high calibre Boardas a whole with the relevant andcomplexity.
individuals with individuals absenting themselves from Fee levels will be eligible for increases during the the relevant skills discussions relating directly to their three-year period that the Remuneration Policy and experience to own remuneration.
The Boards policy operates from the Effective Date to ensure they enhance the in relation to the fee payable to the appropriately recognise the time commitment of Board.
Chairman of the Board is that it the role, increases to fee levels for Non-Executive should be set having had regard to Directors in general and fee levels in companies of themedian fee payable for Nonasimilar size and complexity.
Executive Chairmen of companies Flexibility is retained to go above the fee levels set ofacomparable size and complexity.
at the start of the year if it is necessary to do so to Remuneration levels are agreed appoint a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director basedon external advice and of an appropriate calibre.
giveconsideration to the time No benefits or other remuneration are provided to commitment and responsibilities Non-Executive Directors although the Company ofthe role.
may make payments to Non-Executive Directors The Chairman and Non-Executive tocompensate them on a pre-tax basis for any Directors are not entitled to reasonable expenses incurred undertaking participate in the Companys Company business.
executive remuneration programmes or pension arrangements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 71 Directors Remuneration Policy continued Operation of incentive plans Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting The Committee will operate the Annual Bonus Plan and long-term The performance metrics that are used for annual bonus and incentive plans according to their respective rules and in accordance long-term incentive plans are a subset of the Companys Key with the Listing Rules, and HMRC rules where relevant.
Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over In terms of annual performance targets, a balanced scorecard anumber of areas relating to the operation and administration of as per the list on page 69 together with health and safety metrics these plans.
These include the following albeit with quantum and are used.
As an upstream oil and gas exploration company, the operation of those plans restricted to the descriptions detailed commercialisation through portfolio management is important inthe policy table above for Executive Directors : in crystallising value atthe right time: executives strategic choices who participates in the plans: and delivery are appraised and a good health and safety record the timing of grant of award and or payment: underpins the activities we undertake.
the size of an award and or a payment: These metrics, which form part of the Companys KPIs, are aligned the determination of vesting which may include making with the Companys underlying objective of creating value by appropriative adjustments within the terms of performance exploring and appraising oil and gas assets.
The precise metrics conditions e. g. determining the treatment of a delisted chosen and weighting ascribed to each may vary, as detailed in comparator in a TSR peer group : thepolicy above, in line with the Companys strategy.
discretion required when dealing with a change of control e. g. the timing of testing performance targets or restructuring With regard to long-term performance targets, awards prior to the 2016 of the Group: AGM vest as a minimum, subject to relative or absolute TSR conditions determination of a good leaver for incentive plan purposes based which measured our performance either against a group of other oil on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: andgas companies or in terms of absolute shareholder returns.
adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, From the 2016 AGM, long-term performance will be assessed based corporate restructuring, events and special dividends : and on our performance in growing NAV per share, which is our key the annual review of performance measures weighting, and long-term performance metric.
targets for the incentive plans from year to year.
The Committee believes the above measures each achieve The Committee also retains the ability to adjust the targets and or alignment between shareholders and executives and that executives set different measures and alter weightings for the annual bonus are only rewarded for either outperforming their peers or for plan and to adjust targets for long-term incentives if events occur creating NAV per share.
e. g. material divestment of a Group business which cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and the Other than in the case of NAV per share where a high watermark amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their original isestablished that must be exceeded for a pay-out to take place, purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
targets are set based on sliding scales that take account of internal planning and external market expectations for the Company.
Only All historic awards that were granted under any current or previous modest rewards are available for delivering threshold performance share schemes operated by the Company prior to the 2016 AGM but levels with maximum rewards requiring substantial out-performance remain outstanding remain eligible to vest based on their original of our challenging plans approved at the start of each year.
The targets for awards to be granted under the 2011 LTIP are consistent with the policy set out above and are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Appropriately challenging performance targets would be set in relation to incentives each year as described above.
72 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Company, in line with current market practice, does not actively consult with employees on Executive Remuneration.
The Group has a diverse workforce operating in several different countries, with various local pay practices, which would make any cost-effective consultation impractical.
However, when setting the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors, the Committee takes into account the pay and employment conditions for other employees within the Group.
This process ensures that any increase to the basic pay of Executive Directors is not out of proportion with that proposed for other employees.
Differences in Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors compared to other employees As noted above, the Committee is made aware of pay structures across the wider Group when setting the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors.
The Committee considers the general basic salary increase for the broader Group with specific reference to thelocation where an individual Executive Director is located when determining the annual salary review for the Executive Directors.
Overall, the Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors is more heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other employees.
This ensures that there is a clear link between the value created forshareholders and the remuneration received by the Executive Directors as it is the Executive Directors who are considered to havethe greatest potential to influence Group value creation.
The level of variable pay varies within the Group by level of employee and is informed by the specific responsibilities of each role and local market practice as appropriate.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 73 Directors Remuneration Policy continued Recruitment and promotion policy For Executive Director recruitment and or promotion situations, the Committee will follow the guidelines outlined below: Element Policy Element Policy Base Base salary levels will be set in accordance with the Benefits Directors are entitled to health insurance, life assurance, Salary Companys Remuneration Policy, taking into account medical evacuation insurance, travel insurance, holiday theexperience and calibre of the individual e. g. typically pay, sick leave and other Group-wide benefits offered around market rates prevalent in companies of bythe Company.
Where necessary, the Committee may comparable size and complexity or salary levels may be approve the payment of relocation expenses to facilitate set below this level e. g. if the individual was a promotion recruitment.
Where it is appropriate to offer a below market rate of pay initially, a series of increases to the desired salary positioning may be given over the next fewyears subject to individual performance and development in the role.
Pension A defined contribution or cash supplement at the level Annual The Annual Bonus would operate as outlined for current provided to current Executive Directors as set in the Bonus Executive Directors i. e. to a maximum of 50% of base policy table.
salary, albeit pro-rated for the period of employment during the financial year.
Depending on the timing and responsibilities of the appointment it may be necessary toset different performance measures and targets initially.
Any increases in ongoing Annual Bonus opportunity above the limit detailed in the policy table above would be contingent on the Company receiving shareholder approval for an amendment to its approved policy atitsnext AGM.
Long-term New joiners will normally be eligible to participate in the Buy-out In the case of an external hire, if it is necessary to buy out incentives Long Term Value Creation Plan 2016 after completion awards incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would be ofa probationary period.
forfeited on leaving the previous employer, this would be provided for taking into account the form cash or shares and timing and expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria of the remuneration being forfeited.
Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted as permitted under the Listing Rules.
74 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information The amount an Executive Director could earn under the It should be noted that since the analysis above shows what could remuneration policy be earned by the Executive Directors in 2016 based on a NAV event A significant proportion of remuneration is linked to performance, in the year, if there is no NAV event, then the following year e. g. particularly at maximum performance levels.
The charts below in2017 or a later year there is the potential for remuneration to showhow much the Chief Executive, Chief Operating Officer and behigher as described in the table above allowing for the fact Chief Financial Officer could earn under Ophirs remuneration policy thatNAV events may be infrequent.
The charts below include an as detailed above under different performance scenarios based illustration of the potential remuneration that could be earned in on their salaries as at 1 January 2016.
The following assumptions this circumstance based on the same assumptions as noted above have been made: but with the NAV event payments being at 350% of salary where performance is in line with expectations and 700% of salary at Minimum performance below threshold maximum performance levels.
Fixed pay only with no vesting under any of Ophirs incentive plans.
In line with expectations NAV gap year Fixed pay plus a bonus at the mid-point of the ranges typically Minimum 100% 620,500 Nick set giving 50% of the maximum opportunity of 50% of salary In line with 2,683,500 23% 5% 72% expectations Cooper and a NAV event in 2016 triggering an aggregate payment Maximum 13% 6% 81% 4,745,500 incash and shares at 225% of salary.
Minimum 100% 434,575 Bill In line with 23% 5% 72% 1,868,950 Maximum performance meets or exceeds maximum expectations Higgs Maximum 13% 6% 81% 3,303,325 Fixed pay plus maximum bonus at 50% of salary and a NAV event in 2016 triggering an aggregate payment in cash Minimum 100% 370,750 Tony In line with 23% 5% 72% 1,589,500 andshares at 450% of salary.
expectations Rouse Maximum 13% 6% 81% 2,808,250 Fixed pay comprises: 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 000s salaries salary effective as at 1 January 2016: Fixed Pay Annual Bonus Long Term Incentives benefits amount received by each Executive Director inthe2015 financial year: The scenarios do not include any share price growth or dividend pension employer contributions or cash-equivalent assumptions.
It should also be noted that the final LTIP awards granted in relation NAV every year to 2015 performance as explained on pages 80 to 88 and to be granted in March 2016, when aggregated with a potential NAV Minimum 100% 620,500 Nick In line with event in 2016, would fall within the quantum illustrated in the 1,995,500 31% 7% 62% expectations Cooper second set of scenario charts above.
Maximum 18% 8% 74% 3,370,500 Minimum 100% 434,575 Bill In line with 31% 7% 62% 1,390,825 expectations Higgs Maximum 19% 8% 73% 2,347,075 Minimum 100% 370,750 Tony In line with 31% 7% 62% 1,183,250 expectations Rouse Maximum 19% 8% 73% 1,995,750 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 000s Fixed Pay Annual Bonus Long Term Incentives Annual Report and Accounts 2015 75 Directors Remuneration Policy continued Service Agreements and loss of office payments The inclusion of the change of control provisions in Nick Coopers Service The Executive Directors have rolling term service agreements with the Agreement is now considered a legacy issue by the Committee with Company.
The notice period for current Executive Directors is 12 months Executives in post prior to the IPO having consistent provisions in this if notice is given by either the executive or the Company.
Such provisions did not form part of Bill Higgs Service the Companys policy is to set notice periods of up to 12 months.
Agreement, or Tony Rouses Service Agreement, and will not form partofany future Service Agreements for Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors Service Agreements each include the ability for the Company, at its discretion, to pay basic salary only in lieu of A summary of the terms of the Service Agreements is set out below.
This any unexpired period of notice.
disclosure has been updated from last year to reflect the current Board: Payments may be made as either a lump sum or in equal monthly Service instalments until the end of the notice period at the discretion Continuous Agreement Notice by Notice by Name employment date Company Executive oftheRemuneration Committee.
In the case of the Executive 1 June 26 May 12 12 Directors, the executive will be required to seek alternative income Nicholas Cooper 2011 2011 months months during the period in which monthly instalments are paid and notify 10 September 10 September 12 12 the Company after securing alternative income.
Should alternative Bill Higgs 2014 2014 months months employment be found, the instalment payments shall then be 1 October 27 January 12 12 reduced by the amount of alternative income or cease if the Tony Rouse 2014 2016 months months alternative income exceeds the monthly instalment payment.
Copies of the Service Agreements for current Executive Directors, The Service Agreements contain a provision enabling the relevant together with the Letters of Appointment for the Non-Executive employer to put the Executive Director on garden leave for up to six Directors detailed above, are available for inspection during normal months at any time after notice to terminate the Service Agreement business hours at the Companys registered office.
has been given by the Executive Director or the relevant employer orthe Executive Director has resigned without giving due notice and Treatment of incentives the relevant employer has not accepted the resignation.
During the If an individual is i under notice at the bonus payment date or garden leave period, the executive will be entitled to receive salary ii not in employment, the default position is that no bonus will and contractual benefits excluding bonuses.
At the end of the bepayable.
However, in certain good leaver circumstances death: garden leave period, the Company may, at its sole discretion, pay retirement: ill-health, injury or disability: redundancy: employment the Executive Director basic salary alone in respect of the balance ceasing as a result of a sale of a Group company: or for any other ofany period of notice given by the Company or Executive Director.
reason at the Committees discretion after taking into account the These payments will be reduced to the extent alternative income circumstances prevailing at the time, a pro-rata bonus will become isreceived.
For new hires, the same broad policy would apply.
payable for the period of employment.
The Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, may decide not to reduce the bonus pro-rata if, in The Service Agreement of Nick Cooper only, provides that if there is the circumstances, it considers it appropriate to do so for example achange of control, and within three months following the change of in the case of, but not limited to, death.
control, the relevant employer or the Executive Director serve notice to terminate employment, Nick Coopers employment will be terminated The treatment for share-based incentives previously granted to with immediate effect and the Company shall pay 12 months salary.
anExecutive Director will be determined based on the relevant plan Nick Cooper will not be entitled to any other payment or notice or rules.
The default treatment will be for outstanding awards to lapse payment in lieu of notice in addition to this payment.
76 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information In relation to awards granted under the LTIP, awards will lapse on the Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment and fees date of cessation of employment unless an executive leaves under Each Non-Executive Director has a Letter of Appointment from certain good leaver circumstances, such as ill-health, injury, disability, theCompany.
The Letters of Appointment do not specifically redundancy, transfer or sale of the employing company, or any other provide for terms of appointment, termination notification periods circumstances at the discretion of the Committee reflecting the or entitlement to payment on termination, however there is an circumstances that prevail at the time.
If treated as a good leaver, the expectation that all independent Non-Executive Directors will default is for the award to vest at the normal vesting date.
However, servefor an initial three-year term.
The Company may terminate theCommittee may decide that awards will vest instead on the date of the appointment under each Letter of Appointment if the Noncessation.
In making a vesting determination, the Committee will assess Executive Director has committed a serious or repeated breach the extent to which performance conditions have been achieved and the ornon-observance of their obligations to the Company.
number of awards that would vest will be reduced pro-rata to reflect theproportion of the performance period actually served unless the Consideration of shareholder views Committee determined otherwise.
If treated as a good leaver as a The Committee remains committed to shareholder dialogue and resultof death, then the award will vest in full on the date of death.
takesan active interest in voting outcomes.
The Committee consults extensively with our major shareholders when setting the remuneration In relation to the Long Term Value Creation Plan 2016 awards will lapse policy.
If there are any particular shareholders opposed to our policy, on the date of cessation of employment unless an executive leaves members of the Committee would endeavour to meet with them, as under certain good leaver circumstances such as death, injury, ill-health, appropriate, to understand any issues they may have.
disability, redundancy, retirement with the agreement of his employer, his employing company or the business for which he works being sold out of the Companys Group or in other circumstances at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee reflecting the circumstances that prevail at the time.
If treated as a good leaver, then deferred shares, having been earned as a result of creating NAV growth per share, wouldordinarily vest on the dates that they would have vested had the individual not ceased such employment.
For Executive Directors, they will continue to be required to retain the after tax number of vested shares for a minimum period of five years from award.
External appointments With the prior permission of the Board, Executive Directors are permitted to accept external directorships and to retain any fees payable in respect of those roles.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 77 Annual Report on Remuneration Executive Directors and other attendees are not entitled to vote on Unaudited information any matter put before the Committee and do not participate in any This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with the discussion relating to their own remuneration or remit.
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and the Listing Rules.
Role and responsibilities of the Committee TheAnnual Statement and Annual Report on Remuneration The role of the Committee is to determine the Remuneration Policy combined will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the of the Company in order to facilitate the recruitment, retention and 2016AGM.
The information on pages 80 to 87 inclusive has motivation of the Executive Directors and key senior management.
The policy is reviewed at least annually in order to ensure that it is consistent with business strategy.
The Committee also monitors Consideration of remuneration matters theoverall remuneration structure across the Group to ensure that abalanced approach is adopted in relation to all employees.
The Membership and attendance Committees full Terms of Reference, which are reviewed annually, The members of the Committee during the year ended 31 are available on the Companys website at www.
com December 2015, together with details of their individual attendance about-us corporate-governance board-committees remuneration.
at Committee meetings held during the year, are set out below: Advisor to the Committee Meeting Committee members attendance NBS is appointed as independent consultants to the Committee Vivien Gibney, Committee Chairman 4 5 inrelation to advice on remuneration and share incentives.
NBS Ronald Blakely 4 5 provides services to the Company on a called on rather than Alan Booth 5 5 retained basis.
NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants 1 Lyndon Powell 3 3 Group and complies with its code of conduct.
Details of the terms 2 Bill Schrader 2 2 ofengagement for NBS are available on request from the Company 3 Nicholas Smith 4 5 Secretary.
Neither NBS, nor any other Aon plc company, provide other services to the Company.
The Committee regularly reviews 1 Lyndon Powell stepped down from the Board following the 2015 AGM.
2 Bill Schrader joined the Committee on 20 May 2015. theexternal advisor relationship and is comfortable that NBS advice 3 Nicholas Smith will step down from the Committee on 30 April 2016. remains objective and independent.
For the year under review NBS total fees charged were 128,784.50 as at 31 December 2015 Members of the Committee are appointed by the Board and all excluding VAT.
ofits members are considered to be independent.
The Chairman ofthe Company, Nicholas Smith, will step down at the end of Other advice provided to the Committee was received from April2016, was independent onappointment.
Bill Schrader will Eversheds LLP, who provided technical advice in relation to the become Chairman of theCompany from 30 April 2016. operation of the Companys share plans and employment law advice in relation to Directors Service Agreements.
The Chief Executive Officer and advisors to the Committee may alsobe invited to attend meetings as necessary.
During the year, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the Company Secretary, Director of Human Resources and representatives from New Bridge Street NBS, part of Aon plc attended meetings and provided guidance and advice as necessary.
78 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information No bonus is payable for below certain defined performance levels with Implementation of Remuneration Policy bonuses earned on a sliding scale where appropriate based on the for2016 Committees assessment of achievement against the targets set.
Base Salaries For 2016, the Committee is to operate the following KPI targets The Committee reviews the Executive Directors base salaries prior forall Executive Directors.
These are the same broad categories to each financial year taking into account individual performance asthose operated in 2015. and experience, Company performance and economic conditions.
Percentage of total bonus The Committee assessed the above factors and awarded no base salary 1 Measure opportunity increases to the Chief Executive and the Chief Operating Officer, which Exploration was in line with the average increase awarded to UK employees.
The Metrics include the capture of high quality exploration base salaries, effective 1 January 2016, are included in the table below.
acreage and drillable prospects 14.67% Operations Salary as at Salary as at Metrics include leading and lagging HSSE performance, 1 January 1 January capital management and production reliability 16% Role 2016 2015 Increase Financial strength and returns Chief Executive Officer 550,000 550,000 0% Metrics include optimisation of Ophirs capital and Chief Operating Officer 382,500 382,500 0% generation of growth in net asset value for key assets 14.67% Business model The Chief Financial Officers salary was set at 325,000 on Metrics include level of revenue generation and appointment which was considered the appropriate market rate for minimise our overall cost of capital 7% the role having taken into account the responsibilities of the role and Stakeholder engagement internal & external the calibre and experience of the individual.
It is the Committees Metrics include CR targets, employee engagement intention, in line with policy, to review salaries annually effective action plans, leadership and capability development 1January each year.
and nurturing diversity 14.67% Leadership Metrics include delivery of agreed Group strategy and Pension and benefits high levels of governance across the Group 33% The Executive Directors receive Company contributions towards personal pension plans or salary in lieu of pension at a rate of 11% 1 The above percentages have been rounded to total 100%.
ofbase salary, or on a pro-rated salary for those Executives who The Committee retains discretion to reduce the total bonus were not in post for the full year.
payment to Executive Directors in the event of a serious HSE In addition to pension benefits, the Executive Directors also receive incident or series of incidents.
health insurance, life assurance, holiday pay and sick leave cover.
The Committee considers that the targets themselves are Annual bonus commercially sensitive and therefore plans to disclose them only on The Annual Bonus plan has been designed to provide reward for a retrospective basis.
Details of the targets and actual outturn will above-average performance.
The performance targets for the be disclosed in next years Annual Report on Remuneration, save bonus plan, linked to agreed Key Performance Indicators KPIs, where they remain commercially sensitive.
arereviewed by the Committee annually.
Subject to approval of the Remuneration Policy presented to shareholders for approval at the 2016 AGM, the bonus opportunity for the year ending 31 December 2016 will be limited to 50% of base salary, reduced from 150% of base salary in the year ending 31 December 2015.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 79 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Recovery and withholding provisions will enable the Committee to Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP correct the bonus in the event of a material misstatement of the The maximum normal annual award limit under the LTIP is 200% of Companys results so that it reflects the value that should have been salary.
When granting awards under the 2011 LTIP, the Committee paid had it not been for the misstatement.
These provisions, in line with takes into consideration i the need to motivate and retain the the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code recommendations, enable Executive Directors and other participants and ii the number of thewithholding of future incentive payments or through the recovery shares comprising individual awards when they are expressed as ofthe value overpaid on a net of tax basis from the individual.
amultiple of salary given the share price based on performance intheprior financial year.
Long Term Value Creation Plan 2016 In relation to the awards to be granted in 2016, in line with the As detailed in the Remuneration Policy, the current financial year policy and practice noted above, a 200% of salary award is to be willbe the first year in which the Long Term Value Creation Plan made to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer.
2016 will operate, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM for Granting awards at 200% of salary to these individuals relates to therevised Remuneration Policy and the new scheme.
their performance in the year ending 31 December 2015.
An award A full summary of the principal terms of the scheme explaining at 150% of salary will also be made to the Chief Financial Officer howit will operate in the current financial year, and future years, with his award reflecting the maximum award to which he was isincluded in the Notice of AGM.
eligible at the start of the year under review and his award reflecting robust performance during the year ending 31 December 2015.
The Committee will include full details of any NAV events taking place in the year in the Annual Report on Remuneration with the value of As per awards granted since the 2014 Remuneration Policy, to any reward pool subject to review by the Companys Auditors.
This will smooth fluctuations in the Companys share price, the number be explained in the context of the previous high watermark Benchmark ofshares awarded will be based on 87.06p, being the three-month NAV which is set out in detail in the Notice of AGM.
average share price over the period from 24 November 2015 to 23February 2016.
The Committee believes relative TSR performance against other oiland gas companies remains the most appropriate metric for use by the Company in relation to LTIP awards for the period prior to theintroduction of the Long Term Value Creation Plan 2016.
Awards will vest on a straight line basis relative to the Companys TSR performance over a three-year period compared to a comparator group set on grant with returns converted to USDollarsto reflect the currency denomination of oil and gas assets.
No vesting occurs for below-median performance.
At median, 25% of the award vests, with full vesting at the upper quartile.
In addition, the Committee may reduce the number of shares in respect of which an award would otherwise vest based upon TSR performance if it considers that the TSR achieved over thethreeyear period does not reflect the underlying financial performance of theCompany or that key operational metrics havenot been met.
The constituents of the comparator group were reviewed during theyear and for the 2016 award.
The constituents of the LTIP comparator group for the 2016 award are: 80 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Recovery can be achieved through withholding of future incentive Africa Oil Corp Bowleven plc payments or through seeking repayment of the value overpaid Cairn Energy plc Chariot Oil & Gas Limited onanet of tax basis from the individual in line with the Circle Oil plc Cobalt International Energy, Inc. recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
EnQuest plc Faroe Petroleum plc Genel Energy plc Gulf Keystone Petroleum Limited Non-Executive Directors remuneration JKX Oil & Gas plc Kosmos Energy Ltd Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in short or long-term Maurel & Prom.
Noble Energy Inc incentive plans or to receive any pension from the Group.
The fees payable Petroceltic International plc Premier Oil plc to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are as follows: Rockhopper Exploration plc SOCO International plc Tullow Oil plc Oryx Petroleum 2016 2015 Chairman 140,000 140,000 Amerisur Resources Non-Executive Director basic fee 70,000 70,000 Recovery and withholding provisions will apply that will enable the Committee Chairmanship fee 5,000 5,000 Committee to recover value overpaid in the event of a material misstatement of the Companys results within a two-year period inrelation to the award vesting.
Audited information Single Total Figure of Remuneration The detailed emoluments for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2015 are detailed below: Base Long-term Total 1 2 3 000 Salary Fees Benefits Pension Bonus incentives 2015 Executive Directors 7 Nick Cooper 550 12 61 592 355 1,215 6 Bill Higgs 383 9 42 412 0 846 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Nicholas Smith 140 140 4 Carol Bell 58 58 Ronald Blakely 75 75 Alan Booth 75 75 Vivien Gibney 75 75 5 Lyndon Powell 29 29 Bill Schrader 73 73 1 Benefits include health insurance, life assurance and income protection cover.
2 Pension comprises an 11% contribution to personal pension plans or cash provided in lieu of pension at a rate of 11%.
3 Annual bonus to be paid in March 2016.
Further details set out below on pages 83 and 84.
4 C arol Bell was appointed on 2 March 2015.
Carol Bell received 7,730.77 as part of her Non-Executive Director fee from 1 January 2015 to 2 March 2015 from Salamander Energy plc.
She also received 5,000 as redundancy pay from Salamander Energy plc.
5 Lyndon Powell stepped down from the Board following the 2015 AGM.
6 No long-term incentives vested with performance periods ending in the year under review.
7 95% of Nick Coopers Long-Term Incentive Plan award granted on 13 04 2012 vested on 13 04 2015.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 81 Annual Report on Remuneration continued The detailed emoluments for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2014 are detailed below: Payment Base Long-term for loss Total 1 2 000 Salary Fees Benefits Pension Bonus incentives of office 2014 Executive Directors Nick Cooper 482 9 53 419 2,007 2,970 3 Bill Higgs 115 3 13 100 231 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Nicholas Smith 140 140 Ronald Blakely 75 75 Alan Booth 75 75 Vivien Gibney 75 75 Lyndon Powell 75 75 Bill Schrader 70 70 4 Former Directors Executive Directors Dennis McShane 344 9 38 279 316 986 Lisa Mitchell 353 8 35 247 125 286 1,054 Former Non-Executive Directors 5 John Lander 12 12 1,816 29 139 1,045 2,132 602 5,763 1 F ull disclosure was included in relation to the 2014 annual bonus targets and actual performance where information was not considered price sensitive.
In areas where disclosure was considered price sensitive e. g. in relation to progress with certain organisations in relation to the monetisation of assets, summary details were provided only.
It is not considered appropriate to provide disclosures beyond those provided in last years Directors Remuneration Report in relation to 2014.
2 T he long-term incentive values are restated from those included in the Single Figure Table in the Directors Remuneration Report last year to reflect the value at vesting for certain awards as opposed to the estimated value at vesting based on the three-month average share price to 31 December 2015.
3 Bill Higgs joined the Company and was appointed to the Board on 10 September 2014 and his emoluments are for the pro-rata period from his appointment to the year end.
4 D ennis McShane and Lisa Mitchell stood down as Executive Directors on 4 November 2014 and 17 October 2014 respectively and left the Company on 19 November 2014.
A full breakdown of the above payments was included in last years Directors Remuneration Report.
5 John Lander retired from the Board on 28 February 2014.
82 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Additional information in respect of the single figure table Annual bonus plan outturn For 2015, the Committee set KPI targets for the Executive Directors in respect of: exploration: operations: financial strength and returns: business model: stakeholder engagement: and leadership.
Whilst the precise targets are considered to remain price sensitive, an overview of the extent of achievement for each Executive Director against their performance objectives is detailed below: Metric Extent of achievement Percentage of overall target met Targets applicable to all Executive Directors pro-rata for the relevant proportion of the financial year served Exploration Partially achieved 7% out of a maximum of 23% of salary Complete first interpretation on all acquired Key outcomes considered by the Committee include: seismic within six months Seismic interpretation completed ahead of schedule: Approved G4 50 drilling programme and matured additional prospectivity Commercially attractive well proposals approved inGabonandIndonesia: and Add risked additions to the portfolio Did not meet metrics for additions of prospective resources to the portfolio.
Operations Fully achieved 19% out of a maximum of 19% of salary Introduce a leading indicator system to improve Key outcomes considered by the Committee include: safety across the Group Leading indicator system introduced and TRIR target achieved: Delivered against budget: Compliance within approved budget spend, G&A achieved against target: and cash flow and working capital and G&A gross Independent security penetration test exercises completed and security assessments Complete two independent security penetration completed for any major new technologies.
test exercises Financial strength and returns Partially achieved 3% out of a maximum of 23% of salary Divest target Mmboe of LNG Key outcomes considered by the Committee include: Partially delivered net G&A targets: and Increase corporate valuation by 10% Commercial operating environment created challenges to achieving valuation Deliver net G&A excluding integration costs andassetsales goals.
Business model Fully achieved 16% out of a maximum of 16% of salary Acquire revenue generating production-led Key outcomes considered by the Committee include: business or assets that deliver operating cash flow Completion of the Salamander acquisition and integration into Ophir in line at a targeted level and at an appropriate cost .
Internal stakeholder engagement Fully achieved 9% out of a maximum of 9% of salary Conduct an employee engagement survey to Key outcomes considered by the Committee include: measure the climate within the organisation Survey completed and action plan in place based on results: Rebalancing of the Group ensuring the staff team has the skills required: Succession plans for mission critical roles Empowering Asset Managers to deliver against strategy: Diversity strategy and standards Succession plans in place: and Diversity standard deployed and strategy defined.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 83 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Metric Extent of achievement Percentage of overall target met External stakeholder engagement Fully achieved 10% out of a maximum of 10% of salary Asset strategies in place including exit strategies Key outcomes considered by the Committee include: All exit strategies reviewed by Operations Committee OpCom : and Achieve CR engagement beyond contractual Undertook CR programmes in Gabon and Seychelles beyond contractual expectations commitments todemonstrate the value of the work Leadership Majority achieved 43.75% out of a maximum 50% of salary Deliver on agreed Group strategy Key outcomes considered by the Committee include: Clear definition and articulation of Group strategy: Deliver tone from the top and ensure highest Rebalancing of the Group ensuring the staff team has the skills required to achieve professional and corporate standards across against strategy and that the Company has fit for purpose decision making processes: the Group Asset Managers have been given increased responsibility to deliver value: Reorganisation of the operations and staff to ensure Successful integration of Salamander both culturally and operationally: and Company is able to deliver on its strategic objectives Roll out of One Ophir principles of Asset Management, capital allocation and Ensure best practice in exploration, portfolio empowerment of staff completed to better align value creation to objectives management and deal execution of shareholders.
The specific details of progress in those areas remains commercially sensitive and the Board will consider further disclosure in next years Directors Remuneration Report.
The extent of achievement detailed in the table above, overall, resulted in bonuses becoming payable at 72% of the maximum of basic salary in the case of Nick Cooper and Bill Higgs.
The first Tranche of the Chief Executive Officers Exceptional Long-Term Incentive Award was eligible to vest on 19 June 2015.
Vesting was dependent on the Company delivering a minimum compound TSR growth of 20% per annum over the performance period from a base share price of 4.28 adjusted to take account of the Rights Issue that became effective in March 2013.
Actual TSR growth was below the minimum requirement and so no vesting took place.
Number of Number of Value of Date of grant Vesting date Lapse date awards granted awards vested vested awards Nick Cooper LTIP 19 06 2012 19 06 2015 18 06 2016 277,518 0 0 84 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Long-Term Incentive awards granted in the year The LTIP award levels granted to the other Executive Directors in the year under review calculated based on the three-month average share price for the period from 14 November 2014 to 13 February 2015 as per the Companys policy detailed on page 80 of 87.06p, were: Chief Executive Officer Nick Cooper : 200% of salary: Chief Operating Officer Bill Higgs : 200% of salary.
These awards were in line with the Companys policy as detailed in the Policy Report.
The awards to the Executive Directors during the year were as follows: % of award that vests at the threshold performance Share price level at date performance of grant Number Face value is measured to 26 March Exercise of shares of award 31 December Type of award Basis of award granted 2015 price awarded 000 2017 1 Nick Cooper LTIP Nominal cost option 200% of salary 1.413 787,108 1,100 25% 1 Bill Higgs LTIP Nominal cost option 200% of salary 1.413 547,398 765 25% 1 Tony Rouse was appointed to the Board 27 January 2016.
His 2016 LTIP awards will be outlined in the 2016 Annual Report The performance targets applying to the 2015 LTIP awards are based on relative TSR against other oil and gas companies.
Awards vest on a straight line basis relative to the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance over a three-year period compared to a comparator group set on grant.
No vesting occurs for below median performance.
At median 25% of the award vests, with full vesting at the upper quartile.
In addition, the Committee may reduce the number of shares in respect of which an award would otherwise vest based upon TSR performance if it considers that the TSR achieved over the three-year period does not reflect the underlying financial performance of the Company or that key operational metrics have not been met.
The LTIP comparator group applicable to the 2015 LTIP award is as per the group set out on page 81 for the 2016 award with the following exceptions, Amerisur Resources and Oryx Petroleum added to the comparator group.
Provisions, enabling the recovery and withholding of variable pay, will apply in the event of a material misstatement of the Companys results within a two-year period in relation to the award.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 85 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Payments for loss of office There were no payments for loss of office made in 2015.
Details of the payments made or to be made for loss of office in relation to the 2014 departures of Lisa Mitchell and Denis McShane were included in full in last years Directors Remuneration Report.
Directors interests in shares Directors options and share-based awards as at 31 December 2015: Shares Shares Shares under Market under lapsed award Exercise price at award at Shares cancelled at 31 Date price release Vesting 1 January Shares vested Shares or December Lapse Director and Scheme of grant pence pence date 2015 awarded in year exercised forfeited 2015 date Nick Cooper 1 2 ESOP 01 06 2011 216.20 01 06 2013 578,164 578,164 31 5 2021 3 Long-Term Incentive Plan 13 04 2012 0.00 13 04 2015 373,190 18,660 354,530 12 04 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan 19 06 2012 0.00 19 06 2015 277,518 277,518 0 19 06 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan 19 06 2012 0.00 19 06 2016 370,025 370,025 18 06 2017 Long-Term Incentive Plan 19 06 2012 0.00 19 06 2017 370,025 370,025 18 06 2018 Long-Term Incentive Plan 26 03 2015 0.00 26 03 2018 0 787,108 787,108 25 03 2016 Bill Higgs Long-Term Incentive Plan 26 03 2015 0.00 26 03 2018 0 547,398 547,398 25 03 2016 Save as noted below, further details of the share awards can be found on page 70 of the Directors Remuneration Policy, pages 84 and 85 relating to Long-Term Incentives awards lapsing and granted in the year.
1 Nick Cooper was granted market value options under the 2006 Share Option Scheme and an award under the Long-Term Incentive Plan as part of the terms of his recruitment.
3 95% of these options vested based on the performance criteria.
Share ownership To align the interests of the Executive Directors with shareholders, Directors are required to build up significant shareholdings in the Company.
Nick Cooper has a guideline equivalent to 300% of salary, to be achieved through retaining 100% of his vested or exercised awards net of taxes under the long-term incentive share plans until the guideline is met.
Other Executive Directors are required to build up shareholdings of at least 100% of salary increased to 200% of salary for Executive Director appointments after 14 November 2014 and are required to retain 50% of their vested or exercised awards net of taxes under share incentive schemes until the guideline is met.
Subject to approval of the 2016 Remuneration Policy at the AGM, the share ownership requirements of the Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer will increase to 200% of salary.
Nick Cooper has met his share ownership requirements as at 31 December 2015.
Bill Higgs, who joined in September 2014, has yet to meet his requirement.
Tony Rouse, who was appointed to the Board on 27 January 2016, has yet to meet his requirement.
86 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Lower shareholding requirements apply for other members of the management team.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to hold shares in the Company but are not subject to a formal shareholding guideline.
Details of the Directors interests in shares are shown in the table below.
Share Beneficially ownership Beneficially owned as at guideline Outstanding Outstanding owned as at 31 met as at long-term options Outstanding 31 December December 31 December incentive vested but options Target level 2015 2014 2014 awards unexercised unvested 1 Nicholas Smith n a 140,000 128,000 n a n a n a n a 2 Nick Cooper 300% 1,336,531 770,001 100% 1,527,158 932,694 0 3 Bill Higgs 100% 44,258 0 0% 0 0 0 4 Carol Bell n a 6,870 n a n a n a n a n a 5 Ronald Blakely n a 47,000 47,000 n a n a n a n a 6 Alan Booth n a 125,000 125,000 n a n a n a n a 7 Vivien Gibney n a 15,000 10,000 n a n a n a n a 7 Lyndon Powell n a 33,600 33,600 n a n a n a n a 7 Bill Schrader n a 17,700 10,200 n a n a n a n a Tony Rouse 200% 202,7358 0 n a n a n a n a 1 Nicholas Smith holds a beneficial interest in 128,000 shares.
The legal interest is held by Vestra Nominees Limited.
2 T he legal interest is held by Goldman Sachs International.
1,715 shares held by Nick Coopers spouse, Alison Nightingale.
The legal interest of these shares is held in the name of James Capel Nominees Limited.
3 At 10 September 2014, date of appointment to the Board.
4 Carol Bell was appointed on 2 March 2015.
5 Ronald Blakely and members of his family hold a beneficial interest in 47,000 shares.
The legal interest is held by RBC Dominion Securities.
6 Alan Booth holds a beneficial interest in 125,000 shares.
The legal interest is held by TD Direct Investing Nominees Europe Ltd. 7 Vivien Gibney, Lyndon Powell prior to stepping down from the Board on 20 May 2015 and Bill Schrader hold the legal and beneficial interest in the shares registered in their respective names.
8 T ony Rouse was appointed to the Board on 27 January 2016.
Following the acquisition of Salamander Energy plc on 3 March 2015 shares and options held in Salamander Energy plc converted to OphirEnergy plc shares.
The legal interest of 6,155 share are held by his wife.
9 N ick Cooper had met the 300% of salary share ownership guideline at 27 June 2014 with the number of shares required to be held against the guideline fixed at 653,066.18 shares.
Subsequent to this a further 682,549 shares has been acquired meaning that he has exceeded the share ownership requirements by 38.60% Performance graph not subject to audit Total shareholder returns TSR The following graph shows the Companys TSR performance since trading 250 of the Companys shares began on the London Stock Exchange on 13 July 2011 against the FTSE All Share Oil and Gas Producers Index.
200 The graph also shows the Companys TSR performance since trading 150 of the Companys shares began on the London Stock Exchange on13 July 2011 against the FTSE 250.
Ophir is a constituent of 100 theindex and therefore the Committee considers this equity index tobeappropriate as a comparator.
50 This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2015, of 100 invested 0 in Ophir Energy plc on 13 July 2011 the date of listing on the London 13 Jul 11 13 Dec 11 13 Dec 12 31 Dec 13 31 Dec 14 31 Dec 15 Stock Exchange compared with the value of 100 invested in the Ophir FTSE 250 FTSE All Share Oil and Gas Producers Index FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE All-Share Oil & Gas Producers Index.
Source: Thomson Reuters Annual Report and Accounts 2015 87 Value Annual Report on Remuneration continued Chief Executive Officers remuneration table Relative importance of the spend on pay not subject to audit not subject to audit 2015 2014 % change The table below details the single total remuneration figure earned Staff costs m 43.6 28.1 55.2% by the Chief Executive Officer since the Company moved to the Distributions to shareholders m 38.4 27.71 10.7% Official List.
Total remuneration has been calculated to be consistent with the figures disclosed on pages 81 to 82 and the table also 1 Via the share buyback programme.
details the proportion of annual bonus and LTIP awards payable and or vesting in the relevant year.
Statement of shareholder voting Total Annual LTIP not subject to audit remuneration Bonus Vesting Year ending Executive 000 % of max % of max At last years AGM, the Directors Remuneration Report received the 31 12 2015 Nick Cooper 1,215 72% 0% following votes from shareholders: 1 31 12 2014 Nick Cooper 2,970 58% 95 & 100% Votes in Votes Votes 2 31 12 2013 Nick Cooper 1,027 92% n a favour against withheld 31 12 2012 Nick Cooper 970 89% n a Annual Statement 3 31 12 2011 Nick Cooper 910 83% n a and Annual Report 92.35% 7.65% n a onRemuneration 500,136,655 41,408,470 11,690,690 1 I n the year ending 31 December 2014 performance was established for the LTIPs awarded in 2011, which vested at 100% on 1 June 2014 and for the award made on 13 April 2012, which vested at 95% on 13 April 2015.
By Order of the Board 2 T he LTIP award and 2006 Share Option Plan awards that vested in 2013 related to compensation agreed on joining the Company for awards forfeited at a previous employer.
Vivien Gibney Neither award was subject to performance targets and as a result are not included in the Single Total Remuneration Figure.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 3 Reflects the fact that Nick Cooper was appointed as Chief Executive Officer on 1 June 2011.
9 March 2015 Percentage change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer not subject to audit The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration salary, benefits and annual incentive from 2014 to 2015 for the Chief Executive Officer compared with the average UK Head Office employee.
Average UK Chief Executive 1 Officer employee Salary 14.1% 7.8% Benefits 11.1% 7.4% Annual Bonus 43.7% 10.8% 1 T he comparator group chosen comprises 18 employees who are the Companys UK based employees, excluding the Executive Directors, who were employed continuously from 1 January 2014 to 31December 2015.
The Committee believes that this group is the most appropriate comparator group as these employees are based in the same geographical location as the Chief Executive Officer and allows for a like-for-like comparison.
88 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Responsibility statement of Statement of Directors theDirectors in respect of the responsibilities in relation to AnnualReport and Accounts thefinancial statements andAnnualReport I confirm on behalf of the Board that to the best of their knowledge: The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom the financial statements, prepared in accordance with law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the financial statements of the Group and the parent Company for each European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial year.
Under that law, the Directors are required to prepare financial position and profit and loss of the Company and the financial statements under International Financial Reporting undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
the Strategic Report and Directors Report include a fair review ofthe development and performance of the business and the Under Company Law the Directors must not approve the Group and parent position of the Company and the undertakings included in the Company financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and theprincipal risks and uncertainties that they face.
ofthe profit or loss of the Group and parent Company for that period.
Inpreparing the financial statements the Directors are required to: Directors statement under the UK Corporate Governance Code present fairly the financial position, financial performance and The Board considers that the Annual Report and Accounts taken as cash flows of the Group and parent Company: awhole, is fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides the select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors performance, business model and strategy.
and then apply them consistently: Approved by the Board on 9 March 2016. present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Nick Cooper make judgements that are reasonable: Chief Executive Officer provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific 9 March 2016 requirements in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Group and parent Companys financial position and financial performance: and state whether the Group and parent Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and parent Companys and enable them to ensure that the Group and parent Company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and parent Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Strategic Report, Directors Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance Statement in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable regulations, including the requirements of theListing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Approved by the Board on 9 March 2016 Nick Cooper Chief Executive Officer 9 March 2016 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 89
