Chairmans Annual Statement on Remuneration From a people perspective, the integration of new colleagues from Salamander Energy presented the opportunity to combine the best of our cultures, but with a renewed focus on disciplined capital allocation and asset management.
This process involved some restructuring of our internal workforce, and the nature of individual roles, but it has ensured that we are now structured to best support our core objective of value creation.
This cultural evolution is very much in tune with the Vivien Gibney, current challenging E&P environment.
Remuneration Committee Chairman As a result of the refinement of our strategy, and the cultural changes we have implemented during the year, we are seeking your approval to better align our Remuneration Policy with our Dear Shareholder strategy for the current financial year.
As I will explain in summary I am delighted to have the opportunity to provide you with an below, and in detail in the Remuneration Report, this involves overview of the key activities of the Committee during the year moving away from a standard UK remuneration model to one and outline for you our proposals to better align remuneration that is aligned with the successful delivery of the unique value with strategy.
proposition at Ophir, as detailed in the Chief Executives review.
2015 has been a year of progress at Ophir in what continues Subject to your approval, we will align the entire workforce at tobea challenging commercial context for E&P companies.
Ophir in the same remuneration structure, which will only provide Wecompleted the Salamander Energy acquisition and successfully material rewards if we are successful in delivering our core integrated the Asian assets and operations into our Company.
objective, which is value creation as measured based on growth This was a significant step in achieving our longer-term objective inNet Asset Value NAV per share.
of becoming a self-financing exploration Company which is Given that we are seeking to make a change to our Remuneration focused on value creation from our assets.
Given the current E&P Policy for the current financial year, the Directors Remuneration environment, we took a prudent approach to investment and Report which follows, is split into two parts: made significant progress in fide-risking certain assets where it made commercial sense to do so.
Progress in these areas was 1.
Our revised Remuneration Policy, which sets out the proposed achieved in line with our planning expectations set at the start changes we are to make pages 67 to 77, will be put to a ofthe year.
As a result of our actions, we have African and Asian binding shareholder resolution at the forthcoming AGM: and focused assets that are well positioned with a competitive 2.
O ur Annual Report on Remuneration, which describes how our advantage, even at current commodity prices, which with previously approved Remuneration Policy was implemented minimised drilling commitments continues to offer the in2015 and how the new Remuneration Policy will, subject opportunity for material value creation.
tothe necessary approvals at the AGM, be applied in 2016.
Thiswill be subject to an advisory shareholder resolution.
64 Ophir Energy plc Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Supplementary information Remuneration Committee key activities in 2015 Application of Remuneration Policy for 2016 Performance and Reward As I noted above, we plan to introduce a new Remuneration Policy As part of transitioning to the new Remuneration Policy which follows, for 2016 which includes a complete reworking of our current remuneration earned in relation to the 2015 financial year will pay out remuneration structure.
and be awarded in line with the current remuneration policy.
We are proposing to move from a standard UK remuneration In what has been a challenging environment for E&P companies, the model that has been applied across the vast majority of UK listed executive leadership team has performed strongly.
In the key areas companies from general retailers to manufacturing companies, we targeted at the start of the year we have made robust progress.
to one that is more closely aligned with our long-term business model of being a self-funded exploration focused Company.
In exploration, for example, we broadened our portfolio in a responsible way e. g. completing the low commitment acquisitions In summary, this includes restructuring our remuneration so that offive deep-water PSCs in Indonesia, completed a number of seismic material rewards are only available when we create value from our acquisition programmes e. g. Myanmar.
In addition, where it has assets, which, by their nature, have very long-term life cycles e. g. made commercial sense to do so, we have fide-risked assets e. g. typically well beyond a standard three-year long-term incentive Fortuna FLNG with Golar LNG signed on as a Midstream partner.
Specifically, this involves: From an operational perspective, we have also created a culture Reducing annual bonus opportunity from a maximum of of strong financial discipline, operating within our targeted levels 150% of salary to 50% of salary for Executive Directors, with of spend for the year.
In terms of positioning for 2016, we are well abalanced scorecard of targets continuing to determine placed from both a financial perspective and continue to high individual bonuses.
grade our exploration portfolio ahead of drilling in 2017.
Finally, Replacing the current Long-Term Incentive Plan with a scheme and importantly, we achieved our 2015 successes safely.
based on growth in NAV per share.
In summary, this would involve: All Ophir employees participating in the scheme effective With our annual bonus targets linked to many of the above from 1 January 2016 subject to shareholder approval at actions, bonuses are to be payable in the region of 0% to 150% our 2016 AGM.
The scheme only rewarding if we deliver long-term growth With regards to longer-term performance, the absolute total in NAV per share which is measured based on well-defined shareholder return performance target that applied to Tranche 1 NAV events.
When an event does take place, 12.5% of the of the Chief Executive Officers 2012 Exceptional Long-Term increase in NAV above the prior Benchmark NAV will be Incentive Award tested to 18 June 2015 was not met and so the used to create a reward pool.
relevant part of this award lapsed during the year under review.
NAV events will generally be monetisation events such as farm-outs and asset sales, which have defined values, and The Committee is comfortable that the incentive outcomes over the the risked value of development assets once a Final relevant performance periods reflect the level of performance achieved Investment Decision FID is taken or first production in what has been a challenging and difficult external environment.
takes place to ensure NAV events are tangible and demonstrably value creating.
The impact of commodity prices is factored out of the scheme so that these events are neutral to ensure that the reward pool is not artificially inflated or deflated by the commodity cycle.
Similarly, cash distributions, fundraising or capital changes are also factored out of the scheme.
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 65 Chairmans Annual Statement on Remuneration continued When a reward pool is created, it will be distributed with Shareholder feedback the following features to apply to Executive Directors: Following an extensive shareholder consultation in relation to the Individual rewards are capped: above new scheme, I wanted to take the opportunity to express 75% of NAV scheme rewards are delivered as deferred my gratitude, and that of the Company Chairman, to our major shares that vest after three, four and five years with a shareholders and the leading shareholder protection bodies for requirement for the total number of after tax shares taking the time to enter into constructive dialogue with us around to be retained for a minimum of five years: our revised Remuneration Policy.
We found your input extremely 25% of rewards are delivered in cash: and helpful in shaping the final design of our scheme.
You were right recovery and withholding provisions apply to ensure to describe the scheme as innovative, but it is our belief that in the that only true value creation is the basis of rewards.
present low price environment, innovation is required and we look Tougher share ownership guidelines will apply.
forward to receiving your support for our new scheme, and wider approach to remuneration, at our AGM.
Implementing a revised Remuneration Policy that will only rewardemployees for delivering value-creating events supports The Board and the Committee are committed to maintaining our culture of empowering employees to act like owners when anopen and constructive dialogue with our shareholders on allocating capital and is considered to better align employees with remuneration matters.
We continue to engage in appropriate our strategy and take full account of the current E&P environment.
dialogue with our major investors on any significant changes to Furthermore, the capping and deferral of the majority of rewards, the Remuneration Policy and we, and I, welcome any feedback operated with recovery and withholding provisions and tougher you may have.
share ownership guidelines, ensures that the scheme is consistent Vivien Gibney with effective risk management and achieves long-term Remuneration Committee Chairman alignment with shareholders.
9 March 2016 In light of the current E&P environment, no increases were awarded to base salaries of the Executive Directors.
With regard to the appointment of Tony Rouse as Chief Financial Officer on27January 2016, his salary was set at 325,000, which is reflective of the market rate for the role having taken into accountthe calibre and experience of the individual.
