Pets at Home Group Plc 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report We have always recognised the importance of widespread share ownership and it remains an integral part of our culture.
Dennis Millard Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Who is on the Remuneration Committee?
FY15 business performance and remuneration outcomes This has been another successful year for Pets at Home, as we Member No.
of meetings have continued to drive like-for-like growth through multiple levers.
A summary of some of our financial and operational highlights Dennis Millard Chairman 3 3 during the year is presented below: Paul Moody 3 3 Like-for-like revenue growth of 4.2% driven by strength in Tessa Green 3 3 Advanced Nutrition, Health & Hygiene, VIP club, Services Amy Stirling 3 3 and omni-channel: Total revenue growth of 9.6% to 729.1m: Introduction Our VIP club loyalty scheme continued to perform strongly As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Committee, and gained over 270,000 new members during the quarter and on behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors to reach a total of 3.2 million.
VIP card swipe rate at store Remuneration Report for the year ended 26 March 2015. tills represented 62% of revenues in the year, compared with This report is split into two parts.
52% in FY14: Our Annual Report on Remuneration, outlining how our 40.1m revenues from our flagship Advanced Nutrition brand, Remuneration Policy was implemented in FY15 and how Wainwrights: and we intend to apply it for FY16.
This will be subject to an advisory vote at our 2015 AGM.
25 stores opened during the year along with 61 vet practices and 50 grooming salons.
A recap of our Remuneration Policy, as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
No changes have been For FY15, our annual bonus framework was primarily based on made to our Remuneration Policy this year and as such achievement of financial EBITDA targets 75%, with the remainder there will be no resolution on our Remuneration Policy based on performance against key strategic objectives 25%.
These measures reflect the continued transition of the business into the listed environment, placing a strong emphasis on financial performance, whilst also ensuring focus on delivery of the key strategic growth levers that were articulated to shareholders during our IPO process.
Our strong financial performance during FY15 resulted in delivery of underlying EBITDA of 121.3m.
As a result, this portion of the annual bonus paid out at 75% of maximum i. e. 56% of salary.
The Executive Directors delivery against the key strategic objectives is reflected in the personal objectives element of the annual bonus, which paid out between 7688% of maximum i. e. 1922% of salary.
As a result, overall bonus out-turns for our Executive Directors were 7578% of maximum salary.
The Committee considers that this fairly reflects the results for the year.
Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 87 As we highlighted in last years report, for this year we have strived Our colleagues We have always recognised the importance of widespread to be transparent regarding bonus outcomes.
Further information can share ownership and it remains an integral part of our culture.
be found on pages 88 and 89, where full disclosure of the EBITDA This reflects the principle that our colleagues are central to the performance range is provided.
We have also provided additional achievement of our strategy and share ownership enhances loyalty context on the measures under the key strategic objectives and engagement.
element, within the bounds of appropriate commercial sensitivity.
As such, as well as the grants that were made in connection Remuneration proposals for FY16 with the Companys IPO in March 2014 under the Companys Nick Wood received a 3% salary increase, with effect from April 2015. discretionary share plans, we also successfully launched our first This is in line with the colleague increase for FY15.
Sharesave plan this year, with 30% of eligible colleagues choosing to participate.
In addition, as part of the celebration of the IPO As we announced on 4 June 2015, to capitalise on the significant and in recognition of the contribution made by all colleagues to growth opportunities which are available across the business, the ongoing success of the Group, each colleague with 12 months we have moved to a new divisional management structure.
service and who had not been eligible to participate in the Groups Accordingly, Ian Kellett assumed the role of Chief Executive pre-IPO equity scheme received a one-off bonus in the year.
Officer of Retail, a critical position heading up our Pets at Home Retail business.
Ian also retains his CFO duties until a suitable We consider that our commitment to our colleagues and the replacement can be found.
Taking into account the key role which impact that this has on our customers is reflected across Ian will play in driving and growing our operations under this new a number of areas: structure, Ians salary in the CEO of Retail role has been set at 400,000, effective from 4 June 2015.
Colleague engagement was 94%: Pets at Home won 15th place in the UK Great Place to Work There will be no change in the pension provision for Executive survey: and Directors.
We achieved a Net Promoter Score of 86%.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the annual bonus Shareholder engagement framework for FY16, with a view to ensuring that it remains We value all feedback from Shareholders and as a public company appropriate for the business at this time.
Last year, in the period we intend to engage with our investors on a regular basis.
We hope following our IPO, the Committee considered that it was important you find this report helpful and informative and we hope to receive to link the bonus to our key strategic growth levers and we have your support for our Annual Report on Remuneration at our AGM made excellent progress against these objectives.
Looking to the on 9 September 2015. year ahead, the Committee considers that now is an appropriate time to fully focus the bonus framework on delivery of financial I would also like to highlight that I was appointed as chair of the performance, this being our fundamental driver of shareholder Committee during the IPO process with the intention that the value.
As a result, for FY16 the annual bonus will be based on responsibility would be handed to Paul Moody at the Companys reported EBITDA 75% and free cash flow 25%.
second AGM following its IPO.
As such, I will be resigning from the position with effect from that date and Paul will take on the role As highlighted last year, our intention is that Executive Directors going forwards.
From a personal perspective, I would like to wish will not participate in the PSP until the start of FY17, given that him all the best for the future.
they received awards under the Co-Investment Plan on IPO.
Yours sincerely Malus and clawback We always seek to adhere to UK corporate governance best practice.
The Committee reviewed the recent update to the UK Corporate Governance Code, particularly the clause relating to malus and clawback provisions being present on all forms of variable remuneration.
In response, we have introduced clawback provisions into both the Executive Directors annual bonus plan for the FY16 performance year and PSP awards from this year onwards.
Dennis Millard Chairman, Remuneration Committee Along with the malus provisions already contained on the PSP, 3 June 2015 these provisions now provide the Committee with the ability to reduce unvested share awards or take back bonus amounts or share awards which had already been paid or vested under certain circumstances, including misconduct and misstatement of results.
Pets at Home Group Plc 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration a Directors remuneration report on implementation for the year ended 26 March 2015 This section of the report sets out how the Directors Remuneration Policy Policy, approved by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 9 September 2014 and set out in the Appendix, has been applied in the financial year being reported on, and how it will be applied in the coming year.
The information presented from this section up until the relevant note on page 90 represents the audited section of this report.
b Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors for the year ended 26 March 2015 The following table sets out the total remuneration for Executive Directors for the year ended 26 March 2015.
All payments are in line with the Policy set out in the Appendix.
Base salary corresponds to the amount received during the relevant financial year.
In FY14 Nick Woods base salary reflected his annual salary of 425,000 per annum and Ian Kelletts base salary reflected his annual salary of 320,000 per annum.
Benefits corresponds to the taxable value of benefits received during the relevant financial year and principally includes company car or cash equivalent, life assurance and permanent health insurance.
Pension corresponds to either the amount contributed to personal pension plans or the cash value of the salary supplement received during the relevant financial year.
Executive Directors receive a Company pension contribution worth 9% of their salary or a cash allowance where the Annual Allowance has been reached.
Annual bonus corresponds to the amount earned in respect of the relevant financial year.
Details of how this was calculated are set out below.
Performance outcomes The maximum annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors in respect of FY15 was 100% of base salary.
The financial targets for the Annual Bonus for the financial year ended 26 March 2015, and the extent to which they were achieved, are as set out below.
For FY15, financial targets comprised 75% of the bonus framework and the achievement of targets is calculated on a straight line basis between Minimum and Maximum EBITDA.
The Committee considered that the targets were very stretching and required Executive Directors to deliver performance which significantly exceeded business expectations to achieve full pay-out.
Minimum Maximum Achieved Financial Measures % base salary % base salary % of Base Salary 1 EBITDA 120m 50% 125m 75% 121.3m 56% 1 Underlying EBITDA after Plc costs but before IFRS2 share incentive costs set at 2015 budget rates.
FY15 key personal objectives comprised 25% of the bonus framework.
An EBITDA gateway of 114m applied to the non-financial element of the bonus.
EBITDA performance below this level would result in no bonus being paid.
For the CEO, these included the achievement of a number of key KPIs such as new store opening pipeline and vet practices, the management of effective succession planning and the engagement of the investor base.
For the CFO CEO of Retail, these included the refinancing of the Vet Group to support the long term growth plans, the future strategy of payroll services and targets around working capital.
Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 89 The resultant percentages against each of the bonus measures achieved by each Executive Director are shown below: Nick Wood Ian Kellett Measure % of performance target achieved % of performance target achieved EBITDA 56% 75% 56% 75% Personal objectives 19% 25% 22% 25% Total 75% 100% 78% 100% 1 Performance against individually set targets: For the CEO, these included the achievement of a number of key KPIs such as new store opening pipeline and vet practices, the management of effective succession planning and the engagement of the investor base.
For the CFO, these included the refinancing of the Vet Group to support the long term growth plans, the future strategy of payroll services and targets around working capital.
Long-term incentives no relevant long-term incentives vested in respect of the year under consideration.
c Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors for the year ended 26 March 2015 The following table sets out the total remuneration for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board for the year ended 26 March 2015.
Nomination & Corporate Pets Before Remuneration Audit & Risk Governance Profit CSR Additional Committee Committee Committee Committee Total Single Total Single 1 Basic fees fees Chairman Chair Chairman Chair Figure 2015 Figure 2014 Director Tony DeNunzio 200,000 n a n a n a n a n a 200,000 6,044 Dennis Millard 50,000 20,000 10,000 n a n a n a 80,000 8,352 Brian Carroll 50,000 n a n a n a n a n a 50,000 5,220 Paul Coby 50,000 n a n a n a n a n a 50,000 5,220 Tessa Green 50,000 n a n a n a n a 10,000 60,000 6,264 Amy Stirling 50,000 n a n a 10,000 n a n a 60,000 6,264 Paul Moody 50,000 n a n a n a n a n a 50,000 412 Notes: The additional fee paid to Dennis Millard is in respect to his position as Deputy Chairman of the Board.
1 In FY14, the payments relate to the period from IPO on 17 March 2014 to the year ended 27 March 2014. d Scheme interests awarded during the financial year No long-term incentive awards were made to the Executive Directors during the financial year.
During the year, the Company launched its Sharesave plan, providing eligible colleagues with an opportunity to receive share options at a 20% discount to the market price.
The maximum monthly saving was 250 per month.
The Executive Directors elected to participate in the Sharesave, along with 30% of eligible colleagues.
The Options are, in normal circumstances, not exercisable until completion of a three year savings period, beginning on 1 December 2014 and will then be exercisable for a period of six months.
The exercise period will, therefore, in normal circumstances, be from 1 December 2017 to 31 May 2018.
The Options were granted in the following amounts: Number of Shares over which Sharesave Face Value of Shares over which Executive Director Option was Granted Sharesave Option was Granted Ian Kellett 6,428 9,000 Nick Wood 6,428 9,000 e Payments for loss of office No payments for loss of office were made during the financial year.
f Payments to past Directors No payments were made to past Directors during the year.
g Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests The Committee believes that colleague share ownership is an important means to support long-term commitment to the Company and the alignment of colleague interests with those of shareholders.
Pets at Home Group Plc 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued The interests of the Executive Directors are closely aligned with those of other shareholders in this regard, through the operation of the Co-Investment Plan, which required participants to commit a significant amount of their IPO proceeds.
Executive Directors are subject to a shareholding requirement of 200% of base salary, which should be built up over a period of five years.
This policy also applies to the Executive Management Team who are also subject to a shareholding guideline.
The Committee reviews share ownership levels annually.
Current shareholding levels for Directors are set out in the table below.
Number of shares Interests in share Interests in share incentive schemes, incentive schemes, Shareholding awarded without awarded subject to requirement Shares owned performance performance Shares owned as a % of salary outright at conditions at conditions at outright at 1 Director Target % achieved 26 March 2015 26 March 2015 26 March 2015 17 March 2014 Nick Wood 200% 3,219% 5,505,571 6,428 433,673 7,340,760 Ian Kellett 200% 3,143% 4,047,056 6,428 326,530 4,640,415 Tony DeNunzio 3,158,026 3,977,342 Dennis Millard 16,327 16,327 Brian Carroll 40,816 40,816 Paul Coby 4,082 4,082 Tessa Green 40,816 40,816 Amy Stirling 16,327 16,327 Paul Moody 27,470 1 For the purposes of determining the target shareholding achieved, we have used the individuals salary, the closing share price as at 26 March 2015 248.5 pence and the shares owned outright at the same date.
This represents the end of the audited section of the report.
h TSR performance chart The Companys shares were admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List maintained by the UK Financial Conduct Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange plcs main market for listed securities on 17 March 2014 and the chart below shows performance from that date until our FY15 year end.
This disclosure will be expanded in subsequent years in line with the regulations.
TSR performance of Pets at Home and the FTSE 250 Index over the period shown 120 110 100 90 Mar 2014 Sept 2014 Mar 2015 Pets at Home FTSE 250 The FTSE 250 index has been selected as it is a recognised equity market index of which Pets at Home Group Plc is a member.
CEO 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2014 2015 CEO single figure of remuneration n a n a n a n a 19,460 790,461 Annual bonus payout n a n a n a n a 73% 75% as % of maximum opportunity Long-term incentive vesting n a n a n a n a n a n a as % of maximum opportunity 1 In FY14, the single figure of remuneration relates to the period 17 March 2014 to 27 March 2014.
Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 91 i Percentage change in remuneration of the Group CEO The table below sets out the increase in total remuneration of the CEO and that of all colleagues: % change in base % change in bonus % change in benefits salary FY14 to FY15 earned FY14 to FY15 FY14 to FY15 1 Chief Executive 0 55 0 2 All colleagues 3 2 3 1 The Chief Executives figures for FY14 reflect his salary, bonus and benefits earned accrued as a Director post and pre-IPO remuneration levels annualised for comparison with FY15.
2 All colleague information is presented by comparing the mean average colleague information in FY14 to the mean average colleague information in FY15.
j Relative importance of the spend on pay The following table shows the relationship between the Groups EBITDA, distributions to shareholders and the total remuneration paid to all colleagues.
FY15 EBITDA 121.3m Returned to Shareholders Dividend 8.9m Payments to colleagues Wages & salaries 122.5m In connection with the Companys IPO on 17 March 2014, Pets at Home Group Plc was inserted as the new parent company of the Pets at Home Group.
No dividends were paid by the Company between 17 March 2014 and the year end, 27 March 2014.
No financial information has been presented above for the period from IPO to 27 March 2014 as EBITDA does not accrue evenly over an accounting period and cannot be accurately pro-rated.
k Dilution limits In accordance with the ABI Guidelines, the Company can satisfy awards under its colleague share plans with new issue shares up to a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling ten year period and within this 10% limit, the Company can only issue 5% of its issued share capital to satisfy awards under discretionary plans.
l External appointments Executive Directors are entitled to accept one external appointment outside the Company with the consent of the Board.
Any fees received may be retained by the Director.
As at the date of this report, neither of the Executive Directors held an external appointment for which they receive a fee.
m Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment A summary of the Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment is contained on page 101 of the Policy contained in the Appendix.
Each of the Non-Executives letters of appointment expires on 17 February 2017 apart from Paul Moody whose letter of appointment expires on 24 March 2017.
Statement of implementation for 2015 16 This section provides an overview of how the Committee is proposing to implement our Policy in FY16.
Base salary The table below shows base salaries for 2015 16.
Executive Director Base salary Nick Wood 437,750 Ian Kellett 400,000 Nick Wood received a 3% salary increase, with effect from April 2015.
This is in line with the colleague increase for FY15.
As we announced on 4 June 2015, to capitalise on the significant growth opportunities available across the business, we have moved to a new divisional management structure.
Accordingly, Ian Kellett assumed the role of Chief Executive Officer of Retail, a critical position heading up our Pets at Home Retail business.
Ian also retains his CFO duties until a suitable replacement can be found.
Taking into account the key role which Ian will play in driving and growing our operations under this new structure, Ians salary in the CEO of Retail role has been set at 400,000 effective from 4 June 2015.
Pets at Home Group Plc 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Benefits The Committee sets benefits in line with the policy set out on page 94 of the Appendix.
There are no changes proposed to the benefit framework in 2015 16.
Pensions There is no increase proposed to salary supplement levels for the Executive Directors in 2015 16.
The table below shows salary supplements for 2015 16.
Executive Director Percentage of salary Nick Wood 9% Ian Kellett 9% Annual bonus The maximum annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors in respect of 2015 16 will remain at 100% of base salary.
The annual bonus framework will be in line with that presented in the policy table on page 95.
As highlighted in the Chairmans letter, during the year the Committee reviewed the annual bonus framework for FY16, with a view to ensuring that it remains appropriate for the business.
The Committee considers that it is appropriate at this time to refocus the bonus framework on delivery of financial performance, this being a fundamental driver of shareholder value.
As such, we have determined that the annual bonus for FY16 will be based on reported EBITDA 75% and free cash flow 25%.
Although the targets remain commercially sensitive at this time, we will provide shareholders with full disclosure of the EBITDA and free cash flow targets in next years report.
For the FY16 performance year onwards, the annual bonus will be subject to clawback provisions.
This provides the Committee with the ability to take back amounts previously paid out for a period of up to two years under certain circumstances, including misstatement and misconduct.
Performance Share Plan Given that they received awards under the CIP on IPO, there is currently no intention for Executive Directors to participate in the PSP until FY17.
Notwithstanding that Executive Directors will not participate in the PSP in FY16, the Committee has implemented clawback provisions on PSP awards made to other senior employees this year.
Sharesave The Company intends to operate the Sharesave scheme again for FY16.
The maximum monthly savings will be raised to 500 per month from 250 per month, in line with the statutory increase.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate.
Non-Executive Director remuneration The table below shows the Non-Executive Director fee structure for 2015 16: 2015 16 Chairman of the Board all inclusive fee 200,000 Basic Non-Executive Director fee 50,000 Board Committee Chairman fee 10,000 Deputy Chairman 20,000 There are no fees paid for membership of Board Committees.
The Remuneration Committee Shareholder context for the Committees activities Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Committee has reviewed the advice provided by Deloitte during the year and is comfortable that it has been objective and independent.
Total fees received by Deloitte in relation to the remuneration advice provided to the Committee during FY15 amounted to 37,450 excluding VAT based on the required time commitment.
In addition, other practices at Deloitte, separate from the executive remuneration practice, have provided general tax advice to the Group during the year together with advice on the Group.
During FY15, the Committee also received support from Travers Smith LLP on the terms of the discretionary and all colleague share plans.
Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 93 Committee membership and meetings The Directors listed below in the table served on the Committee during the year.
The Committee met three times during FY15 and the Committee members attendance is also shown in the table below: Member Period from To Meetings attended Dennis Millard Chairman 28 March 2014 To date 3 Paul Moody 28 March 2014 To date 3 Tessa Green 28 February 2014 To date 3 Amy Stirling 28 February 2014 To date 3 The individuals listed in the table below, none of whom were Committee members, attended at least part of the meeting by invitation during the year.
Attendee Position Tony DeNunzio Chairman of the Board Brian Carroll Non-Executive Director Sally Hopson CEO of Services Nick Wood CEO Ian Kellett CFO CEO of Retail Nicolas Gheysens Board Observer Ryan Cheyne People Director None of the individuals attended part of any meeting in which their own compensation was discussed.
Governance The Board and the Committee consider that, throughout FY15 and up to the date of this report, the Company has complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code relating to Directors remuneration.
Shareholder voting At the Annual General Meeting on 9 September 2014, the total number of shares in issue with voting rights was 500,000,000.
The resolution to approve the Remuneration Policy and the Remuneration Report received the following votes from shareholders: Votes Votes Votes % of Votes 1 2 3 4 Resolution for % against % total ISC withheld To approve the Directors Remuneration Report 333,803,588 99.99 18,640 0.01 333,822,228 66.76% 29,824,388 for the year ended 27 March 2014 To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy 353,975,782 99.15 3,036,929 0.85 357,012,711 71.40% 6,633,905 Notes 1 Votes for include discretionary votes.
2 Percentages above are rounded to two decimal places.
3 Issued share capital at meeting date: 500,000,000.
4 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for and against a resolution.
Annual General Meeting As set out in my statement on page 86, our Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at our AGM to be held on 9 September 2015.
On behalf of the Board Dennis Millard Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 3 June 2015 Pets at Home Group Plc 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy a Policy Report The following section pages 94 to 103 sets out our Directors Remuneration Policy, in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006.
This Policy was approved by shareholders at our AGM on 9 September 2014 and applies from that date.
It is currently intended that the Policy will apply for three years.
Overall remuneration is structured and set at levels to enable the recruitment and retention of high calibre executives and encourage them to enhance the Companys performance, in a responsible manner, in line with the business strategy and shareholders interests.
A significant portion of the package is performance related.
Remuneration has been set taking into account practice within the FTSE 250 and practice at other retail companies.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance measurement Maximum opportunity Fixed elements base salary Core element of remuneration, Paid in cash and are pensionable.
Whilst there is no maximum salary recognising the role and level, any increases will normally The Committee takes into consideration a number of factors responsibilities of the role.
be broadly in line with the wider when setting salaries, including but not limited to : colleague population within the Size and scope of the individuals responsibilities: relevant geographic area.
The individuals skills, experience and performance: Higher increases may be made Typical salary levels for comparable roles within appropriate under certain circumstances, pay comparators including practice for retail companies and at the Committees discretion.
the broader FTSE 250: and For example, this may include: Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group.
Increase in the scope and or In FY15, basic salaries will be reviewed at the June Remuneration responsibility of the individuals Committee meeting.
Subsequent reviews will take place at the role: and March Remuneration Committee annually thereafter.
Any change Development of the individual will usually be effective from the first period of the following within the role.
Annual base salaries for the Executive Directors are set out in Part 3 a of this report.
Fixed elements benefits To provide colleagues with The Company provides a range of benefits, which may include : The cost to the Company of market competitive benefits.
providing other benefits may vary a company car or cash equivalent depending on, for example, market life assurance practice and the cost of insuring permanent health insurance certain benefits.
The Committee keeps the level These benefits are not pensionable.
of benefit provision under regular Other benefits may be considered by the Committee, if considered review.
Details of current benefit provision The Company may also meet certain mobility costs, such as for the Executive Directors are set relocation support, expatriate allowances, temporary living and out in Part 3 a of this report.
transportation expenses, in line with the prevailing mobility policy and practice for other senior executives.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in any tax-approved all colleague share plans operated by the Company on the same basis as other eligible colleagues.
Whilst it does not currently operate such a plan, the Company intends to introduce a Sharesave scheme during the term of this Policy.
Fixed elements pensions To provide colleagues with an Pension contributions are made to either the Group Pension Plan, The contribution level for an allowance for retirement planning.
to personal pension schemes or cash allowances in lieu of individual Executive Director is contributions are paid.
capped at 9% of base salary per annum for employer contributions.
Details of current pension provision for the Executive Directors are set out in Part 3 a of this report.
Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 95 Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance measurement Maximum opportunity Short-term elements annual bonus To incentivise the delivery of our Delivery will normally be in cash and is not pensionable.
The maximum bonus opportunity business plan on an annual basis.
Performance measures are set annually and pay-out levels are To reward performance against determined by the Committee after the year end, based on 20% is payable for threshold key performance indicators which performance against those targets during the relevant financial year.
are critical to the delivery of our Each year, the Committee determines the measures and weightings business strategy.
within the following parameters: At least 75% of the annual bonus will be based on financial performance measures: and No more than 25% of the annual bonus will be based on performance against non-financial measures, including, for example, individual and strategic objectives.
The Committee ensures that targets are appropriately stretching in the context of the business plan and that there is an appropriate balance between incentivising Executive Directors to meet financial targets for the year and to deliver specific non-financial goals.
This balance allows the Committee to effectively reward performance against the key elements of our strategy.
The Company may amend the performance measures or targets in exceptional circumstances, where it considers that they are no longer appropriate.
There is no provision for recovery.
Long-term incentives overview At the time of IPO, the Committee wished to put in place long-term incentive arrangements which would provide for the continued alignment of Executive Directors with our shareholders.
As such, the Committee approved three long-term incentive plans: the Co-Investment Plan CIP, the Performance Share Plan PSP and the Company Share Option Plan CSOP.
CIP a one-off arrangement, tailored to our post-IPO position.
It requires Executive Directors to make a significant personal investment in order to be eligible to receive a Company match providing that stretching performance conditions are reached.
Awards were made on IPO and there is no intention to make any further awards to current Executive Directors under the Plan.
PSP intended to be our regular, ongoing long-term incentive plan in future years.
Given that Executive Directors were made awards under the CIP in 2014, there is no intention for current Executive Directors to receive awards under the PSP until 2016.
CSOP for Executive Directors, this plan is used to allow the Company and participant to benefit from HMRC-approved option tax treatment in respect of the initial part of a PSP award currently up to 30,000.
As such, in line with the PSP above, it is not intended for current Executive Directors to receive awards under the CSOP until 2016.
Pets at Home Group Plc 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy continued In addition, the Committee intend to introduce a Sharesave plan during the term of this Policy, in which all colleagues will be eligible to participate including Executive Directors.
Although we do not intend to make any further awards under the CIP to current Executive Directors following IPO, we have provided details of the Plan in the Policy Table below for clarity.
No individual will be eligible to receive two awards under the CIP.
The Committee may consider granting a new Executive Director a CIP award if it considers it to be appropriate to promote alignment across the Executive Team.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance measurement Maximum opportunity 1 Long-term elements Co-Investment Plan CIP To promote continued Matching Awards vest after three, four and five years, subject to Executive Directors invested 250% alignment between Executive achievement of performance conditions.
of base salary in the CIP at IPO Directors and shareholders Invested Shares.
Additional shares or cash may be awarded in lieu of dividends on in the years following IPO.
any Matching Awards which vest, which would have been paid during Subject to performance, Invested the vesting period.
Shares may be eligible for up to a Current Executive Directors 1:1 Company match on this amount The performance measures under the CIP are: will not receive any further Matching Award.
75% EPS growth to reflect the financial performance of our awards under the CIP.
business and a direct and focused measure of Company success.
10% of the total Marching Award will vest for EPS growth of 10% per annum, rising to 75% of the total Matching Award vesting for EPS growth of 17.5% per annum.
25% Relative TSR against the UK General Retail Index a measure of the ultimate delivery of shareholder returns, promoting alignment between Executive Director remuneration and the shareholder experience.
6.25% of the total Marching Award will vest for median TSR performance against the Index, and 25% of the total Matching Award will vest for upper quartile TSR performance against the Index.
The Committee considers that the performance measures are fully aligned with our corporate strategy.
The Committee has set the targets to be appropriately stretching, with regard to a number of internal and external reference points, and considers that delivery of these targets should create sustainable value creation for shareholders.
The plan rules also stipulate that the Committee may amend the performance measures or targets in exceptional circumstances, where it considers that they are no longer appropriate.
If this discretion was used, we would consult with our major shareholders and the rationale would be clearly explained in the Remuneration Report.
Unvested and unexercised awards are subject to malus in case of misconduct or misstatement.
Invested shares may also be forfeited in case of fraud, misconduct or negligence.
Under the terms of CIP, the treatment of leavers depends on the length of the period between grant and cessation with Invested Shares being forfeited in the event of Early Leavers.
See pages 100 to 101 for further details.
1 The Committee may in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital, demerger, delisting, or other event which may affect the value of awards, adjust or amend the terms of awards in accordance with the rules of the relevant share plan.
In the case of the SAYE, any changes may be subject to HMRC approval if required.
Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 97 Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance measurement Maximum opportunity 1 Long-term elements Performance Share Plan PSP To incentivise the delivery of our Awards vest after three years, subject to achievement of The maximum award opportunity business plan on an annual basis.
under the PSP is normally 150% of base salary or 200% of salary in Additional shares or cash may be awarded in lieu of dividends To reward performance against circumstances which the Committee on any shares which vest, which would have been paid during the key performance indicators which considers to be exceptional.
are critical to the delivery of our Share awards are normally made in the form of conditional share business strategy.
awards, but may be awarded in other forms if appropriate such as nil cost options.
The plan rules specify that awards may also The intention is that current be satisfied in cash although this is unlikely to apply to Directors.
Executive Directors will not receive The ultimate goal of the Companys strategy is to provide longawards under the PSP until 2016. term sustainable returns to shareholders.
The Committee strives to do this by aligning the performance measures under the PSP with the long-term strategy of the Company and considers that strong performance under the chosen measures should result in sustainable value creation: Financial measure to reflect the financial performance of our business and a direct and focused measure of Company success.
The Committee sets targets to be appropriately stretching, with regard to a number of internal and external reference points.
Share price performance measure a measure of the ultimate delivery of shareholder returns.
This promotes alignment between Executive Director reward and the shareholder experience.
Targets are set with reference to wider market practice and positioned at a level which the Committee considers represent stretching performance.
The Committee sets targets each year, achievement of which it considers would represent stretching performance in the context of the business plan.
Normally the weighting would be split equally across these two measures, although the Committee may vary this as appropriate to reflect strategic priorities.
For threshold levels of performance, 25% of the maximum award vests, increasing to 100% of the award for maximum performance.
If this discretion was used, we would consult with our major shareholders and the rationale would be clearly explained in the remuneration report.
The Committee may at its discretion structure awards as Approved Company Share Option Plan CSOP awards.
CSOP awards enable the participant and Company to benefit from HMRC approved option tax treatment in respect of part of the award, without increasing the pre-tax value delivered to participants.
CSOP awards may be structured either as an approved option for the part of the award up to the HMRC limit currently 30,000 with an unapproved option for the balance and a linked award to fund the exercise price of the approved option, or as an approved option and a PSP award, with the vesting of the PSP award scaled back to take account of any gain made on exercise of the approved option.
1 The Committee may in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital demerger, delisting, or other event which may affect the value of awards, adjust or amend the terms of awards in accordance with the rules of the relevant share plan.
Pets at Home Group Plc 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance measurement Maximum opportunity 1 SAYE An all-colleague plan, SAYE is a HMRC-approved scheme where eligible colleagues The market value of the shares which encourages long-term are granted savings-related share options to subscribe for ordinary under option at the date of maturity shareholding and to align the shares in the Company.
It is intended that the plan will be of the Sharesave savings contract, interests of UK colleagues implemented during 2014. less the grant price of the option with shareholders.
at the contract start date.
Options are granted to be exercisable in conjunction with either a three-year or five-year savings contract with a monthly savings Executive Directors are eligible limit of 500. to participate.
Options are normally granted at a discount of 20% to market price at the time of invitation.
There are no performance measures attached to awards under the SAYE.
b Chairman and Non-Executive Director remuneration policy Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance measurement Maximum opportunity Overall remuneration To attract and retain high calibre Non-Executive Directors receive a basic fee in respect of their Current fee levels can be found individuals by offering market Board duties.
on page 92. competitive fee arrangements.
Further fees are paid to Non-Executive Directors in respect of Deputy Fees are set at a level which is Chairman of the Board and or chairmanship of Board committees.
considered appropriate to attract and retain the calibre of individual The Non-Executive Chairman receives an all-inclusive fee for the role.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Chairman is set by the The Companys articles of Remuneration Committee, whilst the Board as a whole is responsible association provide that the total for determining Non-Executive Director fees.
These fees are the aggregate remuneration paid to sole element of Non-Executive remuneration and they are not eligible the Non-Executive Chairman and for incentive awards, pensions or other benefits.
the NEDs will be within the limits Fees are typically reviewed annually.
Expenses incurred in the performance of Non-Executive duties for the Company may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, as appropriate, including any tax due on the benefits.
Legacy matters The Committee will honour remuneration related commitments to current and former Executive Directors including the exercise of any discretions available to the Committee in relation to such commitments where the terms were agreed prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy detailed in this report provided that, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming an Executive Director of the Company.
For these purposes, payments include the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Remuneration arrangements throughout the Company The remuneration policy for our Executive Directors is designed in line with the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration for the wider Company.
Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 99 All our reward arrangements are built around the common objectives and principles outlined below: Performance driven The Company intentionally places significant focus on variable remuneration, ensuring that a meaningful proportion of remuneration is based on performance.
Performance targets are typically aligned with those of the Executive Directors.
As a result, individuals are incentivised towards consistent financial and non-financial business goals and objectives, in addition to appropriate individual goals.
Colleagues as shareholders The Committee intends to put in place a Sharesave plan during the term of this Policy, to allow our wider colleague population to build up a shareholding in the Company.
In addition, under the terms of our IPO, colleagues were permitted to buy shares in our IPO and over 2,700 colleagues took up this opportunity.
c Recruitment policy The following table sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the appointment of an Executive Director and the approach to be adopted by the Committee in respect of each component.
Element Policy and operation Overall The Committees approach when considering the overall remuneration arrangements in the recruitment of a member of the Board from an external party is to take account of the Executive Directors remuneration package in their prior role, the market positioning of the remuneration package, and to not pay more than necessary to facilitate the recruitment of the individual.
Where an Executive Director is appointed from within the business, in addition to considering the matters detailed above for external candidates, the normal policy of the Company is that any legacy arrangements would be honoured in line with the original terms and conditions.
Fixed elements We recognise that salary levels drive other elements of the package and would therefore seek to pay a salary which Base salary, benefits is competitive, but no more than necessary to secure the individual.
and other benefits The Executive Director would be eligible to participate in our benefit and pension plans, including coverage under all Executive Director and colleague pension and benefit programmes in accordance with the terms and conditions of such plans, as may be amended by the Company from time to time.
The Company may meet certain mobility costs, including relocation support, expatriate allowances, temporary living and transportation expenses in line with the prevailing mobility policy and practice for senior executives.
Short-term incentives The individual will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus plan, in accordance with the rules and terms of the plan in operation at the time.
The maximum level of opportunity will be no greater than that set out in the Policy Table above i. e. 100% of base salary.
Long-term incentives The individual will be eligible to participate in the Performance Share Plan and the associated Company Share Option Plan, in accordance with the rules and terms of the plan in operation at the time.
The maximum level of opportunity will be no greater than that set out in the Policy Table above i. e. 200% of base salary.
Alternatively, whilst not currently envisaged at this time, the Committee may consider the individual eligible to participate in the Co-Investment Plan, which would operate under the same terms as for current participants.
The maximum level of opportunity will be no greater than that set out in the Policy Table above i. e. a maximum Matching Award of 250% of base salary, and would be pro-rated to reflect the length of the performance period which the individual was due to serve.
Buy-out awards The Committee will consider what buy-out awards if any are reasonably necessary to facilitate the recruitment of a new Executive Director in all circumstances.
This includes an assessment of the awards which would be forfeited on leaving their current employer.
The Committee will seek to structure any buy-out awards such that overall they are no more generous in terms of quantum or vesting period than the awards due to be forfeited.
In determining the quantum and structure of these commitments, the Committee will seek to provide broadly equivalent value and replicate, as far as practicable, the timing and performance requirements of the awards forfeited.
Buy-out awards, if used, will be granted using the Companys existing long term incentive plans to the extent possible, although awards may also be granted outside this plan if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
In the case of an internal hire, any outstanding awards made in relation to the previous role will be allowed to pay out according to their original terms.
If promotion is part way through the year, an additional top-up award may be made to bring the Executive Directors opportunity to a level that is appropriate in the circumstances.
Pets at Home Group Plc 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy continued d Service contracts and loss of office arrangements The Committees policy on service contracts and termination arrangements for Executive Directors is set out below.
On principle, it is the Committees policy that there should be no element of reward for failure.
The Committees approach when considering payments in the event of a loss of office is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason for the loss of office, Company and individual performance, contractual obligations of both parties as well as share plan and pension scheme rules.
The key employment terms and conditions of the current Executive Directors, as stipulated in their service contracts are set out below: Area Policy Notice period The service contracts for Nick Wood and Ian Kellett provide for a notice period from both the Company and the individual of 12 months for Nick Wood, and 6 months for Ian Kellett.
New Executive Directors will be appointed on service contracts that have a notice period of not more than 12 months for both the Company and the individual.
The Committee considers this policy provides an appropriate balance between the need to retain the services of key individuals for the benefit of the business and the need to limit the potential liabilities of the Company in the event of termination.
Contractual payments Executive Directors service contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from the Company or termination by way of payment in lieu of notice PILON, at the Companys discretion.
Payment in lieu of notice would be made where circumstances dictate that the Executive Directors services are not required for their full notice period.
Neither notice nor PILON will be given in the event of gross misconduct.
Payment in lieu of notice will be limited to base salary and contractual benefits for the relevant notice period.
There is no contractual entitlement to a payment under the annual bonus in respect of the notice period.
Service contracts allow for mitigation if the individual finds alternative employment.
Short-term incentives The Committees policy is not to award an annual incentive for any portion of the notice period not served.
Where an Executive Director leaves office after the end of a performance year but before the payment is made, the executive will remain eligible for an annual bonus for that performance year, subject to the normal assessment of performance achieved over the period.
Where an Executive Director leaves office during a performance year, any bonus would be at the Committees absolute discretion and would take into account performance and the time served during the period.
No bonus will be paid in the event of gross misconduct.
Long-term incentives The treatment of unvested long term incentive awards is governed by the rules of the relevant incentive plan.
CIP Treatment under the CIP is dependent on the period elapsed since the IPO.
a Within the first 24 months following admission Where an individual with a six month notice period voluntarily resigns less than 18 months following the date of admission, they will forfeit their Invested Shares and their Matching Awards.
b Between 24 months and 36 months following admission Where an individual with a six month notice period voluntarily resigns between 18 months and 30 months following the date of admission and completes at least two years service by working his notice period or being put on garden leave, or would have done so but is given PILON, they will retain their Invested Shares and may retain a portion of their Matching Award subject to achievement of performance targets measured over the first two years of the performance period.
c On or after 36 months following admission Where an individual with a six month notice period voluntarily resigns on or after 30 months following the date of admission and completes at least three years service by working his notice period or being put on garden leave, or would have done so but is given PILON, they will retain their Invested Shares and, if a good leaver defined as under the PSP also their Matching Award, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Any participant who is dismissed for reasons of fraud or negligence will forfeit their Invested Shares and Matching Awards in full.
PSP Under the PSP, the default position is for unvested awards to lapse upon a loss of office event.
Where an individual is determined to be a good leaver which include for reasons of death, illness, injury, disability, retirement or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee the Committee may allow unvested awards to subsist until the relevant vesting date, subject to satisfaction of the performance conditions and pro-rated for time served.
Alternatively, the Committee may, at its discretion, allow awards to vest at an earlier date, having regard to the achievement of performance conditions to that date and the period of time that has passed since the date of grant.
The Committee may choose to apply no reduction in the amount vesting if it is considered appropriate given the particular circumstances.
Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 101 Area Policy Change in control The Committees policy is that service contracts should not provide for additional compensation on severance as a result of a change in control.
Under the PSP, the Committee will determine whether and to what extent awards shall vest, taking into account all relevant factors including Company performance, the period of time elapsed since the date of grant and the interests of our shareholders.
Under the CIP, participants will be eligible to retain their full Invested Shares and all restrictions on them will be lifted.
The Committee will determine whether and to what extent Matching Awards shall vest, taking into account Company performance, and the period of time elapsed since the date of grant.
External appointments Executive Directors are permitted to hold an external appointment with the prior consent of the Board.
Any fees may be retained by the individual.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman of the Board, have letters of appointment which set out their duties and responsibilities.
They do not have service contracts.
The key terms of the appointments are set out in the table below: Provision Policy Period Initially appointed for a period of three years, subject to annual review and notice.
In line with the UK Code, all Directors will seek annual re-appointment by shareholders at the AGM.
Loss of office Three months notice by either the Company or the Non-Executive Director.
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board are not entitled to compensation on leaving the Board.
Expiry of current term See page 91 for details of the expiry of the current term of Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment.
Availability of documentation Service contracts and letters of appointment for all Directors are available for inspection by any person at our registered office in Handforth, Cheshire.
They will also be available for inspection during the 30 minutes prior to the start of our AGM to be held in Manchester on 9 September 2015.
Pets at Home Group Plc 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy continued d Illustration of the Remuneration Policy Our remuneration arrangements have been designed to ensure that a significant proportion of pay is dependent on the delivery of stretching short-term and long-term performance targets, aligned with the creation of sustainable shareholder value.
The Committee considers the level of remuneration that may be received under different performance outcomes to ensure that this is appropriate in the context of the performance delivered and the value added for shareholders.
The charts below provide illustrative values of the remuneration package for Executive Directors under three assumed performance scenarios.
Scenario Assumptions Fixed pay All performance scenarios Consists of total fixed pay, including base salary, benefits and pension Base salary salary effective as at 17 March 2014 Benefits amount estimated to be received by each Executive Director in 2014 15 Pension salary supplement effective as at 17 March 2014.
Variable pay Minimum performance No payout under the annual bonus No vesting under the Performance Share Plan On-target performance 50% of the maximum pay-out under the annual bonus i. e. 50% of salary 16% vesting under the Performance Share Plan i. e. 24% of salary Maximum performance 100% of the maximum pay-out under the annual bonus i. e. 100% of salary 100% vesting under the Performance Share Plan i. e. 150% of salary Notes The Co-Investment Plan has not been included in the scenarios shown, as this plan is not intended to be an ongoing remuneration element under our policy.
Under the PSP, the normal maximum limit of 150% of salary has been shown, rather than the exceptional limit of 200% of salary.
All-colleague share plans have been excluded.
Any legacy awards which Executive Directors hold have been excluded.
These charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may differ from those shown.
Chief Executive Nick Wood Chief Financial officer Ian Kellett 000 000 1,539 1,600 1,600 1,400 1,400 1,160 41% 1,200 1,200 1,000 1,000 41% 789 800 800 13% 28% 597 600 600 27% 13% 475 28% 27% 360 400 400 100% 60% 31% 200 200 100% 60% 31% 0 0 Minimum Meeting Maximum Minimum Meeting Maximum Expectation Expectation PSP Annual Bonus Fixed Pay PSP Annual Bonus Fixed Pay Strategic report Governance report Financial statements 103 Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Base salary 425,000 320,000 Benefits 11,500 11,500 Pension 38,250 28,800 Total fixed pay 474,750 360,300 e Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company As per the Committees terms of reference, we also review the pay and conditions of colleagues at levels below the Executive Directors.
This includes approving the design of, and determining targets for any performance related pay schemes such as the bonus scheme operated by the Company and approving the total annual payments made under such schemes.
The Committee is also consulted concerning any major changes in colleague benefit structures throughout the Group.
The remuneration package for all colleagues including the Executive Directors is reviewed on an annual basis and a consistent approach is applied at all levels.
As part of the annual salary and benefits review, the Company takes into account industry standards, future legislative framework including the national minimum wage and the financial and economic environment of the Group both internally and externally.
The annual salary and benefits review is presented to the Committee with recommendations on remuneration throughout the colleague base, including a proposed salary increase to be applied to all colleagues wages, including the Executive Directors.
As such, the Committee has regard to this Group-wide annual review process when setting its remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
Whilst our colleagues are not directly consulted as part of the process of determining pay, the output from colleague surveys, including our internal Were All Ears survey, is considered when carrying out the annual salary and benefits review.
A significant number of our colleagues are also shareholders and so are able to express their views in the same way as other shareholders.
f Consideration of shareholder views Although we have only recently become a public listed company, the Committee recognises the importance of building a good relationship with our new shareholders.
This reflects our commitment to follow the highest standards of practice in relation to remuneration and governance at Pets at Home.
In reviewing the remuneration arrangements which were put in place at the time of our IPO, the Committee evaluated current best practice in the listed environment.
In particular, the Committee was keen to promote alignment, motivate our Executive Team and retain key talent to drive our business strategy.
Our aim was to adopt a remuneration framework which would drive achievement of our corporate goals, whilst providing shareholders with comfort that it was appropriate, justified and did not encourage unacceptable risk management behaviour.
We will continue to monitor shareholder views when evaluating and setting ongoing remuneration strategy, and we commit to consulting with shareholders prior to any significant changes to our remuneration policy.
g Minor amendments The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Pets at Home Group Plc 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report 105 Consolidated income statement 108 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 108 Consolidated balance sheet 109 Consolidated statement of changes in equity as at 26 March 2015 110 Consolidated statement of changes in equity as at 27 March 2014 111 Consolidated statement of cash flows 112 Company balance sheet 113 Company statement of changes in equity as at 26 March 2015 114 Company statement of changes in equity as at 27 March 2014 114 Company income statement 114 Company statement of cash flows 115 Notes forming part of the financial statements 116 Advisors and contacts 155
