Strategic report Governance Financial statements Remuneration policy report The Remuneration Policy was approved The Committee believes that the individual The Remuneration Committee believes by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, with contributions made by Executive Directors that its remuneration policy creates a the expectation it would be applied for a and senior management are fundamental coherent and appropriate framework for period of three years from that date.
The to the successful performance of the remunerating Executive Directors and other Remuneration Policy is re-presented here Company.
The Committee after discussion senior executives of the Company and draws for completeness and transparency.
Some with the Executive Directors and its a clearer link between performance and minor amendments have been made to advisers, New Bridge Street, has therefore reward.
The details of this policy are clearly i references to particular years, ii page adopted a remuneration policy with the set out in the following pages.
and Note references, and iii the removal following objectives: of the Total Remuneration Opportunity The Committee considers that the targets charts which were in relation to 2014 pay seek to pay executives competitively, set for the different components of levels.
The full original report can be viewed recognising that they have highly performance related remuneration are both at http: playtech-ir.
com marketable skills to companies already appropriate and sufficiently demanding in media Files P Playtech-IR resultsin and those considering entry to the context of the business environment reports-webcasts 2016 2015-report-andthe online gambling industry, but and the challenges with which the Group accounts.
acknowledge local market levels, and is faced as well as complying with the where appropriate, practices: provisions of the Code.
The Remuneration Committee reviews incentivise and reward behaviours the Companys remuneration philosophy that will contribute to superior and structure each year to ensure that the Company performance: remuneration framework remains effective avoid the need to make ad-hoc in supporting the Companys strategic payments outside the formal structure: objectives, is in line with best practice and enable the Company to attract and fairly rewards individuals for the contribution retain international executives at the that they make to the business, having required calibre, particularly in potential regard to the international nature, size and new markets: complexity of the Groups operations and be simple and understandable: the need to attract and motivate employees provide good lock-in of key employees of the highest calibre.
through deferred elements: and avoid reward for failure.
Remuneration packages are designed to reward the Executive Directors and members of the senior management team fairly for their contributions, whilst remaining within the range of benefits offered by similar companies in the sector.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 59 Governance Remuneration policy report continued Remuneration policy for Executive Directors The following table gives an overview of the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors: Element and Purpose and link maximum to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Salary To attract, retain and Normally reviewed annually Other than when an N A motivate high calibre by the Committee, effective executive changes roles individuals for the role and in June or where benchmarking duties required indicates individual salaries Takes account of the require realignment, To provide market external market and other annual increases will not competitive salary relative relevant factors including exceed the general level of to the external market internal relativities and increases for the Groups individual performance To reflect appropriate employees, taking into skills, development and account the country where experience over time the executive ordinarily works Where benchmarking indicates that any individual salaries require realignment, these may be spread over a period of time if the required adjustment is particularly large Bonus Clear and direct incentive Paid in cash Normally 150% of salary for Based on a mixture of linked to annual the CEO but 200% in very financial performance performance targets exceptional circumstances including adjusted EBITDA as described below and and performance against Incentivise annual delivery 100% of salary for other strategic objectives of financial measures and Executive Directors but personal performance No less than 70% of the 150% in very exceptional bonus will be dependent Corporate measures circumstances.
The on financial performance selected consistent with additional limit will only be and complement the used in truly exceptional Bonus is paid on a sliding budget and strategic plan circumstances where scale of 0% for threshold performance significantly increasing to 100% for exceeds the targets already maximum performance set for bonus and reflects the unique and challenging environment in which the Company operates 60 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Element and Purpose and link maximum to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Long Term Aligned to key strategic Grant of performance 150% and 100% of salary in Performance measured Incentive Plan objective of delivering shares, restricted shares performance shares for the over three years LTIP strong returns to or options CEO and CFO respectively Performance targets shareholders and Awards may be subject aligned with the Groups earnings performance to clawback in certain strategy of delivering strong circumstances returns to shareholders and earnings performance 25% of the awards vest for threshold performance Pension Provide retirement benefits Provision of cash allowance 5% of salary N A Other benefits To help attract and retain Provision of private N A N A high calibre individuals medical, permanent health insurance, life insurance and rental and accommodation expenses on relocation Non pensionable Share The Company has a policy Executive Directors N A N A ownership of encouraging Directors are required to retain guidelines to build a shareholding in 50% of the net of tax the Company out-turn from the vesting of awards under the LTIP until a shareholding with a minimum value has been achieved Non-executive To provide a competitive Fees are set in conjunction Other than when N A Directors fee for the performance with the duties undertaken an individual changes of NED duties, sufficient roles or where to attract high calibre benchmarking indicates individuals to the role fees require realignment, annual increases will not exceed the general level of increases for the Groups employees Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 61 Governance Remuneration policy report continued Normal policy will be for the new Director For the appointment of a new Chairman Explanation of chosen to participate in the remuneration structure or Non-executive Director, the fee performance measures arrangement would be set in accordance detailed above, including the maximum and target setting incentive levels of 350% and 250% of salary with the approved remuneration policy in force at that time.
for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Performance measures have been Financial Officer respectively.
The Committee selected to reflect the key performance may decide that different performance indicators which are critical to the realisation Service contracts and criteria will apply to awards made in the of our business strategy and delivery of exit payments year of appointment from those stated in shareholder returns.
The Committee may also Executive Directors provide relocation expenses arrangements, The service agreements of the Executive The performance targets are reviewed legal fees and costs.
Directors are with PTVB Management each year to ensure that they are sufficiently Limited, a wholly owned Isle of Man challenging.
When setting these targets the The variable pay elements that may be incorporated subsidiary of the Company.
Committee will take into account a number offered will be subject to the maximum limits The service agreement of the Chief Financial of different reference points including, for stated in the policy table.
The Remuneration Officer was entered into on 5 December financial targets, the Companys business Committee may consider it necessary and 2012 and effective from 1 January 2013 plan and consensus analyst forecasts of the in the best interests of the Company and its and the service agreement of the Chief Companys performance.
Full vesting will only shareholders to offer additional cash and Executive Officer was amended effective occur for what the Remuneration Committee or make a grant of shares including use from 1 January 2013.
Both service considers to be stretching performance.
of awards made under section 9.4.
2 of the agreements are for an indefinite term Listing Rules in order to compensate the and provide for formal notice of 12 months Policy on recruitment or individual for remuneration that would be to be served to terminate the agreement, promotion of Executive forfeited from the current employer.
Where either by the Company or the Director.
possible such awards would be structured Future service contracts will provide for Directors to mirror the value, form and structure of the a notice period of up to 12 months.
Set Base salary levels will be set to reflect the forfeited awards or to provide alignment with out in the table below are the other key experience of the individual, appropriate existing shareholders.
terms of the Executive Directors terms market data and internal relativities.
The and conditions of employment: Remuneration Committee may feel it is In the case of an internal promotion, any appropriate to appoint a new Director commitments entered into prior to the on a below market salary with a view to promotion shall continue to apply.
Any making above market and workforce annual variable pay elements shall be entitled to pay increases over a number of years to reach out according to its original terms on grant.
the desired salary positioning subject to individual and Company performance.
Provision Detail Remuneration Base salary and benefits Company car Private health insurance for Director and dependents Life assurance 25 days paid annual leave in the case of the CFO and 30 days paid annual leave in the case of the CEO Participation in annual bonus plan, subject to plan rules Participation in LTIP, subject to rules plan Contribution equal to 5% of salary to personal pension plan Change of control No special contractual provisions apply in the event of a change of control Notice period 12 months notice on either side Termination payment The Company may make a payment in lieu of notice equal to basic salary plus benefits for the period of notice served Restrictive covenants During employment and for 12 months thereafter 62 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Non-executive Directors A bonus is not ordinarily payable unless Consideration of employment the individual is employed and not under The Non-executive Directors each have conditions elsewhere specific letters of appointment, rather notice on the payment date.
However, the Remuneration Committee may exercise its than service contracts.
Their remuneration The Remuneration Committee when is determined by the Board within limits setting the policy for Executive Directors discretion to award a bonus payment for the notice period served not on garden leave.
set by the articles of association and is set takes into consideration the pay and taking into account market data as obtained employment conditions through the The LTIP rules provide that other than in from independent Non-executive Director Company as a whole.
fee surveys and their responsibilities.
Noncertain good leaver circumstances awards lapse on cessation of employment.
Where an executive Directors are appointed for In determining salary increases for Executive an initial term of three years and, under Directors, the Committee considers the individual is a good leaver the Committees policy is for the award to vest on the normal normal circumstances would be expected general level of salary increase across the to serve for additional three-year terms, Company.
Typically salary increases will vesting date or cessation of employment in the event of death following the up to a maximum of nine years, subject to be aligned with those received elsewhere satisfactory performance and re-election at in the Company unless the Remuneration application of performance targets and a pro-rata reduction to take account of the the annual general meeting as required.
Committee considers that specific circumstances require a different level of proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed.
The Committee has discretion to On his appointment as Chairman of the salary increase for Executive Directors.
Board being announced, Alan Jackson partly or completely dis-apply pro-rating or to permit awards to vest on cessation entered into a new letter of appointment The Company extends its annual bonus plan and share awards to senior management of employment.
The Committee effective from 9 October 2013 when Roger acknowledges that Executive Directors Withers announced his decision to retire as and other key members of the workforce as the Remuneration Committee feels that leave for a variety of reasons that do not Chairman of the Board in August 2013. necessarily fall within the prescribed it is important to incentivise and retain these employees in order for the Company to categories in the plan rules.
It therefore The table below is a summary of the key retains discretion to deem an individual terms of the letters of appointment for the continue its development.
to be a good leaver in accordance with Non-executive Directors.
the plan rules and in making that decision Consideration of will take into account the performance In accordance with provision B.
3.2 of the shareholder views of the individual in office and their reason Code the letters of appointment of the for leaving.
Non-executive Directors are available for The Company is committed to engagement inspection at the Companys registered with shareholders and will seek major office and will be available before and after shareholders views in advance of the forthcoming AGM.
making significant changes to its remuneration policies.
Name Date Term Termination Alan Jackson 29 August 2013 Until third AGM after appointment 120 days notice on either side unless not re-elected or if not re-elected, disqualification or commits gross misconduct Andrew Thomas 19 June 2012 Until third AGM after appointment 120 days notice on either side unless not re-elected or if not re-elected, disqualification or commits gross misconduct Paul Hewitt 27 August 2015 Until third AGM after appointment 90 days notice on either side unless not re-elected or if not re-elected, disqualification or commits gross misconduct John Jackson 1 January 2016 Until third AGM after appointment 90 days notice on either side unless not re-elected or if not re-elected, disqualification or commits gross misconduct Note: Hilary Stewart-Jones was appointed a Non-executive Director on 9 October 2013 and accepted the position of Deputy Chairman with effect from 1 December 2014.
Hilary resigned as a Director on 31 December 2015.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 63 Governance Remuneration policy report continued In relation to the annual bonus plan, Legacy arrangements the Remuneration Committee retains For the avoidance of doubt, in approving discretion over: the Remuneration Policy, authority is given to the Company to honour any the participants: commitments previously entered into with the timing of a payment: current or former Directors that have been the determination of the amount disclosed previously to shareholders.
of a bonus payment: determination of the treatment The policy described above includes of leavers: and some flexibility to allow the Remuneration the annual review of performance Committee discretion to increase the measures and weighting, and targets for maximum bonus payment to an Executive the annual bonus plan from year to year.
Director: it was considered that given the unique, fast-changing and challenging In relation to both the Companys LTIP environment in which the Group operates, and annual bonus plan, the Committee the Committee needed some discretion if, retains the ability to adjust the targets acting fairly and reasonably it feels that the and or set different measures if events occur pay-out is inconsistent with the Companys e. g. material acquisition and or divestment overall performance taking account of any of a Group business which cause it to factors it considers relevant.
determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and the amendment is required Discretion vested in the so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult Remuneration Committee to satisfy.
Given the unique, fast-changing The Remuneration Committee will operate and challenging environment in which the annual bonus and LTIP according to their the Group operates, the Remuneration respective rules or relevant documents Committee considers that it needs some and in accordance with the Listing Rules discretion if, acting fairly and reasonably, where relevant.
The Committee retains it feels that the pay-out is inconsistent discretion, consistent with market practice, with the Companys overall performance in a number of regards to the operation and taking account of any factors it considers administration of these plans.
Any use of the above discretions but are not limited to, the following in would, where relevant, be explained in the relation to the LTIP: Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation the participants: with the Companys major shareholders.
the timing of grant of an award: the size of an award: the determination of vesting: discretion required when dealing with a change of control or restructuring of the Group: determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : and the annual review of performance measures and weighting, and targets for the LTIP from year to year.
64 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual report on remuneration The sections of this report subject to audit have been highlighted.
Directors emoluments in Audited Mor Weizer Ron Hoffman Executive Director 2015 2014 2015 2014 1 Salary 761,425 543,019 480,656 270,035 2 Bonus 1,306,113 1,150,200 636,094 575,100 Long-term incentives 313,176 130,488 3,790 3 Benefits 29,663 19,356 30,099 23,868 Pension 39,043 27,151 24,033 13,534 Total emoluments 2,449,420 1,739,726 1,301,370 886,327 1 Basic salary of the Executive Directors is determined in pounds sterling and then converted into euros at the average exchange rate applicable during the relevant financial year for the purpose of this report.
As noted on page 67, the salary for Ron Hoffman was increased from 300,000 to 375,000 with effect from 1 June 2015 and the salary of Mor Weizer of 550,000 was effective from 1 January 2015.
2 The figure for bonuses in 2015 above represents a payment as determined by the Remuneration Committee for the Executive Directors given the excellent performance during the period and by reference to their salaries as at 31 December 2015.
The bonuses were determined in pounds sterling and then converted into euros at the exchange applicable as at 31 December 2015.
Details of a how the annual performance bonus for the Executive Directors was determined: and b the timing of bonus payments, is set out below.
3 Benefits include private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, car and life assurance.
Her annual fees were increased from 100,000 to 200,000 per annum upon her appointment as Deputy Chairman on 1 December 2014.
2 Paul Hewitt was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 27 August 2015.
Determination of 2015 bonus In accordance with the Companys Remuneration Policy, the CEO and CFO had the opportunity to earn a normal bonus in respect of 2015 of 150% and 100% of salary respectively and a further 50% of salary each in exceptional circumstances.
The 2015 performance was assessed against a mixture of financial and non-financial targets.
The financial targets representing 70% of bonus opportunity were based on the achievement of Adjusted EBITDA of 220 million payable on a scale of 90%105% around this target, with 0% of bonus payable below 90% of target and 100% of bonus payable for on or over 105% of target.
Adjusted EBITDA was selected as an appropriate measure as it is the key financial performance metric of the Company, most closely representing the underlying trading performance of the business and is calculated after adding back certain non-cash charges, cash expenses relating to professional costs on acquisitions, gains on sale of investments and certain one-off charges as set out in the financial statements on page 104.
The non-financial performance targets were selected to underpin key strategic objectives of the Group, in particular recognising the challenges of expanding the business into regulated and soon-to-be regulated markets and strengthening the Groups regulatory functions in light of increased regulation in the UK and elsewhere.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 65 Governance Annual report on remuneration continued When reviewing the performance during 2015 the Committee noted that the adjusted EBITDA for the financial year ended 31 December 2015 was 251.9 million consolidated with 236 million for the gaming division and the balance for Markets Limited, representing a 22% increase on the prior year.
This was achieved at the same time as a significant improvement in other key financial indicators including growth in revenue 22%, adjusted net profit 8% and adjusted EPS 3%.
The operational highlights set out in the Strategic Report on page 2 demonstrate that a number of the key strategic objectives set for executives have already been successfully implemented, particularly as regards securing business in regulated and soon-to-be regulated markets.
The Committee also took account of the exceptional work and effort undertaken as part of the successful integration of Markets Limited formerly TradeFX Limited and the proposed acquisitions of Ava Trade Limited and Plus500 Limited.
It was noted that the Company had received overwhelming support from shareholders in respect of these proposed acquisitions and that the reasons for non-completion were outside of the Companys control.
The Committee considered that the 2015 performance was excellent as it far surpassed expectations and the targets set at the start of the financial year.
The Committee felt it was fair and reasonable to recognise this exceptional Group and individual performance for the Executive Directors.
The Committee therefore approved the use of the facility within the approved policy whereby up to an additional 50% of salary can be payable to Executive Directors in exceptional circumstances where performance significantly exceeds the targets set.
On this basis the Committee approved additional bonuses of 25% of salary for the CEO and CFO.
Accordingly, the Committee determined that the bonus payable for 2015 was 1.3 million for the CEO 175% of salary and a bonus of 0.6 million for the CFO 125% of salary.
The bonus payments were awarded based on the salary rate at the end of 2015, it being noted that Ron Hoffman received a salary increase during the year.
This was considered appropriate in view of Mr Hoffmans previous salary having been significantly below the mid-market position, and the increased scope of responsibility including his new role as Chief Executive Officer of Markets Limited formerly TradeFX Limited.
As noted in the annual report for 2014, the Committee, in exercising its discretion, decided that 50% of the exceptional element of Mr Hoffmans bonus for 2014 being 102,121 fell due for payment on 31 December 2015 conditional only on Mr Hoffman not having ceased to be employed by the Group in customary bad leaver circumstances.
Mr. Hoffman continues to be employed by the Group and payment was made in January 2016.
The Committee is satisfied that the annual bonus payments to Executive Directors are a fair reflection of corporate and individual performance during the year and that overall remuneration is not excessive given the size and complexity of the Groups business and the industry in which it operates.
LTIP Awards Audited On 17 December 2015 the following awards were made to Executive Directors under the LTIP: % of award vesting for Type Total Number Aggregate threshold Performance of award of awards Market Value performance period 1 Mor Weizer Nil-cost option 103,708 1,125,379 25% 1.1.
15 31.12.17 1 Awards represent 150% and 100% of salary respectively based on a share price on grant of 795.5 pence.
When considering these awards, the Committee took into account the long delay in making the awards due to the Company being in an almost constant close period during 2015.
Therefore, it was decided that the vesting period would commence from 1 March 2015.
In the normal course of events these awards will vest on the third anniversary of the start of the vesting period, 1 March 2018, subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions.
Awards granted in 2015 are subject to the achievement of a mixture of performance conditions: 70% of the award is subject to a performance condition that the Companys simple annual EPS growth must match a threshold determined by the Committee for 25% of this portion of the award to vest, increasing to full vesting for achieving a maximum performance level.
EPS will be measured over three financial years commencing with the financial year in which the award is granted.
The remaining 30% of the award is subject to a performance condition comparing the Companys total shareholder return against a comparator group of other international gambling companies over three financial years commencing with the financial year in which the award is granted.
For median performance 25% of this portion of the award will vest increasing to full vesting for performance at the upper quartile.
The comparator group includes consists of William Hill, 888 Holdings, BWIN Party, Ladbrokes, Betfair Group, Paddy Power, Betsson, Unibet, Scientific Games, Sportech, Rank Group, GVC and Amaya.
66 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The EPS performance condition is that the Companys simple annual EPS growth must match or exceed 4% per annum in the performance period.
The EPS Tranche shall vest over a number of shares determined as follows: Companys simple annual EPS growth % of EPS Tranche that Vests 10% or more per annum 100% Between 4% and 10% per annum On a straight line basis between 25% and 100% 4% per annum 25% Less than 4% per annum 0% When setting the EPS performance range the Committee considered both internal financial targets and external market consensus.
The target range is considered to be challenging given the current view of the business and wider macroeconomic factors, but is achievable without incentivising any undue risk behaviours.
Termination Payments Audited No termination payments to Directors were made in 2015.
Payments to past Directors Audited Following his retirement from the Board in October 2013, Roger Withers continued to be retained as a special adviser to the Board until 30 September 2015.
During 2015, Roger received advisory fees of 103,569.
Implementation of Policy for 2016 Salary pay review The Remuneration Committee takes into account individual performance and experience, the size and nature of the role, the relative performance of the Company, pay policy within the Company including the general pay and employment terms of all employees in the Group and salaries in comparable companies.
Mr Weizers salary was set at 550,000 with effect from 1 January 2015 and was not subject to any increase during the year.
As reported in last years annual report, Mr Hoffmans salary was set at 300,000 with effect from 1 November 2014.
Taking account of Mr. Hoffmans increasing importance to the Group and his new role as Chief Executive Officer of Markets Limited formerly TradeFX Limited, the Committee reviewed Mr Hoffmans salary during the year and effective 1 June 2015, his salary was increased to 375,000.
The Committee considers that even with the above increase, the salaries of both the Executive Directors remain below the mid-market position.
In view of this, the Committee intends to re-evaluate the salaries for both Executive Directors as part of the annual review in 2016, which is expected to commence in June.
The current basic salary levels of the Executive Directors are: M. Weizer: 550,000 equivalent to 761,425 at the average exchange rate between and used in the accounts which was effective 1 January 2015: and R. Hoffman: 375,000 equivalent to 519,153 at the average exchange rate between and used in the accounts which was effective from 1 June 2015.
Fees currently payable to Non-executive Directors are: Chairman: 384,000 equivalent to 531,251 at the average exchange rate between and used in the accounts : Deputy Chairman: 200,000 equivalent to 276,693 at the average exchange rate between and used in the accounts : and Non-executive Director base fee: 100,000 equivalent to 138,347 at the average exchange rate between and used in the accounts.
The Non-executive Director fees recognise core responsibilities and additional duties as Chair of a Board Committee.
Benefits and pension Benefit and pension provision will continue to be set in line with the approved policy.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 67 Governance Annual report on remuneration continued Annual bonus For 2016, bonuses for the Executive Directors will be based on the following: Performance target Weighting Adjusted EBITDA Commercially confidential 70% Non-financial and strategic objectives Commercially confidential 30% When setting the adjusted EBITDA target, the Committee was mindful of a number of factors and believe that the targets set are very challenging.
The level of bonus payable by reference to the financial performance of the Company will be determined on a sliding scale based on the Companys budget for the forthcoming financial year.
The annual bonus will be subject to recovery and withholding provisions in relation to material misstatement, gross misconduct, material error in calculation and for a serious reputational event.
These provisions will apply for a period of three years after payment.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Awards made to Executive Directors will vest on the third anniversary of grant subject to i participants remaining in employment other than in certain good leaver circumstances and ii achievement of challenging performance targets.
Awards granted in 2016 will continue to be subject a combination of EPS growth 70% of awards and relative TSR 30% of awards.
Threshold performance will result in 25% of each element vesting.
As with the awards granted in 2015, the relative TSR measure will be measured over three financial years and requires at least median performance for 25% of this portion of the award to vest, increasing to full vesting for performance at the upper quartile.
The comparator group will feature other international gaming companies.
EPS will be measured over three financial years.
At the time of preparing this report EPS targets for 2016 have not been determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The EPS targets will be stretching and demanding and these targets will be set out in Stock Exchange announcements when these awards are made.
LTIP awards granted from 2016 will be subject to recovery and withholding provisions in relation to material misstatement, gross misconduct, material error in calculation and for a serious reputational event.
These provisions will apply for a period of three years post vesting.
Awards may be satisfied by the issue of new shares, market purchase shares or may be cashed-out, subject to the tax treatment in the hands of the recipient.
Dilution limits All of the Companys equity based incentive plans other than the Option Plan which was established before the Companys admission to AIM in 2006 incorporate the current Investment Association Guidelines on headroom which provide that overall dilution under all plans should not exceed 10% over a 10-year period in relation to the Companys issued share capital or reissue of treasury shares, with a further limitation of 5% in any 10-year period for executive plans.
The Committee monitors the position and prior to the making of any award considers the effect of potential vesting of options or share awards to ensure that the Company remains within these limits.
Any awards which are required to be satisfied by market purchased shares are excluded from such calculations.
No treasury shares were held or utilised in the year ended 31 December 2015.
68 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Review of performance The following graph shows the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance over the past five years: the Companys TSR is compared with a broad equity market index.
The index chosen here is the FTSE 350 Travel & Leisure Index, which is considered the most appropriate published index.
1,000 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13 Sep-13 Mar-14 Sep-14 Mar-15 Sep-15 Mar-16 Playtech FTSE 350 T&L The Remuneration Committee believes that the current Remuneration Policy and the supporting reward structure provide a clear alignment with the strategic objectives and performance of the Company.
To maintain this relationship, the Remuneration Committee constantly reviews the business priorities and the environment in which the Company operates.
The table below shows the total remuneration of Mor Weizer over the last five years and his achieved annual variable and long-term incentive pay awards as a percentage of the plan maxima.
Year ending 31 December 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total remuneration 000 826 808 800 1,381 1,740 2,449 Annual bonus % 48% 34% 150% 150% 200% 175% 2 LTIP vesting % 1 For the financial year ended 31 December 2012, Mor Weizer decided in light of his overall aggregate remuneration, to waive approximately three-quarters of his earned bonus for that year.
2 As awards previously granted were share options without performance conditions, under the Regulations they are not required to be shown in this table.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 69 Governance Annual report on remuneration continued Percentage change in remuneration of Chief Executive Officer In the financial year ended 31 December 2015, Mr Weizers salary was increased by 38% effective 1 January 2015 and was awarded an exceptional bonus of 175% of salary compared with 200% of salary in the year ended 31 December 2014.
On a value basis the increase was 41% which reflects the 38% increase in salary and also in part reflected movements in exchange rates.
The average percentage changes for all UK-based full-time employees were 13% salary increase, 11% increase in benefits and 46% increase in bonus payments respectively.
The UK workforce was chosen as a comparator group as the Remuneration Committee looks to benchmark the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer with reference mainly to the UK market albeit that he has a global role and responsibilities, and remuneration packages across the Group vary widely depending on local market practises and conditions.
Relative importance of spend on pay The following table sets out the amounts paid in share buybacks, dividends, and total remuneration paid to all employees as follows: 2015 2014 Change Pay-outs m m m % 1 Dividends 91.0 76.3 19 % Share buy-backs n a 2 Total employee remuneration 224.6 157.9 42 % 1 The total dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015 is calculated on the basis that the shareholders approve the proposed final dividends of 16.2 cents per share.
2 Total employee remuneration for continuing and discontinued operations, includes wages and salaries, social security costs, share-based payments and pension costs for all employees, including the Directors.
The average number of employees, including Executive Directors and part-time employees in continuing and discontinued operations was 5,161 during the financial year to 31 December 2015.
Directors interests in Ordinary Shares Audited Total interests at Ordinary Shares Share options 31 December Director 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 1, 3, 4 Executive Directors Mor Weizer 36,000 36,000 103,708 139,708 Ron Hoffman 10,000 10,000 43,211 53,211 2 Non-executive Directors Alan Jackson 15,000 15,000 15,000 Andrew Thomas 7,500 7,500 7,500 Hilary Stewart-Jones Paul Hewitt 2,524 2,524 John Jackson 1 Mor Weizer and Ron Hoffman currently hold shares to the value of 54% and 22% of salary based on salaries as of 31 December 2015 respectively and based on the closing share price on 31 December 2015.
The Committee will continue to monitor progress towards the share ownership guidelines of 100% of salary.
2 Paul Hewitt acquired 2,524 shares on 8 December 2015 2,223 shares at a price of 791.6 pence per share and 301 shares at a price of 793.14 pence per share.
3 Share options are granted for nil consideration.
4 These options were granted in accordance with the Rules of the Playtech Long Term Incentive Plan 2012 the Option Plan.
Options under the Option Plan are granted as nil cost options and in the case of Executive Directors exclusively, the options vest and become exercisable on the third anniversary of the notional grant date.
Unexercised options expire 10 years after the date of grant, unless the relevant employee leaves the Groups employment, in which case the unvested options lapse and any vested options lapse three months after the date that the employment ends.
None of the Non-executive Directors have any options over shares in the Company.
70 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Role and membership The Remuneration Committee is currently comprised entirely of four independent Non-executive Directors as defined in the Code.
John Jackson was appointed as Chair on 1 February 2016.
The other members are Andrew Thomas, Alan Jackson and Paul Hewitt.
During the year under review Hilary Stewart-Jones served as Committee Chair until 27 August 2015.
Paul Hewitt served as Chair from his appointment on 27 August 2015.
Hilary Stewart-Jones served on the Committee until she stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2015.
Details of attendance at the Remuneration Committee are set out on page 50 and their biographies and experience on pages 44 and 45.
The Committee operates within agreed terms of reference detailing its authority and responsibilities.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed and updated during 2016 and are available for inspection on the Companys website www.
com and include: determining and agreeing the policy for the remuneration of the CEO, CFO, the Chairman and other members of the senior management team: review of the broad policy framework for remuneration to ensure it remains appropriate and relevant: review of the design of and determine targets for any performance-related pay and the annual level of payments under such plans: review of the design of and approve any changes to long-term incentive or option plans: and ensuring that contractual terms on termination and payments made are fair to the individual and the Company and that failure is not rewarded.
The Remuneration Committee also considers the terms and conditions of employment and overall remuneration of Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and members of the senior management team and has regard to the Companys overall approach to the remuneration of all employees.
Within this context the Committee determines the overall level of salaries, incentive payments and performance related pay due to Executive Directors and senior management.
The Committee also determines the performance targets and the extent of their achievement for both annual and long-term incentive awards operated by the Company and affecting the senior management.
No Director is involved in any decisions as to his her own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee takes advice from both inside and outside the Group on a range of matters, including the scale and composition of the total remuneration package payable to people with similar responsibilities, skills and experience in comparable companies that have extensive operations inside and outside the UK.
During the year the Remuneration Committee received material assistance and advice from the Company Secretary who is also secretary to the Committee.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 | 71 Governance Annual report on remuneration continued The Remuneration Committee has a planned schedule of at least four meetings throughout the year, with additional meetings and calls held when necessary.
During 2015, the Committee met in person 6 times and these meetings, together with a number of conference calls, addressed a wide variety of issues, including: Month Principal activity February Approving bonus and other incentivisation arrangements in relation to Executive Directors and certain members of senior management April To set financial targets for 2016 bonuses May To discuss long term incentive arrangements for Executive Directors October To review senior management salaries November To review senior management salaries December Approval of grant of nil cost options for a limited number of Group personnel External advisers New Bridge Street a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited is the Committees independent adviser.
New Bridge Street is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and is a signatory to its Code of Conduct.
New Bridge Street does not provide any other services to the Company.
New Bridge Street was paid 68,375 in relation to advice provided during 2015.
Engagement with shareholders and shareholder voting The Remuneration Committee is committed to ensuring open dialogue with shareholders in relation to remuneration and would normally consult with major shareholders regarding any significant future changes to remuneration policy.
The voting outcome at the AGM held on 20 May 2015 in respect of the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2014 was as follows: For Against Withheld Approval of Remuneration Report 189,792,715 30,206,230 3,096,883 86.27% 13.73% At 19 May 2015, the issued share capital of the Company was 293,532,617 Ordinary Shares of no par value.
By order of the Board John Jackson Chair of the Remuneration Committee 25 February 2016 72 | Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
