DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Dear Shareholder, Performance and reward for 2014 15 As Chair of the Remuneration Committee the Committee, and The Company performed well in the year to 29 March 2015, on behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors with both growth and profit performance in line with consensus Remuneration Report for the year ended 29th March 2015. forecasts.
Any bonus payment is self-funding and, as such, this years underlying Profit After Tax PAT achievement of 33.95m did The Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared in not trigger payment of bonuses.
accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
Approach for 2015 16 The Report is in two parts: The Committee will continue to operate within the remuneration First, the Annual Report on Remuneration, which sets out how policy approved by shareholders in September 2014.
The key the policy is being implemented by the Committee and: highlights of how we intend to apply this for 2015 16 are: As an appendix, the Remuneration Policy which was With effect from 1 April 2015, the salaries of the Executive approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on Directors were increased by 2%, which is in line with the 19 September 2014, is restated here for clarity and ease of average increase awarded to the broader workforce to date: reference.
The annual bonus plan will continue to be based primarily on a Profit After Tax PAT pool approach, with a proportion The Illustrations of application of remuneration policy within the of the pool being subject to strategic targets 80% PAT and Remuneration Policy have been updated to reflect the new salaries 20% strategic objectives for Executive Directors.
Reflecting and the bonus arrangements for 2015 16.
However, other than this our budgets for 2015 16, the pay-out scale has been the Remuneration Policy is unchanged.
adjusted slightly so as to pay 50% of maximum bonus for the achievement of target in line with budget: This letter, which recaps our remuneration philosophy principles, Awards will be made in June 2015 under the Performance sets out the key work of the Committee during the year and the Share Plan PSP at 150% of salary for the CEO and 125% of context against which the Committees decisions were made, salary for the other Executive Directors.
Awards will also be together with the Annual Report on Remuneration, which will be made to other senior colleagues at this time.
The Committee subject to an advisory vote at the AGM on 17th September 2015. has decided that underlying Earnings per Share EPS remains the most appropriate single performance target.
Under the Objectives of the Remuneration Policy PSP, the Remuneration Committee sets the target growth The Policy approved by shareholders in September 2014 is range at the time of each award.
Market conditions, consensus designed to: forecasts and internal business plans inform that for this award, attract, retain and motivate high calibre senior management and the EPS growth range will require compound annual growth to focus them on the delivery of the Companys strategic and over three financial years of at least 11% p. a. rising to 19% business objectives: p. a. for full vesting.
This range has been set on a business promote a strong and sustainable performance culture: as usual assumption for our core business.
At the time of incentivise high growth: writing, there are two key areas of strategy that are yet to be align the interests of Executive Directors and members of determined, namely i the outcome of the Competition and the Executive Committee with those of shareholders through Markets Authority CMA review of the proposed 99p Stores encouraging equity ownership: transaction: and ii the conclusion of the Spanish trial.
These be simple and constructed taking into account best practice initiatives will shape the direction of the Companys further guidelines for UK listed companies: and expansion plans.
The Committee recognises that these may encourage widespread equity ownership by colleagues through have a material impact on our performance, and so intends the operation of several tailored share plans, including an allto review the targets once the outcome of these is known.
reserves the right to make changes to the target range if our internal plans and consensus forecasts change materially as Overview of the work of the Committee during a result of either or both the acquisition or the Spanish rollout 2014 15 proceeding.
In the event that changes are made, the new targets would be set taking into account the principles applied As a result of the considerable work undertaken to develop the when the original targets were set, so as to ensure that they are Companys Remuneration Policy in advance of Admission, during no less challenging than the original targets were at the time of 2014 15 the business conducted by the Committee related primarily being set.
Should changes arise from the review these will be to the implementation of the approved policy.
communicated to major shareholders as appropriate.
Further awards will be made under the Company Share Option One of our key activities was a detailed review of how we Plan CSOP to eligible colleagues, and a second Save As You operate our policy against the backdrop of insight into the UK plc Earn SAYE launch is planned for later in the year.
This review took particular account of the market insights derived from the 2014 AGM season the first since Shareholder feedback the introduction of the new reporting legislation, the changes to the Corporate Governance Code in 2014, and the most up to date The Committee is mindful of on going developments in executive views of shareholders and their representative bodies.
The outputs remuneration best practice and the views of our shareholders and of this review, as regards their application to the remuneration policy actively welcomes any feedback on our remuneration policy and its for the Executive Directors, are set out below under the paragraph implementation.
We believe that our policy continues to deliver a robust link between In support of our objective to encourage widespread share reward and performance and is aligned with our strategic goals.
We ownership, in November, the Company launched the first grant hope you will support our remuneration report at this years AGM.
under the Sharesave SAYE scheme, which resulted in a take up from over 10% of the total eligible workforce.
Tea Colaianni Chair of the Remuneration Committee 18th June 2015 www.
com 45 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Implementation of the remuneration policy for the Performance share plan year ending 27th March 2016 It is proposed that PSP awards will be made in June 2015 at the A summary of how the Directors Remuneration Policy will be following levels: applied during the year ending 27th March 2016 is set out below: % of salary Jim McCarthy 150% Base salary Nick Hateley 125% The Executive Directors salaries were reviewed during early 2015 Richard Lancaster 125% and increased by 2%.
This compares with the average salary increase provided to employees of 2%.
For 2015 awards performance will be based on EPS and measured over three years.
The Committee has considered the Groups The current salaries are as follows: business plan together with external consensus forecasts, and the From 1 April 2015 On IPO target range will be as follows: Jim McCarthy 448,800 440,000 % of award Compound % PSP Nick Hateley 331,500 325,000 Performance subject to annual growth award which Richard Lancaster 331,500 325,000 condition condition in EPS will vest Pension and benefits compound annual 100% 11% 0% growth in adjusted 11% 25% The Committee intends that the implementation of its policy in earnings per share relation to pension and benefits will be in line with the disclosed 16% 50% policy on page 53 of this report.
Jim McCarthy has continued to 19% or above 100% receive a 15% cash payment in lieu of pension contributions rather Pro-rata vesting between the than a contribution into a pension plan.
above points Annual bonus The above EPS range has been set on a business as usual The maximum annual bonus for the year ending 27th March 2016 assumption for our core business.
At the time of writing, there are will be 100% of salary for all Executive Directors.
Awards are two key areas of strategy that are yet to be determined, namely i determined based on a combination of both financial results, being the outcome of the Competition and Markets Authority CMA review underlying Group Profit After Tax PAT, and strategic personal of the proposed 99p Stores transaction: and ii the conclusion of performance.
These initiatives will shape the direction of the Companys further expansion plans.
The Committee recognises A bonus pool is to be determined by reference to PAT achievement, that these may have a material impact on our performance, and so with a sliding scale of performance to be set around budget as intends to review the targets once the outcome of these is known.
follows: It reserves the right to make changes to the target range if our internal plans and consensus forecasts change materially as a result Provisional bonus pool as a % of either or both the acquisition or the Spanish rollout proceeding.
of maximum entitlement with Underlying PAT performance straight line between In the event that changes are made, the new targets would be set Less than threshold 0% taking into account the principles applied when the original targets Threshold 20% were set, so as to ensure that they are no less challenging than the Budget 50% original targets were at the time of being set.
Should changes arise Stretch and above 100% from the review these will be communicated to major shareholders as appropriate.
Any bonus award comprises a maximum of 80% for achievement of Profit After Tax PAT targets and up to a further 20% for the Fees for Chairman and Non-Executive Directors achievement of strategic objectives.
Awards will be self-funding and clawback provisions apply.
Non-Executive Directors remuneration is set by the Board with account taken of the time and responsibility involved in each role, The specific PAT targets and breakdown of the strategic objectives including where applicable the Chairmanship of Board Committees.
for the 2015 16 year are considered commercially sensitive.
A summary of current fees is shown below: However, the Committee intends to disclose these retrospectively in Chairman 200,000 next years Directors Remuneration Report to the extent that they Non-Executive Director base fee 45,000 do not remain commercially sensitive.
Additional fees: Senior Independent Director 10,000 Audit, Remuneration and Governance & Nominations Committee Chairman 5,000 POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 46 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015 Remuneration received by Directors for the year ended 29 March 2015 - audited Directors remuneration for the year ended 29 March 2015 was as follows: Salary & Long-Term 000 Fees Benefits 1 Pension 2 Annual Bonus Incentives Total Executive J McCarthy 2015 440 22 66 Nil Nil 528 2014 400 22 59 Nil Nil 482 N Hateley 2015 325 14 49 Nil Nil 388 2014 233 16 36 Nil Nil 284 R Lancaster 2015 325 16 49 Nil Nil 390 2014 320 17 48 Nil Nil 386 Non-Executive A Higginson 3 2015 67 Nil Nil 67 2014 128 Nil Nil 128 P Best 2015 Nil Nil Nil Nil 2014 Nil Nil Nil Nil S Coates 4 2015 Nil Nil Nil Nil 2014 Nil Nil Nil Nil D Shapland 5 2015 153 Nil Nil 161 2014 6 Nil Nil 6 T Bond 6 2015 25 Nil Nil 29 2014 6 Nil Nil 6 T Colaianni 7 2015 50 Nil Nil 50 2014 6 Nil Nil 6 G Hearn 7 2015 50 Nil Nil 50 2014 6 Nil Nil 6 M Roberts 8 2015 23 Nil Nil 23 T Jones 8 2015 21 Nil Nil 21 M Barnard 9 2015 2 Nil Nil 2 Notes 1.
Benefits include: Car allowance car, medical insurance, fuel.
This comprises a 15% of salary contribution to the Companys Money Purchase Pension cash equivalent for J McCarthy.
Resigned as Chairman on 29 July 2014.
Appointed as NED on 18 February 2014.
Appointed on 18 February 2014, resigned on 19 September 2014.
com 47 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Annual bonus for the year ended 29 March 2015 The Group performed well in the year to 29 March 2015, with both growth and profit performance in line with consensus forecasts.
Any bonus payment is self-funding and, as such, this years underlying Profit After Tax PAT achievement of 33.95m did not trigger payment of bonuses to colleagues.
Performance share awards made during the year audited No awards were made to Executive Directors in the year.
Executive Director share awards and share options audited The following table sets out details of the PSP and savings related share options held by, or granted to, each Executive Director during the year: At 30 At 29 Market price of Date from March Granted March Exercise Date of each share at which Expiry 2014 number 2015 price grant date of grant exercisable date Scheme 1 J McCarthy 220,000 220,000 17 03 2014 3.75 Mar 17 Sep-17 PSP 7,200 7,200 2.50 05 09 2014 3.24 Nov-17 May-18 SAYE 220,000 7,200 227,200 1 N Hateley 135,417 135,417 17 03 2014 3.75 Mar 17 Sep-17 PSP 7,200 7,200 2.50 05 09 2014 3.24 Nov-17 May-18 SAYE 135,417 7,200 142,617 1 R Lancaster 135,417 135,417 17 03 2014 3.75 Mar 17 Sep-17 PSP 7,200 7,200 2.50 05 09 2014 3.24 Nov-17 May-18 SAYE 135,417 7,200 142,617 No shares were exercised or lapsed in the year 1 The number of shares comprising the IPO awards was determined based on the Admission share price of 3.00.
The performance condition attached to this award requires compound annual growth in EPS of 19% 25% vests, to 26% 50% vests to 30% or above 100% vests with pro-rata vesting between the points.
POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 48 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015 Directors shareholding and share interests audited Share ownership plays a key role in the alignment of our executives with the interests of Shareholders.
Our Executive Directors are expected to build up and maintain a 100% 150% for the CEO of salary shareholding in Poundland.
Where an Executive does not meet this guideline then they are required to retain at least 50% of the net of tax vested shares under the Companys share plans until the guideline is met.
The current ownership of the Executive Directors significantly exceeds the requirement.
The table below sets out the number of shares held or potentially held by Directors including their connected persons where relevant as at 29 March 2015.
Number of Target Percentage Beneficially awards held shareholding of salary held owned under the PSP Beneficially guideline in shares as shares at conditional on Outstanding owned shares at as a % of at 29 March Director 30 March 20141 performance option awards 29 March 2015 salary 2015 J McCarthy 9,668,249 220,000 7,200 9,668,249 150% 8482% N Hateley 4,207,378 135,417 7,200 4,207,378 100% 4997% R Lancaster 1,111,413 135,417 7,200 1,111,413 100% 1320% D Shapland 27,500 N A N A T Colaianni 15,723 N A N A G Hearn 10,000 N A N A M Roberts N A N A T Jones N A N A M Barnard - - - - N A N A 1.
Includes shares owned by connected persons.
Only beneficially owned shares count towards the shareholding guideline.
Total pension entitlements audited During the year under review the Executive Directors received pension contributions of 15% of salary into defined contribution arrangements or cash equivalent.
Details of the value of pension contributions received in the year under review are provided in the Pensions column of the Remuneration received by Directors table.
Performance graph The graph below illustrates the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 index excluding investment companies of which the Company is a constituent, from the start of conditional share dealing on 11 March 2014.
The graph shows performance of a hypothetical 100 invested and its performance over that period.
com 49 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Change in Chief Executive Officers remuneration The table below sets out total remuneration for the Chief Executive Officer for the years 2013 to 2015 inclusive, together with the percentage of maximum annual bonus awarded in that year.
No share awards were held by the Chief Executive Officer prior to Admission.
2015 2014 2013 CEO total remuneration 527,745 481,655 476,374 Annual bonus % of maximum % Nil % Nil % Nil Share award % of maximum N A N A N A Notes 1.
No long-term incentive plan in place prior to Admission and no eligibility for a vesting under the PSP until 2017.
Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief Executive Officers salary, benefits and annual bonus between the financial year ended 30 March 2014 and 29 March 2015, compared to that of the total amounts for all colleagues of the Group for each of these elements of pay.
Element of remuneration % change Salary Chief Executive Officer 0% Average per employee 2.04% Benefits Chief Executive Officer 0% Average per employee 0% Annual bonus Chief Executive Officer 0% Average per employee -375% Relative importance of the spend on pay The following table shows the Companys actual spend on pay for all employees compared to distributions to Shareholders and underlying profit after tax PAT performance, which is shown as it is considered to be the key indicator of the Companys growth, and is the primary metric used to measure performance under the bonus plan.
Total spend on pay 2015 2014 % Change Total Spend on Pay 165.2m 144.5m 14.3% Distributions to shareholders by way 1 of dividend and share buyback 11.250m 20m -44% Underlying Revenue 1,111.5m 997.8m 11.4% Profit after tax 34.0m 27.3m 24.5% 1.
The distribution to shareholders by way of a dividend and share buyback in 2014 was made under the previous private equity group structure.
Poundland Group Holdings Limited returned 20 million to Shareholders in September 2013.
POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 50 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015 External directorships Jim McCarthy is the non-executive Chairman of Wynnstay Group PLC.
He was paid fees of 49,000 in the year to 31 October 2014, and his total fee for the year to 31 October 2015 will be 49,000.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises 5 independent Non-Executive Directors.
Their attendance at Committee meetings was as follows: Number of meetings attended out Name Role of maximum number Tea Colaianni Committee Chair 4 4 Andrew Higginson Former Member Invitee 2 3 Trevor Bond Former Member 2 3 Grant Hearn Committee Member 4 4 Miles Roberts Committee Member 1 1 Tim Jones Committee Member 0 1 Darren Shapland Committee Member 3 3 Invitee 1 1 Mary Barnard Committee Member 0 0 In addition to the members of the Committee, the Company Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Human Resource Director and Company Secretary may also attend some meetings by invitation.
No person is present when matters directly relating to their own remuneration are being discussed.
Prior to his appointment as Chairman in July 2014, Darren Shapland was the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company and, as a former member of the Remuneration Committee attended the three meetings of the Committee held during this time.
Following his appointment he attended the one meeting held since, at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
In 2014 15 the meetings of the Committee covered the following key areas: Approving the Directors Remuneration Report 2014: Approval of grants under SAYE: The annual review of all Executive Directors and senior managers remuneration and approving any salary increases in the context of the workforce remuneration review: Considering external market developments and best practice in remuneration and critiquing the implementation of the current policy against these: and Setting targets for 2015 16 variable pay awards.
External advisors The Remuneration Committee has access to independent advice where it considers it appropriate.
The Committee has appointed New Bridge Street NBS, part of Aon plc as its external executive remuneration provider.
Neither NBS nor Aon provide any other services to the Company.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice received from NBS in relation to executive remuneration matters during the year was objective and independent.
NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and abides by the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct, which requires its advice to be objective and impartial.
The fees paid to NBS for providing advice in relation to executive remuneration over the financial year under review was 66k, the majority of which related to the preparation of our first Directors Remuneration Report, and the roll out of our share plan awards.
com 51 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Statement of Shareholder voting At last years AGM, the Directors Remuneration Report received the following votes from shareholders: Approve the Directors Approve the Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy Total number Total number of votes % of votes cast of votes % of votes cast For 219,237,030 99.88 201,580,555 91.83 Against 268,952 0.12 17,925,151 8.17 Total votes cast excluding votes withheld 219,505,982 100 219,505,706 100 Votes withheld 2,351 2,627 Total votes cast including votes withheld 219,508,333 219,508,333 Votes withheld are not included in the final proxy figures as they are not recognised as a vote in law.
At the AGM of the Company to be held on 17th September 2015, one resolution approving the annual statement and Annual Report on Remuneration will be proposed as an ordinary resolution.
Approval This Directors Remuneration Report, including both the Annual Remuneration Report and associated Remuneration Policy appendix have been approved by the Board of Directors.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Tea Colaianni Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 18 June 2015 POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 52 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015 APPENDIX - REMUNERATION POLICY Remuneration Policy Report How the views of Shareholders and colleagues Policy overview are taken into account The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for determining The Committee does not formally consult directly with employees remuneration for the Chairman, Executive Directors and other Senior on executive pay but does receive periodic updates from the Group Executives.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the Human Resources Director in relation to salary and bonus reviews Companys website.
As set out in the policy table overleaf, in setting remuneration for the Executive Directors, the Committee takes note On Admission in March 2014, a new remuneration policy was of the overall approach to reward for employees in the Company adopted by the Remuneration Committee: it was approved by and salary increases will ordinarily be in percentage of salary terms shareholders on 19 September 2014 and took formal effect from in line with those of the wider workforce.
Thus, the Committee is that date.
The Committee designed this policy with close regard to satisfied that the decisions made in relation to Executive Directors market practice in other UK listed companies pay are made with an appropriate understanding of the wider and the Retail Sector, so as to ensure that the arrangements are workforce.
appropriately competitive and structured in line with best practice.
However, the policy also retains some of the key elements which The Committee offered our largest Shareholders the opportunity helped to drive the Companys success prior to IPO, such as to discuss our remuneration policy prior to the publication of the effective cost control and simplicity in pay structures.
In addition, we will consider any Shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM.
The aim of the remuneration policy is to attract, retain and motivate high calibre senior management and to focus them on the delivery This, plus any additional feedback received from time to time, will of the Companys strategic and business objectives, to promote be considered as part of the Committees annual review of the a strong and sustainable performance culture, incentivise high remuneration policy.
growth and to align the interests of Executive Directors and the Executive Team with those of Shareholders through encouraging The Committee will seek to engage with Shareholders and their equity ownership with shareholding guidelines.
In promoting these representative bodies when it is proposed that any material changes objectives the policy aims to be simple in design, transparent and are to be made to the remuneration policy.
Details of votes cast for understandable both to participants and Shareholders, ensure and against the resolutions to approve the Remuneration Report are that no more than is necessary is paid and has been structured so provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
as to adhere to the principles of good corporate governance and appropriate risk management.
The remuneration policy for Executive Directors The total remuneration package is structured so that variable A further aim of the remuneration policy is to encourage widespread elements annual bonus and long-term incentives make up a share ownership by colleagues throughout the Group, and in significant proportion of the package, with the emphasis on variable support of this objective we have adopted several new share plans pay focused on long-term incentives.
The table summarises the which are designed with close regard to the various recipient groups key aspects of the Companys remuneration policy for Executive to ensure optimal benefit delivery.
com 53 GOVERNANCE APPENDIX - REMUNERATION POLICY continued Element Purpose and link to strategy Salary To recruit and reward executives of a suitable calibre for the role and duties required.
Recognises individuals experience, responsibility and performance.
Benefits To provide market competitive benefits to ensure the wellbeing of employees.
Pension To provide retirement planning to employees.
Annual bonus To incentivise and reward individuals for the achievement of pre-defined, Committee approved, annual financial and operational objectives which are closely linked to the Corporate strategy.
Poundland Performance Share Plan 'PSP' To incentivise and recognise execution of the business strategy over the longer term.
Rewards strong financial performance over a sustained period.
Poundland Sharesave Plan SAYE All employees including Executive Directors are encouraged to become shareholders through the operation of an all-employee share plan.
Share ownership guidelines To increase alignment between executives and shareholders.
Notes A description of how the Company intends to implement the policy set out in this table for 2015 16 is set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 54 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015 Operation and performance conditions Maximum Salaries are normally reviewed annually with changes effective from 1st April taking There is no prescribed maximum annual increase.
into account: The Committee is guided by the average annual increase of the workforce.
Higher increases may Personal performance be awarded at the discretion of the Remuneration Company performance Committee, for example but not limited to : in Individuals experience response to acute retention issues, following the appointment of a new executive to bring that Increases elsewhere in the Company executives package in line with market over a Hence, whilst there are no performance conditions on salaries being paid, personal number of years or in response to market factors.
and company performance is one factor considered by the Committee when determining annual increases.
Salaries are set with reference to similar roles in FTSE 250 companies of a similar size and complexity.
The Committee considers the impact of any salary increase on the total Total cost of benefits capped at 25,000 for the remuneration package.
Chief Executive and 17,500 for the other Executive The Company currently provides: Directors, which may be exceeded in exceptional Car allowance car circumstances if the cost of a particular benefit Family medical insurance were to significantly increase.
This cap excludes any Life assurance relocation costs which may be required for a new Dependent pension insurance hire.
Income protection insurance Medical health check Other ancillary benefits, including relocation expenses as required Executive Directors are also entitled to 30 days leave per annum, plus bank and public holidays.
Directors may participate in a defined contribution plan, or elect to receive cash in 15% of salary lieu of all or some of such benefit.
The annual bonus is based predominantly on stretching financial and operational The maximum bonus opportunity will not exceed objectives as set and assessed by the Committee on an annual basis.
150% of salary, although a lower maximum may be A bonus pool is to be determined by financial measures e. g. underlying profit operated.
This pool will then be divided among participants using a mix of financial At a threshold level of performance, no more than measures and strategic personal objectives.
Financial measures will represent the 20% of bonus will become payable, rising to 100% majority of the bonus.
of bonus being payable for meeting all financial and Details of the performance targets set for the year under review and performance strategic targets in full.
against them is provided in the Annual Remuneration Report.
Any bonus paid up to 100% of salary is paid entirely in cash.
Any bonus in excess of 100% of salary will be paid in shares and deferred for three years.
Clawback malus provisions apply in the event of material misstatement of results, an error in the calculation of bonus outcome or in instances of individual gross misconduct.
PSP awards may take the form of nil-cost options or conditional share awards.
Plan Limits: Awards normally vest after three years subject to performance and continued 200% of salary normal limit service.
300% of salary exceptional limit e. g. recruitment or retention Awards vest based on three year performance against a range of challenging EPS 25% of the award vests for achieving threshold targets set and assessed by the Committee.
The targets for each award will be set performance out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
100% of the award vests for achieving maximum The awards can be reduced via clawback and or malus at the discretion of the performance Committee within three years of vesting in the event of a misstatement of the results, an error in determining the extent to which performance targets were met or in instances of individual gross misconduct.
A dividend equivalent provision allows the Committee to pay dividends on vested shares in cash or shares at the time of vesting and may assume the reinvestment of dividends.
HMRC approved plan under which regular monthly savings are made over a 3 or 5 Maximum permitted savings based on HMRC limits year period and can be used to fund the exercise of an option, where the exercise from time to time.
price is discounted by up to 20%.
Provides tax advantages to UK employees, with Executive Directors eligible to participate on a similar basis to other employees.
A similar plan is also available to Irish employees.
Executive Directors are required to retain 50% of the net of tax vested PSP shares At least 150% of salary for the Chief Executive until the guideline level is met.
and at least 100% of salary for other Executive Directors, or such higher level as the Committee may determine from time to time.
com 55 GOVERNANCE APPENDIX - REMUNERATION POLICY continued POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 56 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015 How the Remuneration Committee operates the Awards granted prior to the effective date variable pay policy In approving this Directors Remuneration Policy, authority is given The Committee operates the share plans in accordance with their to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with respective rules, the Listing Rules and HMRC requirements where Directors.
Details of any such payments will be set out in the Annual relevant.
The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains Report on Remuneration as they arise.
discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of certain plans, including: Remuneration policy for other employees The policy described above applies specifically to the Companys Who participates in the plans: Executive Directors and is designed with regard to the policy for When to make awards and payments: employees across the Company as a whole.
Overall there is more How to determine the size of an award, a payment, or when emphasis on variable pay for the Executive Directors: however the and how much of an award should vest: Company is committed to promoting widespread share ownership.
The testing of a performance condition over a shortened perforOn IPO it made a number of awards under the Poundland Company mance period: Share Option Plan CSOP and the Poundland Restricted Share Plan How to deal with a change of control or restructuring of the RSP, to selected managers.
Executive Directors are not eligible to Group: participate in these plans.
Whether a participant is a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes, what proportion of an award vests at the original The RSP provides for the grant of share awards which vest after vesting date or whether and what proportion of an award may three years subject only to continued employment.
Under the CSOP, vest at the time of leaving: the Board may grant eligible employees share options at a price How and whether an award may be adjusted in certain circumnot less than the market value of a share on the date of grant.
In stances e. g. for a rights issue, a corporate restructuring or for the UK the first 30,000 of CSOP share options held at any time special dividends : by an individual will be granted as an HMRC approved option.
The Whether to enforce an additional 2 year holding period on PSP share options normally vest after three years, subject to continued awards post vesting: and employment, but without further performance conditions.
What the weighting measures and targets should be for the annual bonus plan and PSP from year to year.
More specifically, on IPO, awards were made to 55 senior managers under the RSP and around 550 management grade employees The Committee also retains the discretion within the policy to adjust including approximately 400 Store Managers under the CSOP.
existing targets and or set different measures for the annual bonus Awards may be made in future at the Committees discretion but and for the PSP if events happen that cause it to determine that the there is no proposal for regular annual grants.
In general, differences targets are no longer appropriate and amendment is required so arise in quantum and structure of remuneration for various they can achieve their original intended purpose and provided the categories of employees in the Group from the development of new targets are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
remuneration arrangements that are market competitive.
However, our underlying remuneration philosophy is consistent across the Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be whole company.
explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
Choice of performance measures for Executive Directors awards The choice of the performance conditions applicable to the annual bonus plan, being a primary financial performance target with additional strategic metrics specific to each Executive Director reflect the principle that the bonus plan should be self-funding, appropriately challenging and tied to both the delivery of profit growth and strategic personal objectives.
EPS was selected by the Committee as the sole performance condition applicable to the PSP on the basis that it rewards the delivery of the Companys objective of delivering significant growth in profits.
The Committee will review the performance scales applying to each award prior to each grant.
The Companys ethos of ensuring that costs are carefully controlled is reflected in both the annual bonus and PSP, which are designed to be self-funding.
In line with HMRC regulations for such schemes, the SAYE does not operate performance conditions.
com 57 GOVERNANCE APPENDIX - REMUNERATION POLICY continued Illustrations of application of remuneration policy The chart below illustrates how the composition of the Executive Directors remuneration packages varies at different levels of performance in 2015 16 based on policy, both as a percentage of total remuneration opportunity and as a total value: Notes: Value of benefits as per the single figure table The on-target bonus is taken to be 50% of the current operating maximum bonus opportunity of 100% of salary The on-target level of vesting under the PSP is taken to be 50% of the face value of the award at grant The maximum value of the PSP is taken to be 100% of the face value of the award at grant using the current grant policy of 150% for Mr McCarthy and 125% for Messrs Hateley and Lancaster No share price appreciation has been assumed for the PSP award Service contracts and payments for loss of office The service contracts for the Executive Directors are terminable by either the Company or the Executive Director on twelve months notice and make provision for early termination by way of payment of a cash sum.
Payment in lieu of notice can be paid either as a lump sum or in equal monthly instalments over the notice period.
The Company may also pay reasonable legal costs in respect of any compromise settlement.
There has been no payment for loss of office in the year ended 29 March 2015 30 March 2014: nil Provision Detailed terms Notice period 12 months Termination payments 118% of salary comprising: 100% of salary 15% in respect of pension contributions 3% in respect of other benefits Change of control There are no enhanced provisions on a change of control.
POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 58 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015 Annual bonus on termination Approach to recruitment and promotions There is no automatic or contractual right to bonus payment.
At the The recruitment package for a new Director would be set discretion of the Committee, in certain circumstances a pro-rata in accordance with the terms of the Companys approved bonus may become payable at the normal payment date for the remuneration policy.
Currently, this would facilitate an annual bonus period of employment and based on full year performance.
Where payment of no more than 150% of salary and policy PSP award the Committee decides to make a payment, the rationale will be fully of up to 200% of salary other than in exceptional circumstances disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
where up to 300% of salary may be made.
PSP on termination On recruitment, salary policy may but need not necessarily be set to below the normal market rate, with phased increases as the Share-based awards are outside of service contracts.
The rate of salary should be set so as to default treatment is that any outstanding awards would lapse reflect the individuals experience and skills.
However, under the Rules of the PSP, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, disability, injury, In addition, on recruitment the Company may compensate for redundancy or other circumstances at the discretion of the amounts foregone from a previous employer using Listing Rule Committee, good leaver status can be applied.
2 taking into account the quantum foregone, the extent to whether an Executive Director should be treated as a good leaver which performance conditions apply, the form of award and the time the Committee will take into account the performance of the left to vesting.
individual and the reasons for their departure and in the event of this determination being made will set out its rationale in the following For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded Annual Report on Remuneration.
in respect of their prior role should be allowed to pay out broadly according to its terms.
Any other ongoing remuneration obligations In circumstances where an Executive Director is treated as a good existing prior to appointment may continue, provided that they are leaver, awards will ordinarily vest on a time pro-rata basis subject to put to shareholders for approval at the earliest opportunity.
the satisfaction of the relevant performance criteria with the balance of the awards lapsing.
The Committee retains discretion to decide For all appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company not to pro-rate, to alter the basis of time pro-rating, and to alter the will meet certain appropriate relocation costs.
date on which performance is calculated, if it feels such decisions are appropriate in particular circumstances.
However, if the time Policy on external appointments pro-rating is varied from the default position under the PSP Rules, an explanation will be set out in the following Annual Report on Subject to Board approval, Executive Directors are permitted to take Remuneration.
Performance conditions will always apply to awards on non-executive positions with other companies and to retain their for good leavers, although the Committee may determine that it is fees in respect of such positions.
Details of outside Directorships appropriate to assess performance over a different period than the held by the Executive Directors and any fees that they received are default three year period.
provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Service contracts are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
com 59 GOVERNANCE APPENDIX - REMUNERATION POLICY continued The remuneration policy for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The Company Chairmans fee is determined by the Committee other than the Company Chairman himself.
The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are reviewed by the Board, excluding the Non-Executive Directors.
The table summarises the key aspects of the remuneration policy for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors: Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Fees To attract and retain the highFees are reviewed annually and approved by There is no prescribed calibre Chairman and Nonthe Board upon a recommendation from the maximum annual increase.
Executive Directors by offering a Chairman and Executive Directors in the case of The Committee is guided by market competitive fee level.
the NonExecutives and from the Remuneration the general increase in the Committee in the case of the Chairman, with Non-Executive market but reference to market levels in comparably sized on occasions may need to FTSE companies and reflect time commitments recognise, for example, change and responsibilities for each role.
in responsibility and or time commitments.
Fees are paid in cash and are not performance related.
Letters of appointment All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with the Company for an initial period of three years, subject to annual reappointment at the AGM.
The appointment letters for the Non-Executive Directors provide that no compensation is payable on termination.
The Chairman is entitled to a notice period of 3 months.
Letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Approach to recruitment For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved remuneration policy in force at that time.
POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 60 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015 Poundland Group plc Consolidated Financial Statements Registered number 08861243 Contents Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements 62 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Poundland Group Plc 64 Consolidated Income Statement 66 Consolidated Statement of Other Comprehensive Income 67 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 68 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 69 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 70 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 71 Company Balance Sheet 105 Notes to the Company financial statements 106 www.
com 61 FINANCIALS STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, a Directors Report, a Directors Remuneration Report and a Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: the Annual Report and Financial Statements taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: and the Annual Report and Financial Statements includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Approved by order of the board Darren Shapland Chairman 18th June 2015 POUNDLAND GROUP Plc 62 Annual report and financial statements for p e 29 March 2015 www.
