66 Premier Farnell Policy on Directors Remuneration This section of the report sets out the Companys Policy on We have, however, noted where there have been changes in Directors remuneration to 2016 17.
The Policy was approved practice none of which affect policy and have updated the by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting sections on: on 17 June 2014, following which it came immediately into consultation with our shareholders to reflect the position effect.
As no changes have been made to the Policy since its during the year under review: approval, the Policy is included for information purposes only.
the mix of fixed and variable remuneration for the Executive Directors to illustrate current salaries, benefits and pension as shown on page 75 and proposed implementation of policy on long and short term incentives in 2015 16 and page numbers and cross-references to the Annual Remuneration Report have been updated throughout.
All such changes are highlighted in italics and bold for further clarity.
Overall, it is to: Be consistent and principled maintain a consistent Executive compensation strategy, based on clear principles and objectives Link pay to strategy support the Companys strategy and its execution Align with shareholders interests closely align Executive reward with shareholder returns Be competitive ensure that the organisation can attract, motivate and retain high-calibre talent, to enable Premier Farnell to compete in an international market Link pay to performance provide the opportunity for Executives and other colleagues to receive competitive rewards for performance, aligned to the sustained success of the overall Group, paying what is commensurate with achieving these aims Reflect the internal landscape operate broadly-based incentives to recognise talented performers throughout the Group And be clear be easy to understand and supported by clear communication And has these elements: Fixed Salary Benefits Pension or pension allowance Variable based on performance Annual bonus including deferred shares Long-term incentive plan, comprising one or more of the following: Performance share plan awards: Executive share options Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 67 Which for our Executive Directors are structured as follows: A What?
Salary To recruit and retain Based on: the right people to skills and experience: execute the strategy salaries across the Group, including of other senior employees: salaries paid by other FTSE 250 companies and by other companies of similar size and complexity operating internationally.
Reviewed annually, with changes usually implemented at mid-year each year.
Changes could take place at other times on changes in role or responsibility.
Such changes, along with personal and Company performance and levels of increase throughout the Company, are taken into account in deciding whether an increase should be made.
However, increases granted to the Executives will normally be in line with those for the general workforce except where there is a change of role or responsibilities or in other exceptional circumstances.
Not appropriate to be subject to recovery once paid.
See page 75 for implementation in 2014 15.
To recruit and retain Dependent on the requirements of the role and the individual, provided reasonable and in line with Benefits the right people to market practice.
execute the strategy Benefits might include, for example: life and health insurance for the Director and his or her family: medical assessments and access to walk-in medical care: a car or car allowance: health club membership: independent tax, legal or financial advice: and relocation assistance where appropriate such as housing and education allowances, travel and tax equalisation arrangements and other costs of relocation where an Executive is asked to relocate or spend significant periods away from home.
Where an Executive is recruited from overseas, other benefits typically provided in the Executives home country may also be provided to secure and retain that persons services.
Executives are also entitled to take advantage of benefits offered to other UK based employees including discounts on Company products, access to the Companys sponsored discounted rewards programme, childcare vouchers, a cycle to work scheme and the right to take part in any HMRC approved all-employee share or savings scheme run by the Company, if eligible.
No pre-determined maximum, but benefits generally constitute a small percentage of total remuneration.
Not appropriate to be subject to recovery once provided.
To recruit and retain In the form of: Pension the right people to i. money purchase benefits only: or execute the strategy ii.
equivalent cash supplement: or iii.
Not included as salary for the purposes of the annual bonus or LTI awards.
No pre-determined maximum but in line with market practice for Executives.
See page 77 for implementation in 2014 15.
68 Premier Farnell Policy on Directors Remuneration continued A What?
Annual Bonus To motivate and Performance assessed against the achievement of key elements of the Companys financial reward performance results.
This may be combined with personal objectives driving other key elements of strategy, if B to further strategic the Committee thinks appropriate, although the principal weighting will be on financial measures.
and operational goals over the year Targets set by the Remuneration Committee at the beginning of the year and achievement reviewed by it after the year end.
Considered to be commercially sensitive but disclosed in the subsequent years Annual Report.
The deferred element The Companys policy is that the annual bonus is paid partly in cash, with a significant proportion promotes retention paid by way of share award under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP, the vesting of such and alignment with award being dependent on the Executive remaining with the Company for two years from grant.
shareholders The current practice is that the ratio of cash to deferred shares is approximately 60:40, but the Committee reserves the right to vary this ratio if it thinks it appropriate to do so.
DSBP awards may be made by way of nil cost option, conditional award or forfeitable share award and may be satisfied with new issue shares, market purchase or treasury shares, at the Committees discretion.
DSBP awards are subject to the executive shareholding policy, requiring one half of shares vesting after tax and costs to be retained throughout employment until a holding of the requisite level is achieved and that level of holding maintained.
The Committee determines the percentage of salary to be achieved and other terms of the policy.
The Committee has the discretion to provide that dividends will accrue on awards made prior to vesting, to the extent that awards vest.
The annual bonus offers the following maximum opportunity at maximum performance: 160% of salary for the CEO: 140% for the CFO made up of a combination of cash and deferred share awards.
Subject to claw-back or scale-back if performance is misstated or in the event of misconduct.
To reward long-term Made up of awards under: Long-Term success and provide i a performance share plan PSP with no exercise price: and or Incentive alignment with ii an executive share option plan ESOP with an exercise price set by reference to the market Plan LTIP shareholders price at grant.
Which, if used together, provide the opportunity to blend awards not subject to share price volatility allowing focus on performance targets with those whose value depends on absolute share price growth, aligned with the interests of shareholders.
B Currently, both have two performance conditions measured over a minimum three-year period, starting not earlier than the beginning of the year in which the grant is made: growth in earnings per share EPS and a second measure, being return on sales RoS in 2014 15 and to be defined for 2015 16.
The Committee retains the discretion to determine the weightings of each measure and may selectother measures, if it considers it appropriate to do so to ensure alignment with the Groupsstrategy.
The Committee sets the targets relevant to any grant and decides for each grant whether and the extent to which each performance condition has been met and the awards vest.
The Committee can amend performance condition s for a grant if an intervening event makes it appropriate to do so, provided the revised conditions are considered by the Committee to be no less challenging in all the circumstances.
Awards under the PSP may be made by way of nil cost option, conditional award or forfeitable share award and may be satisfied with new issue shares, market purchase or treasury shares, at the Committees discretion.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 69 A What?
Awards under the ESOP may be made by way of option which for UK participants may be approved or unapproved and for US participants may be an incentive stock option or non qualifying option or share appreciation right SAR save in the case of approved options and may be satisfied with new issue shares, market purchase or treasury shares, at the Committees discretion.
SARs are market priced options that, on exercise, deliver only the gain in shares, rather than all of the shares comprised in the option, thus reducing the Companys share usage.
The Committee may also grant phantom awards or satisfy awards in cash with the Executives agreement and can settle options as SARs.
The maximum grant permissible under each plan and this policy is 100% of base salary, based on face value, save in exceptional circumstances when awards of up to 150% can be made under each plan.
For information, the Committees practice until the end of 2014 15 has been to make awards below the maximum permitted under the policy, as follows as a percentage of base salary : For the CEO 60% under the PSP and 100% under the ESOP: C For the CFO 60% under the PSP and 100% under the ESOP.
In 2015 16, awards are proposed to be made to the CEO and CFO under the PSP only at 85% of base salary.
Awards are usually granted annually although awards may exceptionally be granted more frequently: for example, to a new appointee.
Awards under the LTI are subject to the Companys executive shareholding policy, requiring one half of shares vesting after tax and costs to be retained throughout employment until a holding of the requisite level is achieved and that level of holding maintained.
The terms of the policy, including the percentage of salary to be achieved, are set by the Committee.
Subject to claw-back or scale-back in the event of misstated performance or misconduct.
See pages 70 and 71 for an illustration of the amounts potentially receivable by the Executives for minimum, on-target and maximum performance under current policy and practice.
This shows that, at targeted performance, 43% and, at maximum performance, 64% of the CEOs total remuneration and 43% and 63% of the CFOs is performance-linked.
See page 79 for implementation in 2014 15.
Notes: A Differences in policy compared with other employees: Generally, remuneration for the Executives is more heavily weighted to performance-related pay than that of less senior employees, so that the Executive Directors are personally motivated to deliver the strategy successfully and to enhance the link between their interests and shareholders.
Fixed elements vary by role, grade and geography but are largely consistent in policy.
Base salary: No differences in policy.
The Groups overall salary budget and percentage increases made to other employees with similar levels of performance are taken into account in setting the Executives salaries.
Benefits: No differences in policy: benefits vary by grade, jurisdiction and with job role.
For example: cars or car allowances and health and life insurance are only available in the UK where, in the case of a car, there is a need based on role or to managers of above a certain grade.
Pension: The level of contribution made by the Company varies with jurisdiction and the age and grade of the employee.
Annual bonus: All employees of management grade are eligible to participate in the annual bonus scheme, with maximum opportunity varying with grade and performance.
Financial objectives are primarily based on the profit centre to which the individual contributes and, in the event that the bonus was structured to take account of personal objectives, these would be relevant to the employees role.
LTIP: Employees of management grade and nominated talented performers participate in the LTI plan.
The senior executive team have awards subject to performance conditions.
Other managers and talented performers receive awards under the ESOP without performance conditions.
Maximum available opportunity varies according to grade and individual performance.
70 Premier Farnell Policy on Directors Remuneration continued B Performance conditions: Annual bonus: the performance conditions for the annual bonus may be entirely based on key aspects of the Companys financial performance but may also be measured against strategic or operational targets relevant to the individuals role and designed to drive the Companys strategy, at the Committees discretion.
DSBP awards, once granted, have no performance conditions as their grant requires each Executive to have met the performance targets relevant to the annual bonus before any award can be granted to him or her.
LTIP: for awards made in the year under review, the EPS and RoS conditions apply equally to awards under the PSP and the ESOP, where both are granted.
EPS was chosen as an appropriate measure of the Companys strategy for profitable growth, expressed as a compound growth rate to assist in the clear communication of targets.
RoS is a key strategic financial target for Premier Farnell.
By measuring RoS performance, the Remuneration Committee seeks to promote the corporate goal of targeting sales growth and managing margin.
The combination of the two measures requires both return and growth for the awards to achieve value.
The Committee reserves the right to vary the weighting of the measures for any grant.
Details of changes proposed in 2015 16 are set out in the annual statement of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on pages 63 and 64.
C Other share-based schemes: In common with all eligible employees of the Group, Executive Directors in the UK are entitled to participate in any HMRC approved, all-employee share plan.
These options are not subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition as such schemes are not restricted to Executive Directors and senior executives and are subject to maximum contribution limits set by HMRC.
The Committee sets the terms of each grant offered under such plan.
So what could the Executive Directors earn under this policy?
Performance-related elements have the potential to make up a substantial portion of Executives remuneration, especially if maximum performance is achieved.
The mix of fixed and performance-related pay of the Executives at varying levels of performance based on proposed implementation of the Policy in 2015 16 is illustrated in the bar charts below and showsthat: at on-target performance, 43% of the CEOs and the CFOs total remuneration: and at maximum performance, 64% of the CEOs and 63% of the CFOs total remuneration is performance-linked.
Chief Executive total remuneration scenarios 000s 64% Maximum 36% 42% 22% 2,010 43% 57% 26% 17% 1,286 On-target performance 729 Minimum 100% 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 Total xed Total annual incentive Total long-term incentive See note on page 71.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 71 Chief Financial officer remuneration scenarios 000s 63% Maximum 37% 39% 24% 1,435 43% 926 57% 24% 19% On-target performance 529 Minimum 100% 0 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 500 Total xed Total annual incentive Total long-term incentive Notes to the charts above: 1.
Total fixed includes salary applicable at the date of this report, plus the value of benefits and pension contributions in the single figure table on page 75.
Total annual incentive is the sum of cash and deferred annual bonus.
Total long-term incentive is the face value of performance shares proposed to be awarded in 2015 16.
The value at maximum is the amount granted: the value at on-target is taken to be half the amount granted.
And what do Non-Executive Directors earn?
Fees To recruit and retain Annual fee for Chairman.
the right people to Annual base fee for Non-Executive Directors.
contribute to the Additional fees payable to the Senior Independent Director SID and the Chairmen of the Audit Companys and the Remuneration Committees and to the Chair of the Digital Advisory Board.
success without All fees are paid in cash and cover time spent in travel as well as attendance at meetings and compromising their sitevisits.
independence Fees reviewed annually by the Board or the Remuneration Committee, in the case of the Board Chairman to avoid conflicts.
No prescribed cap or standard percentage increase.
However, fee levels are benchmarked against market levels.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to participate in in the policy tables for an Executive or a Non-Executive any of the Companys incentive plans including the annual Director, as appropriate.
This includes the expectation that, bonus scheme and the LTIP or in any Company pension for incoming Executive Directors, pay would be linked to arrangements and are not entitled to any payment in performance as it is for our current Executives, through the compensation for any early termination of their appointment.
annual bonus and long-term incentive plan.
The maximum amounts receivable under those arrangements would be What would we pay to recruit a new Director to theBoard?
within the policy maxima available to the other Executives.
The Companys policy is to pay what is necessary to attract individuals with the skills and experience appropriate to the However, the Committee may offer additional cash and or role to be filled.
This would take account of the remuneration share-based elements where it considers these to be in the best offered by other FTSE250 companies and other companies of interests of the Company and its shareholders.
This includes the similar size and complexity and, in the case of appointments use of awards made under 9.4.
Such to Executive positions, the levels and structure of remuneration elements would take account of remuneration foregone by the across the Group, including to other senior appointees.
individual in order to take up the role, including the terms of that remuneration, its amount, how and when it might be payable and The Committee would seek to align the pay of any incoming any performance measures applicable to it.
Director with each of the elements of remuneration described 72 Premier Farnell Policy on Directors Remuneration continued If the appointment were internal, any variable pay awarded in The Company would seek to include similar provisions in any respect of the individuals former role with the Group would be contract with any incoming Executive, recognising that it may allowed to pay out in accordance with its terms, adjusted as be necessary to agree to a longer notice period, in exceptional appropriate to take account of the appointment.
In addition, circumstances, with that period reducing to 12 months over any other ongoing remuneration obligations of the Group a set period.
which exist prior to the individuals appointment may continue in force.
In the unusual circumstance in which an Executive Director were to leave without notice as a result of summary dismissal, The salary for a new Executive may be set below the normal his or her salary, benefits and pension contributions would market rate, with phased increases over the first few years normally stop immediately.
as the Executive gains experience in his or her new role.
Any annual bonus normally ceases to be receivable once Fees for Non-Executive Directors would be set in accordance an Executive gives or is given notice to leave.
However, the with the fee structure for Non-Executives in place at the time Committee may make annual bonus payments, subject to of appointment, with additional fees or remuneration awarded performance and payable following the end of the bonus year, where appropriate to take account of additional responsibilities.
in respect of the period during the year when the individual has served as a Director or employee, if it deems it appropriate.
What would a Director get on leaving or if there were atakeover?
There are specific rules under each of the Companys share plans including the DSBP, PSP and ESOP dealing with the On an Executive leaving, the approach of the Committee treatment of awards on leaving.
In summary, if an Executive would be to consider all relevant surrounding circumstances were a good leaver, he or she may be entitled to retain his in deciding whether or not to exercise any discretion open or her award, although, for unvested awards: to it and to act in accordance with the rules of any relevant incentive plan and any contractual provisions.
the number of shares under an award may be reduced to reflect any unexpired performance period referred to as Executive Directors service contracts are usually terminable pro rating : and by the Company on 12 months notice and by the individual on six months notice.
The Company would continue to pay the award would normally remain subject to any applicable salary, benefits and pension in line with its contractual performance condition.
obligations during any notice period and, in the case of the existing Executive Directors, can: A good leaver is someone who leaves by reason of injury, disability, redundancy, on the sale or transfer out of the oblige the Executive to mitigate his or her loss, where Group of his or her employing business, on retirement payments are made monthly, and reduce monthly payments with the agreement of the Committee or in other special or cease them altogether on his or her accepting alternative circumstances at the Committees discretion.
Someone employment save that the Companys right to pay monthly dying in service would also be a good leaver, with their does not apply where termination results from a change of personal representatives assuming their rights in respect of control : and their awards.
How awards are treated if someone is a good pay salary and benefits in lieu of the whole or part of leaver also depends on the type of award made under the the notice period in a single payment or by way of relevant plan.
The following table summarises the position monthly instalments.
for each of our current plans.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 73 Plan Good leaver?
Type of Award Vested Unvested 1 DSBP Yes Conditional or forfeitable NA Vests on leaving date, but 2 share award subject to pro rating Option Exercisable for 12 months Exercisable for 12 months from 2 from leaving leaving or from vesting, in the event of death but subject to 2 pro rating 1 No Conditional or forfeitable NA Lapses share award Option Lapses Lapses 1 Yes Conditional or forfeitable NA Vests at end of performance PSP share award period, subject to performance 3 and pro rating Option Exercisable for 12 months Exercisable for 12 months from 3 from vesting end of performance period, subject to performance and 3 pro rating 1 No Conditional or forfeitable NA Lapses share award Option Exercisable for three months Lapses 4 from vesting 5 ESOP Yes Option Exercisable for 12 months from Exercisable for 12 months from 3 leaving or death if relevant leaving or from vesting, in the event of death subject to 3 performance and pro rating No Option Exercisable for three months Lapses 4 from vesting 1 Not applicable as the shares under award vest automatically if the award is a conditional or forfeitable share award and will therefore have been exercised at the point of leaving.
2 Subject to pro rating for unvested awards, unless the Committee applies its discretion otherwise, and to claw-back.
The 12 month exercise period for options is subject to an end date of 10 years from grant seven years for Irish residents if sooner.
3 Subject to the award meeting its performance condition and subject to pro rating, for unvested awards, unless the Committee applies its discretion otherwise, and to claw-back.
Approved options under the ESOP are not subject to claw-back and, on death, become and remain exercisable for 12 months.
The Committee has the discretion to extend the period of exercise for good leavers other than on death, provided it ends not later than 42 months from the date the award was granted.
4 Subject to claw-back, save for approved options under the ESOP.
5 Rules may vary if options were to be granted to non UK Directors to take account of local laws or regulation.
For example in Denmark where compulsory leaver provisions are imposed under local law.
Under the SAYE scheme, unvested awards normally lapse on If there were a takeover of Premier Farnell plc or if the leaving, although good leavers are given six months from Company were wound up, awards vest over such number of leaving to exercise their unvested awards and that period is shares as the Committee determines, subject to claw-back extended to 12 months from vesting in the case of death.
If and after applying any performance condition and pro rating, the award has passed its third anniversary of grant, all leavers if the Committee thinks fit.
Awards made as options have a other than those who are dismissed for misconduct have six one month exercise period.
The Committee has authority to months from leaving to exercise their awards or 12 months allow awards to vest early on similar terms in the event of a from the vesting date if the participant dies within six months demerger and to require awards to be surrendered and after the date of vesting.
Otherwise, awards lapse on leaving.
replaced with equivalent awards in the acquiring company in A good leaver for the purposes of the SAYE scheme is largely the case of an internal reorganisation.
The discretion to apply as above but includes retirees as of right.
performance conditions and to pro rate the number of shares 74 Premier Farnell Policy on Directors Remuneration continued under award does not apply to DSBP awards, as they do Does the Committee take account of pay across not have performance conditions.
Awards under the SAYE theGroup?
scheme become exercisable early in the case of a takeover In setting the remuneration policy for Executive Directors, when the Committee has discretion to set an exercise period the Remuneration Committee takes account of the pay of up to six months, a compulsory acquisition, scheme of arrangements for other colleagues in the Premier Farnell arrangement or winding-up and are subject to rollover in the Group.
The same principles apply to remuneration policy event of a merger.
for all colleagues: that pay should be benchmarked against relevant markets to ensure competitiveness while controlling For how long are the Directors employed?
costs: that there should be performance-based components The Executives service contracts do not have a set duration, for all senior and most customer and supplier-facing staff: while Non-Executive Directors, engaged under letters of and that performance-related pay should be aligned with appointment, are initially retained for a three-year term.
and help to drive the achievement of the Companys business In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, strategy.
In determining any increase in the level of base all Directors stand for election when first appointed, and salaries for Executive Directors, the policy requires that then annual re-election, by the shareholders at the Companys the rate of increase for other colleagues be considered.
No one can continue in office as The Committee receives a report annually on those a Director if not elected or re-elected, as appropriate.
remuneration arrangements and employment conditions across the Group.
Employees are not specifically consulted Provided that they are re-elected, Non-Executive Directors on Executive remuneration.
They are, however, invited to appointments are normally renewed for a second three-year take part annually in an all-employee engagement survey period and then annually for a total of not more than three more when they have the opportunity to raise any question, issue years.
The letters of appointment set out the time commitment or concern that they might have.
The results of the survey expected of the Non-Executive Directors in the performance are reviewed by the Board and any significant concerns of their duties, with more time expected to be spent by the relating to Executive remuneration would be taken into 1 Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Executives service contracts and the Non-Executive Does the Committee consult shareholders on Directors letters of appointment can be viewed by remuneration policy?
shareholders at the Companys registered office.
The Remuneration Committee is committed to an open dialogue with shareholders on Executive remuneration.
What is the Companys policy on Executive Directors The Chairman of the Board and the Chair of the Remuneration taking non-executive roles with other companies?
Committee have met and spoken to major shareholders The Companys policy is that Executives are normally about Executive pay and policy on a number of occasions permitted to hold one non-executive directorship with during the year.
These consultations have covered a number another company, provided that the appointment is approved of aspects of our pay policy including, in 2014 15 as in by the Board.
Any fees payable in respect of that external 2013 14, the proposed changes to the annual bonus and appointment are retained by the Executive.
In exceptional the long-term incentive plan, as well as our executive circumstances the Board may permit an Executive to hold shareholding policy, and in 2014 15 the proposed more than one outside directorship.
introduction of a new share plan for employees below Board level and the clawback provisions in the Companys LTIP.
In both years, the feedback received has been taken into account in shaping the implementation of the Policy.
1 An all-employee engagement survey was held in 2013 14 and in each prior year from 2007 onwards.
No survey was conducted in 2014 15.
