62 Premier Farnell Remuneration Report Annual message to shareholders from the Chairman of What happened to the Directors remuneration in the Remuneration Committee 2014 15?
Executives salaries Dear shareholder We reviewed the Executives salaries in June 2014 and, in line In 2014 the Remuneration Committee put its Directors with the rest of the workforce, increased these by 2.5%.
Remuneration Policy Policy to a binding shareholder vote at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM for the first time.
Non-Executives fees We were very pleased that the Policy was well received and These were also reviewed at our June 2014 meeting.
Base approved by shareholders and we thank our shareholders for fees for the Non-Executive Directors were subject to a 2.5% their feedback and support.
One year on, the Committee increase, commensurate with changes to salaries across the remains satisfied that the Policy continues to fulfil its principal Group.
The fees payable to the Chairman of the Board, our objectives of providing a clear link between performance and Senior Independent Director and the Chairman of each of reward and attracting, retaining and motivating high-calibre the Audit and Remuneration Committees were found to be executives with the skills and experience to manage the significantly below median when they were benchmarked business and deliver the strategy.
We are not, therefore, across the FTSE250 using a number of data sources.
proposing any changes to the Policy for the coming year.
They were increased, accordingly, to bring them in line with market practice, as shown on page 76.
There are, however, a number of changes to practice planned for 2015 16, primarily resulting from the drive to ensure that, in Annual bonus payout implementing the Policy, we maximise alignment of reward with The primary measure for payments under the FY15 annual the achievement of our strategic priorities, while keeping our bonus plan was operating profit, against which up to 60% pay structures as clear and simple as possible.
The changes will of the annual bonus opportunity was measured, with the not increase the Executive Directors remuneration opportunity remaining 40% determined by reference to the achievement or expected level of payout and are within our Policy.
of strategic targets for cash-flow, growth in the Groups customer base and gross margin.
The Group exceeded the In this annual statement, I will focus first on what the schemes cut-in for operating profit and cash but did not hit Committee did in 2014 15 before going on to outline the the measures for growth in customer base or gross margin.
changes proposed for the year ahead.
For ease of reference, The payouts under the scheme, in cash and deferred shares, a full copy of the Policy approved last year is included to the Executive Directors were: with this report from page 66.
Our annual report on the implementation of that Policy during the year under review starts at page 75.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 63 Cash Bonus Award Deferred Share Bonus Plan Award As a % As a % As a % of total maximum As a % of total maximum Amount of salary opportunity Amount of salary opportunity Lawrence Bain 110,302 21.10% 21.10% 66,181 12.66% 21.10% Mark Whiteling 76,440 18.99% 21.10% 42,467 10.55% 21.10% Long-Term Incentive Awards MIP scheme The awards granted under the Companys long-term incentive To reflect proposed changes to the Companys operating plan in 2011 12 were scheduled to mature in July 2014 15. model, the Committee intends to move to a simpler annual Vesting was subject to the awards meeting stringent returns bonus plan across the Group in 2015 16.
Operating profit on sales and earnings per share targets by the end of January will remain the primary measure of success, with up to 70% 2014.
These metrics were not achieved and the awards lapsed.
payable against this metric and the remaining 30% payable on hitting other strategically important and quantifiable Following the Companys interim results announcement in targets.
This contrasts with the 60:40 split operated in recent September 2014, awards were made to Laurence and Mark years.
Performance will be measured across the year as a under the performance share plan and executive share whole.
The total maximum bonus opportunity will remain at up option plan available for use under the Companys long-term to 160% of base salary for Laurence and 140% for Mark, as in incentive scheme.
Conscious of the continued need to reward prior years, but the opportunity at threshold performance is sales growth without sacrificing profits, we reduced the return reduced from 20% to 15% of maximum.
If threshold operating on sales target for awards made in 2014 15 but retained the profit is not achieved, no bonus will be payable save where the growth in earnings per share target at the 2013 14 level.
Committee exercises its discretion to make a payment of up to 10% of each Directors total maximum bonus opportunity In order to better align long-term incentive payments with based on performance against the strategic targets.
all aspects of shareholder return, the Committee decided to allow dividend equivalents to accrue on long-term incentive Long-Term Incentive Plan awards granted going forward as the Committee considers In recent years, the Company has made long-term incentive that such accruals represent a reasonable outcome.
Dividend awards using a mix of performance shares and market-priced equivalents will accrue only to the extent that awards vest and options under its executive share option scheme.
In 2015 16 will be made in the form of shares.
the Committee proposes to make awards to the Executive Directors under the performance share plan only and not The link between performance and remuneration under the executive share option scheme ESOP.
Doing so outcome in FY15 will simplify the Companys long-term incentives and increase Payouts under the variable remuneration elements have the emphasis on achieving performance targets: it will also been low this year.
While the Committee considers that reduce share dilution, compared with granting share options the Company has made good progress on its strategy, of equivalent potential value under the executive share option the year has been challenging and the competitive nature scheme, and is in line with market practice among other of the market has prevented us from reaching a number FTSE250 companies.
No discretion was exercised in relation to the outcome of longor short-term awards and, in the Award sizes under the performance share plan will continue circumstances, the Committee considers that the rewards to have a maximum of 100% of base salary, based on the face achieved are appropriate.
value of the award at the date of grant.
Actual award sizes may be below this limit and the Committee will continue to take account of a range of factors in determining any What changes are planned for 2015 16?
adjustment to award sizes at the time of grant, including The Committee keeps the Companys remuneration policy and market practice, overall performance of the Company and practices under regular review.
During 2014 15, we identified personal performance.
For awards to be made in 2015 to a number of opportunities to reflect changes in best practice Executive Directors, the level has been set at 85% of base or better achieve the underlying aims of the Policy: specifically salary, based on face value at grant.
This compares with awards to simplify our reward structures and increase their alignment in prior years of 100% of base salary under the executive share with the Companys strategy.
We have consulted extensively option plan and 60% under the performance share plan, with our major shareholders on these proposals and, having reflecting the move away from market-priced options.
taken account of their feedback and received broad support, intend to make the following changes to our remuneration practice in the year ahead: 64 Premier Farnell Remuneration Report continued In order to provide clear focus on growing profits, the The Committee intends to introduce a new plan for senior Committee is also proposing to re-balance the two employees and key talent below Board level, the approval performance metrics applicable to awards.
The primary of which by the Companys shareholders will be sought at measure, applying to 70% of each award, will remain growth the AGM in June 2015.
The purpose of the plan is to retain in earnings per share EPS, subject to adjustment where and reward such employees and, if approved, it is intended appropriate by the Committee to avoid distortions from to be used in place of the executive share option plan.
The exceptional events or changes in capital structure and to grant of awards will be subject to individual performance but ensure that the result for vesting purposes accurately reflects their vesting will have no further metric attached.
Executive underlying growth in profits.
In 2014 the growth in EPS range Directors will not be eligible to receive awards under this plan for long-term incentive awards was from 5% to 12% per which will be subject to the dilution limits in place for all annum.
For awards to be made in 2015 the target will be ourplans.
increased so that there will be no vesting at less than 7% growth in EPS and 14% growth must be achieved for The Committee is wholeheartedly in favour of aligning the maximum vesting.
These are stretching targets and reflect the interests of shareholders and employees so I am pleased to lower baseline figure as well as the Groups confidence in the report that, at the last AGM in 2014, the Company approved strategy over the longer term.
A second performance metric the adoption of a new save as you earn scheme allowing UK which supports the Groups strategic focus and which will eligible employees to acquire shares in the Company on a apply to the remaining 30% of each award will be determined discounted basis.
by the Committee prior to the annual grant of long-term incentive awards, scheduled this year for September 2015.
On the behalf of all of the Committee, I would like to thank you for your ongoing support and for continuing to engage with us on all remuneration matters.
What else did the Committee do in 2014 15?
Paul Withers During the year, the Committee reviewed the rights of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee clawback and scaleback under the Companys short-term and long-term incentive plans.
These plans already allow for the reduction of awards or payments in the event of misconduct or misstated performance but the Committee considers that enhancements can be made to these rules to strengthen the Committees right to withhold outstanding awards and payments and recover those already made or vested in such circumstances.
Changes to the schemes to achieve this were adopted by the Committee at its meeting on 16 March 2015.
