10 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 GOvERNANCE Report on Directors Remuneration Directors Remuneration Policy The report complies with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, as amended.
The report has also been prepared in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
This part of the report sets out the Directors Remuneration Policy as determined by the Remuneration Committee the Committee and approved by Shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
The scenario charts relate to the Policy as applied for the first year in which it applied 2014 15.
Since the Policy was approved by Shareholders the Committee has introduced additional clawback provisions and these are detailed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Remuneration framework The key components of Executive Directors remuneration are summarised below: Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Fixed remuneration Base salary To provide an Base salaries are normally To avoid setting the None, although overall appropriate level reviewed annually taking expectations of Executive performance of the of fixed cash income into account: Directors and other individual is considered to recruit and retain employees, there is no overall by the Committee when the scope of the role and the talent through the maximum for salary increases setting and reviewing markets in which PZCussons provision of under this policy.
operates: competitively Salary increases are reviewed the performance and positioned base in the context of salary experience of the individual: salaries.
increases across the pay levels in other wider Group.
organisations of a similar size Any increase in excess of those and complexity: and elsewhere in the Group would pay increases elsewhere in be considered very carefully the Group.
The circumstances in which higher increases may be awarded may include but are not limited to: an increase in the scope and or responsibility of a role: an increase upon promotion to Executive Director: where a salary has fallen significantly below market positioning: or the transition over time of a new Executive Director recruited on a below market salary to a more competitive market positioning as he or she gains experience in the role.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 11 Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Benefits Recruitment and Benefits which may be The maximum opportunity will Not applicable.
retention of senior provided include car benefits, be based on the cost of executive talent life assurance, health insurance providing the benefits.
through the for the Executive Director and This will be set at a level which provision of a his family and permanent the Committee considers competitively health cover and personal appropriate to provide a positioned and tax advice.
sufficient level of benefit cost effective based on individual Where relevant, additional benefits package.
benefits may be offered if Benefits may also considered appropriate and be provided to assist reasonable by the Committee, in the effective such as assistance with the performance of an costs of relocation.
Provision for Designed to enable Participation in a defined A company pension Not applicable.
retirement an Executive contribution pension plan or contribution of 20per cent of Director to generate provision of a cash allowance in base salary in respect of each an income in lieu of a pension contribution.
financial year into the scheme retirement and to on behalf of the Executive The defined benefit pension provide an overall Director, subject to a minimum schemes have been closed to remuneration employee contribution further accrual since 2008 and package which is of 5per cent of base salary, any salary linkage ceased on competitive in the or cash allowance of up 31May 2013.
In respect of their market.
past service, Executive Directors remain members of the PZCussonsDirectors Retirement Benefits Plan, PZCussons Plc Pension Fund and Life Assurance Scheme for Staff Employed Outside the United Kingdom and or the Employer-Financed Retirement Benefits Schemes and are eligible to receive retirement benefits in accordance with the terms of the schemes.
12 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 GOvERNANCE Report on Directors Remuneration Directors Remuneration Policy continued Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Variable remuneration Annual Bonus Designed to Measures and targets are set The maximum annual bonus The performance Scheme and motivate Executive annually at the beginning of opportunity that may be measures and targets Deferred Annual Directors to focus the year and pay-out levels are earned for any year is are set by the Bonuses on annual goals and determined by the Committee 150per cent of base salary.
milestones which after the year end based on The majority of are consistent with performance against the annual bonus is the Groups those targets.
based on financial longer-term Awards of up to 100per cent performance for the strategic aims.
of base salary are payable year including profit in cash.
before taxation, net working capital If an annual bonus of more and operating than 100per cent of base contribution margin.
salary is earned for a year, then any excess over The remainder of the 100per cent of base salary annual bonus is based will be deferred and awarded on the achievement of in PZCussonsshares.
The stretching non-financial shares will normally vest after strategic and three years.
Maximum annual bonus The Committee may reduce will only be paid for the size of, or impose further achieving significant conditions on, deferred bonus financial outawards granted under the plan performance above the in such circumstances as the budget set for the year.
Committee considers appropriate, such as material mis-statement of the Companys audited results or a serious failure of risk management or serious reputational damage to the Company, a member of its group or a relevant business unit.
The Committee may, in exceptional circumstances only, amend the bonus pay-out should this not, in the view of the Committee, reflect overall business performance or individual contribution.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 13 Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Performance Designed to Annual awards of rights Award opportunities in respect Awards to Executive Share Plan PSP motivate the over shares calculated as a of any financial year are limited Directors are subject to Executive Directors percentage of base salary.
to rights over shares with a the attainment of to focus on the vesting is subject to the market value determined absolute Earnings Per generation of attainment of predetermined by the Committee at grant Share EPS growth sustained performance targets measured of a maximum of 150per cent targets, measured shareholder value over a performance period of base salary.
over a three year over the longer term of at least three years.
and align their performance period normally No awards vest unless a interests with those starts at the beginning of the minimum level of EPS of the Groups financial year in which the date growth is achieved.
25per cent of awards Dividends accrue on shares vest for threshold subject to PSP awards and are performance.
paid on vesting in respect of 100per cent of those shares which vest.
awards will vest for Award levels and performance achieving stretching conditions are reviewed before performance targets.
each award cycle to ensure For performance they remain appropriate.
between threshold and 2014 awards onwards maximum awards will Subject to attainment of the vest on a straight line performance targets, awards sliding scale.
will normally vest, in respect of shares with a market value at grant of up to 100per cent of base salary, following the end of the performance period.
Any shares earned in excess of this value will normally vest in equal amounts four and five years after the date of grant.
The Committee may reduce the size of, or impose further conditions on, deferred bonus awards granted under the plan in such circumstances as the Committee considers appropriate, such as material mis-statement of the Companys audited results or a serious failure of risk management or serious reputational damage to the Company, a member of its group or a relevant business unit.
Other aspects Shareholding Alignment of the Requirement over time to build Not applicable Not applicable guidelines Executive Directors up interests in the Companys interests with those shares worth 150per cent of of the Groups salary and to reinvest half of Shareholders any after-tax bonus or gain arising from the share incentive plans until this guideline is met.
14 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 GOvERNANCE Report on Directors Remuneration Directors Remuneration Policy continued Share-based awards Share-based awards will operate in accordance with the share plan rules governing them adopted by the Board.
Under these rules, the Committee has discretion in the following areas: awards may be granted in the form of conditional share awards, nil-cost options or other arrangements having the same economic effect: awards may incorporate the right to receive in cash or shares the value of dividends on the number of shares that vest under an award in respect of record dates between grant and vesting of awards, which may assume the reinvestment of these dividends in the Companys shares on a cumulative basis: in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital, demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event which, in the Committees opinion, may affect the value of the Companys shares, the terms of awards may be adjusted: awards may be settled in cash: the plan rules allow for the terms of awards to be amended in accordance with the rules at the Committees discretion: and any performance condition applicable to PSP awards may be amended if an event occurs which in the case of awards granted prior to September 2014 reasonably causes the Committee to consider it appropriate, provided that, in the Committees opinion, the amended condition is not materially less difficult to satisfy or in the case of awards granted on or after September 2014 causes the Committee to consider it is no longer appropriate, in which case it may amend or vary the condition in such manner as it determines is reasonable and produces a measure of performance which is more appropriate and materially no easier to satisfy.
Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Nonexecutive Director Fees To reflect the time Fees are normally reviewed Fees are based on the level of Not applicable commitment in every two years and fees paid to Non-executive preparing for and amended to reflect market Directors serving on Boards attending meetings, positioning and any change of similar-sized UK-listed the duties and in responsibilities.
companies and the time responsibilities of commitment and contribution The Committee recommends the role and the expected for the role.
the remuneration of the contribution Chairman to the Board.
Non-executive Directors expected from the Fees paid to Non-executive receive a basic fee and an Non-executive Directors are determined and additional fee for further Directors.
approved by the Board as duties for example a whole.
chairmanship of a committee or Senior Independent The Non-executive Directors Director responsibilities.
do not participate in the annual bonus plan or any of the The maximum level of fees Groups share incentive plans.
payable to the Non-executive The Company covers the costs Directors will not exceed the of attending meetings and limit set out in the Companys Non-executive Directors may Articles of Association.
be provided with benefits associated with their role.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 15 Legacy awards The Committee may make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office where the terms of the payment were agreed: before the Policy came into effect: or at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes, the term payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
For the avoidance of doubt, the Committees discretion includes discretion to determine, in accordance with the rules of the PSP, the extent to which awards under that plan may vest in the event of a change of control or in a good leaver circumstance.
Prior to the adoption by the Company of the PSP in 2008, Executive Directors and certain other senior executives were generally eligible for the grant of options under the PZCussonsPlc Executive Share Option Scheme.
There have been no grants of options under the Executive Share Option Scheme since the introduction of the Performance Share Plan and it is not expected that any further awards will be made under this scheme but certain options granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme have vested and remain capable of exercise.
The Committee may make minor changes to this Policy, which do not have a material advantage to Directors, to aid in its operation or implementation, taking into account the interests of Shareholders but without the need to seek Shareholder approval.
Setting Executive Director remuneration When considering how to position the remuneration packages for the Executive Directors, the Committee considers market data from UK listed companies of a similar size and complexity.
The Committee also receives and takes into account information from the Global HR Director on pay and employment conditions applying to other Group employees when setting Executive Directors remuneration, consistent with the Groups general aim of seeking to reward all employees fairly according to the nature of their role, their performance and market forces.
In designing an appropriate incentive structure for the Executive Directors and other senior management, the Committee seeks to set challenging performance criteria which are aligned with the Groups business strategy and the generation of sustained shareholder value.
The Committee is also mindful of the need to avoid inadvertently encouraging risky or irresponsible behaviour including behaviour which could raise environmental, social or governance issues.
16 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 GOvERNANCE Report on Directors Remuneration Directors Remuneration Policy continued Balance of fixed versus variable remuneration The Committee believes that an appropriate proportion of the executive remuneration package should be variable and performance-related in order to encourage and reward superior corporate and individual performance.
The following charts illustrate executive remuneration in specific performance scenarios.
For share-based awards no share price growth or dividend payments have been included.
Minimum performance Target performance Maximum performance Fixed elements Base salary as at 31May 2014 of remuneration Estimated value of benefits including value of pension contributions Annual bonus 0% 60% of maximum opportunity 100% of maximum opportunity G A Kanellis 60% of 150% of salary G A Kanellis 150% of salary C G Davis 60% of 125% of salary C G Davis 125% of salary B H Leigh 60% of 125% of salary B H Leigh 125% of salary Long term 0% 25% of award 100% of award incentive plans G A Kanellis 25% of 150% of salary G A Kanellis 150% of salary C G Davis 25% of 125% of salary C G Davis 125% of salary B H Leigh 25% of 125% of salary B H Leigh 125% of salary G A Kanellis C G Davis B H Leigh Total remuneration 000 Total remuneration 000 Total remuneration 000 2500 1500 1500 2,224 1,333 1,313 35% 38% 2000 1200 1200 38% 1500 900 900 1,320 792 780 35% 15% 16% 31% 16% 31% 1000 600 600 36% 32% 32% 417 411 652 100% 52% 31% 100% 500 30% 300 300 52% 31% 100% 49% 0 0 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Fixed pay Bonus LTIP Fixed pay Bonus LTIP Fixed pay Bonus LTIP Recruitment remuneration arrangements When hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will set the Executive Directors ongoing remuneration in a manner consistent with the Policy detailed in the table above.
To facilitate the hiring of candidates of the appropriate calibre required, the Committee may make an award to buy out variable remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will take account of relevant factors including the form of award, any performance conditions and the time over which the award would have vested.
Recruitment awards will normally be liable to forfeiture or clawback on early departure.
For Executive Directors, early departure is defined as being within the first two years of employment.
The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded to new Executive Directors excluding buy out arrangements in respect of their recruitment will be in line with the maximum level of variable pay that may be awarded under the annual bonus plan and performance share plan, a total face value opportunity of 300per cent of salary.
The Committee will ensure that such awards are linked to the achievement of appropriate and challenging performance measures and will be forfeited if performance or continued employment conditions are not met.
Appropriate costs and support will be covered if the recruitment requires relocation of the individual.
Executive Director contracts and loss of office payments Executive Directors have one year rolling service contracts and no Executive Director has a notice period in excess of one year or containing any provision for pre-determined compensation on termination exceeding one years salary and benefits in kind.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 17 Upon the termination of an Executive Directors employment, the Committees approach to determining any payment for loss of office will normally be guided by the following principles: the Committee shall seek to find an outcome which is in the best interests of the Company and Shareholders as a whole, taking into account the specific circumstances: relevant contractual obligations, as set out above, shall be observed or taken into account: the Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith to satisfy an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of any such obligation or to settle or compromise any claim or costs arising in connection with the employment of an Executive Director or its termination: and the treatment of outstanding variable remuneration shall be as determined by the relevant plan rules, as set out below: Performance Share Plan Cessation of directorship employment within three years of date of grant: For awards granted after the 2014 Annual General The award will normally vest as soon as practicable following death.
Meeting in September 2014: The Committee will have sole discretion as to the extent to which the award will vest, Death taking into account, if the Committee considers it appropriate, time pro-rating and the extent to which the performance condition has been satisfied.
For awards granted after the 2014 Annual General Awards not subject to holding period Meeting in September 2014: The award will normally vest on the original vesting date, taking into account the extent to Injury, ill health, disability, sale of the participants which the performance conditions have been met.
Alternatively, the Committee has the employing company or business out of the Group discretion to allow the award to vest at the time of cessation of directorship employment or any other reason if the Committee so decides.
by the Group, taking into account the extent to which the performance conditions have been met up to that date.
Unless the Committee determines otherwise, the Committee will reduce the award to reflect the period which has elapsed at the time of cessation.
For awards granted prior to September 2014 The award will normally vest on the original vesting date, unless the Committee determines the award should vest at the time the individual leaves which it will normally Death, retirement, injury, disability, redundancy, do in the case of death.
The extent to which awards vest will be subject to the Committees the sale of the participants employing company determination of the extent to which the performance conditions have been met and, or business out of the Group or for any other unless the Committee determines otherwise, time pro-rating.
reason if the Committee so decides.
Any other reason The award will lapse upon cessation of directorship employment.
Cessation of directorship employment after three years of date of grant ie in respect of shares held for a compulsory holding period : Death The award will vest as soon as practicable following death, taking into account the performance conditions, if the Committee considers it appropriate.
Lawful dismissal without notice by the Company The award will lapse upon cessation of directorship employment.
Any other reason The award will generally vest at the normal vesting date at the end of the deferral period.
Alternatively, the Committee has the discretion to allow the award to vest in part, or in full, at the time of cessation of directorship employment.
The extent to which awards vest in these circumstances will be determined by the Committee taking into account the performance conditions.
Annual Bonus Scheme cash element The extent to which any annual bonus is paid in respect of the year of departure will be determined by the Committee taking into account the performance metrics and whether it is appropriate to time pro-rate the award for the time served during the year.
Annual Bonus Scheme deferred share element Death, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement, The award will vest immediately upon cessation of directorship employment.
the sale of the participants employing company Alternatively, the Committee has the discretion to determine that awards should not or business out of the Group or any other reason vest, until the end of the deferral period.
if the Committee so decides Any other reason The award will lapse upon cessation of directorship employment.
Executive Share Option Scheme Death, injury, ill health, disability, redundancy, The award will be exercisable within the period of 12 months after cessation of retirement, the sale of the participants directorship employment.
employing company or business out the Group or All subsisting awards under the Executive Share Option Scheme have vested and are any other reason if the Committee so decides currently capable of exercise.
Retirement benefits will be received by any Executive Director who is a member of any of the Groups pension plans in accordance with the rules of such plan.
18 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 GOvERNANCE Report on Directors Remuneration Directors Remuneration Policy continued Change in control The rules of the PSP provide that, in the event of a change of control or winding-up of the Company all awards will vest early taking into account: i the extent to which the Committee considers that the performance conditions have been satisfied at that time: and ii the pro-rating of the awards to reflect the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed for awards granted in or after September 2014 or the period which has elapsed since grant relative to a period of three years for awards granted before September 2014, although the Committee can decide not to pro-rate an award if it regards it as inappropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
Deferred bonus awards will normally vest in full on a takeover or winding up of the Company.
In the event of a special dividend, demerger or similar event the Committee may determine that awards vest on the same basis.
In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation awards may be replaced by equivalent new awards over shares in a new holding.
Similarly, in the event of a merger of equals the Committee may invite participants to voluntarily exchange their awards that would otherwise vest for equivalent new awards over shares in a new holding company.
The Committee may in the circumstances referred to above determine to what extent any bonus should be paid in respect of the financial year in which the relevant event takes place, taking into account of the extent to which the Committee determines the relevant performance metrics have been or would have been met.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company When reviewing and setting Executive Director remuneration, the Committee takes into account the pay and employment conditions of all employees of the Group.
The Group-wide pay review budget is one of the key factors when reviewing the salaries of the Executive Directors.
Although the Group has not carried out a formal employee consultation regarding Board remuneration, it does comply with local regulations and practices regarding employee consultation more broadly.
Communication with Shareholders The Remuneration Committee is committed to an ongoing dialogue with Shareholders and seeks the views of significant Shareholders when any major changes are being made to remuneration arrangements.
The Committee takes into account the views of significant Shareholders when formulating and implementing the policy.
Terms and conditions for Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts but are appointed for initial periods of three years, normally renewable on a similar basis subject to annual re-election at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The present letters of appointment for Professor Arnold, Ms Edozien, Mr Harvey, Mrs Owers and Mrs Silver will expire on 31December 2015, 31December 2017, 31December 2015, 31December 2017 and 31March 2017 respectively, subject, in each case, to annual re-election as a Director at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The letters of appointment of Non-executive Directors and service contracts of Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available at the Annual General Meeting.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 19 Annual Report on Remuneration Information contained within the Annual Report on Remuneration has not been subject to audit unless stated.
Single total figure of remuneration audited The table below sets out in a single figure the total amount of remuneration, including each element, received by each of the Executive Directors for the year ended 31May 2015.
2 Taxable benefits comprise life assurance, healthcare insurance and car allowance.
3 Details of the performance measures and weightings as well as results achieved under the annual bonus arrangements in place in respect of the year are shown below.
4 Details of the performance measures as well as results achieved are shown below.
The values shown reflect the partial vesting of awards made under the Performance Share Plan in 2012, valued at the average price for the Companys shares over the period of three months ended 31 May 2015.
5 With effect from 1 June 2008, the Executive Directors became eligible for membership of the Companys defined contribution pension arrangement.
Messrs Kanellis and Leigh each elected, with the permission of the Committee, to receive instead a salary supplement equivalent to 20per cent of base salary: these amounts are included in the column headed Pension.
Mr Davis continues to participate in the defined contribution pension arrangement but as the amount of Company contributions was less than 20per cent of his salary, the difference between those contributions and 20per cent of his base salary was paid as a salary supplement.
Both the pension contributions and the salary supplement are included in the column headed Pension.
6 That part of the bonus payable to Mr Kanellis which exceeds 100per cent of his basic salary is deferred into Company shares vesting three years after the award is determined, subject to malus provisions and continued employment.
7 Mr Heale retired from the Board on 31December 2013.
8 Mrs Silver was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2014.
9 Mr Steel retired from the Board on 23 September 2014.
20 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 GOvERNANCE Report on Directors Remuneration Annual Report on Remuneration continued Individual elements of remuneration Base salary Base salaries for individual Executive Directors are reviewed annually, with effect from 1 September, by the Remuneration Committee and are set with reference to the scope of the role and the markets in which PZ Cussons operates, the performance and experience of the individual, pay levels in other organisations of a similar size and complexity and pay increases elsewhere in the Group.
From 1 September 2015 the base salary of Mr Kanellis will increase by 3.4per cent and the salaries of each of Mr Davis and Mr Leigh will increase by 2.8per cent, in each case within the range of salary increases across the Group.
The base salaries for the year ended 31May 2014 and the year ended 31May 2015 are as set out below: 01 09 2013 01 09 2014 01 09 2015 Increase Base salary Base salary Base salary % G A Kanellis 524,160 550,400 569,113 3.4 C G Davis 333,060 346,400 356,100 2.8 B H Leigh 327,600 340,700 350,240 2.8 Non-executive Director fees The fees payable to Mrs Owers increased by 5,000 during the year to reflect her appointment on 23 September 2014 as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
No other changes were made during the year to the fees payable to Non-executive Directors.
Non-executive Director fees are reviewed every other year and on 1 June 2015 the annual fees payable in respect of the chairmanship of principal standing committees were adjusted to better reflect market practice in comparable companies.
As a result, with effect from the biennial review on 1 June 2015, the fees payable to Professor Arnold increased by 7,500 to 65,000 to reflect his role as Senior Independent Director and his chairmanships of the Audit and Group Risk Committees, the annual fees payable to Mrs Owers increased by 5,000 to 62,500 to reflect her role as Chair of the Remuneration Committee and the annual fees payable to Ms Edozien increased by 7,500 to 60,000 to reflect her appointment as Chair of the CSR Committee.
The annual fees payable to each of Mr Harvey and Mrs Silver remain unchanged.
Annual bonus Bonus for the year ended 31May 2015 In respect of the year ended 31May 2015, each of the Executive Directors participated in the Senior Executive Annual Bonus Scheme.
Under this scheme, the CEO was eligible to earn a cash bonus of up to 150per cent of base salary and the CFO and COO were each eligible to earn a cash bonus of up to 125per cent of base salary.
Any bonus awards earned in excess of 100per cent of base salary are deferred into Company shares vesting three years after the award is determined, subject to malus provisions and continued employment.
The on-target element of the annual bonus representing 60per cent of maximum opportunity was dependent on the achievement of stretching profit before tax, net working capital and operating contribution margin performance targets.
A bonus was only payable in circumstances where a minimum financial performance gateway of 90per cent of target profit before tax was achieved.
Subject to that gateway being attained, Executive Directors earn a bonus in respect of each financial target on a sliding scale basis once a minimum of 90per cent of each target was achieved.
The balance 40per cent of maximum bonus opportunity was dependant on delivery of a profit before tax stretch target and certain non-financial objectives, in each case subject to achieving the same profit before tax threshold as above.
At the conclusion of the year, the Committee looked back over the period and reconsidered the most appropriate weighting to apply in respect of i the profit before tax stretch target and ii the non-financial objectives which, together, determined the above-target element of the annual bonus and concluded that 20per cent of maximum bonus opportunity should be payable in respect of each, better reflecting those priorities upon which the Executive Directors had been focussed during the year.
This is consistent with the Remuneration Policy as approved last year.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 21 Over the year, the Company achieved profit before tax and exceptional items of 108.8m target: 108.6m, a net working capital margin of 21.9per cent target: 20.7per cent and an operating contribution margin of 18.9per cent target: 18.7per cent.
On this basis and in relation to the on-target element of the annual bonus, the Executive Directors earned 55.05per cent of their maximum bonus opportunity comprising 42per cent in respect of the profit before tax target, 4.05per cent in respect of the net working capital margin target and 9per cent in respect of operating contribution margin target.
The non-financial targets relating to progress on the introduction of the Groups revised operating model, the deployment of SAP, entry into certain new export markets, the development of talent and succession planning and CSR objectives related to reduction in carbon emissions and water consumption were largely attained as a consequence of which the Executive Directors earned 17per cent of maximum bonus opportunity.
The profit before tax stretch target was partially attained 0.8per cent of maximum bonus opportunity.
As a consequence, each of the Executive Directors qualified for 72.85per cent of his maximum bonus opportunity.
In the case of MrKanellis, this resulted in a total bonus payment equivalent to 109.28per cent of his annual basic salary whilst Messrs Davis and Leigh each qualified for a total bonus payment equivalent to 91.06per cent of his annual basic salary.
That part of MrKanellis bonus which exceeded in value 100per cent of his annual basic salary was deferred into Company shares vesting three years after the award is determined.
2016 annual bonus framework Executive Directors will continue to participate in the Senior Executive Annual Bonus Scheme in respect of the year ending 31May 2016.
The Directors consider that the Groups future targets are matters which are commercially sensitive: they could provide our competitors with insights into our business plans and expectations and should therefore remain confidential to the Company.
However, there have been no changes to the structure of or level of opportunity available under the Scheme and the principal features of the Scheme remain as follows: maximum opportunity remains at 150per cent of salary for the CEO and 125per cent of salary for the CFO and COO: any bonus awards earned in excess of 100per cent of base salary will be deferred into Company shares vesting three years after the award is determined, subject to clawback provisions as detailed below and continued employment: the target award will remain at 60per cent of maximum opportunity.
Annual bonuses will again be based on the achievement of stretching profit before tax, net working capital and operating contribution margin performance targets on the same basis as applied in 2015: 20per cent of maximum opportunity will be available for delivering non-financial objectives subject to achieving the same profit before tax threshold as above: and 20per cent of maximum opportunity will be available for delivering a profit before tax stretch target.
The UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 will apply to the Company for the first time in respect of the year ending 31May 2016.
Reflecting best practice as set out in the Code, the Committee has resolved that awards made under the Senior Executive Annual Bonus Scheme in respect of the year ending 31May 2016 will include new clawback provisions which would enable the Committee to clawback awards made to Executive Directors and other senior executives for a period of up to two years from payment and or vesting in the event of i a material misstatement of audited results, ii employee misconduct associated with the governance or conduct of the business or iii an erroneous calculation of a performance condition.
The existing malus provisions will be amended so that they operate in a consistent fashion.
22 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 GOvERNANCE Report on Directors Remuneration Annual Report on Remuneration continued Long-term Incentive Plans Performance Share Plan Executive Directors and certain key executives are generally eligible to participate in the Performance Share Plan which provides for the grant of conditional rights to receive shares subject to continued employment over a three year vesting period and the satisfaction of certain performance criteria established by the Committee.
A new version of the Plan, the 2014 Performance Share Plan, was approved and adopted at the 2014 Annual General Meeting: prior to this awards were made under a version of the Plan approved and adopted in 2008.
For the purposes of this Report, both versions of the Plan are referred to as the Performance Share Plan.
Awards vesting in respect of the year ended 31May 2015 The year ended 31May 2015 represented the final year of the three year performance period for awards made under the Performance Share Plan in 2012.
The overall performance during the three years was such that a proportion of the awards 32.5per cent made to the Executive Directors will vest but the remainder will lapse, as below: Resulting level of award EPS performance Targets Level of vesting Performance achieved % of maximum opportunity Threshold RPI 4% 25% RPI 4.6% 32.5% Maximum RPI 10% 100% Awards granted in the year ended 31May 2015 audited As disclosed in last years Report on Directors Remuneration and in line with the Companys Remuneration Policy, as set out on page 13, during the year ended 31May 2015 awards were made to the Executive Directors under the Performance Share Plan over shares with a value equal to 150per cent of base salary for the CEO and 125 per cent for the COO and CFO.
Any awards earned in excess of 100per cent of salary on grant will vest not at the end of the three year performance period but in equal amounts four years and five years after the date of grant.
These awards are subject to adjusted Earnings Per Share growth targets measured over the single three year performance period commencing on 1 June 2014.
No proportion of the awards may vest unless the Groups adjusted Earnings Per Share grow by at least 6per cent per annum compounded over the relevant performance period.
25per cent of the award will vest where adjusted Earnings Per Share grow by 6per cent per annum rising on a straight line pro rata basis to 100per cent vesting where adjusted Earnings Per Share grow by 12per cent per annum or more, in each case compounded over the performance period.
Percentage vesting for threshold Performance Scheme Basis of award Number of shares Face value performance period end date 2014 Performance 24 September G A Kanellis Share Plan 150% of salary 223,135 825,600 25% 2017 2014 Performance 24 September C G Davis Share Plan 125% of salary 117,027 433,000 25% 2017 2014 Performance 24 September B H Leigh Share Plan 125% of salary 115,101 425,874 25% 2017 Face value has been calculated using the average mid-market closing share price on 23 September 2014 of 370p which was the share price used to determine the number of shares subject to the award in accordance with the rules of the Performance Share Plan.
Awards to be granted in the year ending 31May 2016 The Committee intends to make awards under the Performance Share Plan to Executive Directors during the year ending 31May 2016 on the same basis as the prior year and in line with the Companys Remuneration Policy.
Award levels remain unchanged from 2014 15 awards.
The Committee proposes to continue to make awards subject to the attainment of targets related to growth in adjusted Earnings Per Share.
The Committee has considered the introduction of an additional performance measure but has concluded that this is not appropriate for the Company and that Earnings Per Share alone remains the most meaningful measure of long-term performance, providing a valuable line of sight for management and alignment with the interests of Shareholders.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 23 The Committee has also reviewed the most appropriate EPS performance targets.
The Committee considers that long-term EPS growth targets should strike the right balance between incentivising management and aligning with Shareholders experience.
In this respect, it has been particularly conscious of the challenging economic and consumer market context in which PZ Cussons is delivering performance.
For awards to be made in the year ending 31May 2016 the minimum threshold compound EPS growth target, at which 25per cent of awards will vest, will be compound EPS growth of 4per cent p. a.
The target for maximum vesting will remain unchanged at compound EPS growth of 12per cent p. a.
The Committee is satisfied that these targets are appropriately challenging and the same stretching level of performance as has applied in previous years will be required for the award to vest in full.
The Committee will, of course, keep this under review to ensure the performance targets for awards made in future years remain appropriate.
In line with its decision in respect of awards under the Senior Executive Annual Bonus Scheme, the Committee has resolved to introduce clawback provisions for awards under the Performance Share Plan awards which will be granted during the year ending 31May 2016.
The rules of each incentive plan will be amended to enable the Committee to clawback awards made to Executive Directors and other senior executives for a period of up to two years from vesting in the event of i a material misstatement of audited results, ii employee misconduct associated with the governance or conduct of the business or iii an erroneous calculation of a performance condition.
These changes will be introduced with effect from the awards to be made in respect of the year ending 31May 2016.
The existing malus provisions applying to the Performance Share Plan will be amended so that they are consistent.
Executive Share Option Scheme Prior to the adoption by the Company of the Performance Share Plan in 2008, Executive Directors and certain other senior executives were generally eligible for the grant of options under the PZ Cussons Plc Executive Share Option Scheme.
There have been no grants of options under the Executive Share Option Scheme since the introduction of the Performance Share Plan and it is not expected that any further awards will be made under this scheme.
All options granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme have now either vested and are capable of exercise or have lapsed.
Pension benefits audited The following Executive Directors were members of the defined benefit pension arrangements provided by the Company.
All of these defined benefit plans were closed to future accrual on 31May 2008 and replaced by defined contribution arrangements.
Benefits built up in the defined benefit plans continued to receive a salary link until 31May 2013.
The pension entitlements and corresponding transfer values below relate solely to the defined benefit arrangements.
G A Kanellis Benefits held within both the PZ Cussons Directors Retirement Benefits Plan and the PZ Cussons Pension Fund and Life Assurance Scheme for Staff Employed Outside the United Kingdom.
The total entitlement across both arrangements is calculated as 1 30th of Final Pensionable Salary at 31May 2013 for each year of service within the Companys defined benefit pension arrangements ceasing on 31May 2008 and all benefits are payable from age 62.
In total, the sum of the deferred pensions within these two arrangements at 31May 2015 was 329,612 p. a.
B H Leigh Benefits held within the PZ Cussons Directors Retirement Benefits Plan, supplemented by an unfunded contractual promise payable by the Company.
In total, the sum of the deferred pensions within these two arrangements at 31May 2015 was 115,043 p. a.
C G Davis Benefits held within the PZ Cussons Directors Retirement Benefits Plan, supplemented by an unfunded contractual promise payable by the Company.
In total, the sum of the deferred pensions within these two arrangements at 31May 2015 was 26,294 p. a.
Following closure of the Companys defined benefit plans, each of the Executive Directors became eligible for membership of the Companys defined contribution pension arrangements.
Details of the benefits received by each in this respect are set out at note 5 to the table on page 19.
24 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 GOvERNANCE Report on Directors Remuneration Annual Report on Remuneration continued Loss of office payments audited No payments for loss of office were made during the year.
Limits on shares issued to satisfy share incentive plans The Companys share incentive plans may operate over new issued Ordinary Shares, treasury shares or Ordinary Shares purchased in the market.
In relation to all the Companys share incentive plans, the Company may not, in any ten year period, issue or grant rights requiring the issue of more than 10per cent of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company to satisfy awards to participants nor more than 5per cent of the issued Ordinary Share capital for executive share plans.
In respect of awards made during the year ended 31May 2015 under the Companys share incentive plans, no new Ordinary Shares were issued.
Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests audited The Committee has established Shareholding Ownership Guidelines which require Executive Directors: to build up and retain holdings of shares and or deferred shares net of tax worth 150per cent of salary from time to time: and until this share ownership threshold is met, to invest 50per cent of any after-tax annual bonus into the Companys shares.
They are also required to retain shares with a value equal to 50per cent of the net gain after tax arising from the acquisition of shares pursuant to any of the Companys share incentive plans, again until the share ownership threshold is met.
All Executive Directors have complied with the above guidelines in respect of the year ended 31May 2015.
Richard Harvey Chairman is also required under his letter of appointment to invest 20per cent of his fees each year in the purchase of shares in the Company and to retain such shares during the term of his appointment which he has complied with during the current financial year.
Interests in shares The interests in the Companys shares of each of the Executive Directors as at 31May 2015 together with interests held by his connected persons were: Interests in share incentive schemes Interests in share incentive schemes Ordinary Shares held which are not subject to any performance which are subject to any performance 1 2 3 at 1 June 2015 condition as at 1 June 2015 condition as at 1 June 2015 G A Kanellis 681,699 519,640 C G Davis 323,677 131,539 305,431 B H Leigh 128,297 300,417 1 Includes shares held by connected persons.
2 Includes vested but unexercised options held under the Executive Share Option Scheme.
3 Includes unvested awards under the Performance Share Plan which remain subject to performance including the whole of the awards made in 2012.
The Non-Executive Directors shareholdings are disclosed on page 5 within the Report of the Directors.
Executive Share Option Scheme audited The outstanding awards granted to each Director of the Company under the Executive Share Option Scheme are as follows: Market Number Number Option price of options Granted Exercised of options exercise at date of Earliest Exercise Date of awards at allocated vested Lapsed awards at price award date of Expiry transfer award 1 June 2014 in year in year in year 31May 2015 exercise date date G A Kanellis 06-Aug-07 197,309 197,309 1.6725 3.735 06-Aug-10 06-Aug-17 28-Aug-14 C G Davis 06-Aug-07 131,539 131,539 1.6725 06-Aug-10 06-Aug-17 Note: All awards have now vested and are capable of exercise.
2 Awards over 33,800 shares will vest on 26 July 2015: awards over 70,200 shares will lapse.
3 Awards over 33,245 shares will vest on 26 July 2015: awards over 69,050 shares will lapse.
Performance graph The graph below illustrates the performance of PZ Cussons Plc measured by Total Shareholder Return TSR over the six year period to 31May 2015 against the TSR of a holding of shares in the FTSE 250 index over the same period, based on an initial investment of 100.
The FTSE 250 index has been chosen as PZ Cussons Plc is a constituent of that index.
PZ Cussons Plc TSR vs the FTSE 250 index TSR Value 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 PZ Cussons Plc ordinary shares FTSE 250 index Chief Executive Officer remuneration for previous six years Annual bonus LTIP % of % of Total maximum maximum remuneration opportunity opportunity 2014 15 1,463,325 72.85% 32.5% 2013 14 1,052,912 78.0% 0% 2012 13 1,104,089 69.5% 0% 2011 12 599,070 0% 0% 2010 11 1,484,017 18.0% 100.0% 2009 10 1,403,984 67.8% N A 26 PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 GOvERNANCE Report on Directors Remuneration Annual Report on Remuneration continued Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows PZ Cussons distributions to Shareholders and total employee pay expenditure for the financial years ended 31May 2014 and 31May 2015, and the percentage change.
2015 2014 % m m change Total employee costs 99.9 103.9 4 % Dividends paid 33.0 32.2 3% Profits before tax and exceptional terms 108.8 115.0 5 % Change in CEO remuneration and for employees as a whole over 2015 The table below shows the change in CEO annual cash defined as salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus, compared to the change in employee annual cash for a comparator group for 2014 to 2015.
The PZ Cussons International Limited employee workforce was chosen as a suitable comparator group because it is considered to be the most relevant, due to the UK employment location and the structure of total remuneration staff are able to earn an annual bonus as well as receiving a base salary and benefits.
CEO Average for other % employees 2015 2014 change % change Salary 543,840 517,920 5% 2.5% Benefits 22,490 22,563 0% 2.5% Bonus 601,477 408,845 47% 11.1 % Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration The following Directors were members of the Remuneration Committee when matters relating to the Directors remuneration for the year were being considered.
Mr J Steel Chairman until his retirement from the Board on 23 September 2014 Mrs H Owers Chair from 23 September 2014 Professor J Arnold Ms N Edozien Mrs C Silver The Committee was advised in relation to Directors remuneration during the year by Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and has signed the voluntary Code of Practice for remuneration consultants.
Deloitte were appointed by the Committee and the Committee is satisfied that the advice they have received from Deloitte has been objective and independent.
During the year, Deloitte provided advice on market data and assisted with the Committees review of executive remuneration matters.
The fees paid to Deloitte in respect of this work were charged on a time and expenses basis and totalled 44,000.
Deloitte LLP also provided advisory services to the Group during the year relating to tax advice.
During the year, the Committee consulted Richard Harvey Chairman on issues where it felt his experience and knowledge could benefit its deliberations and MrHarvey attended meetings by invitation.
The Committee also consulted Alex Kanellis Chief Executive on proposals relating to the remuneration of members of the Groups senior management team and he too attended meetings by invitation.
The Global Human Resources Director also attended meetings by invitation.
The Committee is supported by Sam Plant Company Secretary who acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Invitees are not involved in any decisions or discussions regarding their own remuneration.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2015 27 Statement of shareholder voting The Committee is directly accountable to Shareholders and, in this context, is committed to an open and transparent dialogue with Shareholders on the issue of executive remuneration.
During the year, the Committee actively engaged widely with key Shareholders and Shareholder representative bodies in respect of the approach to executive remuneration, including the performance conditions to be applied to awards under the Performance Share Plan, and their comments were considered when agreeing the proposed approach.
The Remuneration Committee Chair will be available to answer questions from Shareholders regarding remuneration at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
The votes cast by proxy at the Annual General Meeting held on 23 September 2014 in respect of resolutions relating to Directors remuneration are shown below.
Advisory vote on the report on Directors remuneration: votes for votes against Number % Number % votes cast votes withheld 346,084,398 99.65% 1,226,279 0.35% 347,310,677 9,298,041 Adoption of the Policy on Directors remuneration: votes for votes against Number % Number % votes cast votes withheld 307,552,430 87.60% 43,536,321 12.40% 351,088,751 5,529,133 By order of the Board of Directors H Owers Chair of the Remuneration Committee 21 July 2015
