DIREcToRs REpoRTs RemuneRation committee RepoRt REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Randgold has delivered higher production, significant profits and increased dividends to its shareholders against a challenging market background which evidences the success of the companys long term strategy.
Andrew Quinn CHAIRMAN Christopher Norborne 1 Coleman Cole Jr Dear shareholders In 2015, Randgold exceeded its 1.2Moz production target which it set out to achieve five years ago.
The achievement of this important milestone, together with a focus on management of capital investment and reduced production cost per ounce, once again allowed the company to deliver significant profits and increased dividends to its shareholders.
This profitability was in contrast to much of the gold mining industry which has seen significant losses and asset impairment.
Karl Randgolds continued growth evidences the success 2 Voltaire of the companys long term strategy.
Randgold outperformed the Euromoney Global Gold Index by 17% during 2015, outperformed its peers as set out in the graph on page 189 of this annual report, and outperformed the Euromoney Global Gold Index by 166% over the last five years.
While the company has significantly outperformed the market, we continue to look to the future, growing capacity and maintaining the qualities that deliver our required internal rate of return and long term value to shareholders.
The successful commissioning and ramp-up of Kibali, given its size and remote location, was an outstanding achievement and remains instrumental in supporting current and planned future production growth.
The companys future growth is expected to be self-funded through its strong 1 cash flow and it continues to focus on replacing the Mr Cole Jr will retire from the remuneration committee after the committees meeting on 31 October 2016. reserves depleted through mining with sustained 2 Dr Voltaire will retire from the remuneration committee with effect from exploration efforts.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 188 The companys strong performance against 2015 The remuneration policy is not only aligned to objectives resulted in outcomes under the annual the companys remuneration principles but also to its culture, philosophy and long term success, bonus plan for the cEo and cFo of 60% and 77% allowing it to build sustainable value for all its of maximum respectively.
over the longer term, stakeholders.
In formulating its policy, Randgold against the backdrop of market headwinds and has followed international best practice and good commodity price volatility, performance results under corporate governance and regularly engages with the Restricted share scheme did not result in any shareholders on its structure and implementation.
vesting for the relevant tranches of the 2012 and The remuneration policy provides for stretching 2013 awards, although partial vesting under the 2011 performance targets for the delivery of performanceawards was achieved.
However, Randgolds relative based, variable short term and long term incentive performance over the long-term has been consistently plans for Randgolds executive directors.
above that of our peers and the wider gold mining industry resulting in maximum vesting under the coIn 2014, Randgold made some changes to its Investment plan for the three year performance period incentive plans to simplify the plans and further ending in 2015.
The variation in vesting of our variable manage risk.
In particular, we added malus to pay plans reflects the complexity of the business the Annual Bonus plan and three-year clawback and commodity market in which it operates and the provisions to the Restricted share scheme and committee is satisfied that the outcomes represent the co-Investment plan.
We also highlighted our a fair result for executives and shareholders and intention to review the operation of the incentive plans endorses Randgolds remuneration principles, policy and the performance metrics.
Following extensive and incentive designs.
shareholder consultation by the remuneration committee, additional changes were made in 2015 Randgold was again very pleased to receive strong to simplify the performance criteria for the Restricted support from its shareholders for last years separate share scheme and reducing the threshold vesting vote on the directors remuneration policy, with 98% percentage, increasing the participation under the of shareholders voting in favour.
As discussed with co-Investment plan and extending the time horizon shareholders and stated in Randgolds remuneration to 4 years and adding an environmental KpI to the principles, the board continues to maintain a one annual bonus metrics.
year remuneration policy period and have two votes for shareholders each year: one in respect of the Following these changes, and feedback from policy section, and one in respect of the annual shareholders during the remuneration committees report on remuneration, each proposed for approval annual consultation process, the committee by ordinary resolution.
This is different to the determined that no changes are necessary to the standard UK approach but we believe it provides incentive plans for 2016. greater transparency and allows for less discretion and the ongoing engagement and involvement of As a company incorporated in Jersey, voting on the our shareholders with the companys remuneration directors remuneration policy and on the directors principles, policies, and practices.
consequently, remuneration report will be advisory and the policy this report has three separate sections: this annual section will become effective from 3 May 2016, being statement by the remuneration committee chairman, the date of the companys AGM.
The board will our 2016 directors remuneration policy and a give due and careful consideration to shareholder feedback and will operate in line with the approved remuneration report covering the 2015 financial year.
The report and policy will each be submitted for policy.
We welcome dialogue with our shareholders shareholder approval at the companys AGM on on the remuneration of our executive directors and appreciate our shareholders continued support.
3 May 2016. sHARE pRIcE pERFoRMANcE GRApH Rebased to Randgold $ 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 189 Jan 05 Jan 06 Jan 07 Jan 08 Jan 09 Jan 10 Jan 11 Jan 12 Jan 13 Jan 14 Jan 15 Randgold Spot gold Newcrest Goldcorp Barrick Gold Newmont Kinross Gold AngloGold Directors reports RemuneRation committee RepoRt continued DIRECTORs REMUNERATION POlICy is a unique entrepreneurial company, focused on ExEcUTIvE REMUNERATIoN pRINcIplEs Africa and growing value through discovery and AND pHIlosopHy development that has at its heart the creation of value Randgold operates in a variety of international for all stakeholders including its host countries and markets and jurisdictions.
In formulating its principles, the regulatory requirements of Jersey, local communities where the company operates.
the United Kingdom and the United states were taken into account and the company has followed Randgolds alignment with shareholder value creation international best practice and good corporate encourages empowerment, energy, ownership and governance.
The companys executive remuneration responsibility, as well as a results-based growth principles provide the underlying standards on which culture.
Randgolds remuneration plans support this the remuneration policies and goals are based.
through encouraging investment and ownership in the The remuneration principles are applied across the business, as well as setting stretching performance group and the remuneration policy is applied to the targets for the delivery of reward-based variable short executive and non-executive directors.
The principles term and long term incentive plans for its executive are reviewed annually by the remuneration committee directors and senior management.
and at such other times as the remuneration committee considers necessary.
Objective To ensure Randgolds principles on directors Randgolds business strategy for success is enduring, remuneration encourage, reinforce and reward consistent, sustainable and long established, as is the delivery of sustainable value to the companys the people strategy and the remuneration objective and principles that have been developed to support shareholders and its other stakeholders in the host its business and its corporate culture.
Randgold countries where the company operates.
remuneration PrinciPles Long term success Building sustainable long term value for shareholders and other stakeholders is the key overriding objective.
Accordingly a significant proportion of our remuneration is aligned to the long term success of the company through both shares and performance-related awards.
In addition, to support the alignment with shareholders and the desired corporate culture of the company, senior executives are encouraged to invest in and hold shares in the company.
Randgolds people Randgolds belief is that a key part of that value creation strategy is ensuring the company has the right people in the right places to deliver this value with the appropriate balance and alignment between the interests of shareholders and an attractive and appropriate reward package for its people.
Randgolds people are highly motivated and have energy and tenacity to achieve and succeed in delivering Randgolds long term vision.
Randgold believes in rewarding highly for delivering value, showing flexibility and mobility, as well as demonstrating a proactive entrepreneurial approach.
Randgold rewards high performance and alignment with Randgolds culture when it is consistently delivered, and consequently value to Randgold and its shareholders is seen as increasing from an individuals contribution.
Executive directors competitive total remuneration is used to attract and retain high-calibre executive directors, who have the personal attributes, skills and experience necessary to deliver the companys strategy in the environment within which it operates.
Randgold operates in the international mining industry and, specifically, the international gold mining industry.
Reward packages need to be commensurate with its comparator groups to attract and retain high calibre people with exceptional industry ability in mining and in Africa.
As well as being appropriately reflective of the industry, Randgolds pay philosophy is to ensure its entrepreneurial culture and principles are maintained by ensuring leverage through its variable pay plans.
Performance-related pay Randgolds strategy of delivering value in Africa through its partnerships with other companies international and local, governments, Randgolds people and the people of Randgolds host countries in Africa is clear and this flows through to Randgolds performance in terms of its KpIs.
A significant proportion of total remuneration should vary with performance, aligning the executive directors interests with the interests of the companys shareholders and stakeholders.
Randgolds only material element of fixed remuneration will be base pay, supplemented by performance-related short term and long term remuneration.
A high level of performance, measured with reference to predetermined objective criteria, will be rewarded with higher levels of remuneration.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 190 remuneration PrinciPles Performance measures Financial and non-financial KpIs are Randgolds measurement of success and are reflected in its remuneration plans.
Randgold believes sustainable long term growth is a fundamental strength of its strategy, its people and its way of working.
consequently, its long term incentive plans reward sustained and exceptional stretching performance over a three to five year period including the required holding period.
The use of stretching performance measures and key performance indicators are crucial to benchmark performance.
In terms of comparative performance, Randgold will use relevant comparator groups.
Individual executive directors performance, pay and performance metrics and ranges will be reviewed annually to ensure alignment with Randgolds business plans and its overriding objectives.
Risk In addition to the delivery of sustainable value, remuneration arrangements should be aligned with Randgolds approach to sustainability and business risk management which takes into account the companys environmental, social and governance responsibilities.
Expenses and benefits our culture is to deliver value for shareholders as entrepreneurs.
Accordingly, we reduce long term fixed elements of pay and as such there are no company-funded pension plans within the company and, while we provide access to a company-facilitated medical insurance policy, the company does not fund the contributions.
However, as a responsible employer, we support our workforce and executives in delivering social benefits related to workplace events or events whilst at work such as ill health and disability.
Any expenses incurred in the course of work are reimbursed.
Shareholding ownership of shares in the company is encouraged and executive directors are required to build a material shareholding in the company which over time will form a meaningful portion of reward and will align executive directors interests to shareholders interests.
Randgold will require each executive director to have a minimum shareholding in the company.
Recruitment The company will not offer any more than is necessary to attract and retain executive directors of the right calibre and experience.
The company may compensate a new executive director for forfeiture of salary and other remuneration from a previous employer on a comparable basis taking into account performance achieved or likely to be achieved and aligning this new executive director with other executive directors as far as possible.
Service contracts and letters of appointment Executive directors service contracts and non-executive directors letters of appointment will be clear, transparent, and will be drafted by reference to best practice.
Where governance principles vary or conflict across relevant jurisdictions, the board will adopt what it considers to be the appropriate standards that reflect the overriding objective.
Termination payments on determining loss of office payments, consideration will be given to any contractual provisions, the circumstances under which an executive director leaves and the executive directors performance.
Whether a loss of office payment is made is at the discretion of the remuneration committee.
Non-executive chairman and directors To attract and retain a high calibre non-executive chairman and non-executive directors who have the necessary skills, experience and commitment, the company will offer competitive remuneration which recognises the time commitment and work required for the roles of non-executive chairman and non-executive directors.
Engaging with shareholders The non-executive directors will maintain an open transparent dialogue with shareholders and regularly seek their views on the companys remuneration practices and policies.
Remuneration policy, practices and outcomes will be clearly explained in the context of performance, to the extent not commercially sensitive, and shareholders will be given the opportunity to vote by way of ordinary resolution on Randgolds remuneration policies and practices at least once a year.
Approval will be sought in relation to the 1 directors remuneration report at each annual general meeting.
Fairness and judgement Appropriate judgement will be applied by the remuneration committee in determining remuneration with consideration given to the conditions affecting the company, including the countries where the company operates, and where the executive directors are required to spend their time.
1 As the company is incorporated in Jersey, this approval will be on an advisory rather than on a binding basis.
In line with the companys commitment to follow international best practice and good corporate governance, it is the boards intention to operate in line with the remuneration policy and the board will give careful consideration to shareholder feedback on this policy.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 191 Directors reports RemuneRation committee RepoRt continued Remuneration structure summary Remuneration policy The remuneration policy is based on the remuneration The groups total remuneration, together with principles set out on pages 190 to 191 of this annual each individual element, is benchmarked against a report and remains unchanged from 2015, except as comparator group of FTsE 100, FTsE mining and detailed in the policy table below.
comparable international gold mining companies.
Further details on the companys remuneration policy Any commitment made before an executive becomes and remuneration arrangements are contained in this a director will be honoured even if inconsistent with remuneration report.
For 2016, the remuneration of this or any future policy.
the executive directors will comprise of the following: polIcy oN REMUNERATIoN pAyMENTs n Base salary.
n Annual bonus with mandatory deferral of one 1 year 4 years including 5 years including third of any annual bonus earned into the co- 1 year post vesting 1 year post vesting Base salary period period Investment plan.
n A co-Investment plan rewarding relative Annual bonus performance over three years subject to investment by the executive director, and with a Deferred annual bonus further one-year post-vesting retention period.
n A Restricted share scheme rewarding operational co-Investment plan performance over four years with a further oneyear post-vesting retention period.
Restricted share scheme Maximum opportunity Purpose Operation performance metrics changes Overall n To ensure that the n The remuneration n Maximum opportunity levels for companys executive committee reviews the individual pay elements are set remuneration policy structure of the executive out below.
encourages, reinforces directors arrangements n page 197 of this annual report and rewards the every year.
sets out the total opportunity delivery of sustainable n Total remuneration levels for executive directors shareholder value.
and each element under different performance n To ensure that pay of remuneration is scenarios.
arrangements are benchmarked periodically fully aligned with the against a comparator companys approach to group of FTsE 100, FTsE risk management and mining and comparable take into account our international gold mining obligations in respect companies.
of environmental, social and governance policies.
n n n Base salary competitive base Base pay levels are The cEos base salary was salaries to attract and reviewed annually by the increased from $1 638 000 to remuneration committee $1 687 140 with effect from retain high calibre executives, based on with effect from 1 January 1 January 2016 an increase personal performance each year, taking account of 3% in line with the market and relevant experience.
of company performance, and the average increase for individual performance, employees at the corporate n Base salary is the only changes in responsibility centre.
material element of fixed and levels of increase for n remuneration.
The cFos base salary was the broader employee increased from 525 336 to n The company does population.
541 096 with effect from not fund any pension n Reference is also made to 1 January 2016 an increase contributions.
median levels within FTsE of 3% in line with the market 100, FTsE mining and and the average increase for comparable international employees at the corporate gold mining companies, centre.
n Under normal circumstances, n The remuneration there will be no base salary increases during the one committee considers the impact of any base salary year policy period.
In increase on the total exceptional circumstances, remuneration package.
the remuneration committee reserves the right to make adjustments to the executives remuneration to recognise, for example, development in role, change in responsibility and or specific retention issues.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 192 Maximum opportunity Purpose Operation performance metrics changes n n n The annual bonus payable to Annual bonus Designed to encourage Target and maximum annual and reward superior incentives are determined the cEo for achieving target performance is 150% of base performance on an as a percentage of base annual basis.
The maximum bonus payable to the cEo for achieving n one third of the annual outperformance is 300% of base bonus is compulsorily salary.
deferred into the con Investment plan.
The annual bonus payable to the cFo for achieving target n subject to malus provision performance is 100% of base to allow reduced payment salary.
The maximum bonus at the discretion of the payable to the cFo for achieving remuneration committee outperformance is 200% of base based on the overall salary.
n The performance metrics used to determine the annual bonus n subject to clawback for a cover the same categories for three year period from the both the executive directors, date of payment in the event weighted as follows: of a material misstatement of the companys annual n Financial measures 30%.
report and accounts on n Role-specific operational which they were based.
n Role specific strategic nonfinancial targets 30%.
n n n Deferred bonus The deferral of annual one third of any annual Deferred bonuses are bonus encourages bonus is compulsorily compulsorily deferred into the executive share deferred into shares under co-Investment plan and if certain ownership and provides the co-Investment plan and metrics and targets are satisfied, longer term alignment paid in shares after three are paid in matched shares after with shareholder interests.
n subject to clawback for a three-year period from the date of payment in the event of a material misstatement of the companys annual report and accounts on which the award was based.
n Co-Investment n To reward sustained n Each year an executive The maximum commitment opportunity to be offered under Plan performance relative to director may choose to global peers.
commit shares into the cothe co-Investment plan is 250% of base salary by the cEo and Investment plan in addition n Each year, when to the compulsorily deferred 125% of base salary by the cFo.
under the plan, the n The extent to which the shares n remuneration committee committed shares must are matched depends on the will review and may be retained for four years performance of the companys make adjustments to the which includes an additional TsR compared with the metrics and targets to one year holding period Euromoney Global Gold Index which the vesting of new post-vesting and may be over three years.
matching awards granted matched, depending on n The match is 0.3 shares for each under the plan will be relative Total shareholder share committed for performance subject, before the grant Return TsR performance equalling the performance of the of such awards, taking against the Euromoney Euromoney Global Gold Index.
into account the strategic Global Gold Index formerly For performance at 10% above objectives of the company the HsBc Global Gold Index the index the match is 1:1 with for the relevant periods.
n Matched shares are subject to a malus provision to allow reduced vesting at the discretion of the remuneration committee based on the overall performance of the company.
n Matched shares are subject to clawback for a three year period from the date of vesting in the event of a material misstatement of the companys annual report and accounts on which the award was based.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 193 Directors reports RemuneRation committee RepoRt continued Maximum opportunity Purpose Operation performance metrics changes n n Awards of shares are n The remuneration committee Restricted Rewards sustainable Share Scheme long term performance.
made annually under has determined that the the Restricted share maximum annual award of n Focus on operational scheme, determined as shares is 200% of salary for and financial a percentage of base the cEo and 100% of salary performance measures salary.
and rewards absolute n n delivery of key strategic Awards vest after 4 Three separate measures of business growth, each imperatives to build the years subject to the achievement of stretching weighted one third: company for the future.
operational and financial n Four-year performance n Additional reserves targets.
period supports including reserve n sustainability of growth.
provision to allow reduced n n one year post-vesting Relative TsR vs a tailored vesting at the discretion peer group.
retention period further of the remuneration supports long term n Total cash cost per oz.
committee based on the sustainability.
n overall performance of the The threshold vesting level is n Each year, when company.
30% and is aligned with the considering new awards co-Investment plan.
n subject to clawback for under the scheme, a three year period from the remuneration the date of vesting in committee will review the event of a material and may make misstatement of the adjustments to the companys annual report metrics and targets to and accounts on which which the vesting of they were based.
new awards granted under the Restricted share scheme will be subject, before the grant of such awards, taking into account the strategic objectives of the company for the relevant periods.
Any adjustments are to ensure stretching performance targets are set.
n n n Pension Funded entirely by the Executive directors can Not applicable.
executive directors from elect to allocate up to 20% of their base salary their base salary.
to contribute to a defined contribution provident fund.
The company does not make any further contributions to the fund.
n n n Other benefits Main benefits funded Executive directors can set at a level that the from base salary by elect to participate in remuneration committee resolves to be required for the executive directors.
a medical aid scheme funded out of the executive director to carry out executives base salary.
n Where appropriate, executive directors may be provided with benefits while travelling for work.
n life assurance cover is provided by the company through the group life assurance scheme which also provides cover for the companys senior management.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 194 Maximum opportunity Purpose Operation performance metrics changes n n n Maximum value is determined Other To secure the For external appointments commitments.
appointment and the remuneration committee by reference to the policy in Recruitment promotion of high may offer additional cash relation to each element of pay and promotion calibre executives.
share-based elements outlined above for executive arrangements where they consider it is directors and below for nonin the best interests of the executive directors.
company and therefore n In unforeseen and exceptional shareholders.
such circumstances, in order payments would take to attract the right talent account of remuneration at an executive level, and forfeited when leaving the after consultation with former employer and would major shareholders, the reflect the nature, time remuneration committee may horizons and performance make compensatory onerequirements attaching off payments on recruitment to that remuneration.
which might not otherwise be Full details on any such covered by the remuneration payments would be policy, but in all cases the announced to shareholders value of such arrangement on appointment.
would be within the financial n For appointment of an limit of the policy for that internal candidate, any element of remuneration.
variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take account of appointment.
In addition, any on-going remuneration obligations existing before appointment may continue in place, to the extent they are inconsistent with the policy outlined above, provided that they are put to shareholders for approval at the earliest opportunity.
n For both external and internal appointments, the remuneration committee may agree that the company will meet certain relocation expenses as appropriate.
Chairmans n To attract and retain a n The decisions on the n The chairman receives a fees high calibre chairman chairmans arrangements retainer fee of $60 000 pa. by offering a market are made by the n The chairman also receives the competitive fee.
remuneration committee in chairman fee of $225 000 consultation with the cEo.
n The companys policy which is inclusive of n on the chairmans fees The chairman is paid committee membership fees but exclusive of the committee takes into account the an annual retainer fee, a chairman fee and receives chairman fee.
need to attract and retain an individual an annual award of shares n The chairman, subject to of the right calibre which is fully vested upon shareholder approval, will and experience, their grant.
receive an annual award of: responsibilities and time n The shares are seen as 2 500 shares.
an important element of n The chairman is required to the companys approach retain and maintain from his to remuneration policy in vested shares a number of relation to the chairman.
shares in the company at They encourage share least equal in value as at the ownership and are provided beginning of the financial year in lieu of cash.
to an amount equivalent to n The chairman fee 200% of the annual retainer arrangements are fee.
periodically reviewed by the remuneration committee in consultation with the cEo.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 195 Directors reports RemuneRation committee RepoRt continued Maximum opportunity Purpose Operation performance metrics changes n n n Non-executive To attract and retain a The decisions on the Each non-executive director directors fees high calibre of nonarrangements of the nonreceives a retainer fee of $60 000 pa. executive director executive directors are the by offering market responsibility of the board n Each non-executive director, competitive fees.
taking into account the subject to shareholder approval, fundamental principle of n The companys policy will receive an annual award of corporate governance that on the non-executive 1 500 shares 2 000 for the no individual is involved in directors fees takes senior independent director and the determination of their into account the need 2 500 for the chairman.
The to attract and retain n Non-executive directors chairman, the cEo and the individuals of the right are required to retain and cFo make the decisions calibre and experience, maintain from their vested on the non-executive their responsibilities and shares a number of shares in directors fees.
the company at least equal in n The chairmen of the board value as at the beginning of committees and the senior the financial year to an amount independent director equivalent to 200% of the are paid an additional annual retainer fee.
fee to reflect their extra n The senior independent director responsibilities.
receives a fee of $85 000 pa. n The non-executives are This fee is payable in addition to paid an annual retainer fee, other committee fees to reflect a committee membership the roles increased workload.
fee, and subject to n Each committee chairman shareholder approval, receives an additional fee of receive an annual award of $20 000 pa. shares which is fully vested n Each member of a board upon grant.
committee receives the n The shares are seen as following fee: an important element of n the companys approach Audit: $35 000 pa to remuneration policy in n Remuneration: $25 000 pa relation to non-executive n Governance & nomination: directors.
They encourage $10 000 pa. share ownership and are provided in lieu of cash.
n Non-executive directors fees are reviewed periodically by the chairman and executive directors.
WHy pERFoRMANcE MEAsUREs WERE co-INvEsTMENT plAN cHosEN AND HoW TARGETs ARE sET The gold mining industry is capital intensive, cyclical performance measures are selected by the and long term.
outstanding performance comes remuneration committee on the basis of their from finding and accessing high quality resources, alignment to the remuneration principles and the successfully developing new projects, managing companys strategy, and to ensure the measures production costs, and maintaining efficient and safe remain fundamental to the operational management operations.
Measures are reviewed annually by the remuneration committee, taking into account The remuneration committee believes that, in business performance and priorities.
this context, success can best be measured by the companys total shareholder return TsR ANNUAl BoNUs performance against the Euromoney Global Gold The performance metrics for the annual bonus are set Index.
The Euromoney Global Gold Index is a annually and are based on the business priorities and  index calculated in Us dollars, strategic objectives.
The remuneration committee representing more than 50 mining companies from is of the view that the specific metrics for the annual around 20 countries.
The companys performance bonus are commercially sensitive and it would be against its peers is set out in the graph on page 189 detrimental to the company to disclose them in of this annual report.
advance of or during the relevant performance period.
The remuneration committee will disclose those REsTRIcTED sHARE scHEME metrics at the end of the relevant performance period The performance metrics for the Restricted share when they are no longer commercially sensitive in the scheme have been selected on the basis that they appropriate years annual report.
please see page 202 of this annual report for the performance metrics are among the companys key performance indicators for 2015. and drive shareholder value.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 196 The remuneration committee further believes that For 2016, the remuneration committee has the performance necessary for awards to vest determined that the measures remain appropriate towards the upper end of the performance ranges is and there is no change to performance measures for the year.
These measures provide an equal balance stretching.
They should not, therefore, be interpreted as providing guidance on the companys expected between asset sustainability, profitability and relative shareholder returns, taking into account the current performance over the relevant periods.
economic and gold price volatility.
Awards vest on a straight-line sliding scale for performance between For awards made in 2015, following a review of performance measures, the remuneration committee the minimum and maximum performance range for the relevant performance metric.
determined that, in order to improve the robustness of performance measurement, the following three The remuneration committee will review the measures would apply, each weighted one third: n Additional reserves including reserve replacement performance metrics of the Restricted share scheme in the event that the company issues a material n Total cash cost per ounce number of shares.
n Relative TsR versus industry peers INDIcATIvE ToTAl oppoRTUNITy lEvEls FoR 2016 cEo $ Maximum 12% 24% 12% 53% $14 340 690 Target 21% 21% 11% 47% $8 013 915 Minimum 100% $1 687 140 0 4 000 000 8 000 000 12 000 000 16 000 000 Fixed elements Annual variable amount cash Annual variable element deferred shares Long term variable elements cFo Maximum 19% 25% 13% 43% 2 840 754 Target 32% 21% 11% 36% 1 690 925 Minimum 100% 541 096 0 500 000 1 000 000 1 500 000 2 000 000 2 500 000 3 000 000 Fixed elements Annual variable amount cash Annual variable element deferred shares Long term variable elements As a result of the companys remuneration policy, a significant portion of the rewards available to the executive directors is dependent on the performance of the company.
The tables above illustrate how the total pay opportunities for the cEo and the cFo vary under three different performance scenarios: maximum, target and minimum.
These charts are indicative only as share price movements and dividend accrual have been excluded.
The tables are based on the following assumptions: n Fixed elements comprise of base salary.
n Target performance consists of base salary and incentive awards at 50% of maximum.
n Maximum performance consists of base salary and incentive awards at 100% of maximum.
n The value of the co-Investment plan award assumes a maximum investment from the respective executive director.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 197 Directors reports RemuneRation committee RepoRt continued contracts that could give rise to a remuneration or sERvIcE AGREEMENT pRovIsIoNs loss of office payment.
RElATING To sAlARy AND BENEFITs The executive directors service agreements are Any pension benefit due from contributions made by available for inspection at the companys registered the executive directors to the companys provident office and at each annual general meeting of the fund will also be paid out on termination or at such company.
The information below provides a summary other time as the executive director chooses.
The of the provisions in the executive directors service company does not contribute to the provident fund.
TERMs oF sERvIcE AGREEMENTs 1 Salary and The cEo will be paid a salary of $1 500 000 per annum and the cFo will be paid a salary of 2 benefit 390 000 per annum or, in both cases, such other rate as may be agreed between an executive director and the company.
The salary will be reviewed by the board annually with no obligation to award an increase.
The service agreements provide that the executive directors are entitled to participate in such pension funds as may be nominated by the executive director and participate in the companys medical aid scheme, in both cases funded entirely by the executive director from their base salary.
The company will provide life assurance against death and disability for each of the cEo and cFo.
Annual The executive directors will be eligible to participate in the Annual Bonus plan subject to the rules bonus of the plan as amended from time to time.
The board consults with each of the executive directors with respect to the setting of performance metrics.
The service agreements note that under the rules of the Annual Bonus plan, where a participant ceases employment as a good leaver or there is a change of control event, a participant will be entitled to an award based on the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied and pro-rated to reflect the shortened performance period.
Incentive The executive directors are eligible to participate in the co-Investment plan and the Restricted schemes share scheme subject to the rules of the plans as amended from time to time.
The service agreements note that under the rules of the plan and scheme, where the participant is a good leaver or there is a change of control event, a participant will be entitled to an award based on the extent to which the relevant performance conditions have been satisfied and pro-rated to reflect the shortened performance period.
1 As at 31 December 2015, the annual base salary of the CEO was $1 638 000.
The base salary of the CEO was increased to $1 687 140 with effect from 1 January 2016.
2 As at 31 December 2015, the base salary of the CFO was 525 336.
The base salary of the CFO was increased to 541 096 with effect from 1 January 2016.
TERMINATIoN polIcy coNsIDERATIoN oF coNDITIoNs Both Dr DM Bristow and Mr Gp shuttleworth ElsEWHERE IN THE coMpANy IN agreed updated service agreements in June 2011 DEvElopING polIcy Given the geographic spread of the companys as amended on 28 January 2013 under which the workforce, the remuneration committee does not company and each executive director can terminate consider that consulting directly with employees on their respective service agreement by giving six the remuneration policy for executive directors is the months notice in writing.
most appropriate use of resources, although executive directors pay is carefully considered in the context of The employment relationship can be ended pay and conditions across the company as a whole.
immediately by the company making a payment in lieu of notice, equivalent to the base salary payable The remuneration committee has oversight of for the notice period.
The executive directors duty to remuneration policies for senior management below mitigate will be taken into account on termination.
the board, and applies the principles of transparency, clarity and alignment of reward with performance.
The provisions contained in the executive directors service agreements, as summarised in the above To support the alignment of interests with those table, reflect Randgolds termination policy including of shareholders, in 2009 the company extended in respect of notice periods, the principles for a form of the Restricted share scheme to senior calculating each element of a termination payment, management below board level.
Awards under the and whether circumstances of termination are taken Restricted share scheme are not made annually, into account.
but on an ad hoc basis determined by key events or Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 198 when new senior managers are recruited.
vesting the companys shareholders and has taken account of restricted share awards for senior managers is of their opinions in formulating the remuneration conditional on satisfactory individual performance.
principles, the remuneration policy and this remuneration report.
Further, the board extended the co-Investment plan to senior management below board level, in line with pAyMENTs AlREADy AGREED the existing rules of the plan, with effect from Where unforeseen or exceptional circumstances 1 January 2013.
This further enhances the arise, after consultation with major shareholders, the link between pay and long-term value creation remuneration committee may make payments outside and recognises the significant value the senior of the structures envisaged by the remuneration management team as a whole has created over the policy.
However, the value of any such element would years.
be limited to the usual financial limit for the element of remuneration to which the arrangement relates.
Any coNsIDERATIoN oF sHAREHolDER such event and resultant payments will be announced vIEWs IN DEvElopING polIcy on a timely basis to shareholders in the usual way via As in previous years, the remuneration committee has the stock exchange information service and on the engaged extensively during the year with its larger companys website.
The remuneration committee will institutional shareholders and the voting guidance continue to honour all existing arrangements under services on remuneration.
The remuneration existing contracts and any payments already agreed committee acknowledges and listens to the views of with shareholders.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 199 Directors reports RemuneRation committee RepoRt continued ANNUAl REPORT ON REMUNERATION not required to follow the UK Regulations but does so ExEcUTIvE DIREcToRs REMUNERATIoN in the interest of disclosure to its shareholders.
sINGlE FIGURE The figures contained in the table below reflect the Where a share award or part of a share award has base salary and annual bonuses actually paid during vested on 1 January 2015, it has been included in the the period and the value of awards that vested under 2014 figure and where a share award has vested on the Restricted share scheme and the co-Investment 1 January 2016, it has been included in 2015. plan where the performance period ended in the year under review with such value determined by Fixed remuneration comprises only base salary.
reference to the market price of the vested award No pension contributions are funded by the company.
shares on the relevant vesting date, in accordance In 2016, fixed remuneration represents less than with the United Kingdoms large and Medium-sized 21% for the cEo and less than 32% for the cFo of companies and Groups Accounts and Reports the total remuneration package based on target Amendment Regulations 2013 the UK Regulations.
2 Mr GP Shuttleworths salary was paid in pounds but converted to dollars at the average rate for the year of 1:$1.53.
3 Mr GP Shuttleworths bonus will be paid in pounds in March 2016 but has been converted to dollars at the rate of 1:$1.41.
4 Other payments include expenses for restricted share awards performance share awards and Co-Investment Plan awards which are costed in accordance with IFRS 2, based on the valuation at the date of grant rather than the value of the awards that vested in the year.
Vesting is subject to a number of vesting conditions which may or may not be achieved.
Base salary The cEos and cFos base salaries are determined by the remuneration committee, taking into account the performance of the individual.
The company also benchmarks each element of it remuneration and the total remuneration package in comparison to FTsE 100, FTsE mining and comparable international gold mining companies.
When setting base salaries, the remuneration committee also takes into consideration the requirement for extensive travel and time spent at the companys operations in Africa.
This is considered critical to the effective management of the companys business.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 200 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 201 Directors reports RemuneRation committee RepoRt continued At 31 December 2015, the annual base salaries of the 2015 Annual bonus executive directors were as follows: The annual bonus encourages and rewards superior cEo: Dr DM Bristow $1 638 000 performance on an annual basis.
Executive directors cFo: Mr Gp shuttleworth 525 336 are eligible to receive an annual bonus, subject to Following a review of all aspects of the remuneration the achievement of stretching performance criteria.
packages of the executive directors, it has been The performance metrics are intended to reward the decided that the cEos base salary be increased from achievement of challenging strategic and financial $1 638 000 to $1 687 140 and the cFos base salary be increased from 525 336 to 541 096 with effect targets that contribute to the creation of sustainable from 1 January 2016, which represent an increase of shareholder value.
The cEos and cFos base salary increases are committee reviews and may make adjustments to the in line with wider increases across the group.
criteria used for measuring performance, taking into As is the remuneration committees usual practice, account the strategic objectives of the company for it sought the views of our larger institutional the year, before the metrics and targets are agreed for shareholders and voting guidance services before the annual remuneration cycle.
CEO During the year the remuneration committee was The annual bonus payable to the cEo for achieving provided with information detailing salaries of the broader Randgold employee population.
The target performance in 2015 was 150% of base remuneration committee has an oversight of the salary.
The maximum bonus payable to the cEo review of the employees salaries and any increases for achieving outperformance in 2015 was 300% made are also taken into account when considering of base salary.
The annual bonus for the cEo for the base salary increases for the cEo and cFo.
The 2015 was based on the achievement of the following increases for the employees took effect in october performance metrics: 2015 and ranged from 0% to 7.5%.
The average increase in employee salaries was approximately cEo 3.7%.
Retirement benefits Performance Executive directors can elect to sacrifice up to criteria Measurement Proportion 20% of their base salary to contribute to a defined contribution provident fund.
The provident fund is Financial Eps growth 15% offered to all senior management within the company.
performance The company does not make any contribution to the part A provident fund.
Financial Total cash cost 15% performance per ounce of Other benefits part B gold Executive directors can elect to receive other benefits, operational Growth in 12.5% including medical aid, funded out of their base salary.
part c absolute Where appropriate, executive directors may be reserves provided with benefits while travelling for work and the cost of membership of professional associations.
operational production of 12.5% life assurance cover is provided to the executive part D gold ounces directors by the company through the group life strategic outputs Individual 30% assurance scheme which is also made available to the part E strategic companys senior management.
outputs as agreed with the Variable remuneration remuneration committee variable remuneration represents the major proportion of each executive directors remuneration package.
safety lTIFR 10% part F In 2015, variable remuneration of the executive Environment class 1 directors comprised: 5% part G incidents n An annual bonus opportunity, coupled with the requirement to defer a third of annual bonus CFO earned into the co-Investment plan.
n participation in the co-Investment plan rewarding The annual bonus payable to the cFo for achieving performance over three years, with a further one target performance in 2015 was 100% of base year post-vesting retention requirement of the salary.
The maximum bonus payable to the cFo vested award.
for achieving outperformance in 2015 was 200% n performance shares awarded under the Restricted of base salary.
The annual bonus for the cFo for share scheme, rewarding performance over 2015 was based on the achievement of the following four years, with a further one year post-vesting retention requirement of the vested award.
performance metrics: Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 202 cFo overall strategy of the group are clearly articulated and understood throughout the organisation.
Performance Each of the executive directors and the senior criteria Measurement Proportion management team below board level typically Financial Eps growth 15% receive 20-30 individual strategic objectives for the performance year.
These consist of a range of outputs that are part A specific to their individual role such as, for example, Financial Total cash cost 15% building maintaining relationships with key partners performance per ounce of and stakeholders such as host governments, part B gold shareholders, suppliers and the local communities operational capital 12.5% part c expenditure at the mine sites: developing specific aspects of the control business and implementing strategic decisions or operational Inventory 12.5% key operational improvements: and managing key part D control projects within certain parameters and timelines.
These personal objectives are assessed at the end strategic outputs Individual 30% of the year including 360 degree feedback.
The part E strategic individual strategic outputs are directly related outputs as to the key business objectives and consequently agreed with the their achievement is an appropriate measure of remuneration performance and is complementary to the various committee safety lTIFR 10% financial metrics included in the bonus calculation.
part F Environment class 1 5% The individual strategic outputs for the cEo and cFo part G incidents are approved by the remuneration committee.
No bonus is payable to executive directors in respect of individual strategic outputs for a level of achievement Individual strategic outputs for the cEo and cFo, below 70%.
and the rest of the executive management team and senior managers, are determined through 2015 Annual bonus outcomes the companys annual strategic planning process, Based on performance achieved against targets whereby the management team identifies the key during the 2015 financial year, the remuneration objectives and deliverables which collectively the committee determined, based on the performance company needs to achieve in order for the business metrics, that Dr DM Bristow and Mr Gp shuttleworth to be successful as a whole.
The process includes receive bonus payments of $2 946 754 and a combination of scenario planning, sWoT analysis $1 149 604 respectively, which amount to 37% and and other strategic discussions.
The companys key 46% of total accounting charge for remuneration strategic outputs are then allocated to the appropriate respectively.
executives responsible for their delivery, including the cEo and cFo, as their individual strategic outputs.
CEO These outputs are then reviewed with the individual teams and business units throughout the group, to The determination of the bonus for the cEo for 2015 ensure that the executive strategic outputs and the took account of the following performance metrics: Performance criteria Outcome Achievement Financial performance Eps for the year was $2.03, a decrease on the prior year of 0% out of 15% part A 20%.
Financial performance Total cash cost per ounce of gold was $679, a decrease of 3%.
9.2% out of 15% part B The bonus range was $740 oz to $640 oz.
operational Growth in reserves at the end of the year, after depletion, was 0% out of 12.5% part c 2% negative.
The bonus range was negative 1% to positive 3%.
operational production of gold ounces was 1 211 288oz an increase of 7.6% out of 12.5% part D 5.6%.
The bonus range was 1.090Moz to 1.290Moz strategic outputs Individual strategic outputs as agreed with the remuneration 30% out of 30% part E committee achievement of 91%.
8.2% out of 10% part F Environment No class 1 incidents at the end of the year.
The target bonus 5% out of 5% part G outcome was 0.
Total 60% out of 100% ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 203 Directors reports RemuneRation committee RepoRt continued CFO The determination of the bonus for the cFo for 2015 took account of the following performance metrics: Performance criteria Outcome Achievement Financial performance Eps for the year was $2.03, a decrease on the prior year of 0% out of 15% part A 20%.
operational capital expenditure was less than budgeted level.
The bonus 12.5% out of 12.5% part c range was 10% to 0% more than budget.
operational Total inventory reduced by 10%.
strategic outputs Individual strategic outputs as agreed with the remuneration 30% out of 30% part E committee achievement of 90%.
The range for the bonus was 1.0 to 0.5.
8.2% out of 10% part F Environment part G No class 1 incidents at the end of the year.
The target bonus 5% out of 5% outcome was 0.
Total 77.4% out of 100% Investment plan.
For 2015 the maximum commitment Deferred annual bonuses opportunity offered under the co-Investment plan The deferral of annual bonus encourages and rewards was 250% of base salary by the cEo and 125% of superior performance on a sustained basis.
one third base salary by the cFo.
committed shares must of any annual bonus earned is compulsorily deferred be retained for three years and may be matched, and paid in shares after three years.
Deferred depending on relative TsR performance over three bonuses may be matched under the co-Investment years against the Euromoney Global Gold Index.
In 2015, the cEo committed 55 774 shares, and was The annual bonus amounts that were deferred for granted an equal matching award under the co- 2015 are $982 153 for the cEo and $383 163 for the Investment plan.
The cFo committed 13 952 shares, cFo.
and was granted an equal matching award under the coInvestment plan.
Deferred bonuses are subject to clawback in the event of a material misstatement of the companys annual report and accounts on which they were based.
Compulsory deferral Voluntary loNG TERM INcENTIvE oUTcoMEs FoR one third of annual commitment 2015 bonus is automatically Additional commitment The company focuses on longer term value and deferred into Randgold subject to cap shares long term incentives for executive directors which comprise, on an annual basis: n participation in the co-Investment plan rewarding performance over three years, with a further one year post-vesting retention requirement for the vested award.
Performance measured n performance shares awarded under the Restricted After the end of three years relative TsR performance share scheme, rewarding performance over is measured four years, with a further one year post-vesting retention requirement for the vested award.
Awards outstanding under the co-Investment plan and the Restricted share scheme are detailed in the tables on pages 207 and 208 of this annual report.
Shares matched If the performance target is met share may be matched on a stepped scale up to 1 for 1 Co-Investment Plan The co-Investment plan rewards sustained performance relative to peers over a three-year period.
Each year, one third of any annual bonus earned is compulsorily deferred and an executive director may also choose to commit further shares to the coRandgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 204 THREE yEAR TsR pERFoRMANcE pER ANNUM If, after three years, the TsR performance of the company equals or exceeds the performance of the Euromoney Global Gold Index, then the committed comPounD growth Level of matching on shares may be matched on a stepped scale, as Per annum committed shares shown in the next table.
The maximum level of matching is one for one and is awarded for TsR Below the index - performance of 10% per year compounded above the Euromoney Global Gold Index.
This is considered Equal to the index 0.3 for 1 to be a stretching level of performance and the Index 2% 0.44 for 1 remuneration committee considers this target to be challenging in the context of the companys historical Index 4% 0.58 for 1 sustained outperformance of the market.
Index 6% 0.72 for 1 The companys performance compared with the Index 8% 0.86 for 1 performance of the Euromoney Global Gold Index and the FTsE 100 Index over the last five years and Index 10% or higher 1 for 1 ten years respectively is displayed below.
Value of hYPothetical 100 holDing of orDinarY shares in ranDgolD comPareD against the ftse 100 at 31 DecemBer 1 000 800 600 400 200 0 Value of hYPothetical $100 holDing of american DePositarY receiPts in ranDgolD comPareD against the euromoneY gloBal golD inDeX at 31 DecemBer $ 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 205 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 RRS LSE FTSE 100 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 GOLD ADR Euromoney Global Gold Index Directors reports RemuneRation committee RepoRt continued Restricted Share Scheme Performance targets of Restricted Share Scheme Awards are made under the Restricted share scheme awards granted in 2015 approved by shareholders in July 2008 on an annual basis.
leVel of Vesting Year 4 Reserve replacement ratio: cumulative over 4 Awards are determined as a percentage of base years salary, with the maximum annual award in 2015 being Nil less than 75% 200% of base salary for the cEo and 100% of base 30% 75% salary by the cFo.
pro-rata 30% - 100% on a More than 75% and less straight line basis than 110% For awards granted in 2015, following a review of 100% 110% performance measures, the remuneration committee Total cash cost per oz: Average of four years determined that, in order to improve the robustness of weighted by annual production in ounces performance measurement and desensitise outcomes Nil More than the higher end to volatility in the gold price, the following three of costs guidance range measures will apply, each weighted one third: 30% Equal to the higher end of n Total cash cost per ounce measured over four the costs guidance range consecutive one year periods, with vesting at pro-rata 30% - 100% on a Between the higher and the end of four years.
The overall vesting will straight line basis lowers costs guidance be the average annual outcome against market range guidance weighted by annual production in 100% Equal to or lower than the ounces.
Threshold will equal the maximum cost lowest end of the costs per ounce each year and maximum vesting at the guidance range minimum cost per ounce as set by the board and Relative TSR: Four year TSR v comparator group th communicated to the market in February each Nil less than 50 percentile th 30% 50 percentile year.
th pro-rata 30% - 100% on a More than 50 percentile n Relative TsR TsR is measured over the three th straight line basis and less than 75 months before the start and the three months percentile before the end of any four year performance period th 100% 75 percentile and compared to the TsR, calculated in the same way, of a defined comparator group of international Performance targets for 2016 Restricted Share listed gold mining companies.
vesting is based on Scheme awards the relative TsR outcome over the four year period.
For 2016, the remuneration committee has Threshold vesting occurs at median and maximum determined that the measures remain appropriate and at upper quartile.
The defined comparator group for 2015 subject to the remuneration committee there is no change to performance measures for the discretion to add or amend the group from time to year, as follows: time is: o leVel of Vesting Agnico Eagle Mines limited: AngloGold Ashanti Year 4 limited: Barrick Gold corporation: Eldorado Reserve replacement ratio: cumulative over 4 Gold corporation: B2 Gold corporation: Gold years Fields limited: Goldcorp Incorporated: Kinross Nil less than 75% Gold corporation: Newcrest Mining limited: 30% 75% Newmont Mining corporation: yamana Gold pro-rata 30% - 100% on a More than 75% and less Incorporated: Buenaventura Mining company straight line basis than 110% Incorporated: and New Gold Incorporated.
100% 110% n Reserve replacement ratio is calculated as a Total cash cost per oz: Average of 4 years ratio of the cumulative four year reserves added weighted by annual production in ounces compared with the cumulative four year reserves Nil More than the higher end mined.
Threshold vesting will occur if this ratio is of costs guidance range at least 75% with maximum vesting occurring if the 30% Equal to the higher end of ratio is 110%.
the costs guidance range pro-rata 30% - 100% on a Between the higher and straight line basis lower costs guidance range 100% Equal to or lower than the lowest end of the costs guidance range Relative TSR: 4 year TSR v comparator group th Nil less than 50 percentile th 30% 50 percentile th pro-rata 30% - 100% on a More than 50 percentile th straight line basis and less than 75 percentile th 100% 75 percentile The remuneration committee will review these performance targets in the event that the company issues a material number of new shares.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 206 vesting of each one-fifth of the award is to occur CEO performance shares on the later of expiry of the third anniversary after At the companys annual general meeting in 2013, shareholders approved a one-off award of the date of grant and the date on which a condition performance shares to the cEo.
is achieved, provided the cEo holds office or employment as at the date of achievement of the The vesting of the performance shares is subject to condition.
The award is subject to clawback up to the achievement of the conditions set out below and a maximum value of $4 000 000 at the discretion the cEo continuing to hold office or employment of the remuneration committee where a material with the company during the period of three years misstatement is found contained in the annual report from 29 April 2013, the date of grant of the award of and accounts of the company on which vesting of the performance shares.
award or any part thereof is or is to be based.
The subject to the cEos continued employment over cEo will not be permitted to transfer or dispose of the the vesting period the achievement of each of shares acquired on vesting of the award and will be the following conditions, which reflect the value required to retain them until cessation of his office or enhancement and focus on establishing and employment with the company.
operating the Kibali gold mine, will result in the vesting of one-fifth of the shares subject to the award: At 31 December 2015, four out of five of the n the first gold pour occurs at the Kibali gold mine: performance conditions have been met.
Details of n the cumulative production at the Kibali gold mine in the shares that are now scheduled to vest on 29 April aggregate equals or exceeds 500 000oz of gold: 2016 are provided below.
n gold production of the Randgold group in aggregate equals or exceeds 1Moz per annum, for Vesting of share plan awards for the performance any financial year of the company: period ending in 2015 n the vertical shaft at the Kibali gold mine is The following awards, set out in the table below, completed and signed-off by the contractor of granted to the cEo and cFo, vested or were capable the vertical shaft and by the representative of the of vesting or lapsed in respect of a performance Kibali gold mine: and period ending in 2015: n the Nzoro II hydroelectric power station provides electricity to the Kibali gold mine.
CEO co-inVestment Plan Expiry of performance Number of award shares Date of grant Award of shares period vested 18 Mar 2013 36 724 31 Dec 2015 36 724 restricteD share scheme Number of award shares Date of grant Award of shares Date of vesting vested rd 13 Jun 2011 38 456 13 Jun 2016 3 205 3 tranche nd 16 Mar 2012 28 843 16 Mar 2016 0 2 tranche st 1 18 Mar 2013 36 724 18 Mar 2016 0 1 tranche Performance share awarD Number of award shares Date of grant Award of shares Date of vesting vested 29 Apr 2013 50 031 29 Apr 2016 40 024 CFO co-inVestment Plan Expiry of performance Number of award shares Date of grant Award of shares period vested 18 Mar 2013 8 401 31 Dec 2015 8 401 restricteD share scheme Number of award shares Date of grant Award of shares Date of vesting vested rd 13 Jun 2011 8 121 13 Jun 2016 677 3 tranche nd 1 16 Mar 2012 6 462 16 Mar 2016 0 2 tranche st 1 18 Mar 2013 8 401 18 Mar 2016 0 1 tranche 1 Where a Restricted Share Award has not vested in respect of any shares, the relevant tranche of the Restricted Share Award will lapse.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 207 Directors reports RemuneRation committee RepoRt continued None of the performance conditions were met in Co-Investment Plan respect of 2012 and 2013 awards, and accordingly no The vesting of the co-Investment plan awards shares were awarded.
granted in 2013 to the cEo and the cFo were subject to a performance condition which measures In respect of the 2011 award none of the threshold the companys Total shareholder Return TsR targets were met except the Eps performance metric.
performance against the Euromoney Global Gold The Eps performance condition was met in full Index.
As the companys TsR performance exceeded resulting in 25% vesting of one-third of the tranche the index by over 10% compound per year, the of shares awarded in 2011.
Using a share price of performance condition was met in full in respect $62.05 on the day preceding the end of the 2015 of each of the awards and accordingly, the awards performance period, the value of that award is vested in full on the dates set out in the above tables $198 850 and $41 992, respectively for the cEo and representing a value of $2 278 724 and $521 282 for cFo.
the cEo and cFo respectively, at a closing share price on the day preceding 31 December 2015 of The graph below compares Randgolds TsR $62.05.
performance to that of the same investment in the Euromoney Global Gold Index as the chosen Restricted Share Scheme comparator for the TsR performance measure.
TsR The vesting of the above restricted share scheme is the measure of the returns that a company has awards for the cEo and cFo, were subject to the provided for its shareholders, reflecting share price achievement of operational and financial targets.
movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
Four separate measures of business growth were Data is based on a one month average of trading day used, each weighted 25%, with tranches of awards values.
vesting after three, four and five years as follows: n Additional reserves including reserve replacement n Absolute reserves excluding reserve replacement n Eps growth n Absolute TsR cEo ToTAl pAy AND TsR pERFoRMANcE ovER sIx yEARs Value of a hypothetical 100 investment 150 100 50 0 cEo sIx yEAR ToTAl REMUNERATIoN 2015 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total remuneration single figure $ 10 577 200 6 000 000 7 483 769 5 423 276 7 365 655 8 625 466 7 683 212 Annual variable pay % of maximum 100% 100% 69% 57% 54% 61% 60% long term variable pay % of maximum 100% 0% 100% 100% 100% 76% 61% change in annual TsR 101% 15% 16% 4% 35% 2% 3% change in remuneration - 43% 25% 28% 36% 17% 11% Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 208 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Randgold Resources Euromoney Global Gold Index NoN-ExEcUTIvE DIREcToRs REMUNERATIoN sINGlE FIGURE The figures contained in the table below reflect the fees actually paid during the period and the value of share shares issued and allotted to the non-executive directors during the period with such value determined by reference to the market price of the vested award shares on the relevant vesting date.
2 Mrs S Ba-NDaw was appointed to the board with effect from 1 March 2015.
3 NASDAQ Global Select Market closing price on the day preceding the date of grant or if a public holiday, the next trading day.
DIREcToRs sHAREHolDINGs at 31 dec At 31 Dec 2015 2014 Beneficial non-beneficial DM Bristow 733 991 728 929 Beneficial Gp shuttleworth 78 651 76 156 Beneficial cl coleman 12 300 9 800 Beneficial 1 s Ba-NDaw 1 500 n a Beneficial Np cole Jr 12 527 10 527 Beneficial K Dagdelen 7 500 6 000 Beneficial J Kassum 2 700 1 200 Beneficial J Mabunda lioko 3 900 2 400 Beneficial AJ Quinn 6 328 4 828 Beneficial K voltaire 12 027 10 527 Beneficial Total 871 424 850 367 1 Mrs S Ba-NDaw was appointed to the board with effect from 1 March 2015.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 209 Directors reports RemuneRation committee RepoRt continued DIsTRIBUTIoN sTATEMENT Implementation of policy for 2016 The company uses a one year policy period in 2015 2014 order to fully disclose the parameters for directors remuneration on an annual basis.
However, it is Underlying group not the intention to make changes to the policy on profits an annual basis and as such there are no changes proposed to the policy for 2016. performance $ million 212.8 271.2 measures, relative weightings and targets to which % decrease 22% 17% executive awards and remuneration will be subject to are disclosed on page 192 of this annual report.
Dividends paid Shareholding policy during the year The shareholding requirement ensures that the group interests of directors are aligned with shareholders.
Executive directors are required to build up a holding $ million 55.7 46.3 in shares in the company at least equal in value to four times base salary for the cEo and two times % increase 21% 0% base salary for the cFo from the value of vested long term incentive awards.
As at 31 December 2015, Dr DM Bristow and Mr Gp shuttleworth each Employee numbers exceeded their respective shareholding requirements.
1 group 3 714 2 764 % increase New directors have three years in which to acquire decrease 34% 7% the required shareholding and this period could be extended at the discretion of the remuneration committee.
Payroll costs 1 for employees Non-executive directors are required to build up including taxes and hold shares at least equal in value to 200% of the annual retainer fee of $60 000, from the value $ million 113.1 88.1 of vested awards.
All non-executive directors met % increase 28% 0.5% this requirement as at 31 December 2015 with the exception of Mrs s Ba-NDaw who was appointed to 1 Excludes people employed by contractors and inclusive of joint venture the board on 1 March 2015. employees.
Distribution statement REMUNERATIoN coMMITTEE The following table demonstrates the relative The remuneration committee is committed to the importance of remuneration spend, and shows yearprinciples of accountability and transparency and on-year percentage change in each of 1 profit, to ensuring that remuneration arrangements align 2 dividends, and 3 overall spend on pay.
Payments to past directors and loss of office coMMITTEE REspoNsIBIlITIEs payments The remuneration committees responsibilities are set There were no payments to past directors or loss of out in its terms of reference, which can be found on office payments in 2015. the companys website www.
Percentage change in CEO remuneration In 2015, the cEos salary was increased by 4% and his total remuneration decreased by 11%.
This compares to an average increase in salaries across DUTIEs, RolEs AND REspoNsIBIlITIEs the group of 3.7%.
oF THE REMUNERATIoN coMMITTEE Remuneration policy and its specific application Senior management remuneration to the executive directors, as well as its general application to the senior executives below the During the year the remuneration committee board.
reviewed and considered changes and promotions n The determination of levels of reward for the to the composition of the senior management team, executive directors.
together with their respective salary and benefit n providing guidance on evaluating the packages.
The remuneration committees oversight performance of the cEo, management is an integral part of the companys succession and development plans and succession planning.
For details on n Awards made under the Restricted share succession planning of the senior managers please scheme and the co-Investment plan.
refer to the governance & nomination committee n communication with shareholders on the report on page 215 of this annual report.
A key remuneration policy and the remuneration responsibility of the remuneration committee is to committees work on behalf of the board.
have oversight of the salary of employees below board level.
In November 2015 the remuneration committee reviewed the pay of 17 members of the senior management.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 210 The remuneration committee met four times during MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE 2015, and attendance is set out below.
At the During 2015, the members of the remuneration invitation of the remuneration committee chairman, committee were AJ Quinn chairman, Mr Np cole Jr, the cEo attended all four meetings.
The chairman, Mr cl coleman, and Dr K voltaire.
the senior Independent Director and the cEo were not in attendance when decisions taken on their own The current members of the remuneration committee remuneration were considered.
are independent non-executive directors in line with the independence requirements of the code.
coMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANcE Date appointed to the 5 February 4 May 2 August 1 November memBer committee 2015 2015 2015 2015 AJ Quinn 3 May 2014 Np cole Jr 1 August 2006 cl coleman 2 February 2009 K voltaire 29 April 2006 Advisors For completeness, this table also sets out the dilutive During the year, the remuneration committee also effect on the share capital if all outstanding options received independent external advice from two granted under the companys share option scheme separate advisors see the independent external in which executive directors and the non-executive advisors table on the following page.
During the year, the remuneration committee also received directors do not participate were capable of being independent external advice from two separate exercised.
No new share options were issued under advisors see the independent external advisors table the share option scheme during the year.
Both the on the following page.
Restricted share scheme and the co-Investment plan contain a dilution limit of 10% in any 10 year period for Willis Towers Watson is a member of the all plans, and as at 31 December 2015, the company Remuneration consultants Group which oversees had 4.4% available under this limit.
The companys the voluntary code of conduct in relation to executive share option scheme contains a dilution limit of 15% remuneration consulting in the United Kingdom in ten years for all plans but the company has, for and the remuneration committee is satisfied that several years, and expects to continue to operate the advice provided on executive remuneration is within a dilution limit of 10% in ten years for all plans.
objective and independent and that no conflict of interest arises as a result of other services.
Other information number of 31 DecemBer 2015 shares Share usage and dilution The company issues new shares to satisfy the Total issued share capital 93 284 408 vesting of awards granted under the Restricted share scheme and matching awards granted under the outstanding share options under the co-Investment plan.
An employee benefit trust is also share option scheme capable of in operation for use with executive directors share being exercised 125 277 incentive arrangements.
outstanding share awards under the Restricted share scheme and coThe table opposite sets out the dilutive effect on Investment plan capable of vesting 1 191 425 the share capital if all share options under the share option scheme, outstanding awards granted under Enlarged issued share capital 94 601 110 the Restricted share scheme and matching awards Maximum percentage of share capital granted under the co-Investment plan capable of issued to satisfy vestings 1.4% vesting did vest.
voTING AT THE 2015 ANNUAl GENERAl MEETING resolution For % For Against Withheld Directors remuneration report 77 316 166 98 1 655 617 62 093 Directors remuneration policy 76 990 141 98 1 520 619 523 116 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 211 Directors reports RemuneRation committee RepoRt continued ExTERNAl DIREcToRsHIps Executive directors may accept external appointments as non-executive directors of other companies, subject to the boards consent, and would normally retain any fees received.
In 2015, Dr DM Bristow received fees of c$35 000 2014: c$32 667 in relation to his role as non-executive director of Rockwell Diamonds Inc.
INDEpENDENT ExTERNAl ADvIsoRs Fees for services Other services provided to the provided to the remuneration aDVisor Details of appointment company committee Allen & overy llp Appointed by the company, with the English legal advice 66 831 agreement of the remuneration committee, on corporate to provide English legal advice on executive matters and non-executive remuneration and employee share plans.
Willis Towers Watson Appointed by the remuneration committee IFRs2 valuation 90 000 to advise on executive remuneration and service contracts AcTIoN plAN FoR 2016 In the year ahead the remuneration committee will ensure the companys remuneration policy remains aligned to its remuneration principles and that the company continues to focus on its long term success by building sustainable value for all our stakeholders.
The committee intends, once again to offer the companys key shareholders an opportunity to meet with members of the remuneration committee during the committees annual shareholder meetings later in the year.
coMMITTEE pERFoRMANcE AND EFFEcTIvENEss The remuneration committee conducts a formal review of its effectiveness on an annual basis in conjunction with the board.
The committee concluded that during 2015 it effectively carried out its duties in accordance with the code.
Details of the board and committee evaluation process may be found on page 219 of this annual report.
2 Vesting of awards is subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 212 ceo Performance shares Market price Market at date price of At Awarded Vested at date Lapsed At Date of award 1 Jan in the in the vested in the 31 Dec 1 2 3 award $ 2015 year year $ year 2015 Vesting 1 DM Bristow 29 Apr 13 79.95 50 031 - - - - 50 031 Each of the 5 award vests on the fulfilment of the relevant performance condition, provided the cEo remains in office or employment by the company until 29 April 2016 1 NASDAQ Global Select Market closing price on day preceding date of grant or if a public holiday, the next trading day.
2 Vesting is subject to performance conditions.
3 The first performance condition in respect of 10 006 shares was met on 24 September 2013, and during 2014 three additional performance conditions in respect of a further 30 018 shares were met.
The final performance condition in respect of 10 006 shares was outstanding as at 31 December 2015.
2 Vesting of the executive directors awards is subject to performance conditions.
ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Randgold ResouRces 213 Directors reports RemuneRation committee RepoRt continued non-eXecutiVe Directors share awarDs granteD at the comPanYs 2014 anD 2015 annual general meetings Number of shares Market price at date 1 Director Date of vesting awarded of vesting $ cl coleman 6 May 2014 1 200 80.94 5 May 2015 2 500 76.15 2 s Ba-NDaw n a n a n a 5 May 2015 1 500 76.15 Np cole Jr 6 May 2014 1 200 80.94 5 May 2015 2 000 76.15 K Dagdelen 6 May 2014 1 200 80.94 5 May 2015 1 500 76.15 J Kassum 6 May 2014 1 200 80.94 5 May 2015 1 500 76.15 J Mabunda lioko 6 May 2014 1 200 80.94 5 May 2015 1 500 76.15 AJ Quinn 6 May 2014 1 200 80.94 5 May 2015 1 500 76.15 K voltaire 6 May 2014 1 200 80.94 5 May 2015 1 500 76.15 1 NASDAQ Global Select Market closing price on day preceding date of grant or if a public holiday, the next trading day.
2 Mrs S Ba-NDaw was appointed to the board with effect from 1 March 2015. on behalf of the remuneration committee andrew Quinn Chairman Remuneration committee Randgold ResouRces ANNUAL REPORT 2015 214
