Directors Remuneration Report Central to our remuneration philosophy are the principles of pay for performance, Shareholder alignment and simplicity.
Judy Sprieser Chair of the Remuneration Committee On behalf of the Board of Directors, it gives me great pleasure to A commitment to pay for performance and Shareholder present to you the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended alignment 31 December 2015.
This includes a new Directors Remuneration Policy, Whilst the core principles of RBs remuneration philosophy have together with our Annual Report on Remuneration, both of which we remained the same, the Committee continues to review remuneration will be seeking Shareholder approval for at the Annual General Meeting and consult with our Shareholders on a regular basis and value the AGM on 5 May 2016. feedback that is provided.
To assist Shareholders in understanding RBs remuneration structure This has resulted in RB making a number of changes to our and its link to performance and Shareholder value creation, the report remuneration framework in recent years.
This evolution of RBs sets out overleaf an at a glance summary.
Our Annual Report on remuneration policy demonstrates our commitment to pay for Remuneration is on pages 70 to 78 setting out details of how the performance and Shareholder alignment.
current Remuneration Policy was implemented in 2015 and the decisions made for 2016 remuneration.
This is followed by our For example, some of the changes made over the last five years include: proposed Directors Remuneration Policy which is detailed on Reflecting best practice in the Executive Directors contracts so that pages79to84.
payment upon termination no longer includes bonus Further enhancing the longer-term pay for performance link by I trust that you find this a clear and comprehensive report that stretching the LTIP performance conditions.
The Committee reduced illustrates the strong alignment between RBs performance and our the level of vesting at threshold performance to 20%, and increased Executive Directors remuneration.
the performance required for maximum vesting to EPS growth of 10% per annum, thereby reducing the number of shares vesting at Context for executive remuneration at RB the previously required maximum As set out on pages 10 to 11 RB has a unique culture.
We have Introducing a maximum number of shares and options that may a management team that is multinational, is globally mobile and be awarded under the long-term incentive plan we compete for talent against a peer group of global companies.
Enhancing the level of disclosure in our Remuneration Report, The Committee continues to believe that RBs approach to including the disclosure of annual bonus targets on a retrospective remuneration plays an important part in supporting this strong basis performance culture, reflects the global nature of our business and Ensuring that the LTIP vesting in May 2015 was fair and appropriate, delivers significant benefits to all Shareholders.
Central to our by excluding the gain made on the demerger of Indivior from the remuneration philosophy are the principles of: EPS growth calculation for purposes of determining vesting.
This Pay for performance resulted in a reduction in the vesting from 100% to 40% Shareholder alignment Introducing malus and clawback provisions in our LTIP Rules Simplicity approved by Shareholders at last years AGM This philosophy is implemented in RB through our long standing, During 2015 the Remuneration Committee has again reviewed RBs highly performance driven approach which is cascaded throughout Remuneration Policy.
We have had discussions with a number of our the Company, such that our Top400 executives participate in the major Shareholders and the Committee is grateful for the feedback same annual bonus and long-term incentive plan structures as the provided.
We have taken the feedback into account and are proposing Executive Directors.
This ensures we all strive towards the same to implement improvements to the Remuneration Policy to further performance outcomes and the Committee believes this has been a key enhance the alignment between Executive Directors and Shareholders.
factor in RBs success in delivering significant value to Shareholders: 100 invested in RB on 1 January 2000, following the merger of Reckitt & Colman and Benckiser was worth 1,721 on 31 December 2015, compared to growth in the FTSE 100 to 156 over the same period.
66 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Enhancements to RBs Directors Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Committee was pleased with the increased level of In line with our approved Remuneration Policy, RB operates an annual support that Shareholders gave RBs Directors Remuneration Report last bonus plan that is strongly aligned to performance, measured against year.
During 2015 the Remuneration Committee has carried out a further stretching growth targets set by the Committee at the start of the year.
review of remuneration and will be seeking Shareholder approval for a revised Directors Remuneration Policy at our AGM in May 2016.
2015 was a year of excellent growth and outperformance for RB, which created significant value for Shareholders.
In the face of mixed market Not only does RBs Remuneration Policy play an important part in our conditions, the management team delivered exceptional top line unique culture, it is designed to drive the Companys financial strategy growth and margin expansion, which has resulted in outstanding of growth and outperformance in revenue and profit, whilst adjusted net income growth of 15%, at constant rates.
incentivising sustainable long-term growth in Shareholder value.
The bonuses awarded to Executive Directors reflect these excellent To reinforce this remuneration philosophy the Committee ensures that achievements during 2015.
In line with our continued commitment of the majority of the Executive Directors remuneration packages is made transparency for Shareholders, disclosure of RBs achievements against up of variable pay, linked to stretching financial targets, with a large bonus targets are set out on page 70. proportion of the package delivered in RB shares.
For example, more than three-quarters of the CEOs on-target package is provided The performance period for awards made under the LTIP in December through variable pay.
The sustained underlying growth inour key financial metrics has generated substantial value for our Executive Directors have short and long-term incentive opportunities Shareholders over this period, such that 100 invested in RB on strongly linked to stretching outperformance targets to enable pay 1 January 2013, was worth 179 by 31 December 2015, compared with opportunities that correspond to Company performance in terms of growth in the FTSE 100 to 118 over the same period.
growth, profitability and Shareholder returns.
As a result, under maximum scenario, nearly 95% of the CEOs total remuneration will be In addition to this excellent relative outperformance, RB has delivered provided through performance linked variable pay.
significant absolute value to Shareholders over the three year performance period.
Since 1 January 2013 RB has created value for our RBs performance driven remuneration philosophy is underpinned by an Shareholders of 20.8 billion, through the increase in the share price, ownership culture throughout the Company, which is reinforced by our dividends paid to Shareholders and the demerger of Indivior.
Our key long-term measure of performance is earnings per share The CEO is required to hold 600,000 shares and the CFO 200,000 growth, as it is the most appropriate measure of value creation over shares within eight years of appointment, which currently represent the long-term.
LTIP vesting requires significant growth over the more than 40x salary and 20x salary respectively.
performance period in order to vest, with full vesting only achieved if the Company significantly out-performs the industry benchmark.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this shareholding requirement, which is significantly the most demanding in the market, The three-year performance period has seen significant exchange rate ensures that Senior Executives focus on the creation of sustainable volatility impacting our reported earnings.
Despite outstanding net long-term Shareholder value.
income growth of 15%, at constant exchange rates, the adverse FX on translation reduced this performance by 4% in 2015.
This follows the This focus on encouraging every Senior Executive to think as an owner adverse impact of exchange rates in 2014 of 10%.
and act in the long-term interests of Shareholders is cascaded throughout RB.
For example, the aggregate current shareholding for Earnings per share over the three year period from 2013 to 2015, our Top40 executives is 159 million.
measured on constant currency basis, grew by 43%.
However given the translation FX impact this reduced to 26.3% when measured on actual The Policy is being enhanced to further strengthen the alignment of currency basis.
This is equivalent to compound average annual growth executives interests with those of Shareholders.
Alongside the current of 8.1% per annum.
shareholding requirements, we are introducing an additional two year holding period in respect of unvested share option and performance Despite the impact of exchange rate volatility on the excellent earnings share awards upon cessation of employment.
growth, the Committee determined that the awards should vest in line with the vesting schedule, calculated on an actual currency basis.
The In addition to the significant shareholding requirements in service, this outstanding performance over the last three years results in vesting of change will help ensure that the strong alignment between Executive 80% being achieved.
Further details on the LTIP vesting are set out on Directors and Shareholders continues for a meaningful period once page 71. they have left the business, to ensure that the focus is always on creation of sustainable long-term Shareholder value.
In conclusion, I hope that you find this a clear and comprehensive report that demonstrates RBs strong link between pay and The Policy is also being enhanced to include malus and clawback performance and delivery of value to our Shareholders.
provisions on the LTIP awards.
In addition the maximum award under the LTIP has been reduced.
I trust that we can count on your support at the forthcoming AGM for the decisions we have taken as a Committee during the year, as set out The Directors Remuneration Policy which, subject to Shareholder in the Annual Report on Remuneration, and for the enhancements to approval will apply from 5 May 2016, is set out on pages 79 to 84.
Implementing the Policy approved by Shareholders There were no significant changes made to the remuneration structure JUDY SPRIESER Chair of the Remuneration Committee during 2015 and all awards were made in line with the Remuneration 22 March 2016 Policy approved by Shareholders at the AGM in May 2014.
This Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and The key decisions taken during the year are summarised below and set Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The Report meets the out in more detail in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
In this Report we describe how the principles of good governance relating to Directors remuneration, as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2014 the Code, Base salaries for the Executive Directors were reviewed and increased are applied in practice.
The Remuneration Committee confirms that throughout the financial by 3% in line with general employee salary increases effective from year the Company has complied with these governance rules and best practice provisions.
The Committee has also maintained this approach when reviewing 2016 Executive Director salaries, with increases of 3% granted with effect from 1 January 2016.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 67
