Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Directors Remuneration Policy This section of the report sets out the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors, which Shareholders will be asked to approve at the 2016 AGM on 5 May 2016 and will apply to payments made from this date.
Until this time the Policy approved by Shareholders on 7 May 2014 will continue to apply.
Executive Director Remuneration Policy Table Fixed pay policy for Executive Directors Component purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Base salary Base salaries are reviewed annually, typically Salary increases for Executive Directors will be with effect from 1 January.
aligned with those of the wider workforce, To enable the total package to support which take into account performance.
recruitment and retention Salary levels increases take account of: Increases may be made above this level to salary increases awarded across the Group take account of individual circumstances, as a whole: and which may include: individual performance.
Increase in the size or scope of the role or responsibilities.
The Committee also reviews market data for the Companys remuneration peer group, Increase to reflect the individuals comprising international companies of a development and performance in role.
similar size and scope of operations.
For example, where a new incumbent is appointed on a below-market salary.
Salaries in respect of the year under review and for the following year are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
To avoid setting expectations of Executive Directors and other employees, no maximum salary is set under the remuneration policy.
Salaries for Executive Directors should typically be around the median for competitors.
Where increases are awarded in excess of the wider employee population, the Committee will provide rationale in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension Executive Directors may receive contributions CEO: 30% of pensionable pay.
into the RB Executive Pension Scheme, CFO: 25% of pensionable pay.
To provide appropriate levels of retirement a defined contribution scheme, a cash benefit allowance or a combination thereof.
Base salary is the only element of remuneration that is pensionable.
Benefits Executive Directors receive benefits which None of the existing Executive Directors consist primarily of the provision of a received total taxable benefits exceeding To provide benefits comparable to those that company car allowance and healthcare, 10% of salary during the last three financial would be provided for an equivalent position although can include other benefits that the years, and it is not anticipated that the cost of elsewhere Committee deems appropriate, for example benefits provided will exceed this level in the the cost of preparing tax returns or home financial years over which this policy will leave.
Relocation allowances and international The Committee retains the discretion to transfer-related benefits may also be paid, approve a higher cost in exceptional where required.
circumstances e. g. relocation or in circumstances where factors outside the Executive Directors are also eligible to Companys control have changed materially participate in all employee share schemes on e. g. increases in medical coverage inflation.
the same basis as all employees.
Benefits in respect of the year under review, and participation in all employee share schemes, are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 79 Directors Remuneration Policy continued Variable pay policy for Executive Directors Component purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Annual bonus Financial targets are set by the Committee at Target opportunity: Performance will be assessed the start of the year.
At the end of the year, CEO: 120% of salary.
against the growth in one or To drive strong financial the Committee determines the extent to CFO: 90% of salary.
more key financial metrics of performance with which these have been achieved.
the business determined on significant reward for Maximum opportunity: an annual basis.
over-achievement of Performance is assessed on an annual basis, 3.57x Target annual targets using a multiplicative combination of the CEO: 428% of salary The weighting between payouts for performance against each of the CFO: 321% of salary different financial metrics will financial targets.
be determined each year according to business Bonus pay-outs are in cash.
Under the terms and conditions of the plan, For threshold performance, the Company has the right to seek redress and the bonus pay-out will be nil.
damages from any individual who has been found to have breached the Companys Code Further details, including the of Conduct.
This includes the Companys right performance measures for the to require an individual to repay any costs current financial year, are incurred through a breach of the Code of disclosed in the Annual Conduct from any bonus payment made in Report on Remuneration.
the year the breach costs were incurred.
The Committee has discretion to adjust the formulaic bonus outcomes both upwards and downwards including to zero to ensure alignment of pay with performance, e. g. in the event performance is impacted by unforeseen circumstances outside of management control.
LTIP1 The LTIP comprises grants of share options The Committee calibrates LTIP Vesting of the LTIP is subject share options and and awards of performance shares based share award and option grant to continued employment performance shares on a fixed number, which vest subject sizes as a fixed number, with and the achievement of to the achievement of stretching periodic adjustments to ensure stretching adjusted diluted To incentivise and reward performance targets.
that the fair value of an EPS growth targets.
long-term performance, Executive Directors total and align the interests of The LTIP has a performance period of at least remuneration is appropriately Threshold performance will Executive Directors with three years and a minimum vesting period of positioned relative to peers.
result in 20% of maximum those of Shareholders three years.
The vesting level will The maximum award to any increase on a sliding scale The LTIP opportunity and the combination of individual in respect of one year from this threshold to 100% share options and performance shares are will be 275,000 shares and vesting for stretch levels of reviewed annually with reference to market 500,000 options.
data and the associated cost to the Company, calculated using an expected value Details of the LTIP opportunity Further details, including the methodology.
in respect of each year will be performance targets attached disclosed in the Annual Report to the LTIP in respect of each The performance condition is reviewed before on Remuneration.
year, are disclosed in the each award cycle to ensure it remains Annual Report on appropriately stretching.
Dividends do not accrue on Remuneration.
unvested share awards or on The Committee has discretion to adjust the shares underlying options formulaic LTIP outcomes to improve the before they are exercised.
alignment of pay with value creation for Shareholders to ensure the outcome is a fair reflection of the performance of the Company.
Awards granted under the 2015 LTIP are also subject to malus and clawback provisions.
If an Executive Director ceases to be employed, any outstanding performance shares or share option awards granted on or after 5 May 2016 will vest in accordance with the Plan Rules but be subject to an additional two year holding period commencing on end of the performance period.
During this period options cannot be exercised.
LTIP awards have been granted under the 2007 and 2015 LTIPs, whose rules are substantially the same as summarised in the table except for the changes noted in the Changes to Policy section below.
80 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Notes to the Policy Table Performance measure selection and approach to target setting The measures used under the annual bonus are selected to reflect the Groups main financial priorities for any given financial year.
With regard to the LTIP, the Committee regularly reviews the performance measure to ensure that it aligns well with the Companys strategy and with our Shareholders interests.
EPS is considered the most appropriate LTIP performance measure for a number of reasons: It focuses executives on real profit growth which is strongly aligned with value creation at RB: It provides a well-recognised and accepted measure of the Companys underlying financial performance: and It is a measure that the plan participants can directly impact and easily measurable from time to time.
EPS is measured on an adjusted diluted basis.
However, the Remuneration Committee maintains the discretion to make adjustments to the measure if this is considered to be appropriate.
Any adjustments will be disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Targets applying to the bonus and LTIP are reviewed annually, based on a number of internal and external reference points.
Bonus targets take into account prevailing growth rates in RBs peer group, and across the healthcare and FMCG industries more broadly.
LTIP targets reflect industry context, expectations of what will constitute performance at the top of the peer group, and factors specific to the Company.
Malus and clawback For awards granted under the LTIP adopted in 2015, the Committee has the discretion to scale back awards prior to vesting in the event of the following circumstances: A material misstatement of the Companys financial results: and or Gross misconduct by a Participant.
Where awards granted under the 2015 LTIP have vested, the Committee has the discretion to claw back awards at any time before the later of i the second anniversary of the vesting date and ii the fifth anniversary of the date of grant in the following circumstances: A material misstatement of the Companys financial results: Gross misconduct by a Participant: and or An erroneous calculation in the assessment of the extent to which the award is vested.
Shareholder alignment The Committee recognises the importance of aligning Executive Directors and Shareholders interests through executives building up significant shareholdings in the Company.
Executive Directors are expected to acquire a significant number of shares over a period of eight years and retain these until retirement from the Board of Directors.
The shareholding requirement for the CEO is 600,000 shares and for the CFO is 200,000 shares.
Details of the Executive Directors personal shareholdings will be provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Remuneration policy for other employees RBs approach to setting remuneration is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the level of experience, responsibility, individual performance and remuneration paid for comparable roles in comparable companies.
The principles that apply to Executive Directors are cascaded to other employees.
Senior employees are eligible to participate in an annual bonus scheme with similar metrics to those used for the Executive Directors.
Opportunities and specific performance conditions vary by organisational level, with business area specific metrics incorporated where appropriate.
Senior managers, who comprise the Top400 employees, are eligible to participate in the LTIP on broadly similar terms to the Executive Directors, although award sizes vary by organisational level.
In addition, senior executives who comprise the Top40 employees are also required to build up significant shareholdings in RB.
The current level is between 30,000 and 50,000 shares, on average, representing 10x base salary.
All UK employees are eligible to participate in the Companys Sharesave plan on identical terms, with similar plans also operated for employees working outside of the UK.
Changes to Policy This Policy is intended to apply with effect from 5 May 2016, subject to Shareholder approval at the AGM.
Following consultation with our major Shareholders, the Policy has been reviewed to reduce the maximum award that can be made under the LTIP and to include an additional two year holding period in respect of unvested share option and performance share awards for Executive Directors who cease employment with the Company.
The Policy has also been updated to include malus and clawback provisions which were included in the rules of the LTIP approved by Shareholders at the 2015 AGM and are detailed above.
Awards remain outstanding under the 2007 LTIP, which is similar to the 2015 LTIP except for the terms summarised in this paragraph.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out in this report where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the Policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration, and an award over shares is agreed at the time the award is granted.
In the event of a variation of capital in the Company which impacts the value of a share, which may include, but is not limited to, a capitalisation or rights issue, consolidation, subdivision or reduction of capital, stock-split or fide-merger, then the maximum number of shares and options which may be awarded under the LTIP may be adjusted to ensure that the overall maximum value of awards would be the same immediately before and after any such event.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 81 Directors Remuneration Policy continued Non-Executive Director remuneration Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements, but are engaged on the basis of a letter of appointment.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2014 guidelines, all Directors are subject to re-election annually at the AGM.
It is the policy of the Board of Directors that Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Companys bonus, share option, long-term incentive or pension schemes.
An element of the basic fee is, however, paid in RB shares.
Details of the policy on fees paid to our Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below: Component and objective Approach of the Company Fees cash and shares The fees paid to Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board of Directors, with recommendations provided by the Chairman and CEO.
The fees of the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
To attract and retain Non-Executive Directors Additional fees are payable for acting as Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and as of the highest calibre Chairman of the Committees.
Members of the Committees are also eligible to receive an additional fee.
with broad commercial experience relevant to Fee levels may be reviewed annually, with any adjustments effective from 1 January.
Fees are reviewed by taking the Company into account external advice on best practice and competitive levels, in particular at FTSE 30 and FTSE 100 companies.
Time commitment and responsibility are also taken into account when reviewing fees.
Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees are delivered partly in cash and partly in RB shares which must be held until retirement from the Company.
The fees paid to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors in respect of the year under review and for the following year, including the split between cash and shares, are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Aggregate fees are limited by the Companys Articles of Association.
Travel and expenses for Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman are incurred in the normal course of business, for example in relation to attendance at Board and Committee meetings.
The costs associated with these are all met by the Company.
Scenarios of total remuneration The charts below provide an estimate of the potential future total remuneration for the Executive Directors.
Three scenarios of potential outcomes are provided based on underlying assumptions shown in the notes to the chart.
It should be noted that the LTIP awards granted in a year do not normally vest until the date of the AGM which follows the third anniversary of grant and the projected values exclude the impact of share price movement.
Rakesh Kapoor CEO Adrian Hennah CFO CEO CFO Maximum 6% 20% 74% 20.1m Maximum 14% 34% 52% 5.6m On-target 23% 21% 56% 5.3m On-target 41% 28% 31% 1.9m Minimum 100% 1.2m Minimum 100% 0.8m 0m 5m 10m 15m 20m 0m 2m 4m 6m Salary, pension and benets Annual bonus Salary, pension and benets Annual bonus Long-term incentives Share options and performance shares Long-term incentives Share options and performance shares Notes The scenarios in the chart above have been calculated on the following assumptions: The Minimum scenario reflects base salary, pension and benefits i. e. fixed remuneration, being the only elements of the Executive Directors remuneration package not linked to performance.
This is based on the base salary and pension allowance as at 1 January 2016 and an estimated value of the benefits, based on amounts paid in 2015.
The On-target scenario illustrates fixed remuneration as above, plus target pay-out of annual bonus and threshold vesting of the LTIP.
The Maximum scenario sets out fixed remuneration, plus full maximum pay-out of the annual bonus and full vesting of the LTIP awards.
As LTIP awards are set as a fixed number of shares and options, the LTIP value is based on the number of shares and share options last granted to the Executive Directors, in December 2015.
The value has been calculated assuming a price at grant of 53.44, being the average share price at grant over the last three LTIP awards.
Under the disclosure requirements the scenarios above exclude share price appreciation: share options have therefore been valued using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and assumptions aligned to the three-year performance period, at 10% of the assumed face value.
It should be noted that if the share price appreciation over the performance period is greater than that assumed then the actual total remuneration may be more than that shown in the above charts.
82 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements External appointments With the approval of the Board of Directors in each case, and subject to the overriding requirements of the Company, Executive Directors may accept external appointments as a Non-Executive Director of another company and retain any fees received.
Details of external appointments and the associated fees received are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
C onsideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company Across RB, remuneration is reviewed regularly with the intention that all employees are paid appropriately in the context of their local market and given their role, experience and performance.
The Committee does not consult with employees specifically on the Directors Remuneration Policy.
However, the Company seeks to promote and maintain good relations with employee representative bodies including trade unions and works councils as part of its employee engagement strategy, and consults on matters affecting employees and business performance as required in each case by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates.
Although the Company does not consult employees on executive remuneration, the Committee is mindful of the salary increases applying across the rest of the business in relevant markets when considering salaries for Executive Directors.
As the Company encourages share ownership amongst employees, those who hold shares will be able to participate in the vote on the Remuneration Policy at the AGM.
C onsideration of Shareholder views The Committee considers Shareholder views received during the year and at the Annual General Meeting each year, as well as guidance from Shareholder representative bodies more broadly, in shaping Remuneration Policy.
The Committee Chair speaks with a number of the Companys largest Shareholders on the subject of executive remuneration at least on an annual basis and the Committee is grateful for all of the feedback which is provided.
The majority of Shareholders are supportive of the Companys philosophy and policy on remuneration, and the Committee will continue to keep its Remuneration Policy under regular review, to ensure it continues to reinforce the Companys long-term strategy and aligns closely with Shareholders interests.
The Committee will continue to consult our major Shareholders before making any significant changes to our Remuneration Policy.
Approach to recruitment remuneration External appointment In cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director from outside the Company, the Remuneration Committee may make use of all existing components of remuneration, as follows: Component Approach Maximum annual grant Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant market data, experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities and their current basic salary.
Where new appointees have initial base salaries set below market, the shortfall to median may be managed with phased increases over a period of two or three years subject to their development in the role.
Pension New appointees will receive pension contributions and or an equivalent cash supplement in line with existing executives as set out in the ongoing remuneration policy.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits which may include but are not limited to the provision of a car allowance, or car, healthcare and any necessary relocation expenses in line with ongoing remuneration policy.
Annual bonus The structure described in the Policy Table will apply to new appointees with the Target: 120% of salary relevant maximum opportunity.
Multiple: 3.57x Target LTIP New appointees will be granted awards under the LTIP on the same terms as other 275,000 performance shares executives, as described in the Policy Table.
LTIP grants can take the form of 500,000 share options performance shares, share options or a combination of the two.
The overall limit of variable remuneration will be as set out in the Policy Table taking into account the maximum value of the annual bonus and the maximum awards of options and shares under the LTIP.
The Committee may make an award in respect of a new appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer, i. e. over and above the approach outlined in the table above.
In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards and the likelihood of those conditions being met with the intention that the value awarded would be no higher than the expected value of the forfeited arrangements and made on a like-for-like basis.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 RB 83 Directors Remuneration Policy continued Internal promotion In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal promotion, the policy will be consistent with that for external appointees, as detailed above, except that where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to Executive Director level, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements even in instances where they would not otherwise be consistent with the prevailing Directors Remuneration Policy at the time of appointment.
Recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director In recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will use the policy as set out in the table on page 82.
A base fee in line with the prevailing fee schedule will be payable for membership of the Board of Directors, with additional fees payable for acting as Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, as Chairman of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, and for being a member of a Committee.
Fees will be delivered partly in cash and partly in RB shares to be held until retirement from the Company.
The fee for a new Non-Executive Chairman will be set with reference to the time commitment and other requirements of the role and the experience of the candidate.
To provide context for this decision, appropriate market data would also be referenced.
Service contracts and exit payment policy Executive Director service contracts, including arrangements for early termination, are carefully considered by the Committee.
In accordance with general market practice, each of the Executive Directors has a rolling service contract which is terminable on 12 months notice and this practice will also apply for any new Executive Directors.
In such an event, the compensation commitments in respect of their contracts could amount to one years remuneration based on base salary and benefits in kind and pension rights during the notice period.
Termination payments may take the form of payments in lieu of notice.
Copies of Executive Director service contracts are available to view at the Companys registered office.
The Companys policy on any termination payments is to consider the circumstances on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the relevant contractual terms in the executives service contract and the circumstances of the termination.
The table below summarises how awards under the annual bonus and LTIP are typically treated in specific circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to the Committees discretion as provided under the rules of the plan: Reason for cessation Timing of vesting payment Calculation of vesting payment Annual bonus Voluntary resignation or termination Not applicable No bonus to be paid for the financial year.
with cause All other circumstances At the end of the financial year.
Bonuses will be paid only to the extent that objectives set at the beginning of the plan year have been met.
Any such bonus will be paid on a pro-rata basis up to the termination date.
LTIP Voluntary resignation or termination Not applicable Unvested awards lapse.
with cause Ill-health, injury, permanent disability, Awards will vest after the end of the The Committee determines whether and to what retirement with the agreement of the financial year in which the cessation extent outstanding awards vest based on the extent Company, the participants employing ceasing of employment occurs: or at the to which performance conditions have been achieved to be under the control of the Company, discretion of the Committee, after the either to the end of the financial year in which transfer of the undertaking in which the end of the relevant performance cessation of employment occurs, or over the full participant works outside the Group, period.
performance period and the proportion of the redundancy or any other reason that the performance period worked.
Committee determines in its absolute Outstanding options and performance discretion.
share awards granted on or after 5 May 2016 will be subject to an additional two year holding period, commencing on the end of the performance period.
Options cannot be exercised during this period.
Death As soon as possible after date of The Committee may disapply performance conditions death but will reduce awards to reflect the proportion of the performance period worked.
Change of control On change of control Awards will vest to the extent that any performance conditions have been satisfied unless the Committee determines that the performance conditions should not apply.
Awards will also be reduced pro-rata to take into account the proportion of the performance period not completed, unless the Committee decides otherwise.
Awards may alternatively be exchanged for new equivalent awards in the acquirer, where appropriate.
84 RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
