Directors Remuneration report Dear shareholder We are proposing three principal changes I am pleased to present this Directors to the Remuneration Policy for Executive Remuneration Report, which follows a year Directors.
Our objective is to simplify the in which the Company has continued to Remuneration Policy, set remuneration make excellent progress.
levels which reflect the size and scope of the Group and our corporate strategy and The Committees challenge is to ensure that incorporate performance hurdles for variable we set a policy that enables us to motivate pay.
These changes are explained below.
our people and recruit the calibre of talent that will lead the Company in sustaining its 1.
Repositioning of base salaries to reflect record of profitable growth.
In last years the increased size and scale of the Group report, the Committee committed to review Current salaries for Mark Dixon and formerly the remuneration framework for Executive Dominique Yates were set in the context of Directors during 2015.
The reviews the Companys positioning five years ago objectives were to create a structure that which was towards the bottom end of the is competitive, aligned with our strategic FTSE 350, when the scale of the Groups The Committees challenge is objectives and is straightforward.
The to ensure that we set a policy appointment of Dominik fide Daniel to the There are three sections to this report.
This that enables us to motivate our position of Chief Operating Officer and Chief letter summarises the 2015 highlights and Financial Officer represents a significantly explains the changes we are making to the people and recruit the calibre expanded role.
This newly created position Remuneration Policy with effect from 2016. of talent that will lead the requires pay considerably above the level of Our new Remuneration Policy follows in full the previous stand-alone Chief Financial on pages 44 to 47.
Finally, the Annual Report Company in sustaining its Officer role.
Dominik fide Daniels salary on on Remuneration on pages 48 to 52 record of profitable growth.
appointment is 725,000. describes the amounts paid to Directors in respect of 2015 and describes how we Nina Henderson In addition to positioning ourselves intend to implement the policy for 2016. competitively when recruiting externally, we Chairman must also set salaries appropriately for those Context for changes already within the organisation.
Accordingly, Over the last five years Regus has from 1 January 2016 Mark Dixons salary demonstrated continued growth and was increased to 825,000.
While this is a sustained strong performance.
Revenues significant increase from the current level, have increased by over 85% and EPS has we believe it is the right decision for the grown from 0.3p to 12.8p.
This sustained Members of the Committee Company in the context of the external financial growth has been reflected in our environment to reflect the market rate for All members of the Committee are share price and market value.
Committee membership an executive who has led the Company strong revenue and profit growth in 2015, through a period of outstanding success during the year and attendance at the combined with a return on investment of meetings is set out below: and who continues to implement an 11.4% gives us confidence in the future Attendance ambitious profitable growth strategy.
and in our ability to meet our long-term out of possible goals to continue to expand globally.
Increase to bonus potential with Member of meetings compulsory deferral Growth of this nature brings new challenges Nina Henderson, Chair 4 4 Under the current policy, there is a significant and demands.
A key driver of the Companys Lance Browne 4 4 weighting towards fixed pay.
This no longer growth has been and will continue to be its Elmar Heggen 4 4 adequately reflects our philosophy of pay for people and their talents.
The Companys Franois Pauly 3 3 performance and longer term alignment with human resource continues to evolve adding Florence Pierre 4 4 equity ownership, and nor is it usual in the new capabilities and skills.
For example, the Alex Sulkowski 1 1 market in general.
We therefore propose to creation of our new role of Chief Financial raise the maximum bonus opportunity for Franois Pauly joined the Remuneration Officer and Chief Operating Officer, with Committee on 19 May 2015. the Executive Directors at Regus to 150% Dominik fide Daniel appointed to this role of salary with 90% of salary paid for target Alex Sulkowski left the Remuneration effective from 1 November 2015.
Committee on 19 May 2015. performance and to introduce compulsory Summary of main changes deferral of half of bonus into shares, vesting Our Remuneration Policy for senior after three years.
Length of tenure of Non-Executive management continues to evolve with the Directors within the Committee 3.
Introduction of a single Performance growth in size and scale of the Company, Share Plan PSP The policy must enable us to hire and retain 3 1.
0-3 years: 3 Our current policy of linking long-term top talent with the capability to lead the 2.
3-6 years: 1 reward potential under the Co-Investment Company on its journey of continued growth.
6-9 years: 1 Plan CIP with the outcome of We seek to ensure that our remuneration performance under the annual bonus structure provides alignment with our is unusual.
The potential reward under 2 shareholders and is straightforward 1 the CIP is reliant entirely upon short-term and transparent.
42 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Key features of our framework for 2016 Repositioned to reflect the increased size and scale of the Group Salary Repositioned to reflect increased responsibilities Benefits pension Reflect location and nature of role Maximum 150% of salary Based on stretching operating profit targets for the year Annual bonus 50% in deferred shares Clawback and withholding provisions apply 50% deferred Deferred shares Three-year holding period Three-year performance period Five-year vesting period Maximum 200% of salary Performance Share Plan awards Based on stretching EPS, TSR and ROI targets over three years Clawback and withholding provisions apply performance captured in the annual bonus Conclusion 15 Earnings per share pence and subject to an executives ability to invest You will be asked to approve four via the voluntary deferral mechanism.
This is remuneration-related resolutions at our 12.8 12 complex, disproportionately favourable to annual general meeting: higher earning executives, and not in line First, our revised Remuneration Policy will 9 with prevailing best practice.
Accordingly, be put to shareholders for approval.
As a from 2016, shareholder approval will be Luxembourg registered company, this is not 7.5 7.4 7.1 sought for a new PSP, and the CIP will 6 a statutory requirement.
However, the no longer be used.
Committee is committed to upholding the 4.3 Under the PSP an annual grant policy will be highest governance standards and a full 3 followed initially 200% of salary.
The first and open dialogue with shareholders.
0.3 awards under the PSP will be made in early In developing our proposals, we actively 0 10 11 12 13 14 15 2016 and will replace any CIP grants which consulted with all of our largest institutional year would have otherwise been made in 2016. shareholders.
The feedback we received has Annual bonus been both supportive and constructive.
For the first awards, the PSP will operate The 2015 bonus plan was based on with three performance metrics, designed Secondly, the Annual Report on Remuneration performance against an operating profit to align closely with our current growth which will be subject to an advisory vote.
The achieved operating profit of strategy.
These will be relative TSR vs Finally, approval is sought for our new 144.8 for 2015 exceeded the operating the FTSE 350, EPS growth and return Performance Share Plan and Deferred Bonus profit target for full bonus while maintaining on invested capital.
our growth objectives, therefore bonuses As before, clawback provisions will apply.
On behalf of the Committee, I commend this report to you and ask for your support at the Performance and reward in 2015 Co-Investment Plan forthcoming annual general meeting.
As highlighted in the strategic report The performance metrics utilised in respect on pages 1 to 27, 2015 was a strong year of the CIP Matching Shares granted in 2013 Nina Henderson delivering attractive shareholder returns.
which vested during 2015 were adjusted Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The chart to the right shows the growth in EPS and relative TSR.
As a result of strong EPS per share achieved from 2010 0.3p performance against both measures, the to 2015 12.8p.
The TSR graph on page CIP vested at 97%.
52 shows that as at 31 December 2015, the value of 100 invested in Regus shares on 31 December 2008 would be worth 789, as compared to a value of 197 if 100 were invested in the FTSE 350 excluding Investment Trusts.
com 43 Directors Remuneration report continued To reflect the global operating model of upon short-term performance.
In order Remuneration Policy the Group while recognising governance to provide a clearer focus on long-term This Remuneration Policy, as determined best practice.
performance, and reduce complexity, the by the Remuneration Committee, will be CIP will be terminated and replaced with As a result of this remuneration review, effective from 1 January 2016 subject to a single PSP.
As with the annual bonus, shareholder approval at the 2016 annual the following key changes are proposed PSP awards are subject to recovery to our remuneration arrangements for general meeting.
This policy supersedes and withholding.
that approved by shareholders in 2014.
Executive Directors: Introduction of shareholding guidelines Annual bonus Under the previous policy Overview of Remuneration Policy In line with best practice and to ensure there was a significant weighting towards The revised policy, which was developed as long-term alignment with shareholders, fixed pay, which was not aligned with our part of a remuneration review carried out shareholding guidelines of a minimum of philosophy of pay for performance, longer during last year, has the following objectives: 200% of base salary will be introduced.
term alignment and equity ownership.
As To enable the Group to recruit and retain a result the maximum bonus potential for Clarification of recruitment and individuals with the capability to lead Executive Directors will be increased termination payments The policy has the Company on its ambitious future from 100% of base salary to 150% with been clarified to ensure alignment with growth path: compulsory deferral of half of any bonus best practice and to encompass new To ensure that our structures paid for three years.
Awards are subject elements of the Executives packages, are transparent and capable of to recovery and with-holding provisions.
straightforward explanation Introduction of a single PSP Our previous externally and to employees: share-matching arrangement, the CIP, To align the targets for variable pay was linked to the outcome of performance with the strategic objectives for the under the annual bonus and as a result, Group: and the potential reward was reliant entirely Policy Table for Executive Directors Purpose link to Component strategy Operation Maximum Performance framework Base salary To provide Salaries are set by the Committee.
The There is no prescribed While there are no a competitive Committee reviews all relevant factors maximum salary.
Salary performance targets component of fixed such as: the scope and responsibilities increases will normally be attached to the payment remuneration to of the role, the skills, experience and broadly in line with increases of salary, performance is attract and retain circumstances of the individual, sustained awarded to other employees a factor considered in the people of the performance in role, the level of increase in the business, although annual salary review highest calibre for other roles within the business, and the Committee retains process.
and experience appropriate market data.
discretion to award larger needed to shape increases if it considers it Salaries are reviewed annually and any and execute the appropriate e. g. to reflect a changes normally made effective from Companys change in role, development 1st January.
and performance in role, or The base salaries effective 1st January to align to market data.
2016 are set out on page 48 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Benefits To provide a Incorporates various cash non-cash Benefit provision is set at N A competitive benefits which may include: a company car an appropriately market benefits package.
or allowance and fuel allowance, private competitive rate for the health insurance, life assurance, and, where nature and location of the necessary, other benefits to reflect specific role.
There is no prescribed individual circumstances, such as housing maximum as some costs or relocation allowances, representation may change in accordance allowances, reimbursement of school with market conditions.
fees, travel allowances, or other expatriate benefits.
Pension To provide Provided through participation in the 7% of base salary.
The N A retirement benefits Companys money purchase personal Committee may set a higher in line with the pension scheme, under which the level to reflect local practice overall Group Company matches individual contributions and regulation, if relevant.
up to a maximum of base salary.
The Company may amend the form of an Executive Directors pension arrangements in response to changes in legislation or similar developments.
44 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Purpose link to Component strategy Operation Maximum Performance framework Annual bonus To incentivise and Provides an opportunity for additional 150% of base salary Performance metrics are reward annual reward up to a maximum specified as a % per annum.
selected annually based performance and of salary based on annual performance on the current business create further against targets set and assessed by objectives.
The majority alignment with the Committee.
of the bonus will be linked shareholders to key financial metrics, of Half of any annual bonus paid will be in interests via which there will typically deferred shares which will vest after three the delivery be a significant profityears, subject to continued employment and retention of based element see but no further performance targets.
other half is paid in cash following the relevant year end.
Performance below threshold results in zero A dividend equivalent provision allows payment, with no more the Committee to pay dividends, at the than three-fifths of the Committees discretion, on vested shares bonus available at target.
in cash or shares at the time of vesting Payments rise from 0% to and may assume the reinvestment of 100% of the maximum dividends on a cumulative basis.
opportunity levels for Recovery and withholding provisions apply performance between to bonus awards see note 1 below.
the threshold and maximum targets.
Performance Motivates and Awards will normally be made annually The normal plan limit is Awards have a Share Plan rewards the under the PSP, and will take the form of 250% of base salary.
performance period PSP creation of either nil-cost options or conditional share of three financial years long-term awards.
Participation and individual award starting at the beginning shareholder value.
levels will be determined at the discretion of the financial year in of the Committee within the policy.
Aligns Executive Performance conditions Directors interests Awards vest five years following grant, will measure the with those of subject to performance against prelong-term success shareholders.
determined targets measured after of the Company see threeyears which are set and note 4 below.
communicated at the time of grant.
In respect of each Recovery and withholding provisions performance measure, apply to PSP awards see note 1 below.
performance below the A dividend equivalent provision allows threshold target results in the Committee to pay dividends, at the zero vesting.
The starting Committees discretion, on vested shares point for the vesting of in cash or shares at the time of vesting each performance and may assume the reinvestment of element will be no higher dividends on a cumulative basis.
than 25% and rises on a straight-line basis to 100% for attainment of levels of performance between the threshold and maximum targets.
There is no opportunity to re-test.
Shareholding To align Executive Executive Directors are expected to build N A N A guidelines Directors interests a holding in the Companys shares to a with those of minimum value of two times their base our long-term salary.
This must be built via the retention shareholders and of the net-of-tax shares vesting under the other stakeholders.
Companys equity based share plans.
Notes to the policy table: 1 Recovery and withholding provisions may be applied as a result of misconduct, material misstatement or error in calculation of performance.
Awards subsequent to the grant but before the expiry of the holding period, may be reduced or an Executive Director may be required to repay an award at any time within three years of the date on which the award vests.
2 For the avoidance of doubt, by approval of the policy, authority has been given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former Directors such as the payment of a pension or the unwinding of legacy share schemes that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous Directors Remuneration Reports.
Details of any payments to former directors will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.
The previous Remuneration Policy included the CIP which is being replaced by the new PSP.
Under the CIP, Executive Directors could defer a proportion of their bonus into shares and receive a performance based matching award for each deferred share.
The final CIP awards were made in March 2015.
Details of this award are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance targets, the final CIP awards will be fully vested and exercisable from 4 March 2020 until 4 March 2025.
3 Annual bonus performance measures are determined at the start of each year, based on the key business priorities for the year.
The majority will be based on clear financial targets, including a significant weighting towards profit, as this is the primary indicator of our sustainable growth.
4 PSP performance metrics are determined at the time of grant.
Performance measures may include measures of profits and profitability such as EPS, capital return such as EVA or ROI and other measures of long-term success such as relative TSR.
These measures align with our long-term goal of value creation for shareholders through underlying financial growth and above-market returns.
com 45 Directors Remuneration report continued 5 As Regus operates in a number of geographies employee remuneration practices vary across the Group to reflect local market practice.
However, employee remuneration policies are based on the same broad principles.
Our primary objective in awarding variable pay is to drive achievement of results, according to role, and to recognise and reward excellent performance.
Accordingly, to account for variances in responsibilities, influence and seniority, incentive schemes are not uniform in approach.
6 In order to ensure that the Remuneration Policy achieves its intended aims, the Remuneration Committee retains discretion over the operation of certain elements of the variable pay policy.
This includes the discretion to adjust the annual bonus and PSP outcome if it is not considered to be reflective of the wider performance of Regus.
In addition the Committee may adjust elements of the plans including, but not limited to: Participation: The timing of the grant of award and or payment: The size of an award up to plan limits and or payment: Discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control: Determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified categories for incentive plan purposes: Adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring and special dividends : and The ability to recognise exceptional events within existing performance conditions.
Should any such discretions be exercised, an explanation would be provided in the following Annual Report on Remuneration and may be subject to shareholder consultation as appropriate.
7 The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Policy table for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Component Operation Maximum fee Performance framework Chairman Reviewed, but not necessarily increased, annually There is no prescribed maximum Neither the Chairman nor the fees and as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
although fees and fee increases Non-Executive Directors are The Committee will consider, where appropriate, will be considered in line with the eligible for any performancepay data at companies of a similar scale.
increases of the wider workforce related remuneration.
A single fee which reflects all Board and Committee duties.
Set at a level sufficient to attract and retain individuals with the required skills, experience and knowledge to allow the Board to effectively carry out its duties.
NonReviewed, but not necessarily increased, annually and Executive as determined by the Chairman and the Executive Director fees Directors.
The Committee will consider, where appropriate, pay data at companies of a similar scale.
A base fee is payable with additional fees for chairing key Board Committees and for being the Senior Independent Director.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere Such an approach was followed in relation to Approach to recruitment remuneration in the Group the changes to policy for 2016.
Additionally, When determining the remuneration When setting the policy for the remuneration the Committee considers shareholder package for a newly appointed Executive of the Executive Directors, the Committee feedback received in relation to each annual Director, the Committee would seek to apply has regard to the pay and employment general meeting alongside any views the following principles: conditions of employees within the Group.
We actively The package must be sufficiently The Committee does not consult directly engage with our largest shareholders and competitive to facilitate the recruitment with employees when formulating the consider the range of views expressed.
of individuals of the highest calibre and remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
Except for in exception circumstances experience needed to shape and execute the members of the Committee, including the Companys strategy.
At the same Consideration of shareholder views the Committee Chairman, attend the time, the Committee would seek to The Committee is dedicated to ensuring Companys annual general meeting and pay no more than necessary.
that Regus shareholders understand are available to listen to views and to and support our remuneration structures.
The remuneration package for a answer shareholders questions about Accordingly, where changes are being made new Executive Director would be set Directors remuneration.
to the Remuneration Policy, or in the event in accordance with the terms of the The Committee also reviews the executive of a significant exercise of discretion we will approved remuneration policy in force remuneration framework in the context of consult with shareholders, as appropriate, at the time of the appointment.
to explain our approach and rationale fully.
would reflect the skills and experience of the individual, and may but not 46 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements necessarily be set at a level to allow future Service contracts Committee in its absolute discretion salary progression to reflect performance Executive Directors have service contracts determines otherwise for reasons in role.
with the Group which can be terminated including, amongst others, injury, disability, by the Company or the Director by giving retirement, redundancy and death.
In such The Committee may offer additional cash 12 months notice.
This applies to current circumstances an Executive Directors and or share-based payments in the year Executive Directors and would normally award normally vests based on the of appointment when it considers these to be applied as the policy for future time served and in the case of the PSP, be in the best interests of the Company appointments.
Per the remuneration policy the maximum level The Company may terminate employment Should the Committee adjust the time of variable remuneration which may be pro-rating, then this would be explained of the Chief Executive by making a payment awarded is 400% of salary of which 250% in lieu of notice which would not exceed in the following Annual Report on is permitted under the PSP under the Remuneration.
If the Executive Director 12 months salary.
exceptional circumstances limit and ceases to be an employee for any reason Under the current service agreements Mark 150% under the annual bonus plan.
other than those specified above then Dixons contract provides that, on a change Performance conditions for variable the award shall lapse immediately on of control he may terminate the contract by pay in the year of appointment may such cessation.
giving one months notice and will, in addition be different to those applying to other to contractual payments for the one-month The terms of any other unvested share directors, which would be subject to notice period, receive a payment equal to awards on termination will be as set out stretching performance conditions.
12 months salary, and remain eligible for in the prior policy.
Where an individual forfeits remuneration a discretionary bonus.
Awards will vest on the normal vesting at a previous employer as a result of The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors date unless the Committee determines, appointment to the Company, the are appointed for a three year term, which is in its discretion, that awards will vest at Committee may offer compensatory renewable, with six months notice on either the date of cessation.
payments or awards to facilitate side, no contractual termination payments The Committee reserves the right to recruitment.
Such payments or awards being due and subject to retirement make additional exit payments where could include cash as well as performance pursuant to the Articles of Association such payments are made in good faith in and  share at the annual general meeting.
discharge of an existing legal obligation awards, and would be in such form as the Policy on payment for loss of office or by way of damages for breach of such Committee considers appropriate taking Where an Executive Director leaves an obligation or by way of settlement into account all relevant factors such as employment, the Committees approach or compromise of any claim arising in the form, expected value, anticipated to determining any payment for loss of connection with the termination of vesting and timing of the forfeited office will normally be based on the a Directors office or employment.
The aim of any such award following principles: would be to ensure that so far as possible, Policy in Respect of External Board the expected value and structure of the The Committees objective is to find an Appointments for Executive Directors award will be no more generous than outcome which is in the best interests of It is recognised that external non-executive the amount forfeited.
the Company and its shareholders, taking directorships may be beneficial for both the into account the specific circumstances, Any share-based awards referred to in this Company and Executive Director.
At the contractual obligations and seeking to pay discretion of the Board, Executive Directors section will be granted as far as possible no more than is warranted.
Payments in under the Companys existing share plans.
are permitted to retain fees received in lieu of notice will not exceed 12 months respect of any such non-executive If necessary, awards may be granted salary and benefits.
outside of these plans as permitted directorship.
under the Listing Rules, and in line with Treatment of annual bonus: There is the approach and the limits set out above.
no contractual right to receive an annual bonus in the year of termination.
However In the case of an internal appointment, the Committee has discretion for certain variable pay awarded in respect of the leavers to make a payment under the incumbents prior role may pay out according annual bonus.
This will reflect the period of to its terms of grant.
In addition, any other service during the year and performance ongoing remuneration obligations prior to measured at the same time as their appointment may continue, provided performance for other plan participants, that they are put to shareholders for if feasible.
Should the Committee make approval at the first annual general meeting a payment in these circumstances, the following their appointment.
rationale would be set out in the following The remuneration package for a newly Annual Report on Remuneration.
appointed Non-Executive Director would Treatment of share plans: If an Executive normally be in line with the structure set Director leaves employment with the out in the Policy Table for Non-Executive Company unvested PSP and deferred Directors on page 46. bonus shares will lapse unless the www.
com 47 Directors Remuneration report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Illustration of Remuneration Policy m The charts opposite illustrate the application of the 4 Remuneration Policy set out in the Policy T able for Executive Directors.
This assumes the level of fixed remuneration salary, benefits and pension as at 1 January 2016 and the following 3 44% in respect of each scenario: 44% Minimum represents fixed remuneration only i. e. current 2 salary, benefits and pension.
11% 11% 33% Target represents fixed remuneration plus three-fifths of 33% 43% 43% 1 the maximum annual bonus award and threshold 25% vesting of the PSP award 100% 46% 23% 100% 46% 23% Maximum represents the maximum annual bonus of 0 Fixed Target Maximum Fixed Target Maximum 150% of salary and full vesting of the normal PSP grant Chief Financial Ocer of 200% of base salary.
Chief Executive Ocer and Chief Operating Ocer Fixed Annual Bonus PSP Members of the Committee All members of the Committee are independent.
Committee membership during the year and attendance at the meetings is set out on page 42.
In addition to the designated members of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Company Secretary also attended Committee meetings during the year although none were present during discussions concerning their own remuneration.
Terms of reference The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website www.
Implementation of the Remuneration Policy for 2016 As summarised within the introductory letter, and set out fully within the Remuneration Policy section, a series of amendments to the Executive Directors Remuneration Policy are proposed.
Details of how we intend to operate our policy in 2016, subject to shareholder approval, are outlined below.
Base salaries for the Executive Directors The salaries for the Executive Directors for 2016 and compared to 2015 are as follows.
Dominik fide Daniel was appointed with effect from 1 November 2015, and his salary will first be reviewed with effect from 1 January 2017.
Percentage Salary 2015 Salary 2016 increase Mark Dixon 587,000 825,000 41% Dominik fide Daniel 725,000 725,000 0% Current salaries for Mark Dixon and formerly Dominique Yates were set in the context of the Companys positioning five years ago which was towards the bottom end of the FTSE 350, when the scale of the Groups operations was significantly smaller.
With the appointment of Dominik fide Daniel as Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating, it was necessary to pay considerably above the level of the previous Chief Financial Officer.
Dominik fide Daniels salary on appointment is 725,000.
As well as positioning ourselves competitively when recruiting externally, we must also set salaries appropriately for those already within the organisation.
Accordingly, from 1 January 2016 Mark Dixons salary was increased to 825,000.
While this is a significant increase from the current level, we believe it is the right decision for the Company in the context of the external environment to reflect the market rate for an executive who has led the Company through a period of outstanding success and is effectively implementing an ambitious profitable growth strategy.
Annual Bonus For 2016, the maximum bonus potential for both Executive Directors is 150% of salary.
The on-target bonus is 90% of salary.
Half of any bonus paid will be deferred into shares, which will vest after three years subject to continued employment.
The 2016 annual bonus will include a measurement against an operating profit target ranging from threshhold to stretch.
The target is not being disclosed prospectively as it is commercially sensitive: however a description of relative performance will be included in next years Annual Report.
Performance Share Plan PSP PSP awards will be made at 200% of salary to Executive Directors, subject to shareholder approval of the revised Remuneration Policy and the new PSP.
48 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The awards will be subject to three independently operated performance metrics as summarised below: Performance conditions Threshold vesting Threshold Maximum EPS 33.3% weighting 0% Compound annual growth of 5% Compound annual growth of 25% Relative TSR versus FTSE 350 excluding 25% Median 10% compound annual investment trusts 33.3% weighting growth above median Return on investment 33.3% weighting 0% Return to be equal to 2015 performance Return to be 300 basis points above 2015 performance The first awards under the PSP will be made in early 2016 and will replace any CIP grants that would otherwise have been made in 2016.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors fees The Directors fees for 2016 are as outlined below: Percentage 000 2015 2016 change Non-Executive Chairman 200 200 0% Basic fee for Non-Executive Director 50 50 0% Additional fees: Chair of Audit Committee 10 10 0% Chair of Remuneration Committee 10 10 0% Chair of Nomination Committee 6 6 0% Senior Independent Director 6 6 0% 1 Variable dislocation allowance for non-Luxembourg directors 2.5 to 7.5 2.5 to 7.5 0% 1 The level of dislocation allowance for non-Luxembourg directors is determined according to their country of residence.
Remuneration outcomes for 2015 Single total figure of remuneration table The following table shows the total remuneration in respect of the year ending 31 December 2015, together with the prior year comparative.
Dominique Yates stepped down from the Board on 1 November 2015.
His salary, benefits, pension, annual bonus and CIP have been pro-rated to reflect his period of qualifying service.
Dominik fide Daniel was appointed to the Board on 1 November 2015.
Remuneration detailed above reflects time served.
Benefits Include private health insurance and life insurance and for Dominique Yates, a representation allowance and expatriate allowances.
Pension Includes pension contributions of 7% of salary into defined contribution arrangements or cash equivalent plus any contributions in accordance with standard local practice or employment regulations.
Annual bonus The bonus shown is the full awarded bonus in respect of the relevant financial year for the period served as a Director.
CIP awards Includes the value of Matching Share awards made to Mark Dixon and Dominique Yates under the CIP in previous years which vested in respect of a performance period ending in the relevant financial year.
The vesting of the final tranche of the 2008 2009 Matching Shares is included in the 2014 column 820,205 shares vested out of the maximum of 954,420.
The vesting of the first tranche of the 2013 Matching Shares is included in the 2015 column 371,485 shares vested out of the maximum of 380,011.
The figure reflects the average market price of shares in the last quarter of 2015, being 313.028p per share.
Franois Pauly joined the Board with effect from 19 May 2015.
Alex Sulkowski stepped down from the Board with effect from 19 May 2015.
Determination of 2015 Annual Bonus The 2015 bonus plan was based on performance against an operating profit target.
The achieved operating profit of 144.8 exceeded the operating profit target for full bonus while maintaining our growth objectives, therefore bonuses were paid at 100%.
Dominik fide Daniels bonus was pro-rated for the two month period served during the year.
com 49 Directors Remuneration report continued CIP awards vesting in respect of 2015 The 2013 Matching Share award is divided into three separate equal tranches subject to performance periods over three, four and five years respectively from 1 January 2013.
The first tranche of the 2013 Matching Share award was based on a three-year performance period to 31 December 2015.
The vesting conditions for this tranche are outlined below.
TSR target 25% of tranche % of shares Regus TSR % achieved relative to FTSE All Share Total Return Index vesting Below the Index 0% Equal to the Index 25% Equal to the Index 15% p. a.
100% EPS target 75% of tranche % of shares EPS targets for year ending 2015 Tranche 1 vesting 12.0p 25% 12.6p 50% 13.3p 75% 14.0p 100% The Committee has assessed performance against the TSR and EPS targets set in 2013 and concluded that 97% of the total award should vest and the remainder of that tranche shall lapse.
From a base point of 100%, Regus achieved a TSR value of 243.3% compared to 24.9% for the FTSE All Share Index over the performance period, equating to a vesting of 100% of this part of the award.
Based on achieving a 2015 EPS of 13.9p, which reflects underlying performance delivered during the three-year performance period, the Committee concluded that 97% of this part of the award should vest.
CIP granted during the financial year The Executive Directors deferred 50% of their 2014 annual bonus into Investment Shares under the CIP.
For each Investment Share held the Executive Directors may earn up to a maximum of four Matching Shares.
The Matching Shares will be released in March 2020 at the end of the holding period, subject to continuous employment with the Group and the achievement of EPS and TSR performance conditions.
As the Investment Shares had a value of 50% of salary the maximum number of Matching Shares awarded in 2015 was equivalent to 200% of salary.
Details of the Investment Share and Matching Share awards made during 2015 to the Executive Directors are shown in the table below.
Executive Director Type of interest Face value 000 Threshold vesting End of holding period Mark Dixon Investment Shares 293.5 N A 3 March 2018 Matching Shares 1,174.0 25% 3 March 2020 Dominique Yates Investment Shares 167.8 N A 3 March 2018 Matching Shares 670.9 25% 3 March 2020 Dominique Yates will leave the Group in 2016 and therefore the Matching Shares awarded to Dominique Yates will lapse.
The face value has been calculated using the share price of 221.8p, the closing price prior to the date of grant 4 March 2015.
The vesting of the Matching Shares is subject to continuous employment with the Group and to the EPS and TSR performance conditions, as detailed below: TSR target 25% The number of shares vesting will be determined by comparing the Companys TSR to the TSR of the constituents of the FTSE 350 Index excluding financial services and mining companies and investment trusts the FTSE 350 Constituents over the performance period commencing on 1 January 2015 and ending on 31 December 2017.
% of shares Regus TSR compared to the FTSE 350 Constituents vesting Median 25% Upper quartile or above 100% Straightline vesting occurs between these points.
No shares will vest below the threshold target.
EPS target 75% The number of shares vesting will be determined based on EPS performance in the year ending 31 December 2017 against the following targets: % of shares Compound annual growth in EPS over the Performance Period vesting 24% 25% 32% 100% 50 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Strategic report Governance Financial statements The target for 2017 is based on compound annual growth from an equivalent base year EPS figure for 2014 of 7.4p.
Straightline vesting occurs between these points.
One-off award on recruitment of Dominik fide Daniel On 2 November 2015, an award over 328,751 ordinary shares of 1p each in the Company was granted to the Companys Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer, Dominik fide Daniel.
The award was structured as a conditional award and was granted under a one-off award arrangement established under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 2 in order to facilitate the recruitment of Dominik fide Daniel.
The level of the award was determined by reference to compensation otherwise due to Dominik fide Daniel, that he gave up upon accepting employment with Regus.
In the normal course of events the award will vest over five years, and to the extent to which performance conditions are achieved.
The applicable performance target is set out below: Performance metric Target Vesting at target Compound annual growth in EPS over the performance period 5% 100% Total pension benefits During the year under review, the Executive Directors received pension contributions of 7% of salary into defined contribution arrangements or cash equivalent plus any contributions in accordance with standard local practice or employment regulations.
Details of the value of pension contributions received in the year under review are set out in the Pension column of the single total figure remuneration table.
Statement of share scheme interests and shareholdings Executive Directors are required to build up and maintain a shareholding.
The following table sets out for Directors who served during the year, the total number of shares held including the interests of connected persons as at 31 December 2015 alongside the interests in share schemes for the Executive Directors.
For Dominique Yates the shareholding is at the date he stepped down from the Board.
Shareholding guidelines Interests in share option awards CIP % of salary % of salary Guideline Investment Matching Share Option a c d Shares held required achieved met?
Shares Shares One-off award Plan SOP Executive Directors Mark Dixon 294,267,501 200% 167,036% Yes 423,962 1,695,848 e Dominique Yates 785,262 200% 784% Yes 250,206 154,278 907,333 b f Dominik fide Daniel 91,700 200% 42% No 328,751 Non-Executive Directors Douglas Sutherland 400,000 Lance Browne 14,994 Elmar Heggen Nina Henderson 16,500 Franois Pauly 50,000 Florence Pierre a Based on share price of 333.20p and base salary as at 31 December 2015, save for Dominique Yates whose percentage of salary achieved is based on share price of 334.6p as at 1 November 2015 and base salary as at 31 December 2015. b Dominik fide Daniel joined the Board on 1 November 2015.
Upon appointment Dominik fide Daniel was granted a conditional award, details of which may be found above.
c The CIP Investment Shares are in the form of unvested conditional shares granted on 6 March 2013, 5 March 2014 and 4 March 2015, and which vest subject to continued employment at the end of a three-year holding period.
d The CIP Matching Shares are in the form of unvested conditional shares which will vest subject to the achievement of EPS and TSR performance targets.
The number of share interests includes the following awards which were unvested as at 31 December 2015.
For Mark Dixon, the number includes 754,340 Matching Shares granted on 6 March 2013, 412,204 Matching Shares granted on 5 March 2014, and 529,304 Matching shares granted on 4 March 2015.
For Dominique Yates, the number shows 154,278 Matching Shares granted on 6 March 2013.
All other Matching Shares awards granted under the CIP to Domique Yates will lapse on cessation of employment.
e The SOP grants are vested market value share options exercise price 74.35p which were granted to Dominique Yates on 2 September 2011 to aid his recruitment.
f The One-off Award is in the form of un-vested conditional shares awarded to Dominik fide Daniel as a one-off award arrangement established under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 2 in order to facilitate his recruitment.
g With the exception of the Directors interests disclosed in the table above, no Director had any additional interest in the share capital of the Company during the year.
Payments for loss of office to past Directors Dominique Yates stepped down from the Board on 1 November 2015.
He will remain an employee of the Group for a period which will end no later than 31 August 2016.
The Committee has determined that Dominique Yates will continue to receive his contractual salary and contractual benefits until 31 August 2016.
If he leaves his employment earlier his salary and benefits will be appropriately adjusted.
The Committee considered the bonus of Dominique Yates at the same time as for other Executive Directors and concluded that a bonus of 279,400 should be awarded for the ten months of the year that he was a Director.
com 51 Directors Remuneration report continued Supporting disclosures and additional context Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows total employee remuneration and Percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer distributions to shareholders in respect of the years ending The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration 31 December 2015, 2014 and 2013 and the percentage changes of the Chief Executive Officer and Group support employees on a between years.
per capita basis between the year ending 31 December 2013 and Change Change the year ending 31 December 2014 and between the year ending 2014 to 2013 to 31 December 2014 and the year ending 31 December 2015.
Given 2015 2014 2013 2015 2014 the significant scale and diversity of the overall global employee Total employee population, the Committee considers the Group support remuneration 356.4m 334.6m 316.1m 6.5% 5.8% employees a relevant comparison.
Distributions to shareholders 38.8m 35.4m 31.1m 9.6% 13.8% 2013 compared to 2014 2014 compared to 2015 Chief Group support Chief Group support Executive employees Executive employees Salary 23.4% 1.9% Benefits 38 % 14.3% 9.1 % 12.7% Annual bonus 21% 39.6% 24.4% Performance graph and table The table below provides remuneration data for the Chief Executive Officer for each of the seven financial years over the equivalent period.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Single total figure of remuneration 000 628 759 1,130 1,773 1,854 2,770 1,990 Bonus % of maximum 19% 50% 100% 79% 100% 100% Long term incentive vesting % of maximum 11% 35% 86% 97% The graph shows the value, by 31 December 2015, of 100 invested pence in Regus on 31 December 2008 compared with the value of 100 900 invested in the FTSE 350 Index excluding investment trusts.
TSR 17.3 800 refers to share price growth plus dividends reinvested over the relevant period.
The Committee considers the FTSE 350 excluding 700 investment trusts relevant since it is an index of companies of 600 similar size to Regus.
investment trusts Advisors to the Remuneration Committee Statement of voting at the annual general meeting Aon Hewitt provided independent advice to the Committee during The Committee is directly accountable to shareholders and, in this the year.
Aon Hewitt was appointed by the Committee during 2015 context, is committed to an open and transparent dialogue with following a competitive selection process undertaken by the shareholders on the issue of executive remuneration.
The fees charged by Aon Hewitt for the provision of of the Committee attend the Companys annual general meeting independent advice to the Committee during 2015 were 94,000. and are available to answer shareholders questions about Directors The Committee is comfortable that Aon Hewitts engagement remuneration.
Votes cast by proxy and at the annual general meeting partner and team are objective and independent in their provision held on 19 May 2015 in respect of the Annual Remuneration Report of advice to the Committee.
for 2014 are shown in the table below: Votes For Votes Against Total Votes Resolution # % # % votes cast Withheld Approval of Annual Remuneration Report for year ended 31 December 2014 771,490,952 97.8% 17,320,449 2.2% 788,811,401 1,310,016 For and on behalf of the Board Nina Henderson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 1 March 2016 52 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
