64 Directors Remuneration Report Proposed amendments to the Remuneration Policy Alan Giles Chairman, Removal of the individual performance modifier for Executive Remuneration Directors in the Performance Share Plan PSP Committee Since 2008, Executive Directors PSP awards have been subject to an individual performance modifier linked to annual bonus performance, aswell as to the standard three-year performance targets.
The review made a number of observations relating to the use of the individual performance modifier: The modifier was introduced to recognise the diverse set of businesses that existed within the group at that time and to recognise the differing contributions of those businesses to the overall success of the group in the outturn of PSP awards.
However, the group is now a far more Dear Fellow Shareholder focused and coherent portfolio of businesses.
This years Directors Remuneration Report is split into four distinct The application of the individual performance modifier to Executive parts: Directors PSP awards is inconsistent with the structure of awards made Part 1 contains details of the proposed Remuneration Policy which will to other PSP participants whose awards ceased to use the modifier in be the subject of a binding shareholder vote at the May 2016 AGM.
Our current policy was previously approved by a binding shareholder The operation of the individual performance modifier is overly complex.
vote at the 2014 AGM and is available in both our 2013 and 2014 Since 2014, PSP awards have been subject to a three-year Earnings Directors Remuneration Reports and online at www.
com Per Share EPS performance condition in addition to the existing Part 2 contains details of the activities of the Remuneration three-year relative Total Shareholder Return TSR condition.
The review Committee during 2015. identified that the layering of the modifier on top of these two measures resulted in a plan that was out of line with, and significantly more Part 3 contains details of remuneration received by Directors during complex than, market practice.
In order to address these issues, under the proposed Policy Executive Part 4 contains details of how we will implement the Proposed Directors future PSP awards would be determined purely by relative TSR Remuneration Policy during 2016, subject to it being approved by two-thirds of the award and EPS one-third of the award performance shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
with no individual performance modifier applied, in the same way as all Parts 2, 3 and 4 together the Directors Annual Remuneration Report other PSP participants.
This directly aligns the PSP with shareholder value will be the subject of an advisory vote at the 2016 AGM.
creation and our Next Phase strategy of medium-term improvement in profits.
Remuneration review After a review of award levels across the market, it is proposed that the This year we undertook a review of the current executive remuneration maximum award for Executive Directors remains at 200% of base salary framework and targets applying to the Executive Directors to ensure and 250% of salary in exceptional circumstances.
that their pay arrangements were: Clawback consistent with the delivery of strategic business priorities: Currently, Rentokil Initials PSP and annual bonus schemes contain a aligned with the wider senior management and colleague population: malus clause the ability to be able to reduce all or part of a bonus or long-term incentive award before it has been paid or has vested but as straightforward and easy to understand as practicable: neither scheme contains a clawback clause the ability to recover cash aligned with the interests of shareholders: paid on a bonus or the value of vested shares under a long-term incentive award already vested.
appropriately reflective of current practice: and In line with the guidance in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 market competitive, in order to attract and retain talent of an theCode, it is proposed that clawback could be applied to Executive appropriate level.
Directors annual bonuses and PSP awards made from 2016 onwards for up to two years from bonus payment or awards vesting.
The As a result of this review the Committee was satisfied, in the main, with Remuneration Committee will be able to apply the malus and clawback our existing arrangements, which were considered competitive with the provisions in the event of a material misstatement of the groups audited market benchmarks and consistent with shareholder expectations.
results, serious reputational damage or loss to the group as a result of an However, there were a number of areas where the review indicated individuals serious misconduct or other circumstances where the that current pay arrangements had become inconsistent with the aims Remuneration Committee, in its discretion, considers that it would be outlined above.
Following a consultation with shareholders representing appropriate.
more than 50% of our shareholder register, the Committee proposes to address these inconsistencies as outlined below.
These changes will form part of the Proposed Remuneration Policy for which shareholder approval will be sought at the forthcoming 2016 AGM.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 65 Directors Remuneration Report Executive Directors shareholding guidelines Remuneration outcomes Under the Proposed Policy, the minimum shareholding for Executive With effect from 1 January 2016 Andy Ransoms salary was increased by Directors will be increased from the current guideline of 100% of salary to 2% to 728,280 and Jeremy Townsends salary was increased by 2% to 200% of salary for the CEO and 150% for the CFO.
These increases were in line with inflationary increases across increase Executive Directors financial stake in the business and further the broader UK workforce.
align them with shareholder interests.
The 2015 annual bonus had two performance gateways based on profit Executive Directors annual bonus arrangements and cash generation, both of which were surpassed.
The level of bonus The Remuneration Committee will have the flexibility under the Proposed was determined by group profit and revenue performance, which was Policy to structure annual bonus targets so as to permit a payment for then overlaid with an individual performance modifier.
As outlined threshold annual bonus performance of up to 20% of salary compared to elsewhere in the Annual Report, financial performance during 2015 in the the current 10% of salary.
However, we do not propose to increase the form of revenue, profit and cash performance has shown strong progress.
After a review of award levels across The Committee reviewed performance in 2015 and determined that the the market, it is proposed that the maximum potential bonus award for the Chief Executive, Andy Ransom, should receive a bonus of 70.9% of base Executive Directors remains at 120% of base salary.
Jeremy Townsend, the Chief Financial Officer, will receive a bonus of 64.5% of base salary.
As in 2015 the annual bonus scheme will focus on our strategic priorities and will be based on group profit, revenue and cash generation During 2015, the performance of the PSP awarded in 2012, based on performance plus an individual performance modifier.
The bonus scheme relative TSR, achieved performance between median and upper quartile profit range will be aligned for Executive Directors to that of senior which resulted in partial vesting of the award.
More detail is set out on management, i. e. 95%-105% of target previously 95%-110%, to ensure pages 76 to 77. a consistent and motivating incentive to outperform, and reflecting the Finally, I would like to thank Martin Sawkins, Group HR Director, changed nature of the portfolio of businesses following the disposal of City whoretired from the Company in December 2015, for his significant Link in 2013 and Initial Facilities in 2014.
Similarly, the revenue range will contribution to the Remuneration Committee over the past seven years be adjusted from 99%-102% to 99%-101% to reflect the portfolio nature and wish him the very best for the future.
of the business and corresponding reduction in volatility, and ensure a balanced and effective incentive to outperform the target.
Yours faithfully Revision of the Performance Share Plan Rules The Companys existing Performance Share Plan PSP Rules expire in May 2016 and shareholder approval will be sought at the AGM in May 2016 for the new Performance Share Plan Rules 2016 PSP Rules.
We have conducted a review of the existing plan taking into account the views of Alan Giles our investors, market practice and the commercial needs of the business.
Chairman, Remuneration Committee The Committee has concluded that the basic design and structure of the 24 February 2016 existing Plan remains fit for purpose and, in particular, that the individual award limits continue to be appropriate and in line with market practice.
The 2016 PSP Rules are summarised in the Notice of AGM and are broadly consistent with the existing PSP.
2015 consultation with major shareholders During 2015 we engaged with a number of major shareholders on the introduction of an updated Remuneration Policy as set out above.
We approached investors who collectively held more than 50% of our shares.
Investors were pleased with the transparency, clarity and thought we put into the consultation process and the way that the proposed changes both simplify arrangements and align the interests of investors and management.
We received widespread agreement to support our proposals at the 2016 AGM.
I am extremely grateful for the helpful input, strong engagement and support we have received from investors, who have assisted us as we have discussed how best to incentivise Executive Directors and the broader team to deliver on the strategy and create value for shareholders.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 66 Directors Remuneration Report Part 1 Proposed Directors Remuneration Policy There are no other substantive changes to our Proposed Policy compared At the AGM in May 2014, shareholders approved, with a 96% majority with our existing shareholder approved 2014 Remuneration Policy.
vote, the Remuneration Policy which set out the Companys approach to remuneration of Executive and Non-executive Directors.
The Remuneration The Companys Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors, which is Policy became effective from the date of that 14 May 2014 AGM and described in the policy tables on pages 67 to 72, is designed to: could apply until 31 December 2017. attract and retain the leadership talent needed to drive and deliver We have taken the opportunity to ask our shareholders to approve a new business growth, financial performance and other key strategic priorities Policy, a year earlier, at our AGM in May 2016.
This Proposed without paying more than is necessary: Remuneration Policy Part 1 Proposed Policy is set out on pages 67 to 72 recognise and reward individual contribution to delivering long-term, and will, subject to shareholder approval, apply to any payments to sustainable business performance: Directors following the 2016 AGM.
The original Remuneration Policy Report approved in May 2014 can be found within the Governance ensure alignment of executives with the overall shareholder objective of section of our website at www.
com long-term value creation through linking a substantial part of the As discussed in the Chairmans introduction, we engaged with a number remuneration package to long-term performance targets: of our larger investors on remuneration matters during 2015 with regards deliver a total reward package that is market-aligned, affordable and to making the following changes to remuneration policy: reflective of business performance: and the elimination of an individual performance modifier for future encourage executive behaviours consistent with Rentokil Initials Performance Share Plan PSP awards for Executive Directors to simplify business values and risk appetite.
the plan and to align with executives below Board level: The same principles apply for the Remuneration Policy for other senior an increase in Executive Directors shareholding guidelines in line with executives.
best practice: the introduction of clawback for both the PSP and the annual bonus scheme in line with the Code: and introduction of the flexibility to pay up to 20% of salary for achieving threshold levels of performance in the annual bonus plan.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 67 Directors Remuneration Report Key elements of Remuneration Policy Executive Directors Base salary Purpose link to strategy Operation Levels of payout Performance measures and periods To attract and retain Cash salaries are normally reviewed annually with Salary policy is to set base salary at an The payment of salary is not effect from 1 January.
Salaries are set taking into appropriate level taking into account the dependent on achieving performance executives of the account: factors described under Operation targets although individual calibre required to and salary increases are considered in performance is taken into account market data from both Towers Watson and implement our this context.
when setting salary levels and Deloitte or other appropriate data providers for strategy determining any salary increases.
across-section of companies of a similar size While there is no maximum salary level, andcomplexity at the time of review the Committee would normally expect percentage pay increases for the scope and responsibilities of the role Executive Directors to be broadly in line external economic environment with other colleagues in relevant individual skills and experience regions.
However, higher increases may be awarded in certain circumstances, contribution to overall business performance where the Committee considers this pay conditions for other colleagues based in the appropriate, such as: UK and other regions which are considered by where a new Executive Director has theCommittee to be relevant for that executive been appointed to the Board at a lower than typical market salary to allow for growth in the role, then larger increases may be awarded in following years to move salary positioning closer to typical market levels as the executive grows in experience where the Executive Director has been promoted or has had a change in responsibilities, salary increases in excess of the above level may be awarded where the positioning of an Executive Directors salary has fallen significantly behind market practice In exceptional circumstances, where a Non-executive Director temporarily takes up an executive position, salary increases for the Non-executive Director may be awarded as appropriate.
Annual bonus Purpose link to strategy Operation Levels of payout Performance measures and periods Recognise and The annual bonus is paid in cash each year after the Bonus payouts start to accrue at a level The annual bonus is normally linked to a mix of financial elements and Committee has reviewed performance against of up to 20% of base salary for meeting reward the delivery of targets, which are set around the beginning of each threshold levels of performance, with an other key strategic performance exceptional business targets, including achievement of year for each Executive Director, taking into on-target bonus opportunity of 50% of performance against consideration the underlying performance of the base salary and a maximum bonus personal objectives where annual financial, appropriate.
opportunity of 100% of base salary strategic and before the application of the individual over a one year performance period.
The Committee may reduce bonus payments in operational goals and Financial elements will always include performance modifier.
The Committee respect of the current year or future years potentially does not propose to increase the a profit measure and may include one individual contribution to nil in the event of a material misstatement of the threshold payment of 10% in 2016. or more of cash and revenue.
to Company Companys audited results for the current year or prior years, serious reputational damage or loss to An individual performance modifier, At least 50% of the bonus will be performance the group as a result of an individuals serious based on individual performance as based on financial measures.
Financial misconduct, or in any other circumstances where the measured by the Companys measures may be linked to group Committee, in its discretion, considers that this performance and development review performance or the executives specific treatment is appropriate.
process, may also increase or decrease area of responsibility, if appropriate.
the opportunity stated above to further A clawback provision exists to give the Committee, The Committee reserves the right to recognise individual contribution to inthe same circumstances to malus, the ability to change the measures in future years business performance.
The maximum recover sums already paid for up to two years after to ensure alignment with business payout will not exceed 120% of base payment.
strategy and shareholder interests, salary.
subject to at least 50% of measures being financial in nature.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 68 Directors Remuneration Report Part 1 Proposed Directors Remuneration Policy 1 Performance Share Plan PSP Purpose link to strategy Operation Levels of payout Performance measures and periods Awards are made over shares normally in the form of The maximum annual award is normally Awards are normally subject to the To motivate and nil-cost options or conditional shares with a face 200% of base salary for Executive following two performance measures: incentivise delivery of value set by reference to a multiple of base salary.
25% of the award shall vest relative Total Shareholder Return exceptional business for meeting threshold levels of TSR performance: and Award levels and performance conditions are set to performance over performance.
support the businesss long-term goals and seek to the achievement of Earnings Per the long-term and to reflect market practice and shareholder guidance.
This limit of 200% of salary may be Share EPS targets.
create alignment with increased to 250% of salary in Award levels are generally set at a market competitive Performance measures will typically growth in value for exceptional circumstances as level, relative to companies of comparable size and be weighted two-thirds relative TSR shareholders determined by the Committee.
and one-third EPS but the Vested PSP awards may include To act as a retention A malus provision exists to give the Committee the Committee shall retain discretion to dividend equivalents or shares that ability to scale back awards granted that have not yet determine that a different weighting tool for Executive accrue by reference to the period vested potentially to nil in the event of a material shall apply for future awards.
Directors between grant and vest or exercise misstatement of the Companys audited results, Performance conditions are normally date.
serious reputational damage or loss to the group as a measured over a three-year period.
result of an individuals serious misconduct, or in Shares under vested awards may be If events happen which cause the other circumstances where the Committee considers transferred to an Executive Directors Committee to consider that a that this treatment is appropriate.
performance condition would not, A clawback provision exists to give the Committee, These limits are in both the original without alteration, achieve its original 2006 PSP Rules and in the proposed in the same circumstances as malus, the ability to purpose, it may amend that recover sums already paid for up to two years 2016 PSP Rules which will be performance condition provided that submitted for approval by shareholders following vesting.
the amended performance condition at the May 2016 AGM.
Awards normally vest after three years subject to the is materially no less challenging than Committees assessment of the achievement of the it would have been had the event not relevant performance conditions and underlying occurred.
Awards may be settled in cash.
The exercise period for awards in the form of nil cost options extends from the date of vesting to the tenth anniversary of the award being made.
If nil cost options remain exercisable at the tenth anniversary of grant then they will be exercised automatically on a participants behalf.
Awards may be: a adjusted in accordance with the rules in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital, demerger, special dividend or similar event that materially affects the price of shares: and b amended in accordance with the PSP Rules.
Pensions Executive Directors Purpose link to strategy Operation Levels of payout Performance measures and periods To attract and retain Executive Director pension arrangements are by way Contribution of up to 25% of base None.
of a defined contribution arrangement or through a salary.
executives of the cash alternative of a similar value.
calibre required to The Committee retains the discretion to operate implement our different pension arrangements where new Executive strategy Directors are appointed to reflect individual circumstances, market practice or Company To facilitate strategy.
executives planning for retirement 1 these arrrangements describe the Remuneration Policy under the proposed 2016 PSP.
Awards granted prior to this Policy coming into force will be governed under the previous Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the AGM in May 2014 and available at www.
com governance Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 69 Directors Remuneration Report Benefits Purpose link to strategy Operation Levels of payout Performance measures and periods To attract and retain Benefits are determined taking into account market Levels of benefits are set in line with None.
practice, the level of benefits provided throughout market practice.
The level of benefits executives of the the group and individual circumstances.
provided varies year on year depending calibre required to on the cost of provision of benefits to The main benefits for Executive Directors are: implement our the Company and therefore it is not life assurance strategy meaningful to identify a maximum level car or car allowance of benefits.
family healthcare permanent health insurance relocation benefits in the event that an executive were required to relocate to undertake their role, the Committee may provide an additional appropriate level of benefits to reflect the relevant circumstances.
Such benefits may be one-off or ongoing in nature.
Should an Executive Director be appointed in a country other than the UK, benefits appropriate to that market would be considered.
The Committee retains the discretion to change the benefits provided including offering additional benefits in line with market practice and HMRC guidance on the definition of taxable benefits.
This may include the provision of a car and a driver for the Chief Executive and any applicable tax thereon and offering participation in any future all-employee share plan offered.
Notes Measures and targets Illustration of remuneration policy for 2016 All the performance measures selected support the delivery of short and Our remuneration arrangements are designed so that a significant proportion long-term financial performance of the business and shareholder value of pay is dependent on the delivery of short and long-term goals that are creation.
Targets are set each year based on stretching internal budgets aligned with our strategic objectives and the creation of shareholder value.
and achieving or exceeding these targets will both return value to In developing the scenarios below for the implementation of the Proposed shareholders and reward the executive team for delivery.
Policy in 2016, the following assumptions have been made with regard to The annual bonus measures are reviewed annually to focus on delivery of levels of payout for certain levels of performance: key financial targets for the forthcoming year as well as key strategic or operational goals relevant to the individual.
Annual Bonus Plan Performance Share Plan Over the long term, performance measures are focused on generating 0% 0% Below threshold returns to shareholders through the relative TSR measure and through a performance focus on improving earnings.
1 Threshold 10% of salary 50% of salary All colleague remuneration policy 25% of maximum opportunity performance At the end of 2015 the Company had 31,442 colleagues based in 67 50% of salary 100% of salary countries 2014: 28,731 colleagues based in 63 countries.
Our broad Meeting 50% of maximum opportunity remuneration policy reflects the diversity of cultures, legislative environments, expectations employment markets and the types and seniority of roles that this on-target geographic spread provides.
We structure our colleague reward to enable us performance to recruit and retain the right people doing the right job for our customers.
Maximum 120% of salary 200% of salary A broad population of management colleagues are invited to join the annual 100% of maximum performance opportunity bonus plan called the Group Management Bonus Scheme GMBS.
The measures for GMBS are broadly aligned with those set out in the policy 1 the proposed Policy would provide the Committee with the flexibility to increase the payout for table above.
threshold performance up to 20% of salary in future years.
The senior management population are eligible to participate in the PSP wherever practicable and possible, subject to local legislation, and annually around 180 are invited to join the plan.
The measures for the executive Leadership Team and Senior colleagues will remain aligned with those of the Executive Directors, to support focus on key strategic targets.
Beyond this, the plan structure may be varied within the rules to support the retention of this population.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 70 Directors Remuneration Report Part 1 Proposed Directors Remuneration Policy For the purposes of these illustrations, no share price growth or receipt of shall be limited to 370% of base salary.
This reflects bonus policy and the dividends is assumed.
level of award under the PSP in exceptional circumstances.
This limit excludes any awards made to compensate the Executive Director for Fixed pay for this illustration is derived as follows: remuneration forfeited from their previous employer.
If appropriate, different measures and targets may be applied to a new appointments annual Pension bonus in the year of joining.
Base from based on 1 January Benefits salary from Total 2016 for 2016 1 January 2016 fixed The Committee may make awards on appointing an Executive Director to buy out remuneration terms forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In Andy Ransom Chief Executive 728,280 19,600 182,070 929,950 doing so the Committee will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they Jeremy Townsend were granted e. g. cash or shares and the time over which they would Chief Financial Officer 468,180 16,700 70,227 555,107 have vested.
Generally buy-out awards will be made on a comparable basis to those forfeited.
To facilitate awards outlined above, in the event of recruitment, the Committee may grant awards to a new Executive Director under Listing Illustration of remuneration policy for 2016 Rule 9.4.
2 which allows for the granting of awards, to facilitate, in unusual Chief Executive circumstances, the recruitment of an Executive Director, without seeking Below 100% 929,950 threshold prior shareholder approval or under other appropriate Company share Threshold 68% 5% 27% 1,366,918 performance plans.
2 will be limited to granting buy-out Meeting 46% 18% 36% 2,022,370 expectations awards only.
Maximum 28% 27% 45% 3,260,446 performance In the event that an internal candidate was promoted to the Board, legacy 0m 0.5m 1m 1.5m 2m 2.5m 3m 3.5m terms and conditions may be honoured, including pension entitlements and any outstanding incentive awards and the exercise of any discretion in Chief Financial O cer connection with such payments.
Similarly, if an Executive Director is Below 100% 555,107 threshold appointed following the Companys acquisition of or merger with another Threshold 66% 6%28% 836,015 performance company, legacy terms and conditions would be honoured.
Meeting 44% 19% 37% 1,257,377 expectations Maximum 27% 27% 46% 2,053,283 In the event of the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-executive performance Director, remuneration arrangements will normally reflect the policy 0m 0.5m 1m 1.5m 2m 2.5m 3m 3.5m outlined below.
Fixed pay Annual cash incentive Long-term incentive The Committees intention is that timely disclosure of the remuneration structure of any new Executive Director or Chairman will be made by the Recruitment Executive Directors Company wherever practical.
The Committees key principle when determining appropriate remuneration arrangements for a new Executive Director appointed from Directors service agreements Executive Directors within the organisation or externally is to ensure that arrangements are Executive Directors are employed on permanent contracts which are inthe best interests of both the Company and its shareholders, without terminable on 12 months notice from the Company.
Please see below for paying more than is considered necessary by the Committee to recruit a description of our payment in lieu of notice provisions.
The Companys anexecutive of the required calibre to develop and deliver the business policy in respect of the notice periods for the termination of Executive strategy.
When determining appropriate remuneration arrangements the Directors contracts conforms to the Code.
The remuneration and Committee will take into account all relevant factors.
These factors may contractual arrangements for the Executive Directors and senior include among others : management do not contain any matters that are required to be disclosed under the Takeover Directive.
The contracts of service for Executive the level and type of remuneration opportunity being forfeited: Directors are as set out below and are available at the jurisdiction the candidate was recruited from and whether any www.
com investors investors governance relocation is required: the skills, experience and calibre of the individual: Date of service Type of Notice by the Notice by Executive Directors agreement agreement Company the Director the circumstances of the individual: and 31 December Rolling 12 12 Andy Ransom 2013 contract months months the current external market and salary practice including market practice on additional benefits.
4 March Rolling 12 6 Jeremy Townsend 2010 contract months months The Committee would generally seek to align the remuneration package offered with our Remuneration Policy outlined in the table above.
However, the Committee may offer additional variable remuneration arrangements in respect of an Executive Directors appointment that it considers appropriate and necessary to recruit and retain the individual.
Any variable remuneration awarded in respect of the Executive Directors appointment Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 71 Directors Remuneration Report Loss of office payments The policy on termination is as follows: Element Policy Disability, retirement, ill-health, redundancy, termination, resignation, death, sale of an individual employing business out of the group.
Executive Directors are entitled to a payment in lieu of notice equal to base pay and the value of benefits only for the duration of Base pay and benefits the remaining notice period, subject to mitigation.
The Company has the ability to terminate Executive Directors employment, inthe event of a prolonged mental or physical incapacity to carry out his her Company duties and without notice summary dismissal, in the event of gross misconduct or being disqualified to act as a Director.
Appropriate medical benefits may still be provided in the case of prolonged mental or physical incapacity.
Executive Directors may be entitled to other payments including, but not limited to, costs of appropriate repatriation relocation, Other outplacement, settlement agreement, non-compete agreement, legal and or tax and other relevant professional costs.
The Committee would look to ensure that the level of these costs benefits was reasonable and in the best interests of shareholders.
Policy Disability, retirement, ill-health, redundancy, death, sale of an individual employing Policy other reasons for leaving.
business out of the group and for any other reason the Committee may determine.
Executive Directors may receive a bonus payment for the year in which Generally, Executive Directors must be employed at Bonus they cease employment.
This payment will normally be pro-rated for the date of payment to receive a bonus.
time and performance: however the Committee retains the discretion to In certain circumstances, the Committee may review overall business and individual performance and determine that determine that a bonus payment may be due to reflect a different level of bonus payment is appropriate.
performance and contribution to the point of cessation.
The Performance Awards will normally vest and, where relevant, be exercisable if Vested awards in the form of options may be exercised termination occurs on or after the vesting date.
up to six months following cessation.
Share Plan PSP In respect of early terminations: Awards will lapse on termination.
In the case of ill-health, disability or death, awards will vest and the level of vesting will be determined by the Committee, but the Committee may have regard to the performance conditions and to time pro-rating.
For all other good leavers, awards will vest on a time pro-rated basis following a review by the Committee of the extent to which the performance conditions are met.
The Committee has discretion not to apply time pro-rating or to reduce the awards on a different basis.
When an Executive Director leaves the business on the basis of mutual agreement, the Committee will determine an appropriate payment taking into account the circumstances of leaving but any payment will be no more generous than that for leavers by reason of disability, ill-health, retirement, redundancy, death or sale of an individual employing business.
There are no provisions for notice periods or compensation in the event of the termination of the appointment of the Chairman or a Non-executive Director.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 72 Directors Remuneration Report Part 1 Proposed Directors Remuneration Policy Chairman and Non-executive Directors Key elements of remuneration policy Fees Approach Details Other items Non-executive Directors remuneration is determined by Non-executive Directors fees are payable in cash No element of Non-executive Director remuneration the Board on the recommendation of the Non-executive and consist of a basic fee plus additional fees is performance-related.
Directors Terms Committee of the Board comprising payable to: Non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Chief Senior Independent Director the Companys incentive schemes, nor are they Financial Officer within the limits set by the articles of eligible to join the Companys pension scheme.
Non-executive Directors fees are set at a The Chairman is not eligible to participate in the Additional fees may be paid to Non-executive level which is considered appropriate for the calibre of Companys annual bonus plan or in the Companys Directors on an ongoing or temporary basis if there individual required to support the delivery of business PSP.
is a change in their responsibilities or a significant strategy and taking into account skills, experience, time increase in the time commitment required from The Chairman receives the benefit of having access commitment and independent surveys of fees paid to them to fulfil their role.
to a company car and a driver and any taxthereon.
Non-executive Directors of similar companies.
The Chairman receives annual fees agreed The Non-executive Directors do not currently receive Fees for the Company Chairman are determined by the periodically by the Board and based upon external any other benefits.
However, benefits may be provided Board based on external remuneration advice and remuneration advice considered by the Committee.
in the future if, in the view of the Non-executive considered by the Remuneration Committee taking Directors Terms Committee for Non-executive into account typical fee arrangements at other The fees for Non-executive Directors were Directors or the Committee for the Chairman, this companies of a similar size and complexity, the time approved by shareholders in 2005 and shall not was considered appropriate.
Non-executive Directors commitment required to fulfil the role and the calibre of exceed in aggregate 1,000,000 per annum or who are based outside the UK may be provided the individual required.
such higher amount as the Company may from with support in relation to their tax reporting.
time to time by ordinary resolution determine.
Fees are reviewed at appropriate intervals.
Comparison of remuneration policy to that of the wider Non-executive Directors letters of appointment employeegroup Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment, but not service While our colleagues are not currently formally consulted on Executive contracts.
Subject to annual re-election at the AGM, Non-executive Director pay, our employee opinion survey Your Voice Counts and other Directors will be appointed for an initial period of three years, which may surveys provide an opportunity for them to provide the Company with be extended for a further period of three years by mutual consent and feedback on their own remuneration arrangements and also to comment thereafter reviewed annually, subject to acceptable tests of performance on broader matters across the Company.
The Committee recognises that and independence.
it needs an understanding of the broader remuneration of colleagues Chairman when making decisions on Executive Director pay.
The Committee The Chairman has a letter of appointment, dated 13December 2012, reviews pay and conditions for all colleagues based in the UK annually, setting out his responsibilities for the management ofthe Board.
The having high level insight into the outcomes of annual bonuses.
The Chairmans contract may be terminated by either party without notice.
Committee is responsible for approving all PSP awards across the group.
Stakeholder views The views of shareholders are important to the Committee and provide the Non-executive Director Letter of appointment Appointment period context for setting the remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors.
The Peter Bamford 15 December 2011 Annual Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, the Company Chairman and the Richard Burrows 15 December 2011 Annual Chief Executive have met with a number of major shareholders and their views Alan Giles 15 December 2011 Annual were taken into account when formulating this policy report during 2015.
Angela Seymour-Jackson 5 March 2015 3 years Remuneration Committee discretion The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration Julie Southern 21 July 2014 3 years payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding Copies of Executive Directors service contracts and the Chairman and that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection payment were agreed i before the date the Companys first remuneration by shareholders at the Companys registered office and on its website at policy approved by shareholders in accordance with section 439A of the www.
com Companies Act came into effect: ii before the policy set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the Remuneration policy other information shareholder-approved remuneration policy in force at the time they were Change of control agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the If the Company is taken over or wound up, PSP awards may vest by Company and, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the payment reference to the extent to which the performance conditions are met and was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the on a time pro-rated basis calculated on a monthly basis subject to the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Remuneration Committees discretion.
Outstanding awards and share options may be Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an vested automatically on a change of control on the participants behalf.
award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the Typically salaries and bonuses will be paid to the date of change of control.
The Remuneration Committee may make minor amendments to the policy for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 73 Directors Remuneration Report Part 2 Directors Annual Remuneration Report When determining policy, the Committee considers the pay and conditions Remuneration Committee responsibilities across the rest of the Company.
The Committees terms of reference are The Committees main responsibilities are developing and setting group available on the Companys website at www.
com remuneration policy and overseeing its application.
It determines and agrees the Executive remuneration policy with the Board and settles Activities of the Committee individual remuneration arrangements for the Chairman, Executive Directors and members of the Executive Leadership Team, including arrangements relating to those joining and leaving the business.
It reviews Remuneration Committee Time Allocation % executive performance and strives to ensure that remuneration structures align the interests of management with those of shareholders and operates in the best long-term interests of the Company.
The Committee oversees contractual terms on termination affecting Executive Directors and Senior Executives, and seeks to ensure that any payments made are both fair to the individual and to the Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
29% Investor consultation The Committee also oversees the Companys incentive schemes including 26% Executive remuneration the operation and effectiveness of performance measures and targets in 16% Governance both annual bonus plans and in long-term incentive schemes.
It will lend 15% Schemes review oversight to major changes in employee remuneration in the group.
7% Benchmarking 7% Policy Finally it has responsibility to report to shareholders on remuneration matters and to select and appoint advisors to the Committee.
Membership and attendance In 2015: Initiated a full shareholder consultation on proposed changes to Meeting Member Attended Potential attendance remuneration policy Alan Giles Chairman 5 5 100% Approval of the following for Executive Directors and the Executive Richard Burrows 3 5 60% Leadership Team: Angela Seymour-Jackson 5 5 100% Base salaries for 2015 Bonus outcomes for 2014 and bonus structure for 2015 Non-attendance at meetings by Directors was as a result of unavoidable Proposed 2015 long-term incentive awards and targets changes in commitments which conflicted with existing arrangements.
Approval of the Directors Annual Remuneration Report 2015 The Committee Chairman seeks the views of any Director unable to attend a meeting and provides a briefing on outcomes.
All Committee Consideration of reward arrangements for key executives below members are provided with material for all meetings, whether or not they executive level, and appointment terms for Executive Leadership Team are able to attend.
appointments The Committee comprised three independent Non-executive Directors Review of Executive Leadership Team colleague reward arrangements during the year.
Each of the Committee members has significant senior Review of group targets in light of the sale of the Initial Facilities business level experience of setting and monitoring remuneration matters in large, complex international businesses, giving them the collective experience to Finalise changes to the structure of the PSP following engagement with offer a balanced, independent and informed view on remuneration shareholders matters.
No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest, Review of malus policy and design of clawback policy to be in the matters to be decided by the Committee other than as a implemented in 2016 shareholder.
No member of the Committee has any conflict of interest in carrying out their role on the Committee arising from other directorships Approval of a Proposed Remuneration Policy to be subject to nor does any member participate in any of the Companys incentive or shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM pension arrangements or have any involvement in the day-to-day running Approval of the part vesting of the 2012 PSP award as a result of of the Company.
performance targets being met Terms of reference Review of the pr ovision of professional advice to the Committee The Remuneration Committee terms of reference include all matters indicated by the Code and best practice governance principles and they Annual performance review of the Committee set out its authority and duties clearly.
The terms of reference have been approved by the Board.
The Committee gives full regard to the matters set out in the Code.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 74 Directors Remuneration Report Part 2 Directors Annual Remuneration Report During 2016: Deloitte is retained by the Committee to provide independent advice on executive remuneration matters and on the Companys long-term Approval of the following for Executive Directors and the Executive incentive arrangements.
Deloitte is a founding member of the Leadership Team: Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its Code in relation to Base salaries for 2016 executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Bonus outcomes for 2015 and bonus structure for 2016 Fees charged during the year for advice to the Committee were 41,760.
Proposed long-term share awards for 2016 Deloitte also provided services to the HR and Company Secretarial teams Review with remuneration advisors of market practice on remuneration in their roles supporting the Committee.
These services included support and governance issues in preparing the Directors Remuneration Report, provision of market data and support in relation to the taxation of and accounting for share plans.
Approval of the 2015 Directors Remuneration Report The Committee is satisfied that the Deloitte engagement partner and Approval of the revised design of the proposed 2016 PSP Rules team, who provide remuneration advice to the Committee, do not have connections with the group that may impair their independence.
The Committee Chairman presents a summary of material matters During the year separate teams within Deloitte provided the Company with discussed at each meeting to the following Board meeting and minutes of a limited level of advice over non-remuneration matters, such as taxation the Committee meetings are circulated to all Directors.
The Committee and due diligence on acquisitions, although they are one of a number of reports to shareholders annually in this report and the Committee advisors to the Company in such areas.
Deloitte also acted as a Chairman attends the AGM to address any questions arising.
co-source partner providing support to the internal audit function.
The The Committee conducted a review of its performance during the year Committee is satisfied that neither the quantum nor the nature of services with the assistance of Lintstock, an external independent specialist provided by Deloitte to the Company which are unrelated to remuneration consultancy.
The review concluded that the Committee continued to matters represent a conflict of interest over the firms role as advisors to operate effectively and that individual Directors serving on the Committee the Committee.
continued to have access to appropriate advice and information.
Towers Watsons involvement with the Committee is limited to the Advisors to the Committee provision of market data on competitiveness and current trends for use in Material advice and or services were provided to the Committee during connection with remuneration matters.
Fees charged during the year for the year by: market data were 17,000.
Towers Watson also advises the Company on UK pension scheme matters.
Deloitte LLP Deloitte The Group HR Director has direct access to the Chairman of the Towers Watson Ltd Towers Watson Committee and together with the Group Reward Director advises the Martin Sawkins Group HR Director Committee on remuneration matters relating to Executive Directors and members of the Executive Leadership Team.
Daragh Fagan Group General Counsel & Company Secretary The Company Chairman attends meetings and makes recommendations John Richardson Group Reward Director in relation to the remuneration and incentive arrangements for the Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive attends and makes recommendations in respect of remuneration arrangements for his direct reports.
No Director or Executive is present when their own remuneration is under consideration.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 75 Directors Remuneration Report Part 3 Directors Annual Remuneration Report 2015 Directors remuneration in the year to 31 December 2015 Single total figure for the remuneration of Executive Directors The table below has been audited: Purpose Fixed pay 000 Variable pay 000 Total 000 LongLongTotal Total Base Base Annual Annual term term single single 1 1 3 3 2 salary salary Benefits Benefits Pension Pension bonus bonus incentives incentives figure figure Executive Directors 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Andy Ransom Chief Executive 714 700 19 20 179 175 506 431 238 0 1,656 1,326 Jeremy Townsend Chief Financial Officer 459 450 17 17 69 68 296 251 220 0 1,061 786 1 Executive Directors are provided with life insurance, permanent health insurance and a company car or a car allowance.
The value of the benefits is included under Benefits in the above table.
There were no other taxable benefits paid to Executive Directors in 2015.
2 in 2015 the PSP 2012 target award part vested as explained below.
The vested shares plus accrued dividends on those shares have been included at their closing value at the date of vesting on 8 May 2015 of 145.2p.
3 Andy Ransom receives a pension contribution, in the form of a cash supplement, worth 25% of base salary.
Jeremy Townsends aggregate pension contribution from the Company is worth 15% of salary.
growth in 2015 and beyond, and to align incentives with the groups Annual bonus plan strategy, revenue targets for Executive Directors were weighted to focus 2015 bonus outcome on sectors that were critical to the business.
To provide focus the following The Committee reviewed the 2015 bonus plan outcome for the groups co-efficients were applied to the revenue generated from the quadrants as senior management population based on the targets set at the start of the described in the Strategic Report on page 14. financial year.
The metrics and the levels of performance for the Executive Directors for the 2015 bonus plan are set out on page 76.
Individual performance is overlaid with an individual performance modifier, which is Quadrant linked to the group performance and development review process, details Co-efficient are set out below.
Bonuses earned are reflective of the performance of the 2015 group, individual businesses and achievement against specific personal Emerging 1.51 objectives where relevant.
Growth 1.2 For any bonus to be payable to an Executive Director, two gateway Protect & Enhance 0.7 conditions had to be met.
Both conditions were met as follows: Manage for Value 0.4 Gateway condition: The Company must achieve at least 95% of a profit target of 215.63m.
The outturn was 215.66m Bonus outcomes for 2015 and details of the range around target used to Gateway condition: The Company must achieve free cash flow assess performance have been disclosed in the table overleaf.
The outturn was 147.7m As both gateway conditions were satisfied, Executive Directors bonuses were determined by group profit and group revenue performance plus an individual performance modifier.
To support the delivery of profitable Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 76 Directors Remuneration Report Part 3 Directors Annual Remuneration Report 2015 Annual bonus 2015 Andy Ransom Chief Executive Bonus outcomes Group Group Bonus for period profit revenue Total Executive Director ending 31 12 15 Andy Ransom 506,323 70.91% of salary % weighting 50% 50% 100% Range around target 99% to 102% Jeremy Townsend 296,435 64.58% of salary from threshold to 95% to see segment maximum 110% co-efficients Performance Share Plan 2015 target 50% 215.63m 1,816.88m The Executive Directors and senior management population participate in 2015 performance 100.02% 101.15% the Performance Share Plan PSP.
% bonus achieved 2012 PSP award vesting before modifier 50.08% 78.85% 64.47% On 8 May 2012, the Company granted PSP awards which vested on value bonus 8May 2015.
Executive Directors were granted a target award of shares before modifier 178,783 281,510 460,293 which was subject to two performance measures.
If both performance measures were met to the maximum level then up to 200% of the target award of shares could vest.
The maximum award that could vest for Jeremy Townsend Chief Financial Officer AndyRansom was 1,082,380 shares which if valued on date of grant Group Group would have a value of 903,787 and the maximum award that could vest profit revenue Total for Jeremy Townsend was 1,042,692 shares which if valued on the date % weighting 70% 30% 100% of grant would have a value of 870,647 before the application of the Range around target 95% to 110% 99% to 102% individual performance modifier.
from threshold to see segment The awards are calculated by: maximum co-efficients 2015 target 215.63m 1,816.88m Firstly, a modifying factor individual bonus modifier, which r elated to an individuals achievement against their annual bonus targets averaged 2015 performance 100.02% 101.15 % over the three-year period of the award, was applied to the target award % bonus achieved of shares.
This could reduce the number of shares in the target award to before modifier 50.08% 78.85% 58.71% zero if an individual failed to reach threshold performance under the value bonus annual bonus in each of the three years of the performance period and before modifier 160,904 108,583 269,487 could increase the number of shares in the target award to a maximum of 200% if maximum bonus performance were achieved in each of the three years of the performance period.
Based on their bonus Performance ratings are linked to Executive Directors bonuses through performance over the period 2012 to 2014, the Chief Executive and the the individual performance modifier as set out in the table below which is Chief Financial Officer achieved individual bonus modifiers of 78.9% and appliedto the outturn of the financial element of the bonus.
The individual 75.7% respectively of the 0% to 200% range which were applied to the performance modifier is also applied to bonus payments for all global number of shares in their target award.
senior management colleagues based upon objectives and behaviours Secondly, TSR performance measur ed relative to the constituents of the asit is for Executive Directors.
FTSE 350 index, excluding financial services, property and primary resources sectors, determined how many of the shares in the target Performance rating 1 2 3 4 5 award post application of the modifier would vest.
25% would vest if 1 Modifier 0% 75% 100% 110% 125% the Companys performance were positioned at median against the comparator group, with 100% vesting for upper quartile TSR 1 the total bonus payment post modifier is capped at 120% of base salary for Executive Directors performance.
Vesting occurred on a straight-line basis between these and the Executive Leadership Team.
The Companys TSR growth over the performance period was 73.9% and it ranked 88th out of 184 comparator companies, An individual performance modifier of 110% was applied to the bonus for positioning the Company between the median and upper quartile in the Andy Ransom for the period to 31 December 2015.
A modifier of 110% group so that 35.66% vested.
was applied to the bonus for Jeremy Townsend.
The total bonus outcomes, including modifiers, in relation to 2015 are above.
Bonus The aggregate number of shares vesting after application of both outcomes for 2015 for Executive Directors are also shown in the single performance measures is summarised in the table opposite.
The table also total figure for the remuneration of Executive Directors table on page 75. includes the additional number of shares relating to dividends accrued Bonuses will be paid in cash.
throughout the performance period which were added to the final awards.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 77 Directors Remuneration Report 2012 PSP award vesting The table below has been audited: Individual performance modifier Total number Proportion of Value On-target award potential range of shares post Dividend relative TSR Total shares of shares 1 of shares 0% to 200% modifier shares target met vested in 2015 vesting Andy Ransom 541,190 78.90% 427,005 31,846 35.66% 163,625 237,583 x x Jeremy Townsend 521,346 75.70% 394,670 29,434 35.66% 151,235 219,593 1 this represents the value of the vested awards under the 2012 PSP calculated with the closing share price at date of vesting of 145.2p.
These values are included in the single total figure for the remuneration of Executive Directors on page 75.
2015 PSP award Relative TSR performance measure: 25% of this element of the award On 31 March 2015, Andy Ransom and Jeremy Townsend were, will vest if Rentokil Initials performance at the end of the three-year respectively, granted a target award of shares under the PSP worth 120% performance period is positioned at median against a FTSE 350 of salary and 100% of salary.
The value of each award can increase up to comparator group with full vesting for upper quartile TSR performance.
a cap of 200% of salary if the performance measures set out below are Vesting is on a straight-line basis between these two points.
EPS performance measure: 25% of this element of the award will vest Firstly, a modifying factor individual bonus modifier will be applied to the for EPS growth of 9% Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR over the target award of shares.
This modifier will operate on the same basis as three-year performance period with full vesting for EPS growth of 15% outlined above for the 2012 award and will be based on the Executive CAGR.
Vesting is on a straight-line basis between these two points.
Directors bonus performance over the period 2015 to 2017.
The EPS targets have been revised upwards by the Remuneration Secondly, the number of shares in the target award post application of Committee from the figures shown in last years remuneration report to the modifier will vest two-thirds based on a relative TSR performance reflect material acquisitions and disposals.
measure and one-third based on an EPS performance measure: In addition, when determining the level of vesting, the Committee will also consider the underlying financial performance of the business, as well as the value added for shareholders during the performance periods, and may adjust the vesting outcome if it considers this to be appropriate.
Awards to Executive Directors under the 2015 PSP award are set out in the table below.
2015 PSP award The table below has been audited: Market Target Maximum price Date Form award of award of at date of Exercise Face value minimum Face value maximum Performance 2 2 1 Participant of award of award shares shares award price award of shares award of shares period Andy Nil cost 50% of 200% of To Ransom 31 03 15 option 632,324 1,053,874 135.5p 0.00p salary 357,000 salary 1,428,000 30 03 18 Jeremy Nil cost 50% of 200% of To Townsend 31 03 15 option 338,745 677,490 135.5p 0.00p salary 229,500 salary 918,000 30 03 18 1 the TSR condition will be measured over three years to 30 March 2018.
The EPS condition and the individual bonus modifier will be measured over three years to 31 December 2017.
2 calculation is based on closing market value of a share at the grant of the award of 135.5p on 31 March 2015.
There was dividend uplift on the remaining vested balance of the shares.
Andy Ransom has not exercised his 2012 PSP award during the year.
Jeremy Townsend exercised his awards on 11 June 2015 at 152.5p and sold 71,331 shares to cover tax liabilities.
He kept the remaining balance of 79,904 shares which are included in the Directors shares table on page 79.
2 the maximum PSP vesting is only applicable in the event of upper quartile TSR performance and maximum annual bonus outperformance for participants for the three-year performance measurement period.
No shares will vest if TSR performance is below median at the end of the vesting period or if threshold financial performance conditions are not met.
3 an additional award was made to Andy Ransom on his appointment as Chief Executive on 1 October 2013 calculated on the basis of 90,000 additional target shares being the equivalent of 120% of his orginal salary as an Executive Director.
A further supplementary award was calculated on the basis of his new salary as Chief Executive with the target being 120% of base salary.
The maximum that can be achieved is 200% of applicable salary.
4 in 2014 an EPS measure was introduced in addition to the existing relative TSR measure for Executive Directors and senior management.
The relative TSR and EPS performance measures apply to two-thirds and to one-third of the total award respectively.
Additionally, an individual performance modifier applies to Executive Directors PSP 2014 awards.
The performance period for the EPS element of the PSP 2014 award will be measured to 31 December 2016.
The vesting date of the PSP 2014 award is 31 March 2017.
5 in 2015 the relative TSR and EPS performance measures continued to apply to two-thirds and to one-third of the total 2015 award respectively.
Additionally, an individual performance modifier applies toExecutive Directors PSP 2015 awards.
The performance period for the EPS element of the PSP 2015 award will be measured to 31 December 2017.
The vesting date of the PSP 2015 award is 31March 2018.
Payments to past Directors Share plan funding There were no payments to past Directors during 2015.
Shares granted under the executive incentive plans are satisfied by shares purchased in the market or by transfer from the Companys employee Payments for loss of office share trust.
To the extent shares are newly issued to satisfy awards, the There were no payments for loss of office to Directors during 2015.
Company complies with Investment Association dilution guidelines ontheirissue.
Single total figure for the remuneration during 2015 of the Chairman and Non-executive Directors The table below has been audited: Fees Fees Benefits Benefits Total single figure Total single figure Chairman and Non-executive Directors 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 1 1 John McAdam 350 350 20 20 370 370 Peter Bamford 55 55 0 0 55 55 Richard Burrows 55 55 0 0 55 55 2 Alan Giles 75 70 0 0 75 70 Angela Seymour-Jackson 55 55 0 0 55 55 Julie Southern 70 32 0 0 70 32 1 the benefit relates to the private use by the Chairman of a Company driver and vehicle.
2 Alan Giles received a fee increase on his appointment as Senior Independent Director on 1 January 2015.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 79 Directors Remuneration Report Directors shareholdings and share interests The interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of the Company on 1 January 2015 or their date of appointment if later, and at 31December 2015, are set out below.
No Director has any beneficial interest in the shares of any of the Companys subsidiaries.
Any changes in theinterests of the Directors and their families in the Company and its subsidiary companies during the year and from the end of the year to 24 February 2016 are shown below.
Directors shareholdings and share interests The table below has been audited: Beneficial interests number Beneficial interests number or at date of cessation or date of appointment Rentokil Initial plc ordinary shares of 1p each 31 December 2015 1 January 2015 John McAdam 1,484,824 1,484,824 Andy Ransom 1,462,544 1,462,544 Jeremy Townsend 228,369 148,465 Peter Bamford 38,000 38,000 Richard Burrows 25,000 25,000 Alan Giles 12,000 12,000 Angela Seymour-Jackson 10,574 5,826 Julie Southern 5,000 nil Executive shareholding requirements It is proposed that this guideline will be increased to 200% of annual salary Since 2014, recognising investors preferences for executive shareholding for the Chief Executive and 150% of annual salary for the Chief Financial requirements, the Company has had shareholding guidelines under which Officer from 2016, subject to the Proposed Remuneration Policy Executive Directors have been expected to build if necessary, over a amendment being approved by a binding vote of shareholders at the period of up to five years from appointment, and subsequently maintain, 2016 AGM.
Executive Directors are not expected to sell any exercisable an economic interest in Company shares with a market value equivalent to PSP shares except to pay statutory withholding taxes until shareholding 100% of their annual salary.
The Committee may take into account guidelines have beenachieved.
Directors compliance with the shareholding guidelines acknowledging any special circumstances that might apply when considering future long-term incentive awards.
Executive shareholding requirements Value of shareholding at Interest in PSP 31 December 2015 share awards at based on three Shareholding as 31 December 2015 Beneficial interests month average share a percentage Current Proposed nil cost options, 2 in shares at price to that date of salary at shareholding shareholding vesting subject to Executive Directors 31 December 2015 m 31 December 2015 guideline guideline 2016 performance 1 2 Chief Executive Andy Ransom 1,462,544 2,248,515 314% 100% of salary 200% of salary 3,748,235 3 3 Chief Financial Officer Jeremy Townsend 228,369 351,094 76% 100% of salary 150% of salary 1,650,519 1 Andy Ransom has an interest in 163,625 vested PSP 2012 awards which he has not yet exercised.
This figure is not included in his beneficial interest in shares figure at 31 December 2015 above but is included inthe share award table on page 78.
2 the share valuation is based on an average share price of 153.74p calculated over the last three months of 2015.
3 Jeremy Townsend exercised his final vested PSP 2012 award of 151,235 shares on 11 June 2015.
He sold a proportion of those shares to meet the associated personal tax liability on the sale.
The total post sale amount of the shares is included in his beneficial interests shown above.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 80 Directors Remuneration Report Part 3 Directors Annual Remuneration Report 2015 He was paid 10,000 during 2015 for fees for his membership of the External appointments Accounting Council 2014: 5,000.
Jeremy Townsend also holds a Executive Directors are entitled, subject to Board approval of the specific non-executive directorship of parkrun Limited for which he received no appointment, to accept a Non-executive Directorship or similar remuneration since his appointment in May 2015.
He is also a Director of appointment outside the Company and to retain the fees in connection a business run by a member of his family for which he has received no with such appointment.
He has no executive involvement in the business and the Andy Ransom is a Director and Trustee of the charity, Street League, for appointment does not represent a conflict of interest.
which he received no remuneration.
Jeremy Townsend is a Member of the Accounting Council of the Financial Reporting Council.
Chief Executive remuneration over a seven-year period 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2013 2014 2015 1 2 2 3 Chief Executive Alan Brown Alan Brown Alan Brown Alan Brown Alan Brown Andy Ransom Andy Ransom Andy Ransom Total single figure of remuneration 1,656,000 989,000 3,564,971 1,115,000 994,396 401,006 1,326,045 1,655,757 % annual bonus payout versus maximum opportunity 72% 0% 0% 13% 32.43% 34.49% 61.6% 70.9% % long-term incentive vesting rates against maximum opportunity 0% 0% 22% 0% 0% 0% 0% 25% 1 the 2011 single figure for Alan Brown, the Chief Executive at the time, includes the value of the 2008 Share Incentive Plan of 2,573,971 which was valued on the release date of 20 May 2011.
These shares were called for during 2014.
2 Alan Brown was appointed as Chief Executive on 1 April 2008 and stepped down on 30 September 2013: Andy Ransom was appointed from that date.
The total single figure has been apportioned to reflect payment during these periods.
3 the 2015 single figure for the Chief Executive Andy Ransom includes the value of 163,625 2012 PSP awards which vested on 8 May 2015 which were valued at a share price of 145.2p on the date of vesting.
These shares are yet to be exercised.
TSR performance over a seven-year period relative to FTSE Index Rentokil Initial plcs total shareholder return compared The following graph shows total shareholder return over a seven-year against total shareholder return of FTSE 100, FTSE 250 period reflecting the holding of the Companys shares, plotted against and FTSE 350 indices over a seven-year period theFTSE 100 Index, the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE 350 Index, on a FTSE 100 FTSE 350 consistent basis with the graph shown last year.
The Company has been a Total shareholder return FTSE 250 Rentokil Initial plc constituent of one or more of these indices over the seven-year period that 400 is shown.
This chart has been prepared by Deloitte LLP for the Company for inclusion in the Annual Report for the year ended 31December 2015 350 and is based on data sourced from Thomson ReutersDataStream and 300 uses spot Return Index data at each year end.
250 200 150 100 50 0 Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 81 Directors Remuneration Report Voting at the 2015 AGM Percentage change in remuneration At the AGM on 13 May 2015, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in The table below sets out a comparison of the change in pay for the Chief respect of the 2014 Directors Annual Remuneration Report were as Executive for the year ended 2015 compared with 2014 and to all UK below.
There was no vote on Remuneration Policy at the 2015 AGM as employees.
The Chief Executive is based in the UK and as such is ithad been approved by shareholders in 2014. impacted by the same economic and legislative environments as other UK colleagues based in core businesses.
Approval of the Remuneration Report Average base salary for all UK employees includes overtime and premium rate pay, which is flexed to meet business requirements, as well as annual Total Total Total and out-of-cycle pay increases and headcount changes during the year.
2014 Annual 2013 2013 Annual All bonus schemes are performance related and reflect business Remuneration Remuneration Remuneration 2 performance during the year.
2 base salary includes overtime and premium rate pay.
3 1 annual bonus includes our Group Management Bonus Scheme GMBS and any other bonus a vote for includes those votes giving the Chairman discretion.
A vote withheld is not classed commission or cash incentive.
asa vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of proportion of votes cast for or against a 4 benefits include private healthcare, car allowance including trade down, cars, fully expensed fuel resolution.
The Committee is pleased with the level of shareholder support received for the 2014 cards and commercial vans private use.
The Company remains committed to ongoing shareholder 5 this figure does not include pension or the valuation of vested but unexercised 2012 PSP awards dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
In the event of a substantial vote against which vested on 8 May 2015. a resolution in relation to Directors remuneration, Rentokil Initial would seek to understand the reasons for any such vote and would set out in the following Annual Report any actions in response to it.
2 Relative importance of spend on pay the last 2013 Remuneration Policy was approved at the AGM in 2014.
There was no vote on Remuneration Policy at the 2015 May AGM.
The table below sets out amounts paid in total employee costs and totaldividends paid for the years ended 31 December 2015 and 31December 2014.
2015 2014 % m m change Remuneration paid to all 4.87% 1 employees of the group 825.1 786.8 increase 13.2% 2 Distributions to shareholders 48.9 43.2 increase 1 the figures for 2014 and 2015 show employee remuneration for continuing operations.
They do not include discontinued operations following the sale of the Initial Facilities business in March 2014.
2 the Board is recommending a final dividend in respect of 2015 of 2.06p per share.
This equates toa full year dividend of 2.93p per share.
In 2014 a full year dividend of 2.59p per share was paid to shareholders.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 82 Directors Remuneration Report Part 4 Directors Annual Remuneration Report looking forward 2016 GMBS and are measured by the Companys performance and the Executive Director base salaries from 1 January 2016 development review process.
Executive Directors and senior executives salaries are reviewed with effect from 1 January each year in accordance with the remuneration policy.
Base salaries reflect the role, individual experience, skills and contribution Performance rating 1 2 3 4 5 to overall business performance as well as external market conditions.
1 Modifier 0% 75% 100% 110% 125% Following a review of the performance of the business, the economic and market considerations in the UK, where average pay increases in the 1 the maximum bonus payment is capped at 120% of base salary for Executive Directors and the Company will be in the order of 2%, the Committee agreed that the Executive Leadership Team.
salaries of Executive Directors for 2016 should be as setout below: Bonus targets have not been disclosed looking forward for 2016 as the Board believes that this information is commercially sensitive.
Disclosing Salary from 1 January 2016 bonus targets could provide information about our business plans to our Executive Director Salary Effective date competitors which could be damaging to our business interests and Andy Ransom 728,280 therefore to shareholders.
However, retrospective bonus outcomes for Chief Executive 2% increase 1 January 2016 2015 have been disclosed in the tables on page 76, and the 2016 targets will be disclosed in next years report.
Jeremy Townsend 468,180 Chief Financial Officer 2% increase 1 January 2016 2016 PSP award The Executive Directors PSP award for 2016 will, as in 2015, be over Pension contribution shares up to a maximum of 200% of base salary.
Subject to shareholder In 2016, Andy Ransom will continue to receive an annual pension approval of the proposed Policy, vesting of this award will be determined contribution worth 25% of base salary and Jeremy Townsend will continue by the Companys performance as follows: to receive an annual pension contribution worth 15% of base salary.
Two-thirds of the award will be subject to a TSR performance measure relative to the constituents of a FTSE 350 index, excluding financial 2016 bonus structure services, property and primary resources sectors: Executive Directors can earn a maximum opportunity of 120% of their base salary as an annual cash bonus.
The focus of the bonus is on A relative TSR measure is used to ensure participants are incentivised rewarding profitable growth in order to align Executive Directors incentives to outperform key peers and to ensure that the interests of with the groups strategy.
The Committee has approved the following management are aligned with shareholders.
structure of bonuses for 2016 for the Executive Directors: 95% of the The FTSE 350 is recognised as a broad index and is considered to be profit target and a free cash flow gateway of 105m have to be reached at an appropriate benchmark for measuring performance given the group level before a bonus is paid to the Executive Directors.
If both these Companys membership of that index, the scope and scale of the profit and cash flow gateways are achieved then Executive Directors can Companys international operations, and the diverse nature of earn up to 100% of base salary based on a combination of revenue and companies in the business services sector.
This is split 50% profit:50% revenue for both the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
25% of this portion of the award will vest if Rentokil Initials performance at the end of the three-year performance period is Revenue targets for Executive Directors will continue to be weighted to positioned at median against the comparator group with the full award focus on the segments that will set the foundations for longer-term vesting for upper quartile TSR performance.
Vesting is on a profitable growth.
To provide this focus the following co-efficients will be straight-line basis between these two points.
applied to revenue generated from businesses in the following quadrants, as described in the Strategic Report on page 14.
One-third of the award will be subject to EPS growth targets: An EPS measure is used to link reward more directly to long-term Co-efficient profit performance.
Quadrant 2016 Emerging 1.51 EPS is measured on a point-to-point basis over the three-year period of the award.
In order to measure underlying earnings improvement, Growth 1.10 EPS is measured after adjusting for impairments, amortisation, pension Protect & Enhance 0.70 interest and material one-off items, as the Committee considers that Manage for Value 0.40 these items do not reflect the underlying performance of the business.
Given the Companys continued focus on improving efficiency and The co-efficients are applied to the total sales in each quadrant, and are reducing costs around restructuring, restructuring costs are included broadly unchanged from previous years.
in the EPS calculation in order to incentivise management to maintain focus in this area.
Given the international nature of our business, EPS An individual performance modifier may also increase or decrease the is measured on an exchange neutral basis to reflect management opportunity arising from performance against the revenue and profit performance by removing the impact of windfalls and losses as a targets, as outlined below, to further recognise individual contribution to result of exchange rate movements.
This individual performance modifier applies to all colleagues who participate in the Group Management Bonus Scheme Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 83 Directors Remuneration Report The targets for awards granted in 2016 will be as follows with a 2016 Non-executive Directors fees straight-line vesting between these figures : Non-executive Director fees from 1 January 2016 Compound EPS Vesting level growth per annum Fee policy for year beginning Threshold 25% of maximum 9% per annum Position 1 January 2016 Chairman 350,000 per annum Maximum 100% of maximum 15% per annum Non-executive Director 55,000 per annum Senior Independent Director Additional 5,000 per annum The Committee is satisfied that these targets represent a stretching challenge for the business over the next three years.
Chairman of Audit Committee Additional 15,000 per annum Chairman of Remuneration Committee Additional 15,000 per annum In addition, when determining the level of vesting, the Committee will also consider the underlying financial performance of the business, as well as fees remain unchanged since 2013. the value added to shareholders during the performance periods and may adjust the vesting outcome if it considers this to be appropriate.
Alan Giles Chairman, Remuneration Committee 24 February 2016 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2015
