76 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Statement from the chair of the Remuneration committee David Grant Senior Independent Director Chair of the Remuneration committee Remuneration committee role and composition The Remuneration committee The committee also reviews the is responsible for deciding the remuneration structure and packages Companys framework of executive for the next level of senior leaders director remuneration and setting across the business to ensure remuneration packages for each of the appropriate competitiveness, equity executive directors.
The committees and progression for those identified as policy is to motivate and retain potential successors to the Board and executive directors by rewarding senior executive team.
them with competitive salary, benefit All the members of the committee packages and incentives.
These are are non-executive directors, linked to the overall performance of the comprising David Grant Chair, Carol Group and, in turn, to the interests of Chesney, John Jeans and Kath the shareholders.
The terms of reference of The committee reviews annually the the committee are published on the executive directors remuneration in the Companys website.
No executive context of the Groups performance director attends meetings of the during the year.
Independent advisers are used as required.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 77 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 On behalf of the Board, I am pleased During the year, the committee approved The committee considers it essential to present the Directors remuneration executive directors base salaries for that the Group can assure its ability report for 2015.
2015 and the executive director bonus to attract and retain talent, in different for 2014 in line with the programme set markets and in both established and The report continues to comply with the for that year and considered and set emerging businesses.
This is particularly requirements for reporting on directors the executive director annual bonus important as employment markets pay introduced in October 2013 and is programme for 2015.
In relation to remain competitive, as the Group grows split into the following three sections: the 2015 annual bonus, we reviewed and as a future generation of leadership 1. a statement from the Chair of the the bonus targets and maintained a is developed within the Group.
As a transparent profit before tax target that Remuneration committee: result, the committee will continue the was introduced in 2014. review process in the 2016 financial year 2. the remuneration policy table pages and commission further work to ensure 78 and 80 which was approved at In relation to setting remuneration appropriate remuneration benchmarking for the next financial year, the the AGM on 16th October 2014 for a at the executive director level and in the three-year period: and committee has taken into account next levels of leadership, and continue the performance of the Company, the 3. an annual report on remuneration, to monitor current remuneration economic environment and employee practices including the advantages and setting out information on directors remuneration conditions within the UK remuneration paid during the year.
disadvantages of introducing longerand the overseas markets in which term incentive plans.
Any change to we operate, together with employee policy would be tabled for approval Remuneration committee retention and recruitment reviews.
activities during the year Renishaws executive directors do not The Group continues to show strong participate in a long-term incentive plan progress, delivering its strategy in key LTIP.
The Remuneration committee David Grant markets, and performance against recognises that this is unusual Chair of the Remuneration committee all financial metrics was excellent.
compared to many other companies, 29th July 2015 Significant leadership attention was and we therefore question annually focused on ensuring fulfilment of large whether Renishaws performance would orders in the Far East and on strategies be enhanced through the introduction of for medium-term growth in both such a scheme.
The committee commissioned phase The leadership team and employees of one of an independent review of current the Company are congratulated on their remuneration practices during the year.
The review concluded that the current The Remuneration committees remuneration practices do not impede approach continues to be to align the performance of the Company executive director remuneration with the at present, and that motivation and Groups performance, using clear and commitment levels to the Company simple remuneration structures.
are high borne out in practice by the retention of key leaders globally.
It did, however, indicate opportunities for improvement in the communications surrounding bonus structure and payouts, and in the performance and development review processes used bythe Company.
78 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration policy REMUNERATION POLICY The Companys remuneration policy for executive and non-executive directors was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 16th October 2014 for a three-year period.
No change will be proposed at the AGM on 15th October 2015.
Key extracts of the policy are provided below for information purposes only.
The full policy can be found on our investor relations website downloads and video section within the 2014 Directors remuneration report, contained in the 2014 Annual report.
Executive directors policy table Set out below is a table describing each component of the remuneration package applicable to the executive directors.
The page reference change below under the maximum column was updated in the table for information only in order to be factually correct, since the table has been reproduced from last years Annual report as explained above.
Element of Purpose and Performance remuneration relevance to strategy Operation Maximum measures Base salary To provide a Renishaw aims to pay the base rate 110% of median salaries To reflect the competitive fixed salary at least at the current median in a comparator group directors role, salary to motivate market rate or above, as compared to as decided by the performance and retain executive the equivalent job position level in the committee.
directors of the relevant industrial sector s applicable to historically paid base required quality Renishaw, as defined in the appropriate salaries that are higher to meet the benchmarking pay surveys, statistics than median, reflecting Groups objectives.
and peer comparisons such peer the lack of an LTIP see selection to include factors such as size Statement on page 77. and location.
The committee retains Base salary is reviewed annually the discretion to make taking into account the award for the adjustments at the UK workforce.
annual review to take into account matters affecting an individual director such as changes in responsibility and anomalies discovered during benchmarking.
Benefits To provide marketBenefits provided on an ongoing basis Excluding Not applicable.
competitive benefits include the following principal benefits: accommodation and to motivate and relocation costs, not to a car or car allowance: retain executive exceed 50k p a. directors of the private medical insurance: required quality to life assurance: meet the Groups objectives and to long-term disability cover: support them to give home telephone costs.
maximum attention to their role.
If, on the recruitment of a new executive director, relocation is required to the directors place of work, relocation support which is regarded by the committee to be necessary to provide appropriate support to the director will be provided to cover items such as transaction and legal fees, removals and temporary accommodation and subsistence costs.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 79 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Executive directors policy table continued Element of Purpose and Performance remuneration relevance to strategy Operation Maximum measures Bonus To incentivise The committee sets group performance 100% of salary.
Based on group and reward targets, including a baseline below performance, execution of the which no bonus is earned, with a bonus primarily financial, Groups objectives.
payable from that point, increasing on but the committee a straight-line basis to a target at which may introduce 75% of salary would be earned and non-financial a cap at which a maximum 100% of metrics or make salary would be earned.
adjustments to reflect appropriate Part or all of any bonus paid may be performance subject to repayment in the case of or competitive any financial misstatement, errors in factors, provided calculation or gross misconduct.
that the bonus will always be subject to achievement of the baseline financial targets and such nonfinancial metrics shall not form more than 25% of the bonus opportunity.
Pension To provide a Each of Allen Roberts, Ben Taylor and The maximum Not applicable.
competitive pension Geoff McFarland receive an additional contribution to the defined as appropriate to payment of 15% of base salary, being contribution scheme, motivate and retain the amount that would otherwise be or, where applicable, executive directors contributed to a pension scheme on additional salary payment of the required their behalf.
in lieu of contributions will quality to meet the be 15% of base salary.
For any new executive director, Groups objectives.
annual contributions based on a percentage of base salary will be made to the Companys defined contribution scheme or additional salary may be paid in lieu, as agreed by the committee.
Geoff McFarland is a deferred member of the Companys defined benefit scheme which closed for future accruals on 5th April 2007.
80 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration policy continued Non-executive directors policy table The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the executive directors and consists of a fee only.
There is no entitlement to any benefits, bonus, incentive plans or pension.
Set out below is a table showing the fees for the non-executive directors of the Company: Element of Purpose and Performance remuneration relevance to strategy Operation Maximum measures Fee To provide a The non-executive directors are The maximum fees Not applicable.
competitive fee to paid the same fee, irrespective of payable will be set by the motivate and retain membership of or acting as a Chair Companys Articles of non-executive ofa committee.
Association, currently an directors of the aggregate of 300,000 The fees are reviewed annually with required quality per annum.
reference to fees payable to nonto meet the executive directors of companies of Groups objectives.
Reasonable expenses incurred in undertaking duties as a director are reimbursed.
ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT This section of the report sets out the remuneration of the directors in the year ended 30th June 2015.
2 K Durrant was appointed a director with effect from 1st January 2015.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 81 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Benefits Private medical cover applies to all executive directors and home telephone costs, Car insurance on personal cars, M4 bridge toll fees, allowance US tax return advice is provided to certain directors 000 000 Sir David McMurtry n a 2 D J Deer 18 1 B R Taylor 18 2 A C G Roberts 18 2 G McFarland 18 0 Bonus Payments to past directors For the year in question, the bonus No payments were made to past was determined by group performance directors during the year.
targets for the year, based on an adjusted profit before tax set at levels Loss of office payments above the previous years profit before There was no termination of employment tax and with a threshold below which no of directors during the year.
A target profit before tax set for the year in question enabled Performance graph 75% of salary to be earned as a bonus.
The graph below shows the Companys A further bonus could be earned based total shareholder return TSR on performance subject to a maximum performance, compared with the FTSE 100% of salary.
No other performance mid 250 index, which the directors measures were set.
believe is the most appropriate broad index for comparison.
Total pension entitlements The share price and the FTSE mid 250 G McFarland is a member of the index have been rebased to 100 at 1st Companys closed defined benefit July 2009. scheme.
At 30th June 2015, the value of the defined benefit pension entitlement was 28,645 per annum.
The normal retirement age for G McFarland is 65.
On death, pension benefits would pass 800 to dependants.
700 Renishaw FTSE mid 250 Current year pension scheme 600 contributions payable by the Company 500 have been taken as cash.
400 The value of G McFarlands defined 300 contribution scheme at 30th June 2015 200 was 403,329.
100 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 82 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual remuneration report continued Executive directors serving Percentage change in Statement of implementation as non-executive directors remuneration of the of remuneration policy in the ofother companies ChiefExecutive next year None of the executive directors served The following table sets out a The executive directors salaries will as non-executive directors of any other comparison of the percentage change be increased by 2.7% for the 2016 company during the year.
in the Chief Executives remuneration financial year, which is in line with the to the average percentage change in UK workforce salary review.
The bonus remuneration for all UK employees from Statement of directors scheme targets have been set based on 2014 to 2015. the policy as set out in the policy table.
shareholding and shareinterests Percentage Consideration by directors Percentage Percentage change in None of the directors is required to own change change in annual of matters relating to in salary benefits bonus shares in the Company.
The interests of  Chief the directors who have served during Executive 3% 0% n a the year in shares including connected During the year, the Remuneration UK persons are: committee considered the amount employees Number of of the executive directors salary and average 4% 4% 65% ordinary shares of 20p each the framework for the annual bonus.
Sir David McMurtry 26,377,291 UK employees have been chosen as a The members of the Remuneration D J Deer 12,233,040 comparator group in order to avoid the committee for this purpose were: B R Taylor 10,147 impact of exchange rate movements D Grant Chair over the year.
UK employees make A G Roberts 5,165 up 66% of the total number of G McFarland 2,000 C T Chesney group employees.
C T Chesney 500 D J Jeans K L Durrant Relative importance of spend K Durrant from 1st January 2015 D Grant on pay D J Jeans  LLP PWC The following table sets out the total and a consultant, Gerard Hutchinson, There were no share-based payments amount spent in the current financial assisted the committee in their made or share schemes in place during year and the previous year on consideration of the executive director the year.
remuneration to all group employees and senior leadership team bonus and on dividends to shareholders: arrangements.
Total fees paid to PWC Chief Executive total were 5,000 and no fees have yet been 2015 2014 change remuneration paid to Gerard Hutchinson.
Both PWC 000 000 % and Gerard Hutchinson were appointed The table below sets out information Employee remuneration 173,744 146,850 18% by the committee as they were known to relating to Sir David McMurtry, who was members of the committee and neither the Chief Executive for each of the years Shareholder dividends paid 30,841 29,115 6% have advised the Company on any other in question: matters.
The committee is of the opinion Long-term Except as shown above, no other incentive that the advice received was objective distributions have been made to Single figure of Annual bonus vesting rates and independent.
total payout against against shareholders or other payments or remuneration maximum maximum uses of profit or cash flow which impact The Company Secretary acts as Year 000 opportunity % opportunity % on the understanding of the relative secretary to the committee.
2014 632 0% n a 2013 663 10% n a 2012 969 69% n a 2011 1,066 100% n a 2010 472 0% n a Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 83 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2015 Statement of voting at general meeting At the annual general meeting held on 16th October 2014, votes cast by proxy in respect of the directors remuneration were as follows: Votes Total votes Votes Resolution Votes for % for against % against cast withheld Approval of remuneration report 60,067,785 97.15% 1,760,527 2.85% 61,828,312 116,826 Approval of remuneration policy 52,998,077 86.42% 8,323,776 13.57% 61,321,853 623,285 including Chairmans discretion.
As the Company deems that a significant The report was approved by the Board percentage of votes against as being of directors and has been signed on its more than 20%, as a result of which behalf by: the Company would be required to provide in this report any reasons known to it for such a vote and any actions David Grant taken, no commentary is necessary in Chair of the Remuneration committee respect of the voting at the 2014 annual 29th July 2015 general meeting.
