STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 59 The performance measures proposed for 2016 are set out below.
Incentive plans Performance measure Reasons for selection Annual incentive plan Profit before tax or operating Key driver of shareholder value.
profit at business or sector level Captures growth as well as Rexams ability to manage costs.
Cash flow Encourages operational cash discipline and responsible and well timed investments.
Encourages the ability to link to specific strategic annual objectives.
Personal objectives Alignment of behaviours to strategic annual objectives.
Long term Earnings per share Captures long term growth and drives shareholder value creation.
incentive plan Relative total Captures creation of shareholder value and rewards management if appropriate shareholder return for outperformance.
ROCE underpin for earnings Rexam is committed to maintaining strong capital discipline and balance growth per share measure and returns.
The Committee believes that EPS, with the ROCE underpin, and TSR provide strong alignment with shareholder interests and our longer term strategy.
These measures also strike a good balance between growth and returns, as well as between internal and external perspectives on the Companys performance.
Policy table non executive directors fees Element, purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Non executive The fees of the chairman, the senior independent director An annual fee will be paid monthly to the chairman directors fees and the other non executive directors are reviewed and non executive directors.
Each will be set at a annually.
Fee levels are benchmarked against FTSE listed sufficient level to attract, motivate and retain non To attract and retain non companies of similar size and complexity and against executive directors while being proportionate to executive directors of the sector comparators.
the requirements, time commitment of the role and highest calibre with broad the contribution that is expected.
An additional fee The chairman is paid a single, consolidated fee commercial and other is paid to the senior independent director and to and non executive directors are paid a basic fee.
experience relevant to the Committee chairs.
An additional fee is paid to the senior independent the Company.
director and to the chairs of the board committees.
The maximum fee that the non executive directors including the chairman will be paid by way of If revised, the effective date of any fee change remuneration for their services as directors of is 1 January.
the Company is set with reference to the relevant comparator group.
The aggregate fee that can be paid as stated in the Companys articles of association is 1,000,000 pa. Benefits The chairman and the non executive directors may be Set at a level which the Committee considers will eligible for benefits to assist them to carry out their duties provide a sufficient level of benefit based on the To provide benefits in a effectively.
The Company reimburses travel, accommodation role and are comparable with benefits offered cost efficient way to assist and meals to the chairman and the non executive directors by companies of similar size and complexity.
non executive directors to while on Company business and provides secretarial The non executive directors do not participate carry out their duties support to the chairman of the Company.
The policy in the Companys incentive plans or receive effectively.
allows us to provide any other benefits that are deemed retirement related benefits.
to be a benefit by the relevant tax authority, or in certain circumstances are considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee, such as financial advice.
Approach to remuneration upon the appointment of a new executive director In the cases of hiring or promoting an executive director from within Rexam, the Committee will align the remuneration package with the stated remuneration policy, as described in the table below.
In determining the appropriate remuneration, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both Rexam and its shareholders.
Item Approach Maximum Base salary The base salary will be determined by reference to relevant Set at a level appropriate to attract talent, market data, experience and skills of the individual, internal taking into account market conditions.
relativities and their current basic salary.
Where new appointees have initial base salaries set below market, any shortfall may be managed with phased increases over a period of two to three years.
Retirement and other As outlined under Retirement and other related benefits Maximum contributions are as outlined under related benefits in the table on page 56.
Externally recruited executives Retirement and other related benefits in the table can opt for a retirement plan pension contribution or on page 56. an equivalent cash supplement.
Benefits Eligible to receive benefits outlined under Benefits in Benefits should be in line with those offered to the table on page 56 and may include any appropriate other executive directors.
Annual incentives The structure described in the policy table on page 57 will The maximum opportunity is 180% of base salary.
apply pro rated to reflect the proportion of employment over the year.
Long term incentives Will be granted awards under the LTIP as described in the The maximum award size is 220% of base salary policy table on page 57 at the next scheduled grant date.
60 POLICY CONTINUED External recruitment The Companys policy is that all executive directors serve under contracts terminable by the Company or the executive director on one years notice.
However, in circumstances which the Committee considers exceptional and believes it appropriate to do so, the policy allows for an externally recruited executive director to be offered a contract terminable by the Company on two years notice if, for reasons other than poor performance, the contract is terminated in the first year of appointment.
Thereafter, the contract would become terminable on one years notice.
If circumstances are such that it is not possible to make awards under the incentive arrangements in the remuneration policy, the Committee may make an award in respect of a new external appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will take account of relevant factors including i any performance conditions attaching to those awards: ii the likelihood of those conditions being met: and iii the proportion of the vesting period remaining.
Under exceptional circumstances, the Committee may consider it appropriate to grant a buy out award under a structure not included in the policy, exercising the discretion available in the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Awards will not be of a materially greater fair value as assessed by the Committee than the fair value of awards that the appointee is giving up.
Internal recruitment In cases of appointing a new executive director by way of an internal promotion, the Committee will follow the approach in the table above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to executive director level, the Company may honour these arrangements: however, with the exception of retirement and life assurance benefits, these arrangements would be expected to transition to the arrangements as stated in the table.
Employment contracts for executive directors Graham Chipchase was appointed to the board on 10 February 2003 and the date of his current employment contract is 30 November 2009.
David Robbie was appointed to the board on 3 October 2005 and the date of his current employment contract is 20 October 2010.
The executive directors have rolling employment contracts which contain the key terms shown in the table below and which are more fully explained in the policy table on pages 56 to 58 and in the termination of contracts and exit payment policy on pages 61 and 62.
Item Terms Remuneration Base salary, pension and benefits, including long term disability, personal accident and life assurance Private health insurance for director and dependants 30 days paid annual leave Participation in annual incentive plan and deferred bonus plan, subject to plan rules Participation in LTIP, subject to plan rules Participation in SAYE, subject to plan rules Notice period 12 months notice from the Company 12 months notice from the executive director Termination payment Payment in lieu of notice equal to: 12 months base salary, pension supplement and 5% of base salary in respect of benefits paid in monthly instalments.
The executive director has a duty to mitigate his or her loss of office Takeover Change of control No special contractual provisions apply in the event of a takeover or change of control Restrictive covenants During employment and for 12 months after leaving The employment contracts for the executive directors are available for viewing during business hours at the registered office of the Company.
External directorships The Companys policy is to permit executive directors to have non executive directorships with other companies, subject to the approval of the chairman of the board.
Any fees payable will be retained by the executive director unless otherwise agreed.
Graham Chipchase has been a non executive director of AstraZeneca PLC since 26 April 2012.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 61 Illustrative pay for performance scenarios LTIP Annual incentive: shares 4,500 4,308 Annual incentive: cash 40% 0,000 Other benefits 4,000 Retirement related benefits Base salary 3,500 3,000 2,740 2,601 32% 40% 2,500 8% 2,000 6% 1,653 25% 32% 1,500 8% 19% 1,172 0% 0% 1% 6% 25% 1,000 9% 14% 32% 19% 705 0% 0% 1% 9% 14% 32% 500 18% 29% 67% 18% 29% 67% 0 maximum target minimum maximum target minimum Graham Chipchase, chief executive David Robbie, finance director Assumptions based on remuneration package in 2014 when policy was approved Fixed remuneration base salary Chief executive 784,380, finance director 473,790 no change since 1 May 2014 retirement related benefits 48.2% of base salary, including death in service cover and less an offset where applicable other benefits Value of benefits based on those received in 2013 Annual incentive maximum target minimum annual incentive: cash 135% of salary 67.5% of salary 0% of salary annual incentive: shares 45% of salary 22.5% of salary 0% of salary Long term incentive maximum target minimum LTIP 220% of salary 110% of salary 0% of salary 100% vesting 50% vesting 0% vesting Contracts for services for non executive directors Non executive directors do not have contracts of employment but serve under contracts for services and are generally appointed for an initial three year term renewable thereafter, at the discretion of the board, for a maximum of two further three year terms, subject to election or re-election by shareholders at the Companys AGM.
Appointments of non executive directors are terminable without compensation in the event that the director is not elected or re-elected by shareholders, or by either the Company or the non executive director giving one months written notice or, in the case of the chairman of the Company and the senior independent director, by either the Company or the chairman or senior independent director giving three months written notice.
Date of original Effective date of current Expiry of Non executive director Date of appointment letter of appointment letter of appointment current term Stuart Chambers 1 February 2012 15 November 2011 1 February 2015 31 January 2018 Carl-Peter Forster 10 June 2014 3 June 2014 10 June 2014 9 June 2017 John Langston 30 October 2008 30 October 2008 30 October 2014 29 October 2017 Leo Oosterveer 1 September 2011 10 August 2011 1 September 2014 31 August 2017 Ros Rivaz 12 June 2013 12 June 2013 12 June 2013 11 June 2016 Johanna Waterous 4 May 2012 3 April 2012 4 May 2015 3 May 2018 Termination of contracts and exit payment policy The Company has the right to terminate an employment contract immediately, even where termination is without cause.
In such circumstances, the contract provides for a payment in lieu of notice to be made and calculated by reference to base salary, prorated annual incentive to the period on which employment terminates, retirement benefits and other benefits, and there is no entitlement under the employment contract to payment of any annual incentive in respect of the termination notice period.
When considering termination payments, the Committee reviews all potential incentive outcomes to ensure they are fair both to shareholders and participants.
If employment is terminated by the Company, the departing executive director may have a legal entitlement our policy is to comply with any applicable legal requirements under relevant legislations to additional amounts, which would need to be met.
The Committee retains discretion to settle any other amounts reasonably due to the executive, for example to meet the legal fees incurred by the executive in connection with the termination of employment, or where the Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement as provided for below and the individual must seek independent legal advice.
As part of its policy, the Committee also has discretion to meet reasonable relocation costs if the executive director had relocated to perform their duties.
The table below summarises how different elements of remuneration are typically treated in specific circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to the Committees discretion which will take into account the executive directors personal performance.
000s 62 POLICY CONTINUED Item Approach Pay in lieu of notice The Company will make any termination payment in monthly instalments over what would have been the notice period until the earlier of the director commencing in a new position or the notice period expiring.
The executive has a duty to mitigate his or her loss of office and actively seek alternative comparable employment at the earliest opportunity, thereby reducing the need for compensation.
The Committee may decide to waive the requirement to mitigate in exceptional circumstances, for example compassionate reasons.
Retirement and other Retirement and other benefits continue to be provided during the notice period but cease on the termination date.
related benefits Executive directors who leave in circumstances approved by the Committee, for example, incapacity retirement, may have a favourable actuarial reduction applied to their pension or may receive a pension related enhancement under the rules of the Plan.
Benefits May be eligible to receive limited benefits, such as untaken holiday pay, relocation and, for a certain period of time, private health insurance, permanent health insurance, and financial and legal advice.
Annual incentives Annual incentives may be paid on a prorated basis dependent on the circumstances under which the executive is leaving the Company, for example redundancy, retirement, death, injury or ill health, to the extent that financial and individual objectives set at the beginning of the relevant year have been met.
Any resulting bonus will be prorated for time served during the year and is subject to malus and clawback.
Long term incentives Outstanding share based awards will generally vest at the end of their original measurement period to the extent performance conditions are met on a time prorated basis, in the event of serious ill health, injury or disability and retirement with employer consent and in any other circumstances where the Committee would decide, in its sole discretion, to allow the awards to vest.
The Committee has discretion to allow the awards to vest immediately on cessation of employment eg in the event of death or other compassionate circumstances and, in very exceptional circumstances, without applying time prorating if it thinks this is appropriate.
Any potential or vested awards are subject to malus and clawback.
More specific provisions relating to change of control are given below.
SAYE Participants in the SAYE schemes who leave because of injury, disability, redundancy, retirement or the sale of a business will have the option to buy a reduced number of Rexam shares with their savings within six months from the date of leaving.
The option to buy shares lapses at the end of six months.
Options held by participants leaving for other reasons will lapse except if the contract has been held for at least three years from the date of grant in which case the option to buy shares continues for six months from the date of leaving employment.
Deferred shares The proportion of the annual incentive paid in deferred shares will vest on the date of termination of employment subject to the executive directors restrictive covenants, and the Companys right to initiate malus and clawback if the participant leaves because of death, ill health, injury, retirement with employer consent, redundancy, sale of business, voluntary resignation, or for any other reason which the Committee considers appropriate.
Takeover Change In the event of a takeover or other major corporate event but excluding an internal corporate reorganisation of the of control Company, all outstanding awards granted under the LTIP and the deferred bonus plan would vest and in the case of the LTIP, subject to the achievement of any performance conditions as determined by the Committee and taking into account any pro rata reduction to reflect the unexpired part of the performance period.
The Committee has discretion to disapply time pro rating if it considers it appropriate to do so.
In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation or a takeover, the Committee may determine, with the agreement of the acquiring company, that outstanding awards should be exchanged for equivalent awards in another company.
Options granted under the Companys Savings Related Share Option Schemes would become exercisable in accordance with the prescribed legislation.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Company encourages each of its businesses to engage with its employees in the form of team briefings, townhall meetings or through the employee engagement survey to discuss and answer questions, or give feedback, on matters of relevance to them.
However, the Company does not formally consult with employees on remuneration policy or framework.
When making decisions on executive director remuneration, the Committee considers pay and conditions across the broader employee base.
Prior to the annual salary review, the Committee considers the proposed level of increase for overall employee pay.
An exception to this may be considered where new appointees have initial base salaries set below market, and where there is an intention for any shortfall to be managed with phased increases over a period of two to three years or where the role of the executive director has increased substantially due to a change in the scope of the position or organisational change.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee chairman and the Company Secretary are available to meet with institutional shareholders should such shareholders wish to discuss any of the policy related disclosures or outcomes in this directors remuneration report.
