54 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT LOOKING FORWARD TO 2016 Dear shareholders The chief executives salary and the finance directors salary will remain unchanged during 2016 the last increase being in May 2014.
I am pleased to present the directors The short term incentive for 2016 will be awarded in accordance remuneration report on behalf of the board with our remuneration policy and targets will be set with reference to for the year ended 31 December 2015. achievement over the full year.
If the Ball offer completes, the Committee will make an assessment of achievement against targets based on The report is presented in two sections: financial and personal performance from 1 January 2016 to the date of completion.
The directors remuneration policy in place from 2 May 2014 following approval by shareholders: and We expect that in April 2016 the long term incentive awards granted The annual report on directors remuneration which sets out how in 2013 for the 2013-2015 performance period will vest at 20.8% for the remuneration policy was applied during 2015.
This report is executive directors and it is not anticipated that long term incentive expected to be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM in 2016. awards will be granted in 2016.
MAIN ACTIVITIES IN 2015 BALL OFFER Details of the remuneration decisions for 2015 are set out in the annual The recommended offer from Ball announced early in 2015 has remuneration report on pages 63 to 71.
The chairmans statement proceeded in line with expectations during the year.
As part of the and the chief executives review outline the business context for recommended offer, Ball agreed to put in place certain remuneration 2015 which has been to operate on a business as usual basis.
arrangements for key employees in Rexam.
These separate arrangements do not form part of the Companys own remuneration arrangements Whilst this has been another challenging year in terms of global trading for its executive directors.
Outline details can be found in the Rule 2.7 conditions, our people have continued to deliver a strong performance, announcement dated 19 February 2015 on Rexams website.
with volume growth across most regions, and a focus on investing in Saudi Arabia and Panama, and expansion in India.
Safety has been The arrangements put in place for the executive directors are conditional upon, and will come into effect immediately following, firmly embedded into our core values: LTAR is consistent with 2014 and the number of life changing incidents occuring in 2015 has seen a 50% completion of the Ball offer.
Full details of the incentive arrangements agreed with Ball will be disclosed in the Scheme document which will reduction.
Despite the backdrop of the activity to support the Ball offer, bonus outcomes are above target level and reflect the good progress be sent to Rexam shareholders prior to completing the Ball offer.
Until such time of completion of the Ball offer, the Committee will As announced earlier this year, David Robbie commenced a period continue to make decisions and maintain the principles as set out in of continuous sick leave with effect from 13 July 2015.
In line with our the remuneration policy approved for three years by our shareholders remuneration policy and applicable legislation the Committee has at the AGM 2014. approved the payment of his salary over this period and has given careful consideration to the approach to variable remuneration.
Ros Rivaz Kath Kearney-Croft, director of group planning and finance, Remuneration Committee chair has been acting finance director in David Robbies absence.
ABOUT THIS REMUNERATION REPORT This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
It also meets the requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules.
The remuneration policy is on pages 56 to 62 of this report and can be found on www.
com as part of the Annual Report 2015.
The following parts of the remuneration report 2015 are audited: the single total figure of remuneration for directors, including annual incentive and long term incentive outcomes for the financial year ended 31 December 2015: long term incentives awarded during 2015: total pension entitlements: payments to past directors and payments for loss of office: and, directors shareholdings and share interests.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REXAM ANNUAL REPORT 2015 55 REMUNERATION POLICY OVERVIEW OUR CURRENT REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES The Groups main objective is to create value for our shareholders and ARE AS FOLLOWS: other stakeholders through our vision to become the best beverage can Attracting, retaining and motivating highly qualified and maker in the world.
This means balancing profitable revenue growth, talented people, providing competitive remuneration to all cash generation and the risk profile for the Group to deliver a strong employees appropriate to the countries in which we are based.
It is essential that the remuneration Ensuring that a significant portion of the remuneration package principles underpin these objectives and that achievement of the of an executive director is weighted towards variable performance corporate strategy is reinforced through appropriate performance related pay which rewards higher achievement.
Rewards are aligned with the Companys performance so that executive directors are incentivised to achieve Promoting a consistent, clear and transparent link between demanding results but within an appropriate risk profile for the Group.
business strategy and individual motivation to achieve performance and to create shareholder value.
Providing a meaningful reward opportunity for achievement of stretching targets linked to delivery of our business strategy and achievement of personal performance objectives.
Providing transparency and simplicity in the reward strategy and complying with regulation.
THE REMUNERATION POLICY Linking reward to business strategy see pages 12 and 13 Long term incentives designed to align the interests of management Linking annual incentives to a balance of growth and return with those of shareholders with a bias towards the longer term.
measures, including personal objectives, to align with strategy.
Maintaining capital discipline with a focus on growth and creation of shareholder value in annual incentive design.
Key performance indicators see pages 20 and 21 Salaries are reviewed 25% of annual cash Awards are granted with Incentive metrics reflect annually, taking account key aspects of budgeted incentive is deferred into performance targets of both internal and share awards.
Awards that are measured over profit and cash, and external comparators.
personal performance are subject to a three three years and reflect year holding period and the Companys strategy.
objectives reflect Benefits offered are strategy for growth.
are subject to malus and Awards are subject to competitive and cost Awards are subject to clawback.
Executive directors participate in retirement benefit plans in their home country.
Salary, benefits and Annual cash Deferred bonus Long term retirement benefits incentives incentives incentives
