Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy Remuneration Policy introduction The majority of remuneration is linked to healthy, safe and environmentally demanding performance targets over both appropriateway.
Theseareimportant This Remuneration Policy applies to our the short and long term to ensure that elements of our licence to operate.
executive and non-executive directors and to executive rewards are directed at Safety key performance indicators the chairman.
It also sets out, in conformance delivering good performance for determine a significant portion of the STIP with Australian law, the broad policy principles shareholders.
which generally apply to the non-director For the purposes of assessing the Any fatality will have a material impact on members of the Executive Committee.
The appropriate level of executive the STIP score for the relevant executives.
policy applying to our chairman and nonremuneration, the Committee refers to the Further details on the approach to executive directors is set out at the end of the FTSE30 excluding financial services fatalities are provided in the Remuneration Policy.
companies as the initial comparator group.
Shareholders should note that this The FTSE30 is considered the most Long-term focus Remuneration Policy is binding only in so far as relevant comparator group as it largely it relates to directors.
Consistent with our strategy of investing in comprises organisations broadly and operating long-life, low-cost, expandable comparable to the Group in terms of global Our remuneration policies, operations in the most attractive industry reach, revenue, market capitalisation and principles and practices sectors,  complexity.
References are also made to that focus on longer-term performance.
Our first objective is to spend remuneration other relevant supplementary comparator resource wisely in pursuit of the groups, including a cross-section of Our incentive plans are designed to implementation of the Groups strategy.
We comparable international industrial promote and reward decision-making with a want our pay policies to be regarded as fair by organisations and other international positive long-term impact while avoiding shareholders and employees alike.
we have remuneration structures which are fit Typically we aim to position base salaries at Fifty per cent of the STIP for executives is for purpose, the Committee retains the median of these comparator groups, deferred into shares which vest after appropriate discretions, enabling it to override while our incentive plans are designed with three years, through the Bonus Deferral inappropriate mechanistic outcomes, if it the potential to deliver total remuneration Plan BDP.
thinks fit, but always within the confines of the outcomes across the full market range The performance-based options and shares Remuneration Policy.
according to business and individual awarded prior to 2013 have a three and performance.
Rio Tinto operates in global and local markets four-year performance period, respectively.
Benchmarking is undertaken periodically, where it competes for a limited pool of talented The performance period for performance but not annually, and our intention is to executives.
High-quality people, who are shares awarded under the PSP from 2013 is apply judgment in evaluating market data.
capable of achieving stretching performance five years.
However, as a transitional We will take salary increases in the broader targets, are essential to generating superior measure, awards granted in 2013 will employee population into account in returns for the Group.
Our compensation potentially vest 50 per cent after four years determining any change to the base pay of strategies aim to provide this support by and 50 per cent after five years.
We normally use three-year enabling the Group to attract and retain people Options are no longer granted, but existing average exchange rates, in order to whose contribution will increase shareholder options may be exercised subject to their mitigate the impact of exchange rate value over time.
vesting conditions up to ten years after volatility, to help determine the their grant.
We aim to engage our people over the long appropriate positioning of executive The Committee intends to keep the term by fostering diversity, providing remuneration against internal and external Groups long-term incentive arrangements challenging work and development comparators.
opportunities, and encouraging strong We regularly consult with shareholders on delivery by good performance.
This people Shareholder alignment the design of our policies and programmes, strategy is underpinned by our values of most recently on the subjects of the safety Our share ownership policy requires respect, integrity, teamwork and measure component of the STIP, the executives to build up and maintain a accountability and by our commitment to ceasing of the use of share options as a meaningful shareholding as described in the provide sustainable growth and development mechanism for long-term reward, and the Implementation Report under the heading for both Rio Tinto and its employees.
performance conditions and the Share ownership policy for executives.
performance period for the Performance Our policy is based on the principle of aligning We reward executives for delivering Share Plan PSP.
remuneration outcomes with the successful shareholder value by using relative TSR as one delivery of strategy.
The remuneration Employee share plans provide the of the measures for our LTIP.
strategy and the policies which support it, opportunity for employees to participate For awards granted from 2013 under the together with a description of how we believe in the voting on executive remuneration.
PSP, a relative EBIT margin improvement they will help Rio Tinto achieve its vision, are Employees who are shareholders measure has complemented the existing set out below and under the heading approximately 25 per cent of the workforce relative TSR measures, and incentivises Executive remuneration structure policy at the time the Remuneration Policy was executives to deliver long-term shareholder table.
Complementary remuneration approved are able to vote on the value while maximising operational structures are designed for other employees, Remuneration Report.
Employees have performance in the medium term.
This drawing on these strategies and policies.
not been consulted on the Remuneration comprises one-third of the total value Policy but are free to ask any questions Competitive, performance-related opportunity under the PSP awards.
they wish and to offer any opinions they remuneration The reward opportunity under the have through our normal employee We aim to provide competitive rewards that remaining portion of the PSP awards is communications channels.
attract, retain and motivate executives of the delivered based on relative TSR Safety high calibre required to lead the Group, while performance against both the Euromoney We have a strong focus on safety in the STIP ensuring that rewards remain appropriate and Global Mining Index formerly the HSBC targets.
proportionate when compared both to market Global Mining Index and the broader As an organisation, we strive for superior practice and to remuneration arrangements for market of large global companies as long-term shareholder value creation in a other employees in the Group.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REMUNERATION REPORT: AND OPERATIONS POLICY REPORT measured through the Morgan Stanley participant that may have a material impact on Executive remuneration structure Capital World Index MSCI.
the value or reputation of a Rio Tinto Group policy table company or for any other reason that the The choice of both the Euromoney Global The Committee seeks to achieve a Committee decides in a particular case.
Mining Index and MSCI reflects the fact that remuneration mix which best reflects the Rio Tinto competes in a global market for  long-term nature of the business.
The total investors as well as within the mining Committee in relation to the STIP and its remuneration package is therefore designed to sector.
It is consistent with rewarding deferral into BDP.
The Committee evaluates provide an appropriate balance between fixed executives for providing stable returns over the outcomes of the STIP for fairness with the and variable components, with an emphasis on the long term relative to the broader market original targets and with shareholder long-term variable pay.
The remuneration and the mining sector.
experience, and may make discretionary structure for executives, including the adjustments for executives using malus Risk management malus and claw back relationship between each element of principles as necessary.
Any such adjustments The Committee has authority under the remuneration and Group performance, is are disclosed in the Implementation Report for  summarised below.
Further details on the key the relevant financial period.
cancel awards made from 2013 in the event of performance indicators used to assess Group gross misconduct which may have a material performance are provided in the Strategic The Committee retains discretion with respect effect on the value or reputation of the Group, a report under the heading Key performance  materially adverse error in the Groups or a indicators.
Shareholders should note that the onwards prior to their vesting dates, such that product groups financial statements, following remuneration structure is binding if an executive resigns or is dismissed for exceptional events that have a materially only insofar as it relates to directors.
misconduct, or for any other reason that the detrimental impact on the value of any Group Committee decides in the event of an Any commitment made before this company, or for any other reason that the executive terminating their employment, BDP Remuneration Policy takes effect or before Committee decides in a particular case.
awards may be clawed back and an executive became or becomes a director consequently lapse.
The Committee also has authority under the will be honoured even if it is not consistent claw back provisions of the PSP to recover with this Remuneration Policy or any   subsequent policy.
discretions more generally as described under 2013 in the event of deliberate misconduct by a the heading Discretions.
Remuneration arrangements Fixed Link to Group performance and strategy Base salary Base salary provides the main fixed element of the remuneration package.
We pay competitive salaries to hire, Base salaries are reviewed annually, with a maximum increase of nine per cent, or motivate and retain highly inflation if higher, per annum.
An increase may be higher than this for executives who competent people.
are not directors in the circumstances described below.
Any increase is generally aligned with the average base salary increases applying to the broader employee population unless there were significant changes to an individuals role and or responsibilities during the year.
Any increases are determined with reference to underlying Group and individual performance, global economic conditions, role responsibilities, an assessment against relevant comparator groups and internal relativities.
An increase above the maximum noted above for executives who are not directors may be made in the event of internal promotion or increase in responsibility or where the executives salary is significantly below market positioning.
Benchmarking is undertaken periodically but not annually, and our intention is to apply judgment in evaluating market data.
Pension or Employment benefits typically include participation in a pension plan, superannuation We provide locally competitive superfund, or a cash allowance to contribute to a personal pension or superannuation fund.
post-employment benefits in a annuation The maximum level of Company contribution to an individual executive directors cost-efficient manner in order to schemes annually is 35 per cent of base salary.
Other benefits Other benefits include private healthcare cover for the executive and their We provide competitive other dependants, company car or allowance, car parking, life insurance, accident insurance, benefits in a cost-efficient manner to provision of Company-provided transport chauffeur, professional advice, participation hire and retain.
in local flexible benefit programmes and certain other minor benefits including modest retirement gifts in applicable circumstances, occasional spouse travel in support of the business and any Rio Tinto business expenses which are deemed to be taxable where the Company has paid the tax on their behalf.
Secondment, relocation and localisation benefits for example, housing, tax equalisation, cost of living allowance, the payment of school fees, periodic visits home for the executive and their family and where relevant, localisation payments may also be made to and on behalf of executives living outside their home country.
Examples of these types of payments are set out in the Implementation Report.
Other benefits are paid at cost and, given the nature and variety of the items, there is no formal maximum level of Company contribution.
com 71 Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration arrangements Performance-related At risk Link to Group performance and strategy Short Term If target performance is achieved under the STIP, the bonus opportunity is up to STIP focuses participants on Incentive Plan 120 per cent of base salary for executive directors and up to 100 per cent of base achieving demanding annual STIP salary for other executives.
The award for achieving threshold performance is performance goals, which are based 50 per cent of the target bonus opportunity and the maximum bonus award for on the Groups KPIs, in pursuit of the outstanding performance is 200 per cent of base salary.
These percentages, with creation of sustainable shareholder the exception of the maximum percentage, are subject to the exercise of discretion value.
We demand that sustainable A scorecard of key performance indicators KPIs is established for each executive at business practices are adhered to, the commencement of the financial year.
The measures and the relative weightings particularly in the context of safety.
are selected by the Committee in order to drive business performance for the current When reviewing the outcome of the year, including the achievement of financial, safety and other individual business awards under the STIP the outcomes that are priorities for the financial year in question.
Committee will, when evaluating The measures, weightings and targets are reviewed annually and are included either overall safety, financial, Group and prospectively or retrospectively each year in the Implementation Report.
The individual performance, consider the Committee retains flexibility to determine the measures, weightings and targets as overall fairness against original appropriate, based on the outcomes of its annual review.
expectations and shareholder We expect to disclose the measures, weightings and targets for safety goals at the experience.
In the area of financial and individual goals, we will, at the Any discretionary adjustments for beginning of each year, disclose the measures and weightings only, because we  .
However,  Implementation Report for the targets and outcomes retrospectively.
In the rare instances where this may not be financial period.
prudent on grounds of commercial sensitivity, we will seek to explain why, and give an indication of when they will be disclosed.
Threshold, target and outstanding performance levels are established for all STIP measures to help drive high levels of business and individual performance.
Target performance is intended to be stretching.
Probability factors are then applied, based upon a range of potential operating and cost scenarios, to establish the threshold and outstanding performance levels.
These threshold below target, target, and outstanding above target levels are determined by the Committee at the beginning of each performance year.
The Committee seeks to ensure, in making its year-end determination of STIP awards, that actual performance is directly comparable to the targets set at the beginning of the year.
This sometimes results in adjustments to the targets being made by the Committee in particular to take account of events outside managements control, to ensure a like-for-like comparison.
Both upward and downward adjustments can be made, with reference to principles agreed by the Committee, to ensure the outcomes are fair.
Safety KPIs comprise a significant portion of the STIP for executives, and any fatality will have a material impact on the STIP score for the relevant executives.
Bonus Fifty per cent of the STIP is delivered in deferred shares under the BDP, with the The BDP ensures ongoing Deferral Plan remainder delivered in cash.
alignment between executives and BDP The BDP vests in the December of the third year after the end of performance year to shareholders through deferral of which it relates.
50 per cent of STIP awards into The number of BDP shares awarded is increased by reference to the dividends paid in Rio Tinto shares.
the deferral period before vesting.
BDP shares vest on a change of control.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REMUNERATION REPORT: AND OPERATIONS POLICY REPORT Remuneration arrangements Performance-related At risk Link to Group performance and strategy Performance A new plan was approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGMs.
The PSP incorporates a simple Share Plan Awards under the new PSP have a maximum face value of 438 per cent of base salary structure to align executive reward PSP ignoring dividend equivalents as described below.
with shareholder returns and business The awards have been calculated independently by our consultants Willis Towers strategy, to help drive performance Watson since 1 August 2013 and Deloitte LLP previously to have an expected value of over a long-term horizon.
approximately 50 per cent of face value.
Expected value is face value adjusted for the Award levels are set to incentivise probability of the performance target being met.
executives to meet the long-term Threshold performance, as explained in the Implementation Report, would result in strategic goals of the Group, to the vesting of 22.5 per cent of the face value of an award.
provide retention for the executive The maximum expected value that can be awarded under the PSP is 219 per cent of team and to contribute towards the base salary ie 438 per cent x 50 per cent.
The threshold value is a maximum of competitiveness of the overall 98.6 per cent of base salary ie 438 per cent x 22.5 per cent.
Actual award levels may vary for each executive and are included in the TSR rewards the delivery of superior Implementation Report.
returns to shareholders over the Conditional share awards vest subject to the achievement of stretching performance long term.
conditions, comparing Rio Tintos performance against: EBIT margin improvement rewards One-third: TSR relative to the Euromoney Global Mining Index: sustained operational performance One-third: TSR relative to the Morgan Stanley Capital World Index MSCI : and of our business and the costOne-third: improvement in EBIT margin relative to the global mining comparators competitive operation of our mining which will be listed in the Implementation Report each year.
assets, a core part of our strategy.
Each component of the award will be assessed independently.
Details of the TSR and How performance is generated is as EBIT margin measures targets and vesting schedules will be set out in the  Implementation Report each year.
With respect to the EBIT margin measure, in order performance is delivered.
Before to ensure that outcomes are fair and that business performance has been vesting, the Committee must appropriately taken into account, the Committee will consider, on a discretionary basis, satisfy itself that relative TSR and any specific, significant, unusual, below the line items eg impairments reported by EBIT margin performances are an Rio Tinto or its peers during the performance period to ensure genuine comparability appropriate reflection of the when determining any level of vesting indicated by third-party data currently S&P underlying performance of the Capital IQ.
The application of any such discretion will be disclosed.
business, and can adjust The outperformance required for maximum vesting under all components of the award vesting accordingly.
is considered by the Committee to be very stretching.
Awards will normally have a If, but only if, vesting is achieved, participants in the PSP shall be entitled to receive a five-year performance period to number of additional shares whose market value reflects the aggregate cash amount provide long-term alignment of dividends that would have been received had the shares which have vested at the with the interests of shareholders.
end of the performance period been held throughout the performance period.
As a transitional measure, awards Awards and performance conditions can be adjusted to take account of variations of  capital and other transactions.
Subject to this policy, performance conditions may be after four years and 50 per cent after amended in other circumstances if the Committee considers that a changed five years.
performance condition would be a fairer measure of performance.
If there is a change of control, awards will vest to the extent performance conditions are then satisfied.
If the change of control happens during the first 36 months from the date of grant of the award, the number of shares that can vest will be reduced pro rata over that 36 months period.
The Committee may, alternatively, with agreement of an acquiring company, replace awards with equivalent new awards over shares in the acquiring company.
The Committee retains the discretion, where circumstances warrant, to amend or waive performance conditions under the Plan rules.
 Report,  vest malus or to recover the value of awards after vesting claw back.
The Committee will seek to ensure that outcomes are fair and that they take account of the overall performance of the Company during the performance period.
The long-term incentive awards made prior to 2013, and under which payments are still intended to be made should the relevant performance conditions be satisfied, can be paid out under this policy.
The details of the awards granted prior to 2013 which have yet to vest, including the details of the performance conditions, are provided in the Implementation Report.
com 73 56 13 13 32 13 45 13 13 5 3 21 34 10 10 8 4 34 18 9 73 55 12 12 3 6 12 43 12 12 4 9 20 29 9 9 7 15 31 13 28 59 Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy continued Total remuneration opportunity directors at below threshold A, threshold B, BDP and STIP cash are all performancetarget C and outstanding D performance related remuneration.
UK legislation requires The following charts provide an indication, levels, together with the proportion of the  based on 2015 remuneration and the 2015 package delivered through fixed and variable first year in which the Remuneration Policy PSP awards, of what can be achieved under remuneration.
The PSP, STIP deferred shares applies ie 2015. the Remuneration Policy for the executive Sam Walsh chief executive Chris Lynch chief financial officer Potential value of 2015 remuneration package Potential value of 2015 remuneration package A$000 000 Key Key PSP PSP 6,418 STIP deferred shares STIP deferred shares A$15,940 STIP cash STIP cash Superannuation Pension Benefits Benefits 3,952 Base salary Base salary A$10,063 A Below threshold performance Minimum A Below threshold performance Minimum 2,461 B Threshold performance B Threshold performance A$6,512 C On-target performance C On-target performance D Outstanding performance Maximum D Outstanding performance Maximum A$3,390 1,151 A B C D AB C D Proportion of the 2015 remuneration package value Proportion of the 2015 remuneration package value delivered through fixed and variable remuneration delivered through fixed and variable remuneration % % Key Key PSP PSP STIP deferred shares STIP deferred shares STIP cash STIP cash Superannuation Pension Benefits Fixed Benefits Fixed } } Base salary Base salary A Below threshold performance Minimum A Below threshold performance Minimum B Threshold performance B Threshold performance C On-target performance C On-target performance D Outstanding performance Maximum D Outstanding performance Maximum AB C D A B C D : Fixed stated in 000 shown as column Base Superannuation Total a b c Aabove Salary or pension Benefits fixed Sam Walsh A$1,992 A$450 A$948 A$3,390 Chris Lynch 836 208 107 1,151 a Base salary is the salary effective at the time the Remuneration Policy was approved.
b Superannuation for Sam Walsh is the value effective at the time the Remuneration Policy was approved and assumed that Sams accrued benefit would receive investment earnings at the rate of six per cent.
The values in the Implementation Report reflect the actual investment earnings received.
c Benefits are as measured at the benefits figure in the single figure tables for 2014 as set out in the Implementation Report excluding amounts considered to be one-off in nature.
One-off items for Sam in 2014 of A$82,000 included a relocation related benefit for the removal of household goods into storage in Australia and immigration related services.
Note that this number for Sam includes expatriate benefits which are not capped and are subject to exchange rate fluctuations.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REMUNERATION REPORT: AND OPERATIONS POLICY REPORT Performance-related At risk Any relocation arrangements will be set out in a the Implementation Report.
Threshold STIP and LTIP performance A STIP award of 50% of the target STIP opportunity, shown as column B above ie 60% of base salary  Threshold vesting of the PSP award at recruited from outside the Group for the 22.5% of face value, calculated as 96.8% of base forfeiture of any award under variable salary remuneration arrangements entered into with Target STIP and LTIP performance A STIP award of 100% of the target STIP opportunity,  shown as column C above ie 120% of base salary to the establishment of forward looking annual Expected value of the PSP award of 50% of face remuneration arrangements.
Our policy with value, calculated as 215% of base salary respect to such buy-outs is to determine a reasonable level of award, on a like-for-like Outstanding STIP and LTIP performance A maximum STIP award of 200% of base salary basis, of primarily equity-based, but also Maximum shown as column D above Full vesting of the PSP award, calculated as 430% of potentially cash or restricted stock, taking into base salary consideration the quantum of forfeited awards, a Long-term incentives consist of share awards only, measured at 2015 face value.
This does not constitute an estimate of their performance conditions and vesting the value of awards that may potentially vest with respect to year end 31 December 2015.
No assumption has been made schedules.
The Committee will obtain an for changes in share price or payment of dividends.
independent external assessment of the value of awards proposed to be bought out and Context for outstanding performance provided for in the terms of any performance retains discretion, subject to the above, to condition or in accordance with any relevant Demanding performance targets are designed make such compensation as it deems amendment power under the plan rules, the to ensure that the level of remuneration is necessary and appropriate to secure the aligned with performance delivered for Committee may adjust and or set different relevant executives employment.
performance measures if events occur such as Committees intention is that buy-out a change in strategy, a material acquisition or compensation should include, where Outstanding business and individual divestment, a change in control or unexpected appropriate, performance-tested equity.
performance is required to achieve the event which cause the Committee to maximum level of remuneration.
This No form of golden hello will be provided determine that the measures are no longer comprises: upon recruitment.
appropriate or in the best interests of outstanding performance against all shareholders, and that the amendment is Executives service contracts and financial, health and safety, and individual required so that the measures achieve their termination STIP measures: original purpose.
Committee discretion should The Committee will seek to honour any TSR outperformance against both the not operate as an automatic override, and it commitments made in respect of termination Euromoney Global Mining and MSCI indices must be exercised judiciously.
of employment in the executive directors by six per cent per annum over five years: To the extent that discretion is applied in any and service contracts predating this Remuneration year, the Committee undertakes that this will Policy which are described in this section.
This EBIT margin improvement equal to or be clearly explained and disclosed to section also sets out Rio Tintos policy on greater than the second ranked company in shareholders in the Implementation Report.
termination payments and notice periods.
the comparator group over five years.
Shareholders are reminded that such policy is Recruitment remuneration The intention of the Committee is that if these binding only in so far as it relates to directors.
levels of reward are achieved by our executives Our approach to recruitment remuneration for For new appointments where the Company then shareholders will benefit over time from executives both external and internal is set terminates by making a payment in lieu of superior share price performance.
Shareholders are reminded that the notice, the Committee will for executive following principles are binding only in so far as Discretions directors to the extent permitted by relevant they relate to the recruitment of directors.
law have regard to the executive directors The Committee recognises the importance of  ability to mitigate his loss in assessing the ensuring that the outcomes of the Groups level, taking into consideration a range of payment to be made.
executive pay arrangements described in this factors including an executives current Remuneration Policy properly reflect the The executive directors may have or may be remuneration, experience, internal relativities, Groups overall performance and the experience offered service contracts which can be an assessment against relevant comparator of its shareholders and other stakeholders over terminated by either party with up to groups and cost.
, orimmediatelyby Other elements of remuneration will be The Committee undertakes to owners that it paying the base salary only in lieu of any established in line with the Remuneration Policy will exercise discretion diligently and in a unexpired notice.
An initial notice period of up set out earlier in this Policy Report in the manner that is aligned with our strategy to to 24 months during the first two years of executive remuneration structure table.
As create long-term shareholder value.
employment, reducing to up to 12 months such, annual variable remuneration for new Accordingly, when reviewing the operation of thereafter, may sometimes be necessary to appointees will comprise a maximum award of short and long-term incentive plans and the secure an external appointment.
In some 200 per cent of base salary under the STIP and , the circumstances, it may also be appropriate to  Committee will, when evaluating safety, use fixed-term contracts for executive directors.
financial, Group and individual performance, Other executives can be offered service consider the overall shareholder experience In the event that an internal appointment is contracts which can be terminated by the during the performance period in question.
made, existing commitments will be honoured.
Company with up to 12 months notice in It is the Committees intention that the writing, and by the employee with six months If the Committee concludes that it is necessary mechanistic outcome of performance conditions notice in writing, or immediately by the and appropriate to secure an appointment, relating to awards made under such plans will Company by paying the base salary only in lieu relocation-related support and international routinely be subject to review to avoid of any unexpired notice.
mobility benefits may also be provided outcomes which could be seen as contrary to depending on the circumstances.
To the extent 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 75 Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy continued The current contract terms of both directors which in the Committees view are legitimate  and the other executives are included in the which the executive director may have in misconduct, or for any other reason that the Implementation Report.
connection with the termination of his Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
The Company may also pay a Executives may be required to undertake BDP pre-2013 reasonable legal and other professional fees garden leave during all or part of their notice  including outplacement support to or in period and may receive their contractual 2013, awards will normally vest at the respect of a director in connection with the salary, STIP and benefits during the notice  termination of his employment.
These may period or the cash equivalent.
There will be include legal fees incurred by him in applicable, tax equalisation and other no pro rata reduction of awards and any negotiating a settlement agreement with expatriate benefits will continue in dividend equivalent shares will be calculated on Rio Tinto.
In assessing what is reasonable, the accordance with the executives prevailing the vested shares.
Company will take account of prevailing rates terms and conditions.
for such advice and support and determine If an executive leaves the Group for any other In the case of dismissal for cause, the Company appropriate level of contribution based on the reason, awards will lapse.
can terminate employment without notice and complexity of the issues.
For any BDP award, where required by law or without payment of any salary or compensation Treatment of STIP and LTIP on regulation, and where the Remuneration in lieu of notice.
Deferred bonus shares and Committee so decides, cash may be provided in termination outstanding awards under the LTIP may be lieu of shares.
The STIP and share plan rules govern the PSP 2013 onwards entitlements that executive participants may Accrued but untaken annual leave and any have under those plans upon termination  long service leave will be paid out on of employment.
including 2013, awards will normally be termination, in accordance with the relevant retained, and vest at the scheduled vesting country legislation and applicable practice The concept of an eligible leaver is defined in date.
Unvested awards remain subject to the applying to all employees.
For eligible leavers the relevant Plan rules.
In general terms, an satisfaction of the performance conditions.
asdefinedbelow,  eligible leaver is an executive who leaves the Any dividend equivalent shares will be the leave is calculated on the basis of base Group by reason of ill-health, injury, disability calculated on the vested shares at vesting.
salary, target STIP and car allowance.
No STIP as determined by the executives employer : is included where the executive is not an retirement: redundancy: transfer of the If the executive leaves the Group during the eligible leaver.
undertaking in which the executive works: first 36 months from the date of grant of the change of control of the executives employing award, the number of shares that can vest will If termination is a result of redundancy, the company: or death: and usually there is a be reduced pro rata over that 36-month period.
terms of the relevant local policy may apply in discretion for the Remuneration Committee to the same way as for other local employees.
Awards will vest immediately on death, but if treat an executive as an eligible leaver.
an executive dies during the first 36 months On termination, the Company will pay Short Term Incentive Plan STIP , the relocation or expatriation benefits as agreed number of shares that can vest will be reduced If an eligible leaver leaves the Group during a on the original expatriation and or in pro rata over that 36-month period.
performance year, the Committee may accordance with its applicable policies on determine in its absolute discretion to award a travel and relocation.
For example, Sam  pro rata portion of the STIP based on the  misconduct, or for any other reason that the amount of the year served and based on actual and allowances and on termination of his Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
assessment of performance against targets.
employment by the Company repatriation a PSP pre-2013 Any cash payment will be made at the normal expenses would be paid.
STIP payment date and no portion of the award For grants made to eligible leavers before 2013, On termination other than for cause, the will be deferred into shares.
awards will normally be retained and vest at the Company may make a payment in scheduled vesting date, although the Committee If an executive provides the Company notice consideration for entry by the departing may determine that awards should vest early.
of their resignation during the performance executive director into appropriate restrictive Unvested awards remain subject to the year, but does not leave the Group until after covenants to protect Rio Tinto and its satisfaction of the performance conditions.
The amount of such payment will Committee may determine in its absolute Awards vest immediately on death.
The be determined by the Committee based on the discretion to make an award under the STIP.
number of shares vesting is determined on the content and duration of the covenant.
In these circumstances, the executive will assumption that performance conditions are Following termination, executive directors may only be eligible to receive the cash portion of met at median level or at the level to which be eligible to exercise longterm incentives the award and will forfeit the deferred shares they are actually satisfied at the date of death, awards under the conditions described in the portion.
Any cash payment will be made at if higher.
If an executive leaves the Group for sections following.
They and their dependants the normal STIP payment date.
any other reason, awards will lapse.
may also be eligible for post-retirement No STIP award will be made where an executive For any PSP award, where permitted by the benefits such as medical and life insurance.
who is not an eligible leaver leaves the Group, Plan Rules, and where the Remuneration The Company may also agree to continue resigns or is terminated for cause prior to the Committee so decides, awards may be made in certain other benefits for a period following end of the performance year.
termination where the arrangements are provided under term contracts or in accordance a Bonus Deferral Plan BDP 2013 onwards Share Option Plan SOP pre-2013 with the terms of the service contract, for   example, payment for financial advice, tax including 2013, awards will normally be 2013, awards will normally be retained.
If the advice and preparation of tax returns for a tax retained and vest at the scheduled vesting executive is an eligible leaver, vested awards year.
Insomecases,  date, save where the Committee determines  retirement gift.
There will be no pro rata reduction leaves the Group and unvested awards will The Company may pay such amount as it of awards and any dividend equivalent shares lapse one year from the vesting date or such determines is reasonable to settle any claims will be calculated on the vested shares.
com 2015 Annual report STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REMUNERATION REPORT: AND OPERATIONS POLICY REPORT longer period as permitted by the Committee.
Other benefits provided include private Appointment  healthcare cover, accident insurance note this The appointment of non-executive directors under the SOP which remain subject to the is neither contractual nor a taxable benefit, including the chairman is handled through satisfaction of performance conditions.
other minor benefits including modest the Nominations Committee and board retirement gifts in applicable circumstances, processes.
The current fee levels are set out in Awards vest in full on death.
occasional spouse travel in support of the the Implementation Report.
If an executive leaves the Group for any other business and any Rio Tinto business expenses Details of each element of remuneration paid reason, unvested awards and vested awards which are deemed to be taxable where the to the chairman and non-executive directors that have not been exercised will lapse.
Company has paid the tax on his behalf.
are set out in the Implementation Report in Rio Tinto does not pay retirement or posta Management Share Plan MSP table 1b.
employment benefits to the chairman.
 The chairmans letter of appointment from the Non-executive directors executives prior to their appointment as an Company stipulates his duties as chairman of Executive Committee member.
All retained Fees paid to non-executive directors reflect the Group.
His appointment may be terminated awards will be reduced pro rata to reflect the their respective duties and responsibilities and without liability on the part of Rio Tinto in proportion of the period between the date of  accordance with the Groups constitutional grant of the award and the normal vesting date make a meaningful and effective contribution documents dealing with retirement, which has not elapsed at the time employment to the affairs of Rio Tinto.
disqualification from office or other vacation ceased.
Any dividend equivalent shares or cash The non-executive directors fees and other from office.
Otherwise, his appointment may be equivalent will be calculated on the vested terms are set by the board upon the terminated by giving 12 months notice.
Awards vest on death, subject to the recommendation of the Chairmans Committee are no provisions for compensation payable on pro rata reduction described above.
which comprises the chairman, chief executive termination of his appointment, other than if  and chief financial officer.
his appointment as chairman is terminated by including 2013, awards will normally be reason of his removal as a director pursuant to Non-executive directors receive a fixed annual retained, and vest, at the Committees a resolution of shareholders in general meeting fee comprising a base fee, committee discretion, at the scheduled vesting date in which case the Company shall be liable to membership or committee chairmanship fee or although awards of US taxpayers may vest pay any fees accrued to the date of any senior independent director fee, as applicable, on leaving.
and allowances for attending meetings which If the executive resigns or is dismissed for involve medium or long-distance air travel.
The non-executive directors letters of misconduct, or for any other reason that the They do not participate in any of the Groups appointment from the Company stipulate their Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
duties and responsibilities as directors.
Each nonexecutive director is appointed subject to their a All awards granted under pre-2013 plans or in the Where the payment of statutory minimum election and annual re-election by shareholders.
case of the MSP, awards granted prior to 2014, superannuation contributions for Australian have now vested.
Non-executive directors appointments may be non-executive directors is required by terminated by giving three months notice.
There Australian superannuation law, these Chairman and non-executive are no provisions for compensation payable on contributions are deducted from the directors directors remuneration termination of their appointment.
The letters of overall fee entitlements.
appointment are available for inspection at Rio Chairman Non-executive directors may on occasion Tinto plcs registered office, and at its annual It is Rio Tintos policy that the chairman should receive reimbursement for costs incurred in general meeting.
be remunerated on a competitive basis and at a relation to the provision of professional advice.
level which reflects his contribution to the In accordance with the provisions of the These payments, if made, are taxable benefits Group, as assessed by the board.
Groups constitutional documents, the to the non-executive directors and the tax maximum aggregate fees payable to the The Committee determines the terms of arising is paid by the Company on the non-executive directors including the service, including remuneration, of the directors behalf.
chairman in respect of any year, including chairman.
The chairmans fees are set by the Other benefits provided include accident fees received by the nonexecutive directors Committee.
The chairman has no part in the insurance note this is neither contractual for serving on any committee of the boards, setting of his fees and is not present at any nor a taxable benefit, other minor benefits and any travel allowances received by the discussion at the Committee about his fees.
including modest retirement gifts in applicable non-executive directors for attending The chairman receives a fixed annual fee and circumstances, occasional spouse travel in meetings, will not exceed 3,000,000. does not receive any additional fee or support of the business and any Rio Tinto Non-monetary benefits are not included in allowance either for committee membership business expenses which are deemed to be this limit.
or chairmanship, or for travel.
The chairman taxable where the Company has paid the tax does not participate in the Groups incentive on their behalf.
Rio Tinto does not pay plans.
retirement or post-employment benefits to non-executive directors.
The chairman is provided with a car and driver.
Any use for transport between home and the office and other personal travel is a taxable benefit to the chairman, and the Company pays any tax arising on the chairmans behalf.
The chairman pays a fixed annual fee to the Company for the personal travel element.
