DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REMUNERATION REPORT: AND OPERATIONS LETTER FROM CHAIRMAN Remuneration Report: Annual statement by the Remuneration Committee chairman Dear Shareholder On behalf of the board, I am pleased to introduce our 2015 directors Remuneration for executives comprises fixed compensation in the form remuneration report the Remuneration Report, for which we seek your of base salary, participation in a pension plan, superannuation fund support at our annual general meetings AGMs, in London in April, and and or a cash allowance to contribute to a pension fund, the receipt of in Brisbane in May.
certain benefits, and performance-related remuneration.
Each element is described in the Remuneration Policy.
The Remuneration Report is designed to demonstrate the link between the Groups strategy, its performance, and the remuneration outcomes The majority of the remuneration of executives will normally be for our executives, particularly the executive directors.
performancerelated,  long-term incentives, weighted towards the long-term in shares.
, RioTinto takes a long-term approach to its activities, and this means In relation to the short-term incentive plan STIP, the Committee each concentrating on developing long-life, low-cost, expandable operations year sets performance criteria relative to three benchmarks: threshold, that are capable of providing competitive returns throughout business target and outstanding.
Target performance is intended to be stretching, cycles.
Our executives performance objectives are set accordingly.
The Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with Our approach to the disclosure of measures, weightings and targets applicable legislation and corporate governance guidance in the UK and remains unchanged.
In relation to the long-term incentive plan LTIP, Australia.
Australian legislation requires disclosures in respect of key these will all be disclosed in advance, at the beginning of each five-year management personnel, being those persons having authority and performance period.
In relation to the STIP, we will, when it comes to responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the disclosure, distinguish between safety goals and financial and individual Group.
The key management personnel are, in addition to the Executive goals.
In the area of safety goals, we will continue to disclose the Directors, the non-director members of the Executive Committee.
The measures, weightings and targets at the beginning of each year.
In the Executive Committee comprises the executive directors, product group area of financial and individual goals, we will continue to disclose, at the chief executive officers and Group executives.
Throughout this beginning of each year, the measures and weightings only, because we Remuneration Report, the members of the Executive Committee are regard the targets as commercially sensitive.
However, as we said in the collectively referred to as executives.
They are listed on pages 51 Remuneration Report last year, we intended to disclose, and have in the and 54, which also show the positions held during the year and dates Implementation Report disclosed, the targets and outcomes for 2015 of appointment.
In the rare instances where this may not be prudent on grounds of commercial sensitivity, I will seek to explain why, and give an  indication of when they would be disclosed.
Australian legislation in the remuneration arena and that the rules differ.
We have structured the voting arrangements such that all shareholders The chart on page 89 demonstrates the usual timeframe for the delivery vote on both remuneration resolutions that we are putting to our AGMs.
of the components of remuneration, using 2015 as an example.
This emphasises the long-term nature of our remuneration arrangements.
This Remuneration Report is divided into two parts: the statement of remuneration policy, which summarises our compensation policies and You will see several mechanisms in the Remuneration Report that are practices the Remuneration Policy : and the annual report on intended to create alignment of interest between shareholders and remuneration, which shows how the Remuneration Policy has been executives I show some of these at work later in this statement.
We applied the Implementation Report.
have, for our executives, a mandatory conversion of 50 per cent of any annual short-term bonus payment into shares, with vesting deferred for The Remuneration Policy was subject to a binding vote for UK law three years.
The performance measures under our long-term purposes in 2015 and became effective in respect of payments to remuneration plans are structured to support and incentivise the directors from 7 May 2015.
Minor changes have been made to the creation of long-term shareholder value.
In addition, should Remuneration Policy since then: these do not require shareholder circumstances warrant, we have reserved to the Committee such approval this year.
A version of the Remuneration Policy which highlights discretions as enable it to safeguard against the return experience these changes can be found on our website.
There will be no vote for UK of shareholders being materially misaligned with the reward experience law purposes on the Remuneration Policy.
We want the remuneration outcomes properly to reflect .
 The Implementation Report including this statement is subject to an advisory vote for UK law purposes.
The Remuneration Report as a ownership requirements for our executives as described in the Implementation Report.
whole is subject to an advisory vote for Australian law purposes.
Both resolutions are to be voted on at the AGMs as Joint Decision Matters by There are many examples in the Remuneration Policy and practice of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shareholders.
how our dialogue with shareholders has influenced the Committees In the absence of circumstances which may necessitate a change to the decisions.
In 2013, we added a new performance measure to our Performance Share Plan PSP, namely the relative EBIT margin Remuneration Policy, it is our intention that it will next be put before shareholders for a vote, for UK law purposes, at our AGMs in 2018. improvement measure.
We did this because many of our owners had expressed a wish that our PSP should incorporate some diversification Although, as a matter of UK law, the Remuneration Policy only applies beyond total shareholder return TSR.
We extended the performance to the remuneration of our directors, it is the Committees intention that period of the PSP from four to five years and we materially reduced the its broad policy principles will continue to inform the way in which our pay-out for threshold performance.
We have adjusted the safety non-director key management personnel on the Executive Committee measures in our STIP targets to reflect lost time injuries and all injury are remunerated.
In addition, from and including 2016, we have included performance metrics relating to a key programme to support our goal of The Remuneration Policy describes, among other things: our executive fatality elimination, called Critical Risk Management, which is described remuneration structure: the details of the discretions available to the in more detail on page 24.
Committee: our approach to remuneration on recruitment: the details of executives service contracts: and how we treat leavers.
The decisions relating to base pay changes for executive directors and executives are broadly guided by pay changes for the wider employee 2015 Annual report riotinto.
com 67 Remuneration Report: Annual statement by the Remuneration Committee chairman continued population, which means that this year there has been a salary freeze for In terms of achievement against our 2015 financial STIP targets, the the executives.
Committee determined that the threshold level for underlying unflexed earnings set by the board was not met.
However, the unflexed free Building on the dialogue at our corporate governance round table cash flow target and flexed earnings and free cash flow targets were meetings in 2014 and 2015 which were well attended and provided an exceeded.
Cash flow performance was close to outstanding with a opportunity for me to discuss remuneration related topics with significant contribution from cost reductions, which substantially shareholders, I plan to discuss the topic of remuneration with our large exceeded target.
institutional shareholders in the UK and Australia during the course of this year.
To remind you, in considering financial performance against the annual plan, we measure half against the original plan: the other half is flexed 2015 performance and remuneration to exclude the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates, and quoted On page 80 and 82 of this Report, we retrospectively disclose the metal and other prices during the year, which are outside managements financial and individual targets set by the Board for 2015.
We have used this approach consistently since 2005 for here the details of performance against targets, save to say that, in the measuring our earnings performance, and have flexed the cash flow main, targets were met, especially when looking at the financial targets outcomes since the introduction of this measure in the STIP in 2009. onaflexedbasis.
Ibelievethat,  When commodity prices rise, or there are favourable exchange rate earnings of the sharp downdraft in commodity prices, shareholder variations, we protect shareholders by ensuring that 50 per cent of the interests were well protected by the energetic management of capital, STIP opportunity is denied the benefit of that rise.
When the reverse costs, working capital, debt and production during 2015. happens, and commodity prices fall or there are negative exchange rate I know that shareholders expect to see strong alignment between the variations, the STIP opportunity is safeguarded as to 50 per cent value of their own shareholdings and the wealth of executives.
Our view is that this approach maintains appropriate remuneration outcomes shown in the single total figure of remuneration incentive for executives, even in times of significant earnings volatility.
testify clearly to this alignment.
Fifty per cent of the annual STIP awards Taking all these points into consideration, the Committee determined are deferred into shares through the Bonus Deferral Plan BDP for that the prima facie STIP financial score for 2015 should be 132 per cent three years, specifically to ensure that a material proportion of out of a maximum of 200 per cent.
However, the Committee seeks to short-term pay is exposed over the medium term to fluctuations in our ensure, in making its year end determination of STIP awards, that actual share price.
The value of the 2015 and 2016 PSP awards also reflects the performance is directly comparable to the targets set at the beginning of downward movement in share price.
The alignment is further evidenced the year.
This resulted in the Committee making certain minor by our share ownership policy, which is designed to create and maintain adjustments to the targets in 2015 to take account of events outside significant individual exposure through share ownership to upwards and managements control and to ensure a like-for-like comparison.
downwards movements in the value of our equity.
Following review by management and the Committee, both upward and The single total figure of remuneration is lower in 2015 for the chief downward adjustments were made to the targets, with reference to executive, chief financial officer and most executives, due mainly to the principles agreed by the Committee which have been consistently significantly lower value of LTIP awards compared to 2014.
This was applied over many years, to ensure the outcomes are fair.
An example of caused both by a lower vesting level for the PSP awards and a lower UK such an adjustment was in relation to severe weather events, which were and Australian share price at the date the 2012 PSP awards vested in in excess of what was incorporated in the business plan.
The February 2016 18.51 versus 31.64 and A$42.22 versus A$63.55 consequence of this process was that we reduced the 132 per cent respectively.
referred to above to 131 per cent.
 Turning to the LTIP, both the amount of the original award, and the the other executives are lower, and in some cases significantly lower, actual value of the awards vesting to executives in 2015 were lower than than last year, with a broad variability of outcomes, reflecting 2014.
The PSP awards granted in 2012 have two performance metrics performance against stretching safety, financial and individual targets.
the Euromoney Global Mining index and the MSCI World Index weighted I will talk in a moment about the aggregate STIP financial score, but 50 per cent each.
I believe that the award outcome clearly demonstrates before that I will talk about the 2015 safety performance.
that our decision some years ago to have these two indices operate alongside each other has protected shareholders against windfall gains Looking at achievement against our 2015 safety STIP targets, the for executives.
For while our TSR against the Mining Index demonstrated Groups all injury frequency rate improved from 0.59 in 2014 to a new significant outperformance, we underperformed against the MSCI.
The all-time low of 0.44 in 2015, which out-performed the Groups outcome, which is explained in the Implementation Report, was an award outstanding target of 0.45.
There were 220 lost time injuries in 2015 .
This also out-performed the level set for outstanding performance for the Group of 231 lost time injuries.
The Committee considered the Groups overall performance during the This has led to the maximum total safety outcome for the Group, of four-year performance period and concluded that the vesting of awards, 200 per cent.
based upon the achievement of the TSR measures, was justified.
However, reductions were applied to the safety performance component As we announced in February 2015, Harry Kenyon-Slaney, chief of the STIP where a fatality occurred.
For example, the safety result for executive of the former Energy group, left the Group on 18 March, 2015. the chief executive was halved from 200 per cent to 100 per cent due to The details of his departure terms are summarised on page 88, and the the compensation impact of fatalities in 2015.
Such adjustments reflect terms are compliant with our Remuneration Policy and precedent.
the level of oversight which the chief executive and other executives had The Company continues to monitor gender pay and is satisfied that for safety leadership during the year and the level of management awards made between male and female employees demonstrate control over the causal factors of the fatalities.
There were also safety equality.
related downward adjustments to the remuneration of the chief financial officer and of certain other executives, particularly those with portfolios 2016 decisions where a fatality occurred.
There will be no annual salary increases for executives, in keeping with the salary freeze for other employees other than those protected by legislation or prior industrial agreements.
This was a difficult but 68 riotinto.
com 2015 Annual report DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES ADDITIONAL INFORMATION REMUNERATION REPORT: AND OPERATIONS LETTER FROM CHAIRMAN necessary decision reflecting the exigencies of the commodities cycle, but it is no reflection on the performance and contribution of our people.
For 2016, the STIP measures and opportunities for executives remain weighted 50 per cent for financial, 30 per cent for individual and 20 per cent for safety measures.
The Group financial targets relate to earnings and free cash flow.
The individual targets include objectives relating to business transformation, cost reduction, performance delivery and leadership and engagement.
The 2016 safety measures, weightings and targets are fully disclosed on page 89.
The financial measures and weightings are also described on page 89.
We expect to describe the financial and individual targets retrospectively in the 2016 Implementation Report.
The level of LTIP awards to be granted to executives in March 2016, as a , .
The number of conditional shares awarded will be announced to the market in due course and is calculated using the average share price over the previous calendar year, and as such, the awards granted in 2016 will be calculated using the 2015 average share prices of 26.346 and A$54.184 respectively.
 Rio Tinto Limited shares at 15 February 2016 of 18.51 and A$42.22 respectively.
Executives do not therefore benefit via a larger number of conditional shares being issued because of a lower price when the spot  the previous calendar year.
This is a further example of our Remuneration Policy operating in a way which aligns the interests of shareholders and executives.
The performance conditions for the 2016 PSP awards are outlined in the Implementation report.
The 2016 comparator group for the EBIT margin measure has been reviewed and Fortescue Metals Group will replace Peabody in the comparator group for awards made from 2016, our judgment being that in terms of size and likeness to Rio Tinto, Fortescue now offers a better comparator.
Retirements from the Committee I would like to thank Mike Fitzpatrick, who retired from the Committee in May, 2015, and Richard Goodmanson, who will retire from the Committee in May, 2016, for their valued advice and guidance over many years.
Meanwhile I welcome Megan Clark, who will be joining the Committee in May, 2016.
Governance and owners views It has been and continues to be our intention to be alert to evolving best practice as well as to the views and guidance given to us in the conversations we have with our owners.
The Committee reaffirms its commitment to keep under review the level of vesting for threshold performance under the PSP.
We are committed to a continuing dialogue with shareholders, including listening to views about this report, which are most welcome.
Yours sincerely, John Varley Remuneration Committee chairman 2015 Annual report riotinto.
