Governance Annual report on remuneration During the year ended 31 March 2015 and to the date of this report, committee members attendance at meetings and details of the core agenda items discussed are shown below: Meeting Core agenda items Members eligible to attend Attended May 2014 Determine base pay of executive directors and executive committee Lesley Knox chairman members for the year ending 31 March 2015.
Mark Armour Consider and approve short-term incentive payments for the year ended Guy Elliott 31 March 2014.
John Manzoni Consider and approve long-term incentive awards vesting in respect of the performance periods ended 31 March 2014.
Determine short-term incentive and long-term incentive performance measures and targets, and consider total remuneration for various performance outcomes for awards to be made during the year ending 31 March 2015.
Approve long-term incentive awards to be granted in June 2014.
November 2014 Review remuneration policy, practice, pay and conditions for employees Lesley Knox chairman across the group.
Mark Armour Approve off-cycle long-term incentive awards to selected employees below Guy Elliott executive committee.
John Manzoni March 2015 Consider responses from annual shareholder consultations.
Lesley Knox chairman Monitor and assess progress towards performance goals.
Mark Armour Guy Elliott John Manzoni May 2015 Determine base pay of executive directors and executive committee Lesley Knox chairman members for the year ending 31 March 2016.
Mark Armour Consider and approve short-term incentive payments for the year ended Guy Elliott 31 March 2015.
John Manzoni Consider and approve long-term incentive awards vesting in respect of the performance periods ended 31 March 2015.
Determine short-term incentive and long-term incentive performance measures and targets, and consider total remuneration for various performance outcomes for awards to be made during the year ending 31 March 2016.
Approve long-term incentive awards to be granted in June 2015.
Guy Elliott was unable to attend the May 2014 committee meeting due to a long-standing commitment which had pre-dated his appointment to the committee.
During the year, John Manser, Alejandro Santo Domingo, Howard Willard and Jan du Plessis attended some committee meetings as observers.
Also present, at the invitation of the committee, were Alan Clark Chief Executive, John Davidson General Counsel, Roger Fairhead Group Compensation & Benefits Director and Stephen Shapiro Group Company Secretary, although none was present when his own remuneration was discussed.
Advisers to the remuneration committee External advisers Kepler Associates is appointed by the committee, following a competitive tender, to provide independent advice on remuneration matters including current market practices, incentive design, performance measures, and independent monitoring of TSR.
The committee reviews the advice provided by Kepler Associates to satisfy itself that it is independent.
Kepler Associates does not provide any other advice to the group, and fees are charged on a time basis.
Total fees for support to the committee during the year ended 31 March 2015 were 62,675.
Market data is sourced by the group compensation & benefits function from a number of consultancies, including Towers Watson, Mercer and Hay Group to provide context for the committee.
Other than Kepler Associates, the provision of information to the committee by other providers is incidental to their main function of advising the group compensation & benefits function on the remuneration of employees outside the scope of this report.
Internal advisers The committee considers the views of the Chairman and the Chief Executive on the remuneration and performance of other members of the executive committee.
The General Counsel, the Group Company Secretary, and the Group Compensation & Benefits Director also provide information and advice to the committee on legal, regulatory and governance issues, and on the pay and conditions for employees throughout the group.
