Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Policy Introduction In accordance with the new regulations, the Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy as set out below will become formally effective at the AGM on 23 June 2015 and will apply for the period of three years from the date of approval.
The Companys core principles of remuneration are to support: sustainable long-term value creation profitable growth and strong cash generation attraction, retention and motivation of a talented leadership cadre to deliver the business strategy.
The Remuneration Committee will review annually the remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors and the Executive Team drawing on trends and adjustments made to all employees across the Group and taking into consideration: our business strategy overall corporate performance market conditions affecting the Company the recruitment market where Saga competes for talent changing views of institutional shareholders and their representative bodies.
UK Corporate Governance Code The Remuneration Committee is comfortable that the proposed Policy is in line with the new UK Corporate Governance Code applying for financial years beginning on or after 1 October 2014.
The following table sets out the key elements of the revised Code and how the Companys remuneration policy for Executive Directors is in line with the Code: Code provision Company Remuneration Policy Executive Directors remuneration should be The Company has an LTIP with a three year performance period and has provision for the designed to promote the long-term success Remuneration Committee to add holding periods post vesting.
The policy incorporates of the Company.
bonus arrangements where part of the bonus is deferred in shares for three years with thefacility for the Remuneration Committee to add holding periods post vesting.
It is the Remuneration Committees view that these arrangements provide a holistic approach to ensuring Executive Directors are focused on the long-term success of the Company.
For share-based remuneration, the The policy contains the following relevant features: Remuneration Committee should consider Minimum shareholding requirement for Group Chief Executive Officer of 200% of salary requiring Directors to hold a minimum number and for the Group Chief Financial Officer 150% of salary of shares and to hold shares for a further The provision for the Remuneration Committee to add holding periods post vesting for period after vesting or exercise, including for the Annual Bonus Plan and the LTIP in the policy which are not currently being applied.
a period after leaving the Company, subject The Remuneration Committee will consider this position on an annual basis when to the need to finance any costs of acquisition determining the implementation of the Policy for the future year.
Schemes should include provisions that The Annual Bonus Plan, Deferred Bonus Plan and the LTIP include best practice malus would enable the Company to recover sums and or clawback provisions.
paid or withhold the payment of any sum, Malus is the adjustment of unpaid bonus, outstanding LTIP awards and deferred share and specify the circumstances in which it awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan as a result of the occurrence of one or more would be appropriate to do so.
The adjustment may result in the value being reduced to zero.
Clawback is the recovery of payments under the Annual Bonus Plan or vested long-term incentive awards as a result of the occurrence of one or more circumstances listed below.
The circumstances in which malus and clawback could apply are as follows: Discovery of a material misstatement resulting in an adjustment in the audited consolidated accounts of the Company The assessment of any performance target or condition in respect of an award was based on error, or inaccurate or misleading information The discovery that any information used to determine the number of shares subject to an award was based on error, or inaccurate or misleading information Action or conduct of an award holder which, in the reasonable opinion of the Board, amounts to fraud or gross misconduct Events or behaviour of an award holder have led to the censure of the Company by a regulatory authority or have had a significant detrimental impact on the reputation of any Group Company provided that the Board is satisfied that the relevant award holder was responsible for the censure or reputational damage and that the censure or reputational damage is attributable to the award holder Saga plc 80 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Applicable period Annual Bonus Plan Deferred Annual Bonus Plan Long-Term Incentive Plan Malus Up to the date of the bonus determination.
To the end of the three year To the end of the three year deferral period.
vesting period Clawback Three years post the bonus determination.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the rules of the Plans provide sufficient powers to enforce malus and clawback where required.
Discretion Consideration of shareholder views The Remuneration Committee has discretion in several areas The Remuneration Committee takes the views of the of the Remuneration Policy as set out in this Report.
The shareholders seriouslyand these views are taken into account Committee may also exercise operational and administrative in shaping Remuneration Policy and practice.
Shareholder discretions under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders views are considered when evaluating and setting remuneration as set out in those rules.
Where discretion is applied by the strategyand the Remuneration Committee commits to Remuneration Committee, this will be fully disclosed in the consulting with keyshareholders prior to any significant following years Remuneration Report.
In addition, the changes to this Remuneration Policy.
As at 31January 2015, Remuneration Committee has the discretion to amend 72.02% of our shares were owned by Acromas Bid Co Limited.
policywith regard tominor or administrative matters where As detailed on page 97 of the Directors Report and page 56 itwould be, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, ofthe Corporate Governance Statement, the Relationship disproportionate toseek or await shareholder approval.
Agreement between the Company, Acromas Bid Co Limited and certain funds managed or advised by Charterhouse It is the Remuneration Committees intention that commitments Capital Partners, CVC Capital Partners and Permira, provides made in linewith its policies prior to 23 June 2015 will be for each such investor to appoint a Non-Executive Director to honoured, evenif satisfaction of such commitments is made the Board.
The combined holdings held through Acromas Bid after the Companys first AGM on 23June 2015 and may be Co Limited were reduced to 62.03% on 27 February 2015. inconsistent with the above policies.
Shareholder voting at general meeting Differences in policy from the wider The Directors Remuneration Policy will be put to a binding employee population vote at the AGM on 23 June 2015.
The Remuneration The Group aims to provide a remuneration package for Committees Chairmans Annual Statement and the Annual allemployees that is market competitive and operates the Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote.
same core structure as for the Executive Directors.
The This is the Companys first year as a public company and Groupoperates employee share and variable pay plans, therefore the 2015 AGM will be the first.
This means that withpension provisions provided for all Executive Directors thereis no historical voting to disclose on the Companys and employees.
In addition, any salary increases for Executive executive remuneration.
Directors are expected to be generally in line with those for UK-based employees.
Saga plc 81 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration Policy Element of How it supports the Companys short and long-term remuneration strategic objectives Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Salary Provides a base level of remuneration to support An Executive Directors basic salary is set on appointment and The Remuneration Committee ensures that maximum salary levels recruitment and retention of Executive Directors with reviewed annually or when there is a change in position or arepositioned in line with companies of a similar size to Saga in the the necessary experience and expertise to deliver the responsibility.
When determining an appropriate level of salary, the Remuneration The companies in the comparator group are the constituents of Committee considers: the FTSE 250. remuneration practices within the Group The Remuneration Committee intends to review the comparator group the general performance of the Group each year and may add or remove companies from the group as it salaries within the ranges paid by the companies in the considers appropriate.
Any changes to the comparator group will be comparator group used for remuneration benchmarking disclosed in the part of the Report setting out the operation of the the economic environment.
Policy for the future year.
Individuals who are recruited or promoted to the Board may, on In general salary increases for Executive Directors will be in line with occasion, have their salaries set below the targeted policy level until the increase for employees.
they become established in their role.
In such cases subsequent The Company will set out in the section headed Implementation of increases in salary may be higher than the general rises for Remuneration Policy, in the following financial year the salaries for that employees until the target positioning is achieved.
year for each of the Executive Directors see page 78.
Benefits Provides a minimum level of benefits to support The Executive Directors receive family private health cover, death in See description of benefits in previous column.
a low fixed cost and a performance-based service life assurance, a car allowance, subsistence expenses and Remuneration Policy.
staff discounts in line with other employees.
The Remuneration Committee recognises the need to maintain suitable flexibility in the determination of benefits that ensure it is able to support the objective of attracting and retaining personnel and therefore additional benefits may be offered such as relocation allowances on recruitment.
The maximum will be set at the cost of providing the benefits described.
Pensions Provides a minimum level of pension provision to The maximum contribution to an Executive Directors pension or Maximum possible contribution 20% of salary.
support a low fixed cost and a performance-based salary supplement is 20% of gross basic salary.
The Company will set out in the section headed Implementation Remuneration Policy.
A salary supplement would not itself be pensionable or form part of of Remuneration Policy in the following financial year the pension salary for the purposes of determining the extent of participation in contributions for that year for each of the Executive Directors the Companys incentive arrangements.
Annual The Annual Bonus Plan provides a significant incentive The Remuneration Committee will determine the maximum annual Percentage of bonus maximum earned for levels of performance: The Annual Bonus Plan is based on a mix of financial and strategic Bonus Plan to the Executive Directors linked to achievement participation in the Annual Bonus Plan for each year, which will not operational conditions and is measured over a period of one Threshold 20% and in delivering goals that are closely aligned with exceed 150% of salary.
The financial measures will account for no less than Target 60% Deferred the Companys strategy and the creation of value 50% of the bonus opportunity.
The Company will set out in the section headed Implementation Maximum 100% Bonus Plan for shareholders.
of Remuneration Policy, in the following financial year, the nature The Remuneration Committee retains discretion in exceptional The annual bonus will be paid in cash and deferred shares.
DBP In particular, the Annual Bonus Plan supports the of the targets and their weighting for each year see page 79. circumstances to change performance measures and targets and Companys objectives allowing the setting of annual the weightings attached to performance measures part-way Details of the performance conditions, targets and their level of targets based on the businesses strategic objectives through a performance year if there is a significant and material satisfaction for the year being reported on will be set out in the at that time, meaning that a wider range of event which causes the Committee to believe the original measures, Annual Report on Remuneration.
performance metrics can be used that are relevant weightings and targets are no longer appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee can determine that part of the bonus and achievable.
Discretion may also be exercised in cases where the Remuneration earned under the Annual Bonus Plan is provided as an award of The Remuneration Committee has discretion to defer Committee believes that the bonus outcome is not a fair and shares under the DBP.
part of the annual bonus earned in shares under the accurate reflection of business performance.
The exercise of this The maximum value of deferred shares is 50% of the DBP.
The advantage of deferral is: discretion may result in a downward or upward movement in the bonus earned.
amount of bonus earned resulting from the application of the ongoing risk adjustment due to the link to the share The main terms of these awards are: performance measures.
price over the deferral period minimum deferral period of three years amounts deferred in shares are also forfeitable Any adjustments or discretion applied by the Remuneration the participants continued employment at the end of the deferral on a Directors voluntary cessation of employment Committee will be fully disclosed in the following years period unless he she is a good leaver.
which provides an effective lock-in.
The Remuneration Committee may award dividend equivalents on The Remuneration Committee is of the opinion that given the those shares to Plan participants to the extent that they vest.
commercial sensitivity arising in relation to the detailed financial targets used for the annual bonus, disclosing precise targets for the The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to apply a holding Annual Bonus Plan in advance would not be in shareholder period of two years post vesting for deferred bonus shares.
Actual targets, performance achieved and awards made will be published at the end of the performance periods so shareholders can fully assess the basis for any payouts under the annual bonus.
Both the Annual Bonus Plan and the DBP contain malus provisions.
In addition, the Annual Bonus Plan contains clawback provisions.
Saga plc 82 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Remuneration Policy Element of How it supports the Companys short and long-term remuneration strategic objectives Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Salary Provides a base level of remuneration to support An Executive Directors basic salary is set on appointment and The Remuneration Committee ensures that maximum salary levels recruitment and retention of Executive Directors with reviewed annually or when there is a change in position or arepositioned in line with companies of a similar size to Saga in the the necessary experience and expertise to deliver the responsibility.
Saga plc 83 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration Policy continued Element of How it supports the Companys short and long-term remuneration strategic objectives Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Long-Term Awards are designed to incentivise the Executive Awards are granted annually to Executive Directors in the form of a Maximum value of 200% of salary p. a. based on the market value The performance conditions for awards are currently equally Incentive Directors to maximise TSR by successfully delivering conditional share award or nil cost option.
These will vest at the end at the date of grant set in accordance with the rules of the Plan.
weighted between EPS growth and comparative TSR.
Plan the Companys objectives and to share in the resulting of a three year period subject to: 25% of the award will vest for threshold performance.
100% of the The Remuneration Committee may change the balance of the LTIP increase in total shareholder value.
the Executive Directors continued employment at the date award will vest for maximum performance.
Straight-line vesting measures, or use different measures for subsequent awards, The use of EPS ensures Executive Directors are of vesting between these points.
No material change will be made to the type of focused on ensuring the annual profit performance satisfaction of the performance conditions.
performance conditions without prior shareholder consultation.
targeted by the Annual Bonus Plan flows through to The Remuneration Committee may award dividend equivalents on The Remuneration Committee retains discretion in exceptional long-term sustainable EPS growth.
awards to the extent that these vest.
circumstances to change performance measures and targets The use of comparative TSR measures the success andthe weightings attached to performance measures part-way The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to apply a holding of the implementation of the Companys strategy through a performance period if there is a significant and material period of two years post vesting for the LTIP.
in delivering an above market level of return.
event which causes the Remuneration Committee to believe theoriginal measures, weightings and targets are no longer appropriate.
Discretion may also be exercised in cases where the Remuneration Committee believes that the outcome is not a fair and accurate reflection of business performance.
The exercise of this discretion may result in a downward or upward movement in the amount of the LTIP vesting resulting from the application of the performance measures.
Details of the performance conditions for grants made in the year will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration and for future grants in the section headed Implementation of Remuneration Policy, in the future financial year.
The LTIP contains clawback and malus provisions.
Share The purpose of the SIP is to encourage all employees to become shareholders in the Company and thereby align their The maximums set by legislation from time to time.
The Company in accordance with the legislation may impose Incentive interests with shareholders.
objective conditions on awards of free shares to employees.
The Company retains the discretion to introduce additional plans, Plan SIP and to make Directors eligible for these as appropriate.
Minimum The Remuneration Committee has adopted formal shareholding guidelines that will encourage the Executive Directors to shareholding build up over a five year period and then subsequently hold a shareholding equivalent to a percentage of base salary.
requirement Adherence to these guidelines is a condition of continued participation in the equity incentive arrangements.
This policy ensures that the interests of Executive Directors and those of shareholders are closely aligned.
The following table sets out the minimum shareholding requirements: Role Shareholding requirement percentage of salary Group Chief Executive Officer and Executive Chairman 200% Group Chief Financial Officer 150% The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to increase the shareholding requirements.
NonProvides a level of fees to support recruitment and The Board as a whole is responsible for setting the remuneration The fees for Non-Executive Directors are set at broadly the median None.
Executive retention of Non-Executive Directors with the necessary of the Non-Executive Directors.
Director fees experience to advise and assist with establishing and Non-Executive Directors are paid a base fee and additional fees In general the level of fee increase for the Non-Executive Directors will monitoring the Groups strategic objectives.
The Committee Chairmen do not be set taking account of any change in responsibility and will take into receive any additional fees for membership of other committees.
account the general rise in salaries across the UK workforce.
Fees are reviewed annually based on equivalent roles in The Company will pay reasonable expenses incurred by the the comparator group used to review salaries paid to the Committee Chairmen and Non-Executive Directors and may settle Executive Directors.
Fees are set at broadly the median of anytax incurred in relation to these.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any variable remuneration or benefits arrangements.
Saga plc 84 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Remuneration Policy continued Element of How it supports the Companys short and long-term remuneration strategic objectives Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Long-Term Awards are designed to incentivise the Executive Awards are granted annually to Executive Directors in the form of a Maximum value of 200% of salary p. a. based on the market value The performance conditions for awards are currently equally Incentive Directors to maximise TSR by successfully delivering conditional share award or nil cost option.
Saga plc 85 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Policy continued Illustrations of application of Remuneration Policy See tables on pages 76-77.
Recruitment policy The Companys principle is that the remuneration of any new recruit will be assessed in line with the same principles as for the Executive Directors, as set out in the Remuneration Policy table above.
The Remuneration Committee is mindful that it wishes to avoid paying more than it considers necessary to secure a preferred candidate with the appropriate calibre and experience needed for the role.
In setting the remuneration for new recruits, the Remuneration Committee will have regard to guidelines and shareholder sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced short-term or long-term incentive payments as well as giving consideration for the appropriateness of any performance measures associated with an award.
The Companys detailed policy when setting remuneration for the appointment of new Directors is summarised in the table below: Remuneration element Recruitment policy Salary, benefits and pension These will be set in line with the policy for existing Executive Directors.
Annual bonus Maximum annual participation will be set in line with the Companys policy for existing Executive Directors and will not exceed 150% of salary.
LTIP Maximum annual participation will be set in line with the Companys policy for existing Executive Directors and will not exceed 200% of salary.
Buyout of incentives forfeited on Where the Remuneration Committee determines that the individual circumstances of recruitment justified cessation of employment the provision of a buyout, the equivalent value of any incentives that will be forfeited on cessation of an Executive Directors previous employment will be calculated taking into account the following: The proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Executive Directors cessation of employment The performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied Any other terms and conditions having a material effect on their value lapsed value The Remuneration Committee may then grant up to the same value as the lapsed value, where possible, under the Companys incentive plans.
To the extent that it was not possible or practical to provide the buyout within the terms of the Companys existing incentive plans, a bespoke arrangement would be used.
Sign-on compensation The Remuneration Committees policy is not to provide sign-on compensation.
However, in exceptional circumstances where the Remuneration Committee decides to provide this type of compensation it will endeavour to provide the compensation in equity, subject to a holding period during which cessation of employment will generally result in forfeiture and subject to the satisfaction of performance targets.
The maximum value of this one-off compensation will be proportionate to the overall remuneration offered by the Company and in all circumstances is limited to150% of salary.
Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the policy set out above would apply from the date of promotion but there would be no retrospective application of the policy in relation to subsisting incentive awards or remuneration arrangements.
Accordingly, prevailing elements of the remuneration package for an existing employee would be honoured and form part of the ongoing remuneration of the person concerned.
These would be disclosed to shareholders in the Remuneration Report for the relevant financial year.
The Companys policy when setting fees for the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors is to apply the policy which applies to current Non-Executive Directors.
Saga plc 86 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Service agreements and letters of appointment Executive Directors Notice periods Compensation provisions Name Date of service contract Nature of contract From Company From Director for early termination Andrew Goodsell 2 May 2014 Rolling 12 months 6 months None Lance Batchelor 2 May 2014 Rolling 6 months 6 months None Stuart Howard 2 May 2014 Rolling 12 months 6 months None Non-Executive Directors Name Date of letter of appointment Phillip Green 29 May 2014 Ray King 29 May 2014 Orna NiChionna 29 May 2014 Gareth Williams 29 May 2014 James Arnell 5 May 2014 Pev Hooper 5 May 2014 Charles Sherwood 5 May 2014 The Remuneration Committees policy for setting notice periods is that a six month period will apply for Executive Directors unless the Remuneration Committee determines that 12 months would be more appropriate in the circumstances.
The Remuneration Committee may in exceptional circumstances arising on recruitment, allow a longer period, which would in any event reduce to either six or 12 months following the first year of employment.
The Non-Executive Directors of the Company do not have service contracts.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed by letters of appointment.
Each independent Non-Executive Directors term of office runs for a three year period.
The Company follows the UK Corporate Governance Codes recommendation that all directors of FTSE 350 companies be subject to annual re-appointment by shareholders.
Saga plc 87 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Policy continued Payment for loss of office The Remuneration Committee will honour Executive Directors contractual entitlements.
Service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
There are no contractual arrangements that would guarantee a pension with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
There is no agreement between the Company and its Executive Directors or employees, providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Company has the ability to terminate the service agreements of the Executive Directors by the payment of a cash sum inlieu of notice equal to the aggregate of i salary: ii the cost to the Company of providing the Executive Directors pension benefits: and iii the cost to the Company of providing private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, life insurance for Andrew Goodsell and Stuart Howard only and the Company car or car allowance, in each case during the notice period.
The payment in lieu of notice can, at the Companys discretion, be paid as a lump sum or in equal monthly instalments over thenotice period.
There is a mechanism to reduce the monthly instalments if the Executive Director commences alternative employment during the notice period.
In addition, on termination the Executive Directors are entitled to be paid in lieu of accrued but untaken holiday.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an Executive Directors office or employment.
Remuneration element Treatment on cessation of employment Salary, benefits and These will be paid over the notice period.
The Company has discretion to make a payment as set out above.
pension Annual Bonus Plan Good leaver reason Other reason Pro-rated to time and performance for year of cessation.
No bonus payable for year of cessation.
Deferred Bonus Plan Good leaver reason Other reason Discretion All subsisting deferred Lapse of any unvested The Remuneration Committee has the following share awards will vest deferred share awards.
elements of discretion: in full on cessation To determine that an executive is a good of employment.
It is the Remuneration Committees intention to only use this discretion in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full toshareholders.
To vest deferred shares at the end of the original deferral period or at the date of cessation.
The Remuneration Committee will make this determination depending on the type of good leaver reason resulting in the cessation: and Whether to pro-rate the maximum number of shares to the time from the date of grant to the date of cessation.
The Remuneration Committees policy is that it will not pro-rate for time.
The Remuneration Committee will determine whether or not to pro-rate based on the circumstances of the Executive Directors departure.
Saga plc 88 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Remuneration element Treatment on cessation of employment LTIP Good leaver reason Other reason Discretion Pro-rated to time and Lapse of any unvested The Remuneration Committee has the following performance in respect LTIP awards.
elements of discretion: of each subsisting To determine that an executive is a good LTIP award.
To measure performance over the original deferral period or at the date of cessation.
The Remuneration Committee will make this determination depending on the type of good leaver reason resulting in the cessation: and To pro-rate the maximum number of shares to the time from the date of grant to the date of cessation.
The Remuneration Committees policy is that it will pro-rate awards for time.
Itis the Remuneration Committees intention to use discretion to not pro-rate in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full toshareholders.
Other contractual There are no other contractual provisions other than those set out above agreed prior to 27 June 2012. obligations A good leaver reason is defined as cessation in the following circumstances: death ill-health injury or disability retirement employing company ceasing to be a Group company transfer of employment to a company which is not a Group company at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee as described above.
Cessation of employment in circumstances other than those set out above is cessation for other reasons.
Change of control The Remuneration Committees policy on the vesting of incentives on a change of control is summarised below: Name of incentive plan Change of control Discretion Annual Bonus Plan Pro-rated to time and performance to the The Remuneration Committee has discretion to continue the date of the change of control.
operation of the Plan to the end of the bonus year.
Deferred Bonus Plan Subsisting deferred share awards will vest The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to pro-rate on a change of control.
LTIP The number of shares subject to subsisting There is a presumption that the Remuneration Committee will LTIP awards on a change of control will be pro-rate to time.
The Remuneration Committee will only waive propro-rated to time and performance.
rating in exceptional circumstances where it views the change of control as an event which has provided exceptional enhanced value to shareholders which will be fully explained to shareholders.
In all cases the performance conditions must be satisfied.
Saga plc 89 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Directors Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration Annual Report on Remuneration Single total figure of remuneration audited Executive Directors audited The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Executive Director in respect of the 2014 15 financial year.
Comparative figures for the 2013 14 financial year have also been provided.
Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the new UK disclosure requirements: the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Schedule 8 to the Regulations.
Salary, taxable benefits and pension provision pro-rated in accordance to time in role.
2 The types of benefits provided are set out in the Policy section of the Report.
3 Pension contribution for the Executive Chairman and the Group Chief Financial Officer was 11.7% company contribution to the Saga Plus Pension earnings capped at 142,200 for 2014 15 and 138,000 for 2013 14 and 28% and 25% of salary as cash supplement above the cap respectively.
The Group Chief Executive Officer is provided a total of 15% of salary pension contribution and cash supplement.
4 Executive Directors were provided a one-off award on IPO IPO Award.
For the Executive Chairman and the Group Chief Financial Officer, share awards fully vested on IPO with the sale restrictions on the shares to be lifted on 29 May 2015 in accordance with the lock up arrangements outlined in the IPO prospectus.
5 The Group Chief Executive Officer was provided a cash award and a share award on IPO.
Cash award of 4m awarded based on continued employment.
25% immediately on the IPO, 25% on the first anniversary of the award and 50% on the second anniversary: this was part of the buy-out on the recruitment of the Group Chief Executive Officer to compensate for awards lapsing on his ceasing employment with his former employer.
Share award consisted of a one-off award on IPO of share options calculated by reference to 4m divided by Sagas share price on Admission of 1.85.
25% will vest and become exercisable on the third anniversary of the award, 25% on the fourth anniversary and 50% on the fifth anniversary.
The exercise price associated with the options is 1.85 and therefore the value on grant date was nil.
This was part of the buy-out on the recruitment of the Group Chief Executive Officer to compensate for awards lapsing on his ceasing employment with his former employer.
Non-Executive Directors audited The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Non-Executive Director.
2014 15 2013 14 Taxable Taxable 2 Non-Executive Fees benefits Total Fees benefits Total 1 Directors Roles Phillip Green 60,692 60,692 n a n a n a Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Nomination Committee Chairman Ray King 53,949 53,949 n a n a n a Non-Executive Director, Audit Committee Chairman, Risk Committee Chairman Orna NiChionna 40,462 40,462 n a n a n a Non-Executive Director Gareth Williams 47,205 47,205 n a n a n a Non-Executive Director, Remuneration Committee Chairman 1 James Arnell, Pev Hooper and Charles Sherwood are Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors who do not receive a fee from Saga plc.
2 Fees received for time served in financial year.
Saga plc 90 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Annual fees 2014 15 annual fee 2013 14 annual fee Board fee 60,000 n a Committee Chairmanship per committee 10,000 n a Senior Independent Non-Executive Director fee 20,000 n a Annual bonus In respect of the 2014 15 financial year, the bonus awards payable to Executive Directors were agreed by the Remuneration Committee having reviewed the Groups results.
Details of the targets used to determine bonuses in respect of the 2014 15 financial year and the extent to which they were satisfied are shown in the table below.
These figures are included in the single figuretable.
Annual bonus Annual bonus value achieved value for threshold and Percentage of Threshold Maximum maximum maximum Performance performance performance Actual performance performance condition Weighting required required performance % of maximum achieved A Goodsell L Batchelor S Howard Group Trading 80% 228.9m 238.9m 236.4m 20%-100% 80.0% 96.0% of 93.4% of 80.0% of EBITDA salary salary salary 1 Leverage ratio 20% 2.58x 2.43x 2.46x 20%-100% 83.5% 25.1% of 24.4% of 20.9% of salary salary salary Total 100% 80.7% 121.1% of 117.8% of 100.9% of salary salary salary Total 941,506 655,958 477,036 Notes: 1 Leverage ratio is calculated as Bank debt less available cash Trading EBITDA.
The leverage ratio excludes any discretionary investments which may be approved by the Board outside of the budget during the course of the year.
The threshold and maximum leverage ratios are built around the corresponding threshold 228.9m and maximum 238.9m Trading EBITDAtargets.
Under the terms of the Annual Bonus Plan, 20% for each element is payable for achieving the threshold performance increasing to 60% for target performance and 100% for achieving maximum performance.
Achievements between these points are calculated on a straight-line basis.
The Group achieved a total Trading EBITDA for the year of 236.4m, comprising 227.4m on the continuing business and 9.0m in respect of the discontinued Allied Healthcare business the latter being part of the Budget upon which the targets were set.
The Groups Leverage ratio at 31 January 2015 was 2.46x, calculated as follows: Net Debt Trading EBITDA 700.0m 117.7m 236.4m The bonus for the 2014 15 financial year will be paid two thirds in cash and one third deferred in shares which will vest after three years based on continued employment.
No discretion was exercised by the Remuneration Committee in relation to the outcome of the annual bonus awards.
Awards granted on Admission Nil cost options were granted on the day of Admission to the Executive Chairman, Group Chief Financial Officer and 55other employees of the Group to recognise their contribution to the business in the lead up to Admission options were granted with reference to the share price on Admission.
Saga plc 91 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Directors Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration continued Percentage of Maximum Basis on award vesting at percentage of which Face value threshold face value that Award award of award Number performance could vest Name type made of shares % % Performance conditions Andrew Fully One-off 5,000,000 2,702,702 100% 100% None.
Goodsell vested award Award subject to lock-up period, shares one year from the date of Admission as disclosed in the IPO prospectus.
Howard vested award Award subject to lock-up period, shares one year from the date of Admission as disclosed in the IPO prospectus.
As disclosed in the IPO prospectus, the awards for the Executive Chairman and the Group Chief Financial Officer are fully vested on grant subject to the lock-up arrangements and the options will be exercisable for ten years from grant.
One-off awards As part of the successful IPO, Lance Batchelor was provided a share option with a face value of 4m with an exercise price set at the price on Admission of 1.85.
25% of the shares under the options will vest on the third anniversary of Admission, a further 25% on the fourth anniversary of Admission and the final 50% on the fifth anniversary of Admission.
In addition, Lance was provided a 1m cash bonus on IPO with a further 1m cash bonus on the first anniversary of the IPO and 2m cash bonus on the second anniversary of the IPO.
These awards were agreed as part of his recruitment and the buyout of bonus and share awards which lapsed on his joining Saga.
Neither the awards granted on Admission nor the one-off awards are part of the Remuneration Committees future Remuneration Policy.
Long-term incentives awarded in the 2014 15 financial year audited The table below sets out the details of the long-term incentive awards granted in the 2014 15 financial year where vesting will be determined according to the achievement of performance conditions that will be tested in future reporting periods: Percentage of Maximum Basis on award vesting at percentage of which Face value threshold face value that Award award of award Shares performance could vest Name type made awarded % % Performance conditions Andrew Goodsell LTIP Annual 1,166,193 630,374 25% 100% Relative TSR and EPS equally weighted Lance Batchelor LTIP Annual 1,300,000 702,702 25% 100% Relative TSR and EPS equally weighted Stuart Howard LTIP Annual 590,976 319,446 25% 100% Relative TSR and EPS equally weighted The awards were granted on 30 June 2014: the face value is calculated with reference to the share price on Admission of 1.85.
The performance conditions are set out on page 79 in the Implementation of Remuneration Policy in the 2015 16 financial year.
The awards will vest, subject to the level of performance achieved, on 30 June 2017.
Payments to past Directors payments for loss of office There were no payments in the financial year.
Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests See tables on pages 77-78.
Fees retained for external non-executive directorships Executive Directors may hold positions in other companies as Non-Executive Directors and retain the fees.
Andrew Goodsell and Stuart Howard are directors of Acromas Holdings Limited.
They do not receive a fee for their positions.
Lance Batchelor is a Trustee of the charity White Ensign Association and is a Trustee of the National Gallery: he does not receive a fee for either position.
Saga plc 92 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Comparison of overall performance and pay The graph below shows the value of 100 invested in the Companys shares since listing compared with the FTSE 250 Index.
The graph shows the TSR generated by both the movement in share value and the re-investment over the same period of dividend income.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the FTSE 250 is the appropriate index because the Company has been a member of this since listing.
This graph has been calculated in accordance with Regulations.
It should be noted that the Company listed on 23 May 2014 and therefore only has a listed share price for the period of 23 May 2014 to 31 January 2015.
110 105 100 95 90 85 80 23 05 14 30 05 14 30 06 14 31 07 14 29 08 14 30 09 14 31 10 14 28 11 14 31 12 14 30 01 15 Saga FTSE 250 Index Executive Chairman historical remuneration The table below sets out the total remuneration delivered to the Executive Chairman over the last two years valued using the methodology applied to the single total figure of remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee does not believe that the remuneration payable in its earlier years as a private company bears any comparative value to that paid in its later years and therefore the Remuneration Committee has chosen to disclose remuneration only for the two most recent financial years: Executive Chairman 2014 15 2013 14 Total single figure 7,026,379 1,653,349 Annual bonus payment level achieved % of maximum opportunity 80.7% 70% LTIP vesting level achieved % of maximum opportunity n a n a Option vesting level achieved % of maximum opportunity n a n a There was no long-term incentive plan or share option plan operated prior to listing.
It should be noted that 5m of single total figure for 2014 15 related to the award granted on Admission, which was a one-off payment.
Relative importance of the spend on pay The table below sets out the relative importance of spend on pay in the 2014 15 financial year and 2013 14 financial year compared with other disbursements.
The Company as a UK-based business believes that its total tax contribution to the UKisa relevant consideration when considering disbursements fromprofit.
All figures provided are taken from the relevant Company accounts.
Disbursements from profit in Disbursements from profit in 2014 15 financial year 2013 14 financial year m m % change Profit distributed by way of dividend Nil Nil n a 1,2 Total tax contributions 51.6 102.7 -49.8% Overall spend on pay 330.7 368.8 -10.3% including Executive Directors 1 Total tax contributions include corporation tax, PAYE, national insurance contributions, VAT and Air Passenger Duty.
2 The reduction in tax contributions is driven by corporation tax, where 2014 15 has reduced due to deductions for loan interest, and payments were madeduring 2013 14 in respect of the previous year, 2012 13.
Change in the Executive Chairmans remuneration compared with employees The following table sets out the change in the remuneration paid to the Executive Chairman from 2013 14 to 2014 15 compared to the average percentage change for employees.
The Executive Chairmans remuneration disclosed in the table below has been calculated to take into account base salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus including any amount deferred.
Saga plc 93 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Directors Remuneration Report Annual Report on Remuneration continued The employee pay has been calculated using the following elements: annual salary base salary and standard monthly allowances: taxable benefits car allowance and private medical insurance premiums: annual bonus company bonus, management bonus, commission and incentive payments.
This includes all permanent and fixed term contract staff.
The following should be noted: Employees within Destinology have not been included for the purposes of calculation during this year as they only joined the Group part way through the financial year: they will be included in future years.
Employees within the Allied Nestor Primecare Services business have not been included for the purposes of calculation as they represent a disposal group held for sale and as such are considered a discontinued operation for reporting purposes.
Ships crew who are employed via a manning agency are excluded.
Statement of conditions elsewhere in the Group Each year, prior to reviewing the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the members of the Executive Team, the Remuneration Committee considers a report prepared by the Group HR Director detailing remuneration practice across the Group.
Thereport provides an overview of how employee pay compares to the market, any material changes during the year and includes detailed analysis of basic pay and variable pay changes within the UK.
While the Company does not directly consult with employees as part of the process of reviewing executive pay and formulating the remuneration policy set out in this Report, the Company does receive an update and feedback from the broader employee population on an annual basis using an engagement survey which includes a number of questions relating to remuneration.
The Group does not use remuneration comparison measurements.
Cascade of incentives through our organisation Maximum bonus award Maximum LTIP award Organisational level 100% 100% Executive Team 60% 60% Directors 40% 40% Senior leadership Up to 40% Rest of employee population Statement of implementation of the Remuneration Policy in the 2015 16 financial year See tables on pages 78-79.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors Remuneration The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee, under agreed terms of reference, responsibility for the Remuneration Policy and for determining specific packages for the Executive Directors, the Executive Chairman and other members of the Executive Team.
Prior to the establishment of this Remuneration Committee, remuneration decisions were made by the Board of the Company.
The Company consults with key shareholders in respect of remuneration policy and the introduction of new incentive arrangements.
The terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee are available on the Companys website, http: www.
co. uk investor-relations corporate-governance, and from the Company Secretary at the registered office.
Our main responsibilities are: to determine and agree with the Board the broad remuneration policy for the Senior Executives.
to recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
to review the on-going appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy.
to review any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Company or Group and to administer all aspects of any share scheme.
to administer all aspects of any all-employee share scheme.
Saga plc 94 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 The Remuneration Committee receives assistance from the Group HR Director and Company Secretary, who attend meetings by invitation, except when issues relating to their own remuneration are being discussed.
The Group Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief Financial Officer attend by invitation on occasions.
The Remuneration Committee met three times during the financial year.
Meeting attendance is shown on page 73 of this Report.
For the names of each Remuneration Committee member, see page 73.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee Following a selection process carried out by the Board prior to the IPO of the Company, the Remuneration Committee has engaged the services of PwC as independent remuneration adviser.
During the financial year, PwC advised the Remuneration Committee on all aspects of the remuneration policy for Executive Directors andmembers of the Executive Team.
PwC also provided the Company with tax and assurance work during the year.
TheRemuneration Committee reviewed the nature of the services provided and was satisfied that no conflict of interest exists or existed inthe provision of these services.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and the voluntary code of conduct of that body is designed to ensure objective and independent advice is given to remuneration committees.
Fixed fees of 57,500 2013 14: nil were provided to PwC during the year in respect of remuneration advice received.
The Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Saga plc.
By Order of the Board Gareth Williams Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 29 April 2015 Saga plc 95 Annual report and accounts for the year ending 31 January 2015 Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
