Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Directors Remuneration Report Dear Shareholder Annual statement On behalf of the Board, having been appointed as the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 October 2015, I am pleased to introduce our 2015 Directors Remuneration Report the Report which sets out Savills remuneration philosophy and policy Rupert Robson in relation to Directors remuneration and how this was implemented Chairman of the in the year ended 31 December 2015.
In the interests of succinct  reporting we have not reproduced the Remuneration Policy report appointed 1 October 2015 in full.
We have provided the approved policy table at the end of this report for ease of reference.
The full report can be found on our website.
Governance This Report has been prepared on behalf of the Board by the Our remuneration philosophy Remuneration Committee the Committee in accordance with Our focus and business policy is founded on the premise that staff therequirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large inour sector are motivated through highly incentive-based and and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and therefore variable remuneration consistent with our partnership style Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Regulations and the culture.
We firmly believe that this approach best aligns shareholders auditable disclosures referred to in the External Auditors Report and managements interests and incentivises superior performance on pages 73to 79 as specified by the UK Listing Authority and and the creation of long-term shareholder value.
also ensures that our reward arrangements are consistent with andsensitive to the cyclical nature of real estate markets.
20112015 Overview Underlying Profit Our Remuneration Policy is designed to deliver these objectives 141% and to provide the reward potential necessary for the Company to attract, retain and motivate the high-calibre individuals on whom its continued growth and development depend.
Reflecting this Dividend Payments to Shareholders philosophy, the salaries for the Executive Directors, Group Executive 108% Board members and senior fee-earners are set significantly below market medians for similar businesses, with agreater emphasis on the performance-related elements of profit share and or, outside Executive Director Remuneration theUK, commission in the total reward package.
86% The Committee is mindful of its responsibility to reward appropriately, but not excessively, and rigorously assesses competitive positioning Total Shareholder Return in setting remuneration and determining targets to ensure that 170% reward properly reflects performance, that it supports the delivery ofour strategic and operational objectives and that it is fair to The dividend cost for 2015 comprises the cost of the final dividend management and shareholders alike.
Overall, we expect employment recommended by the Board amounting to 10.7m, payment of which is costs over the cycle to be in the range of 65%70% ofrevenues.
subject to shareholder approval at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM scheduled to be held on 11 May 2016, the cost of the supplemental 2015 performance and remuneration dividend 18.7m declared by the Board on 9 March 2016 payable to shareholders on the Register of Members as at 15 April 2016 and the Annual performance-related profit share interimdividend 5.3m paid on 12 October 2015.
Savills delivered another excellent performance in 2015, delivering Executive Director remuneration comprises the remuneration paid to the results significantly above expectations.
Key highlights for the GroupChief Executive Officer and Group Chief Financial Officer job holders year included: between 1January 2011 and 31 December 2015.
Since 1 July 2010 the Executive Director representation on the Board has comprised these jobholders.
Underlying profit of 121.4m which represented 21% growth on2014: Revenue growth of 19% on 2014: and Further improvement in the Groups underlying profit margin to9.5% 2014: 9.3%.
SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 55 Directors Remuneration Report continued In addition to this, 2015 also saw further strong progress in the Governance developments delivery of the Groups longer-term strategic objectives, in particular: On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I wanted to take the opportunity to thank Tim Freshwater, who served as Chairman of the acquisition, by Savills Investment Management, of SEB theRemuneration Committee until September 2015.
AssetManagement, which achieves astep-change in the scaleof the Groups Investment Management platform: Last year we strengthened the malus and clawback provisions the continued successful integration of Savills Studley, in in our incentive programmes.
As aCommittee, we continue to particular delivering the growth targeted for the year to monitor best practice developments in executive remuneration, expandthe business geographic spread and broaden further and will particularly consider these as we undertake areview strengthen its service offering: and of our approach during the course of 2016, prior to submitting implementing asuccession plan for the Groups Asia Pacific our Remuneration Policy to shareholders for approval in 2017. business, including strengthening the Asia Pacific central Wewouldconsult with shareholders prior to any substantive management team through the recruitment of aChief Operating changes to our policy.
Financial Officer to support the Asia Pacific ChiefExecutive forthe region.
The Committee is appreciative of the significant shareholder support that it has enjoyed in recent years and welcomed shareholders Reflecting the very strong overall performance in 2015, the endorsement of the 2014 Annual Remuneration Report at the Committee considered it appropriate to approve annual 2015 AGM.
We hope that you find this years Annual Remuneration performance-related profit share awards at the maximum potential Report equally clear and informative and that you will continue to in relation to the financial performance of the Group and in relation support us by voting in favour of the resolution at this years AGM to delivery of strategic and operational objectives for the Executive on 11 May 2016.
We have provided transparent retrospective disclosure of the threshold, target and maximum financial targets which were set Rupert Robson for the year, which can be found on page 59.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 2016 remuneration An overview of the key decisions for 2016 is as follows: In line with our policy of not making annual incremental changesto base salary, there are no increases to base salary from last year.
The variable remuneration structure will continue to operate inline with the current philosophy with the annual profit share based 70% on underlying profit before tax and 30% on the delivery for strategic objectives.
The PSP award for the CEO will be an award of 550,000 which is the same as last year 200% of salary.
The CFO award will be 250,000 c. 111% of salary which is in line with 2014, and is lower than 2015.
Following a review of the PSP performance targets and taking into consideration a number of factors including current global macro-economic and political concerns, the Committee decided to set the threshold EPS target at RPI 3% and the maximum target at RPI 8%.
The Committee considers that this approach will most appropriately align the interests of management and shareholders.
The relative total shareholder return target will remain in line with the previous years.
56 SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
