Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Annual Report on Remuneration Meetings Attendance table Role of the Committee Meetings Meetings eligible to The principal role of the Committee is to support the Group to Committee member attended attend achieve its strategic objectives by designing aremuneration policy Rupert Robson appointed 23 June 2015 1 1 consistent with the Groups business model such that we have the ability to attract, recruit, retain and motivate the high-calibre Tim Freshwater 4 4 individuals needed to deliver the Groups strategy.
The Committee Martin Angle 4 4 isresponsible for the broad policy governing senior staff pay Liz Hewitt 4 4 and remuneration.
It sets the actual levels of all elements of the Peter Smith 4 4 remuneration of the Executive Directors and reviews that of Group Executive Board members.
The Policy remains under periodic review As at 31 December 2015 and up to the date of this Report, the to ensure that it remains consistent with the Companys scale and Committee comprises Independent Non-Executive Directors and the scope of operations, supports business strategy and growth plans Non-Executive Chairman.
Biographical details relating to each ofthe and helps drive the creation of shareholder value.
The Committee Committee members are shown on page 44. also oversees the operation of Savills employee share schemes.
The Committee met four times during the year.
The principal agenda Committee members and attendees items considered by the Committee during the year were as follows: As shown in the table below, the Committee comprises the Independent Non-Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Chairman: reconfirming the Groups remuneration policy in the context of the proposed new legislation relating to executive remuneration: Committee member Position Status agreeing performance targets for both the annual performanceRupert Robson Chair of the Independent related profit share and PSP awards: appointed 23 June Committee from preparing an Annual Remuneration Report consistent with the 2015 1October 2015 legislation relating to executive remuneration: Tim Freshwater Chair of the Independent agreeing the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors Committee to and reviewing those of Group Executive Board members: 30September 2015 approving the grant of Performance Share Plan awards: and Member of the approving the grant of share awards to fee-earners and senior Committee from managers across the Group.
1October 2015 Responsibilities of the Committee Martin Angle Member of the Independent The Committees principal responsibilities are to determine Company Committee policy on senior executive remuneration and to set the remuneration Liz Hewitt Member of the Independent arrangements of the Executive Directors and to review those of the Committee members of the Group Executive Board.
The Committee excluding Peter Smith Member of the Non-Executive Chairman the Non-Executive Chairman also determines the level of fees Committee payable to the Non-Executive Chairman.
In these respects, the Committee is advised by Deloitte LLP, who provide independent commentary on matters under consideration by the Committee Nicholas Ferguson, who joined the Board as an additional and updates on market developments, legislative requirements Independent Non-Executive Director on 26 January 2016, became and best practice, and internally by the Group Legal Director & amember of the Committee on the same date.
Committee attendee Position Status Given the fundamental role that remuneration plays in the success Jeremy Helsby Group Chief Attends by invitation ofthe Group, in terms of the recruitment, motivation and retention of Executive Officer except when his own high-quality staff, the Group Chief Executive Officer attends meetings remuneration is by invitation and is consulted on the remuneration packages of the discussed Group Chief Financial Officer and Group Executive Board members.
Chris Lee Group Legal Provides advice and Director& support except when Advisers to the Committee Company hisown remuneration In determining Executive Director remuneration, the Committee Secretary isdiscussed as well hasaccess to detailed external information and research on market asacting as Secretary trends and peer practice provided by its independent external totheCommittee adviser Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte is amember of the Remuneration Consultants Group, and adheres to the voluntary code of conduct Simon Shaw, Group CFO, may be invited to attend meetings inrelation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Deloittes to provide an overview of market conditions and the Groups fees are based on atime and material basis, within the parameters financial performance.
of an overall annual budget.
In 2015, Deloitte received fees of 32,700inrelation to advice provided to the Committee.
Deloitte provided noother services to the Group during the year.
SAVILLS PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 57
