120 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report Dear Shareholder In addition to overseeing senior Executive remuneration, the Committee has been briefed on wider issues, most notably On behalf of your Board, I am pleased to present our Directors in 2015, the plans to deal with the implementation of the new Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2015.
National Living Wage: Serco welcomes any measure that The Remuneration Committee continues to focus on the need addresses basic pay within the UK and provides a consistent for a clear link between pay and performance and provides approach to pay levels across the industry.
Further detail on the information on this in the Report by way of disclosures on our Committees activities during the year can be found on page 142. reward structure and on our remuneration decisions in line with Rights Issue the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
This Report also Following the closure of the Rights Issue on 17 April 2015 complies with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the the Remuneration Committee approved for the options and Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and awards granted under the Serco Employee Share Schemes to Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Regulations.
be adjusted to compensate the option and award holders for the effects of the Rights Issue as permitted by the rules of the We have structured the Report into two sections: relevant Serco Employee Share Schemes.
The adjustments were carried out using a standard formula called the 'TERP' 1.
Directors Remuneration Policy setting out all elements of Theoretical Ex Rights Price formula and were approved by the our Companys remuneration policy and the key factors that Companys auditors.
Further details on the adjustments can be were taken into account in setting that policy.
This policy found on page 141. received overwhelming support from shareholders under a binding shareholder vote at the General Meeting in May Remuneration outcomes in respect of 2015 2014 and will be resubmitted to shareholders for a vote at 2015 Share Awards least every third year.
Operating within our existing policy, in 2015 the Committee consulted with our major shareholders on some small changes 2.
A nnual Report on Remuneration setting out payments and to the performance measures with the intention of better awards made to our Directors and an explanation of the link aligning Sercos incentive plans with the outcomes of the between Company performance and remuneration for Groups Strategy Review.
The performance measures for the the financial year covered by the accounts.
This report 2015 Performance Share Plan awards are Aggregate EPS, on remuneration, together with this letter is subject to an Relative TSR and ROIC and are described in more detail in the advisory shareholder vote at the Annual General Meeting Implementation Report on page 138.
These awards are subject on 12 May 2016. to malus, clawback and a holding period.
2015 Overview 2015 Bonus Awards The first few months of the year were hugely challenging for Following the Rights Issue, we consulted with major shareholders the business as the new management team sought to stabilise on some small changes to the performance measures for Serco through the Rights Issue and refinancing of the group.
incentive plans in order to align with the Groups Strategy These were exceptional circumstances and given the position Review.
One of these was to increase the weighting on financial of the Company at that time, the new Group Chief Executive, performance such that for 2015 70% of the annual bonus is Rupert Soames, decided it would be in the best interests of driven by financial performance and 30% against non-financial the Company if he were to waive payment of his annual bonus performance.
It is the view of the Remuneration Committee in respect of 2014.
Since then, and as reported in the Strategic that the management team should be highly commended Report pages 5 to 83 a great deal of progress has been made for the exceptional progress made in stabilising the business in implementing the new strategy.
The disposal of the offshore and delivering what was set out in the strategic plan during private sector BPO business was materially completed by challenging circumstances.
After thorough consideration there year-end, net debt has been substantially reduced, and the was unanimous support for the decision to make bonus awards management team has over-delivered on the guidance given to reflect the contribution that each member of the team has at the beginning of 2015.
Significant improvements have been made to strengthening the business and ensuring a strong made to management information and financial reporting foundation on which to build a successful future.
systems, costs have been reduced and relationships with key government customers have been improved.
Serco has a highly As a result of the achievement of strong financial and noneffective management team, who are committed to continuing financial performance over the year against the targets set, to transform the business over the coming two years in line with a bonus award of 87% of maximum 130% of salary has been the strategic plan: something the Committee has seen firstdetermined for Rupert in respect of 2015 performance.
The hand in our work with the management team in shaping in-year corresponding bonus amounts for Angus and Ed are 87% objectives and in our contract visits in the Middle East.
of maximum 112% of salary and 84% of maximum 125% of salary respectively.
Directors Report Remuneration Report 121 The financial measures against which the outcome of the bonus These outcomes clearly demonstrate that our remuneration were determined comprised Revenue, Free Cash Flow and policy is effective in aligning pay with performance.
On both Free Cash Flow and Trading Profit, the Remuneration for 2016 achievements of the business over the year were in excess of We are not making any changes to our remuneration policy the stretching maximum target set by the Committee at the this year.
beginning of the year, and these components of bonus have therefore paid out in full.
The level of Revenue achieved over The Committee conducted its regular review of salaries of the the period was between the threshold and maximum target set Executive Directors, with consideration given to the overall pay and as such 68% of this component of the bonus was achieved.
decisions for employees across the Group as a whole.
Based on current conditions within the Company, it was agreed with the The financial bonus outcomes have been calculated after senior management team that with effect from 1 April 2016, the appropriate adjustments agreed at the beginning of the salaries for the Executive Directors will remain unchanged.
year as part of the target-setting process were made.
These related to the Contract and Balance Sheet Review undertaken Shareholder engagement in December 2014, where a number of charges were taken I and the Committee believe it is important to continue in respect of Onerous Contract Provisions OCPs.
These to maintain effective channels of communication with our provisions totalled 447m and relate to the multi-year net shareholders.
The Committee takes the views of shareholders cash outflows to the end of each of the obligated periods for very seriously and these views have been influential in shaping each of the individual contracts.
The Committee believe that our policy and practice.
We welcome shareholder feedback on it is important that management be incentivised to minimise any aspect of Executive remuneration.
However, variations to these can have a very material impact on Reported Trading Profit as The voting outcome at the 6 May 2015 General Meeting in under the accounting treatment, the multi-year effect of charges respect of the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year or releases are included in a single year.
The Committee has ending 31 December 2014 reflected very strong shareholder spent considerable time reviewing the Trading Profit calculation support with a 98.87% vote in favour.
for bonus purposes, initially working with management to determine a robust approach to decision-making, informed by a Having been approved in May 2014, our remuneration policy will review of each individual contract and with cross-referencing to be resubmitted to shareholders for a binding vote in May 2017.
In information shared with the Audit Committee.
As a result of the preparation for this, the Committee intends to review the policy rigour applied to this process, the Committee is satisfied that the during the course of 2016, and will discuss any possible changes annual bonus out-turn fairly reflects management performance with our major shareholders as part of this review.
Further detail can be found on pages 133 to 134.
Summary On the non-financial metrics, the leadership team have, in 2015 has continued to be hugely challenging for the business.
their first full performance year together, shown strong and Ibelieve that the Remuneration Committee has rigorously visible leadership in successfully delivering the Rights Issue, made the necessary decisions to ensure that reward is and delivering the transformation plan to achieve agreed demonstrably linked to performance and shareholder interests.
The pipeline for new business is now growing We will continue to engage with shareholders to ensure again and there have been measurable increases in levels that our new leadership team are rewarded appropriately to of employee and leadership engagement.
The process of incentivise them to realise Sercos strategic objectives.
disposing of the offshore private sector BPO business was completed by the year end, despite numerous challenges.
The Corporate Renewal Programme was implemented and Angie Risley continued to be embedded with new values being launched.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee The new Chairman regards the support that Rupert Soames and his team have provided to him, in becoming effective in role, as first class.
Vesting Share Awards As a consequence of our financial performance falling short of where we wanted it to be, the long-term incentive awards made under the PSP and DBP in 2013, and due to vest in 2016 based on 2015 results, will lapse.
We were below median against our peer group on a relative Total Shareholder Return basis and EPS growth fell short of the threshold of 5.5% p. a. compound.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 122 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued At a glance: implementation of remuneration policy for 2016 and key decisions for 2015 The table below summarises how key elements of the remuneration policy will be implemented in 2016 and key decisions taken by the Remuneration Committee in relation to base pay and incentives for Executive Directors in respect of 2015 year-end.
CEO CFO COO Element Rupert Soames Angus Cockburn Ed Casey Base salary from 1 April 2016 850,000 500,000 $1,061,690 Pension 30% of salary 30% of salary 30% of salary including cost of participation in US 401k plan Annual bonus Max 150% of salary Max 130% of salary Max 150% of salary On-target 75% of salary On-target 65% of salary On-target 75% of salary Annual bonus measures 70% financial targets including Revenue, Trading Profit, Free Cash Flow.
Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Maximum of 50% of earned bonus can be deferred to purchase investment shares, each individual investment share purchased will be matched on a gross investment basis by a maximum of two matching shares.
DBP measures EPS is the sole measure to determine the vesting of matching shares measured over three years.
Performance Share Plan PSP Maximum 200% of salary Maximum 175% of salary Maximum 175% of salary PSP measures Aggregate EPS Statutory Earnings Per Share EPS before exceptional items adjusted to reflect tax paid on a cash basis, measured as an aggregate over the three-year performance period.
Relative TSR Total Shareholder Return TSR when ranked relative to companies in the FTSE250 excluding investment trusts.
ROIC Pre-tax Return on Invested Capital ROIC, measured as an average over the three-year performance period.
Holding requirement Vested shares from the PSP to be held for two years post vesting after payment of tax.
Shareholding requirement 200% of salary 150% of salary 150% of salary Malus and clawback Clawback provisions will apply to the annual bonus plan.
Malus provisions will apply to PSP and DBP awards during the three-year performance period prior to vesting.
Clawback provisions will apply during the two-year post-vesting holding period to shares arising from PSP awards.
Clawback provisions will apply to matching shares awarded under the DBP.
Changes for 2016 No change Year-end decisions made Executive Directors 1 April 2016 salary review No change No change No change 2015 Bonus outcome: Currency value 1,103,130 562,380 $1,330,085 % of salary 129.78% 112.48% 125.28% % of maximum 86.52% 86.52% 83.52% 2013 PSP vesting N a N a Nil Non-Executive Directors Chairman fee effective 250,000 previous Chairman 270,000 1 July 2015 Directors Report Remuneration Report 123 2015 actual single figure versus remuneration policy The following charts show the actual single figure for remuneration for the Executive Directors against the remuneration policy scenarios applying for 2015: Rupert Soames Angus Cockburn Ed Casey US$ $4,855 6000 2500 5000 2,198 5,012 5000 2000 4000 $3,130 4000 1,436 1500 3000 $2,730 3,070 1,231 3000 2,226 1000 2000 2000 $1,405 673 1,128 500 1000 1000 0 0 0 Below Min.
Actual Single Threshold Figure Threshold Figure Threshold Figure Fixed elements of remuneration Annual Variable Multiple period variable Notes: The scenarios in the above graphs are defined as follows: Fixed elements of remuneration Base salary as at 1 April 2015 Estimated value of benefits provided under the remuneration policy Cash allowance in lieu of pension 30% of salary for CEO and CFO Cash allowance in lieu of pension 30% of salary for COO less the cost of participation in the US 401k plan Ed Caseys fixed elements of pay are converted into GBP with an exchange rate of USD 1 GBP 0.65398 Below Threshold Target performance Maximum performance Annual bonus 0% 75% CEO 150% CEO payout as a % of salary 65% CFO 130% CFO 75% COO 150% COO 1 1 Deferred Bonus Plan Nil 1:1 Matching Shares 2:1 Matching Shares 1 1 Performance Share Plan Nil 50% 100% as a % of face value Note: 1 The Deferred Bonus Plan and Performance Share Plan values reflect the target and maximum vesting scenarios for the 2015 awards, the CFO and COO did not participate in the Deferred Bonus Plan in 2015.
The Deferred Bonus Plan and Performance Share Plan values in the actual single figure reflects the vesting of the 2013 awards which was zero.
The CEO and CFO joined the Company in 2014 so did not receive awards in 2013.
Share price movement and dividend equivalents have not been incorporated into the above figures.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 124 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued In this section Remuneration Policy Page Remuneration Report Page Directors Remuneration Policy 124 Executive Single Figure 132 Remuneration Policy for Other Employees 128 Variable Pay Outcomes 133 Recruitment Policy 129 Non-Executive Director Single Figure 135 Service Contracts and Loss of Office Policy 130 2015 Share Awards 138 Non-Executive Director Policy 131 Directors Share Interests 140 Remuneration Committee 141 Directors Remuneration Policy The following report details the remuneration policy and the decisions on remuneration of the Directors of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2015.
This report has been drafted in compliance with the disclosure requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
This Report also complies with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Regulations.
The remuneration policy report was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and will apply until shareholders next consider and vote on the Policy at the AGM in 2017.
The Directors Remuneration Policy is displayed on the Companys website, in the investor area.
Remuneration Policy Sercos remuneration policy supports the achievement of the Companys long-term strategic objectives.
Sercos approach to executive remuneration is designed to: Support Sercos long-term future growth, strategy and values: Align the financial interests of executives and shareholders: Provide market competitive reward opportunities for performance in line with expectations and deliver significant financial rewards for sustained out-performance: Enable Serco to recruit and retain the best executives with the required skills and experience in all our chosen markets: Be based on a clear rationale which participants, shareholders and other stakeholders are able to understand and support.
Directors Report Remuneration Report 125 Future policy table The remuneration package for Executive Directors consists of base salary, annual bonus, long-term share based incentives, pension and other benefits.
The Companys policy is to ensure that a significant proportion of the package is related to performance.
The following table sets out each element of reward and how it supports the Companys short and long-term strategic objectives.
Whilst the table is focused on Executive Directors, the table set out on page 128 provides further information of how pay policies are set for the broader employee population.
Performance metrics used, How the element supports Maximum potential value Operation of the element weighting and time period our strategic objectives and payment at threshold applicable Base Salary To help recruit and retain Pay levels are designed to be Over the policy period, None executives of the necessary competitive and fair and reflect the base salaries for Executive calibre to execute Sercos skills and performance of individuals.
Directors will be set at an strategic objectives and to appropriate level within the Salaries are benchmarked from recognise an individuals peer group and will normally time to time against salaries for the experience, responsibility and increase at no more than the Companys relevant peer group, with performance.
greater of inflation and salary the market positioning dependent increases made to the general To ensure base salaries are on the scale of challenges intrinsic to workforce in the jurisdiction competitive in the market in the individuals role and individuals the Executive Director is which the individual is employed.
circumstances there may be phased movement to that positioning.
Higher increases may be made in exceptional Salaries are reviewed annually and any circumstances, for example changes are effective from 1April in when there is a change in role the financial year.
Benefits To provide a competitive level of Serco pays the cost of providing the The maximum opportunity None benefits.
benefits on a monthly basis or as for benefits is defined by the required for one-off events such as nature of the benefits and receiving financial advice.
the cost of providing them.
As the cost of providing These include but are not limited such benefits varies based to car allowances, private medical on market rates and other insurance, permanent healthcare factors, there is no formal insurance, life cover, annual allowance maximum monetary value.
for independent financial advice, and voluntary health checks every two years.
Relocation benefits will be provided in a manner that reflects individual circumstances and Sercos relocation benefits policy.
For example, relocation benefits could include temporary accommodation for the Executive and dependents and tax equalisation.
Benefits are reviewed annually against market practice and are designed to be competitive.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 126 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued Performance metrics used, How the element supports Maximum potential value Operation of the element weighting and time period our strategic objectives and payment at threshold applicable Annual Bonus Incentivise executives to achieve Bonus result is determined by the Maximum bonus opportunity: Bonus is earned on the basis of specific, predetermined goals Committee after the year end, based achievement of a mix of financial 150% of salary for CEO during a one-year period.
on performance against objectives and non-financial objectives of 130% of salary for CFO and targets.
which at least 50% are financial.
Reward ongoing stewardship 150% of salary for COO and contribution to core values.
Annual bonuses are paid after the end Financial measures are based on On-target bonus: of the financial year end to which they the Companys Key Performance relate.
There is an optional deferral Indicators KPIs and the non- 75% of salary for CEO of 50% of the total earned bonus into financial measures are based on 65% of salary for CFO Serco shares.
75% of salary for COO On change of control the Performance is measured over Threshold bonus is 20% of Remuneration Committee may pay the financial year.
bonuses on a pro-rata basis measured The Committee has discretion on performance up to the date of to vary the weighting of change of control.
performance metrics over the life of this remuneration policy.
Also the Committee has discretion in exceptional circumstances to vary performance measures part-way through a performance year if there is a significant event such as a major transaction or transition in role which causes the Committee to believe the original performance conditions are no longer appropriate.
Deferred Bonus Plan DBP This plan is to incentivise Executive Directors can elect to defer, For maximum performance, Earnings Per Share EPS is the executives to achieve superior for three financial years, up to 50% each investment share sole measure to determine the returns for shareholders and of their annual bonus by purchasing is matched by two vesting of matching shares.
to align executives to investment shares.
The performance condition is shareholder interests.
Each individual investment share For threshold performance measured over three years.
purchased will be matched on a gross each investment share In exceptional circumstances the investment basis by up to a maximum is matched by half a Committee retains discretion to of two matching shares.
change performance measures Dividends are reinvested and and targets and the weightings distributed only in respect of attached to performance shares that vest at the end of the measures part-way through performance period.
the performance period if there is a significant event for The Committee, at its discretion may example a major transaction attach a post-vesting holding period which causes the committee to for awards.
believe the original measures, weightings or targets are no In circumstances such as fraud, longerappropriate.
misconduct and or misstatement by a participant, the Company will The Committee has discretion be entitled to withhold before the to vary the proportion of vesting date the value of any shares awards that vest, to ensure to be released or the payment of cash that the outcomes are fair and equivalents under the DBP.
appropriate and reflect the underlying financial performance On a change of control, awards vest of the Group.
pro-rata for time and performance up to the date of change of control unless the Committee decides otherwise.
As provided in the plan rules approved by shareholders, the Committee has discretion to adjust awards in the event of, for example, corporate restructuring or capital events.
Directors Report Remuneration Report 127 Performance metrics used, How the element supports Maximum potential value Operation of the element weighting and time period our strategic objectives and payment at threshold applicable Performance Share Plan PSP To drive achievement of Awards of nominal cost options Face value on grant of 200% Vesting is dependent on at least longer-term objectives, increase conditional shares made annually.
of base salary for the CEO and two performance conditions shareholder value aligned 175% for the CFO and COO.
chosen from: Dividends are reinvested and closely to creating shareholders distributed only in respect of 25% of the award vests for EPS interests.
shares that vest at the end of the threshold performance.
Share Price or absolute TSR The Committee, at its discretion may The measures are independent, attach a post-vesting holding period and are measured over three for awards.
The weighting of each is determined prior to award.
In circumstances such as fraud, The Remuneration Committee misconduct and or misstatement by has discretion to adopt other a participant, the Company will be measures following consultation entitled to withhold before the end with major shareholders.
of the holding period the value of any shares to be released or the payment In exceptional circumstances the of cash equivalents under the PSP.
Committee retains discretion to change performance measures On a change of control awards vest and targets and the weightings pro-rata for time and performance up attached to performance to the date of change of control unless measures part-way through the committee decides otherwise.
the performance period if As provided in the plan rules approved there is a significant event by shareholders, the Committee such as a major transaction has discretion to adjust awards in which causes the committee to the event of, for example, corporate believe the original measures, restructuring or capital events.
weightings or targets are no longerappropriate.
The Committee has discretion to vary the proportion of awards that vest, to ensure that the outcomes are fair and appropriate and reflect the underlying financial performance of the Group.
Pension To provide funding for retirement.
Executive Directors may participate in Rupert Soames and Angus None tax-approved pension plans operated Cockburn receive a cash by the Company.
allowance in lieu of pension equal to 30% of base salary.
A cash allowance is available for those not participating in a pension scheme Ed Casey participates in or whose participation exceeds one or the US 401k pension and more tax allowances.
receives a cash allowance in lieu of pension equal to 30% of base salary less the cost of participation in the US401k plan.
Shareholding Requirement To support long-term Unvested performance shares or CEO 200% of salary None commitment to the Company options are not taken into account.
CFO 150% of salary and the alignment of employee Share price is measured at end of each COO 150% of salary interests with those of financial year.
The Committee has the shareholders.
Executives are required to retain discretion to increase the in shares 50% of the net value of shareholding requirements any performance shares vesting or of the Executive Directors.
options exercised until they satisfy the shareholding requirement.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 128 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued Notes to the policy table: Performance measures and targets The table below sets out a rationale for the performance conditions chosen for annual bonus, Deferred Bonus Plan and Performance Share Plans and how targets were set.
Element Performance measures and rationale How targets are set Annual bonus Financial and non-financial performance The performance targets are determined measures.
annually by the Committee taking into account analyst consensus and the The Committee selected the financial Companys forecasts.
measures based on the Companys Key Performance Indicators KPIs and the nonfinancial measures were individually set and based on key strategic goals.
Deferred Bonus Plan EPS is the sole measure to determine the vesting of matching shares.
The Committee selected EPS as it is a key performance indicator both for the Company and its major shareholders.
EPS targets are set in reference to analyst The Committee believes EPS can be directly forecasts, company business plans, and influenced by executive decision-making levels of EPS required to support our share while also reflecting shareholder value.
Share price targets reflect what the Performance Share Plan EPS, Relative TSR and Share Price or Committee determines as stretching, taking absolute TSR.
into account the recent fall in share price and As set out above EPS is an important measure historic share price levels, but also what is of shareholder value which can also be realistic and consistent with achievable levels influenced by executive decision making.
Relative TSR reflects our performance relative The Committee consults with a selection to other companies in which investors could of the largest shareholders and the voting chose to invest.
guidance services when determining targets The rationale for the share price measure is for the companys LTI arrangements.
explicitly to recognise the recent falls in share price and to ensure that the full award is not delivered unless shareholders benefit from a significant recovery in value over the next 3 years.
Remuneration policy for other employees The remuneration policy described in the previous table applies specifically to Executive Directors of the Group.
The Committee believes that the structure of management reward at Serco should be linked to Sercos strategy and performance.
The table below explains how the remuneration policy has been cascaded below Executive Directors to achieve alignment of policy across the organisation.
Element Difference in remuneration policy for other employees Base salary The same principles and considerations that are applied to Executive Directors are, as far as possible, applied to all employees.
Benefits Serco also has provisions for market-aligned benefits for all employees.
Pension The Group operates a number of defined benefit schemes and defined contribution schemes.
Individuals who have exceeded certain tax allowances may be offered cash allowances in lieu of pension benefits.
Annual bonus Approximately 350 members of the Global Leadership Team are eligible for a bonus award under The Leadership Team Bonus Scheme.
Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Members of the Executive Committee are invited to participate in the DBP on the same terms as the Executive Directors.
Performance Share Plan PSP The PSP is awarded to approximately 350 employees in the Global Leadership Team.
Options are normally granted at a discount of 10% to the market value and have no performance conditions.
The Executive Directors do not participate in Sharesave.
Directors Report Remuneration Report 129 Considerations of conditions elsewhere in the Group Although the Committee does not consult directly with employees on the Directors Remuneration Policy, the Committee does consider the general base salary increase, remuneration arrangements and employment conditions for the broader employee population when determining the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors.
Approach to recruitment remuneration Serco operates in diverse markets and geographies and many of its competitors for talent are outside the UK.
In the event of hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will typically align the remuneration package with the above Remuneration Policy, which provides for a maximum total incentive under bonus, PSP and DBP combined of 500% of salary in any one year assuming maximum bonus, maximum investment in the DBP and maximum achievement of all PSP and DBP performance conditions.
This is the maximum level of incentives excluding buy-outs that will apply to new recruits.
Different performance conditions may apply for new recruits from those set out in the policy, depending on the particular circumstances at the time which could, for example, include the appointment of an interim Executive Director.
In determining appropriate base salary on hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will take into account all factors it considers relevant, including their experience and calibre, current total remuneration, levels of remuneration for companies in the Committees chosen peer group, and the remuneration required to attract the best candidate for Serco.
The Committee will seek to ensure that the arrangement is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders without paying more than is necessary.
New promotes or recruits to the Board may on occasion have their salaries set below the targeted policy level while they become established in their role.
In such cases, salary increases may be higher than inflation or the general UK workforce increase until the targeted market positioning is achieved.
Where it is necessary to compensate a candidate for entitlements and or unvested long-term incentive awards from an existing employer that are forfeited, the Committee will seek to match the quantum, structure and timeframe of the award with that of the awards forfeited.
In determining the form and quantum of replacement awards, the Committee will consider whether existing awards are still subject to performance requirements, and the extent to which those are likely to be met, with the aim of providing an opportunity of broadly equivalent value.
The principle will be to seek to replace awards that remain significantly at risk for performance at the candidates current employer with awards subject to performance at Serco and to seek to make any other replacement awards in the form of Serco shares, subject to appropriate vesting or holding requirements.
Any compensation for awards forfeited is not taken into account in determining the maximum incentive award level.
The recruitment policy also includes the additional provision of benefits in kind, pensions and other allowances, such as relocation, education and tax equalisation in line with Serco policies as may be required in order to achieve a successful recruitment.
The policy for recruitment also includes benefits that are either not significant in value or are required by legislation.
It is anticipated that any new Executive Director would be offered a pension allowance equal to 30% of base salary in lieu of pension.
Where a new Executive Director is an internal promotion, the Committee reserves discretion to allow the new Executive Director to continue to benefit from existing awards granted, or benefit entitlements such as pension prior to appointment to the Board.
The policy on the recruitment of new Non-Executive Directors is to apply the same remuneration elements as for the existing Non-Executive Directors.
It is not intended that day rates or benefits in kind be offered, although in exceptional circumstances such remuneration may be required in currently unforeseen circumstances.
The Committee will include in future Annual Reports details of the implementation of the Policy in respect of any such recruitment to the Board.
Element of remuneration Maximum percentage of salary Maximum variable pay: 500% normally comprising: Annual bonus 150% Long-term incentives 350% Pension allowance 30% cash allowance in lieu of pension Note: Maximum percentage of salary for annual bonus and long-term incentives excludes compensation for awards forfeited.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 130 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued Service contracts and loss of office payments The policy for service contracts for new Directors is shown in the table below.
Ed Casey has a service contract which has aspects that differ from policy as highlighted underneath the table.
The Committee may under this policy at any time, with the agreement of a Director, alter aspects of their existing contracts so that they are in line with the policy for new Directors.
Copies of the Directors service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The date of appointment for each Director is shown in the table below: Provision Detailed terms Notice period 12 months notice from the Company 12 months notice from the Director Termination payment Payment in lieu of notice comprising: Base salary Pension allowance Selected benefits All of the above would be paid in instalments in accordance with the Directors contractual payment schedule, subject to an obligation on the part of the Director to mitigate his loss such that payments will either reduce or cease completely, in the event that the Director gains new employment remuneration.
In the event of a compromise or severance agreement, the Committee may make payments it considers reasonable in settlement of potential legal claims.
It may include in such payments reasonable reimbursement of professional fees incurred by the Director in connection with such agreements and reasonable payments in respect of restrictive undertakings.
The Remuneration Committee may agree that if a Director steps down from the Board then for a transitional period notice including payment in lieu of notice would continue to be based on the equivalent of up to twelve months notice based on their rate of salary and benefits while a Director, payable in instalments and subject to mitigation.
The reimbursement of repatriation costs or fees for professional or outplacement advice may also be included in the termination package, as deemed reasonable by the Committee, as may the continuation of benefits for a limited period.
Treatment of annual bonus on No payment unless employed on date of payment of bonus except for good leavers: defined as death, termination under plan rules disability, redundancy and other circumstances at the Committees discretion.
Good leavers are entitled to a bonus pro-rated to the period of service during the year, subject to the outcome of the performance metrics and paid at the usual time.
The Committee has discretion to reduce the entitlement of a good leaver in line with performance and the circumstances of the termination.
Treatment of unvested All awards lapse except for good leavers: ill-health, injury or disability, death, redundancy, retirement, performance shares or change of control as defined in the plan rules and other circumstances at the Committees discretion to the options and unvested extent that they allow good leaver treatment for particular awards.
matching deferred share For good leavers vesting is pro-rated on a time basis and is dependent on the achieved performance over awards on termination the performance period.
under plan rules The Committee has the discretion to vary the level of vesting to reflect the individual performance, and may, depending on the circumstances of the departure, allow some awards to vest while lapsing others.
Provision Detailed terms Change of control Where the Director leaves the Company following a change of control, whether or not he is dismissed or he elects to leave on notice, he will be entitled to receive a payment equivalent to up to one years remuneration.
Exercise of discretion Intended only to be used to prevent an outcome that is not consistent with performance.
The Committees determination will take into account the particular circumstances of the Executive Directors departure and the recent performance of the Company.
NEDs Appointed for initial three-year term.
Appointment may be terminated on 3 months written notice.
All Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election.
No compensation or other benefits are payable on early termination.
Notes: In respect of Ed Casey, operating within our existing policy, in 2014 the Committee increased the notice period to 12 months from the Company to align with the other directors, and 4 months from the Director to more closely align with US employment practice.
Whilst unvested Awards will normally lapse, the Committee may in its absolute discretion allow for Awards to continue until the normal vesting date and be satisfied, subject to achievement of the performance conditions.
In such circumstances, Awards vesting will normally be prorated on a time apportioned basis, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Any such discretion in respect of leavers would only be applied by the Committee to good leavers where it considers that continued participation is justified, for example, by reference to past performance to the date of leaving, or by the requirement to achieve an orderly transition.
The claw-back provisions would continue to apply in the event that such discretion were exercised.
Service contracts outline the components of remuneration paid to the individual but do not prescribe how remuneration levels may be adjusted from year to year.
Directors Report Remuneration Report 131 The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors fees In accordance with the Companys policy, the fees of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, which are determined by the Board, are set at a level which is designed to attract individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make a substantial contribution to the Groups affairs.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors' letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Company's registered office.
How the element supports Operation of the element Maximum potential value and Performance metrics used, our strategic objectives payment at threshold weighting and time period applicable To attract Non-Executive The fees of the Chairman are Over the policy period, base Non-Executive Director fees Directors with the necessary determined and approved by the fees for current Non-Executive are not performance related.
experience and ability to make Remuneration Committee excluding Directors will be set at an a substantial contribution to the Chairman and fees of the Nonappropriate level within the Groups affairs.
Executive Directors, are determined peer group and increases will and approved by the Board as a whole.
typically be broadly in line with market.
The Chairman receives a base fee.
The base fees or fees for The following fees are paid to Nonspecific Non-Executive Executive Directors in addition to Directors roles may be reviewed their base fee: at any time based on the anticipated responsibility and SID fee time commitment involved.
Committee Chairmanship fee Committee membership fee Current fee levels are shown in the section on implementation Fees are reviewed on an annual basis of policy.
against a relevant peer group and taking into consideration market practice.
An allowance is payable to directors for attendance at meetings outside their country of residence where such meetings involve intercontinental travel.
In addition, reasonable travel and business related expenses are paid.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to receive incentives and pension.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to hold shares in the Group but are not subject to a shareholding requirement.
Dates of Directors Service Contracts Letters of Appointment Director Date of appointment to the Board Rupert Soames 8 May 2014 Angus Cockburn 27 October 2014 Ed Casey 25 October 2013 Sir Roy Gardner 1 June 2015 Angie Risley 1 April 2011 Ralph D. Crosby Jnr 30 June 2011 Malcolm Wyman 1 January 2013 Mike Clasper 3 March 2014 Tamara Ingram 3 March 2014 Rachel Lomax 3 March 2014 Notes: All Directors are put forward annually for re-election at the AGM.
Alastair Lyons was appointed to the Board on 16 March 2010 and ceased to be a Director on 1 July 2015.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 132 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued Annual report on remuneration The implementation of the remuneration policy for year ended 31 December 2015 The remuneration policy for the year ended 31 December 2015 was consistent with the policy on which shareholders voted on at the 2014 AGM.
Single Figure Directors remuneration audited information Executive Directors single figure The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for 2015 for each Executive Director, together with comparative figures for 2014.
Details of NEDs fees are set out in the next section.
The value of the taxable benefits relate to the provision of independent financial advice, provision of a car or car allowance fully inclusive of all scheme costs including insurance and maintenance, health-care, private medical assessments and expatriate benefits.
Ed Caseys 2015 benefits relate primarily to his expatriate status, including costs of 6,927 for accommodation and travel.
The bonuses shown include performance bonuses earned in the period under review, but not paid until the following financial year.
The 2013 PSP and DBP awards vested at zero.
The pension amount includes payments made in lieu of pension, calculated as a percentage of base salary, from which the Executive Directors make their own pension arrangements.
The amount shown is to compensate Angus for the pro-rated bonus that he would have received from Aggreko in respect of the final three months of 2014 had he not left to join Serco.
Ed Casey's remuneration is paid in US dollars, for the purpose of the 2015 single figure USD1 GBP 0.65398.
For the purpose of the 2014 single figure USD1 GBP 0.60779.
The annual base salaries of the Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2015 were: Director Base salary Effective Date Increase Rupert Soames 850,000 8 May 2014 N a Angus Cockburn 500,000 27 October 2014 N a Ed Casey $1,061,690 1 April 2014 N a Directors Report Remuneration Report 133 Variable pay outcomes audited information Performance-related annual bonus For 2015, the Executive Director bonus was based on achieving a mix of financial and non-financial objectives which were weighted 70:30.
The financial measures were based on Revenue 20%, Free Cash Flow 40% and Trading Profit 40% and the non-financial measures were individually set and based on key strategic goals.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the achievements against the targets for the year and proposed annual incentive payments for the Executive Directors.
The table below shows the achievement against the financial and non-financial measures.
Financial performance Achievement Weighting against for 2015 Threshold Maximum Actual measure % maximum target target performance % maximum Performance Measure opportunity m m m opportunity Revenue 14% 3,365.0 3,612.0 3,522.0 68% Free Cash Flow 28% -159.0 -135.0 -16.2 100% Trading Profit 28% 82.3 96.9 112.5 100% Non-financial performance Rupert Angus Ed See table below 30% Soames Cockburn Casey 70% 70% 60% Rupert Angus Ed Soames Cockburn Casey Total bonus payable as % of maximum 86.52% 86.52% 83.52% Bonus opportunity as % of salary 150% 130% 150% Bonus amount achieved as % of salary 129.78% 112.48% 125.28% Bonus amount earned 1,103,130 562,380 $1,330,085 As part of the Contract and Balance Sheet Review CBSR undertaken in December 2014, a number of charges were taken in respect of Onerous Contract Provisions OCPs.
These provisions totalled 447m and relate to the anticipated multi-year net cash outflows to the end of each of the obligated periods for each of the individual contracts.
The Committee believe that it is important that management be incentivised to minimise exposure on onerous contracts.
However, variations to these can have a very material impact on Reported Trading Profit as under the accounting treatment, the multi-year effect of charges or releases are included in a single year.
The Committee has therefore decided to use a measure for bonus calculations which is effectively aligned to Underlying Trading Profit Reported Trading Profit less foreign exchange and OCP charges and releases and other net movements on CBSR items, to which is added or subtracted an amount related to over or under-performance against the various CBSR items which fairly reflects management performance in the year.
In coming to this judgement, the Committee has access to detailed reports providing reasons behind the various movements, which included reviews of individual contracts with crossreferencing to information shared with the Audit Committee.
Within Reported Trading Profit at constant currency of 137.1m, there is 41.2m credit relating to items, other than foreign exchange, which are not considered in Underlying Trading Profit: these include adjustments made to CBSR items.
Excluding these, the constant currency Underlying Trading Profit is 95.9m.
The Committee has considered how much of this 41.2m net benefit should be adjusted out of Reported Trading Profit for bonus purposes.
A total of 24.6m has been adjusted out for management bonus purposes as these are not considered to be the result of management action.
The resulting 112.5m therefore includes 16.6m to reflect for bonus purposes the in-year performance of management action which has improved the CBSR position.
The Revenue and Free Cash Flow actual performances reflect constant currency and includes discontinued operations, making them consistent with the basis on which the targets were set.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 134 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued Non-Financial Performance Rupert Ruperts objectives focused on: The Committee deemed performance to be very strong.
Rupert Soames has shown strong and visible leadership during 2015, successfully Leading the creation of effective Business completing the Rights Issue, and delivering the transformation Development plans plan to achieve agreed in-year savings.
The pipeline for new Leading the delivery of the transformation plan with business is now growing again and there have been measurable agreed in-year savings increases in levels of employee and leadership engagement.
The Implementing the Corporate Renewal Programme process of disposing of the offshore private sector BPO business ensuring commitments are delivered was completed by year end, despite numerous challenges.
The Continuing to improve employee engagement through Corporate Renewal Programme was implemented and continued to transformation of culture be embedded with new values being launched.
The new Chairman Achieving the planned Rights Issue and refinancing regards the support Rupert has provided to him in becoming of the Group effective in role as first class.
Based on Ruperts achievement the Executing the planned disposal of the offshore private Committee has awarded above target performance for the nonsector BPO business financial element relating to these objectives.
Working with the new Chairman to ensure he became effective in the shortest possible time Angus Angus objectives focused on: The Committee deemed performance to be very strong against all Cockburn objectives.
Examples of successes include successfully completing Leading the assessment of contractual risk the Rights Issue, embedding of formal monthly management Embedding improvements to management of financial accounts processes to deliver timely and accurate financial reporting, reporting and accounts a review of the internal audit function with steps taken to develop Reviewing the effectiveness of internal audit and risk an appropriately rigorous risk management framework, and the management implementation of a new, improved finance model with strengthened Leading the finance function transformation capability.
Based on Angus achievement the Committee has Achieving the planned Rights Issue and refinancing of awarded above target performance for the non-financial element the Group relating to these objectives.
Ed Casey Eds objectives focused on: The Committee deemed performance to be very strong against all objectives.
Examples of successes include delivery of the Development of business development plans transformation plan to achieve agreed in-year savings.
The process Leading delivery of a transformation plan to achieve of disposing of the offshore private sector BPO business was cost savings completed by year end, despite numerous challenges and the Embedding new standards for bid governance and pipeline for new business is now growing again.
Good progress has contract management been made in embedding new standards for bid governance and in developing the approach to risk management.
Based on Eds Achieving the planned disposal of the offshore private achievement the Committee has awarded above target performance sector BPO business for the non-financial element relating to these objectives.
Developing the approach to risk management Note: 1.
All Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Deferred Bonus Plan the DBP in 2016, up to a maximum of 50% of the bonus determined in respect of 2015 performance.
Performance Share Plan PSP The LTI amount included in the 2015 single total figure of remuneration includes the PSP award which was awarded in 2013.
For the PSP awards which completed their performance period on 31 December 2015, achievement against the measure is shown in the table below: Threshold 25% Maximum Percentage of Performance condition Weighting vesting 100% vesting Actual max achieved EPS growth.
For threshold performance 25% of the 50% 5.5% 10.5% -53.31% 0% award vests rising on a straight-line basis to 100% at maximum performance.
For median performance 25% of the 50% Median Upper Quartile Below Median 0% award vests rising on a straight-line basis to 100% for upper quartile performance.
Total 0% The awards made to the Executive Directors were as follows: Value of No of shares No of shares Vesting vesting 2013 PSP share awards awarded vesting date Ed Casey 93,553 0 15 April 2016 0 Notes: 1.
Ed Caseys PSP award was made prior to him being appointed to the Board.
Rupert Soames and Angus Cockburn joined the Company in 2014 and therefore do not have outstanding 2013 PSP awards.
Directors Report Remuneration Report 135 Single Figure Non-Executive Directors remuneration audited information Non-Executive Directors remuneration consists of cash fees paid monthly with increments for positions of additional responsibility.
In addition, an inter-continental travel allowance and reasonable travel and related business expenses are paid.
No bonuses are paid to Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors fees are not performance related.
The fees and terms of engagement of Non-Executive Directors are reviewed on an annual basis, taking into consideration market practice and are approved by the Board.
Board fee including 3 Chairmanship fees Allowances Total 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 1 Roy Gardner Chairman: Chairman of Nomination Committee and Member of Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate Responsibility & Risk Committees 129,167 N a 5,000 N a 134,167 N a 2 Alastair Lyons Prior to 1 July 2015: Chairman: Chairman of Nomination Committee and Member of Remuneration Committee 135,978 270,000 Nil 10,000 135,978 280,000 Mike Clasper Senior Independent Director: Member of Audit and Nomination Committees 88,000 60,833 5,000 5,000 93,000 65,833 Ralph D. Crosby Jnr 50,000 50,000 35,000 30,000 85,000 80,000 Tamara Ingram Member of Corporate Responsibility & Risk and Remuneration Committees 63,000 52,500 5,000 5,000 68,000 57,500 Rachel Lomax Chairman of Corporate Responsibility & Risk Committee: Member of Audit Committee 70,000 58,333 5,000 5,000 75,000 63,333 Angie Risley Chairman of Remuneration Committee: Member of Nomination Committee 60,000 60,000 5,000 5,000 65,000 65,000 Malcolm Wyman Chairman of Audit Committee: Member of Nomination and Remuneration Committees 67,500 72,917 Nil 5.000 67,500 77,917 Total 663,645 624,583 60,000 65,000 723,645 689,583 Notes: 1.
Sir Roy Gardner initially joined the Board on 1 June 2015 as a Non-Executive Director before being appointed as Non-Executive Chairman on 1 July.
Fees shown are for the seven months he served in 2015.
Alastair Lyons stepped down from the Board and left the Company on 1 July 2015, fees shown are for the six months he served in 2015.
5,000 is payable for each occasion that requires inter-continental travel outside of the directors country of residence.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 136 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued Annual NED Fees Base fee Base fee 1 April 2015 1 April 2014 Percentage Role change 1 Chairman 250,000 270,000 7.4% Senior Independent Director 25,000 25,000 No change Board fees 50,000 50,000 No change Audit Committee Chairmanship 12,500 12,500 No change Audit Committee Membership 5,000 5,000 No change Corporate Responsibility & Risk Committee Chairmanship 15,000 15,000 No change Corporate Responsibility & Risk Committee Membership 8,000 8,000 No change Remuneration Committee Chairmanship 10,000 10,000 No change Remuneration Committee Membership 5,000 5,000 No change Travel to international meetings 5,000 5,000 No change Note: 1.
The Chairman fee reduced when Roy Gardner was appointed on 1 July 2015.
Performance graph and table This graph shows the value as at 31 December 2015, of a 100 investment in Serco on 31 December 2008 compared with 100 invested in the FTSE250 index on the same date.
It has been assumed that all dividends paid have been reinvested.
The TSR level shown at 31 December each year is the average of the closing daily TSR levels for the 30-day period up to and including that date.
The Company chose the FTSE250 index as the comparator for this graph as Serco has been a constituent of that index throughout the period.
Serco Performance Graph 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Dec 2008 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Serco FTSE250 Index Directors Report Remuneration Report 137 CEOs pay in last seven financial years CEO single Annual bonus outcome LTI vesting outcome figure remuneration as % of maximum as % of maximum Year ended 31 December Group CEO opportunity opportunity 2009 Christopher Hyman 3,625,830 90% 295.42% 2010 Christopher Hyman 2,646,894 91% 168.77% 2011 Christopher Hyman 2,826,038 81% 80% 2012 Christopher Hyman 2,582,185 72% 63.60% 2013 Christopher Hyman 893,451 N a 0% Ed Casey 294,782 74% 0% 2014 Ed Casey 1,605,064 71% 0% Rupert Soames 747,655 0% N a 2015 Rupert Soames 2,226,284 87% N a Percentage change in CEOs remuneration There were changes to the post-holder of CEO in 2014 and therefore a calculation of the change in CEOs remuneration between 2014 and 2015 is not possible.
Rupert Soames, CEO did not receive a base pay increase in 2015 as agreed at appointment, and there was also no increase in his annualised rate of benefits.
Rupert chose to waive his 2014 annual bonus so no payment was made to him.
The average percentage changes for employees in the leadership team were 1.78%, 0% and a 7.13% decrease respectively.
This group has been chosen as it represents the most appropriate comparator group for reward purposes for our UK-based CEO.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below details the percentage change in dividends and overall expenditure on pay compared with the previous financial year.
Serco considers overall expenditure on staff pay in the context of the general finances of the Company.
This includes the determination of the annual salary increase budget, the annual grant of shares and annual bonus for the business.
2015 vs 2014 2015 2014 Dividend per share -100.0% Zero 3.10p Overall expenditure on wages and salaries -6.4% 1541.8m 1646.8m Dividend per share, and Overall expenditure on wages and salaries have the same meaning as in the Notes to the Company Financial Statements.
Pensions audited information As at 31 December 2015, there were no Executive Directors actively participating in or accruing additional entitlement in the Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme which is a defined benefits scheme.
Payments for loss of office audited information There were no loss of office payments in 2015.
Payments to Past Directors audited information No payments were made in the year to past Directors other than the payments made to Andrew Jenner on him ceasing to be a Director, details of which can be found on the Company website in the investor area under Remuneration Information.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 138 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued Awards made in 2015 Deferred Bonus Plan DBP audited information The CEOs participation in the 2015 DBP is based on the Bonus which he was awarded but which he chose to waive payment of.
For matching share awards in 2015, Aggregate EPS is the sole measure.
The range for the three-year performance period is 10.30p at threshold and 12.50p at maximum.
No matching shares will vest where performance is below threshold.
For threshold performance, each invested share will be matched by half a matching share.
For maximum level performance each invested share will be matched on a gross investment basis by two shares.
For performance between threshold and maximum, the number of matching shares will be determined on a straight line basis.
The definition of EPS is Statutory Earnings Per Share before exceptional items adjusted to reflect tax paid on a cash basis, measured as an aggregate over the three-year performance period.
Percentage Basis Market price vesting at Performance of Award Award at award Face value threshold Number period 1 Director Scheme % of salary date p performance of shares end date Rupert Deferred Bonus Soames Plan conditional 31 December share award 106.87% 29 May '15 138 908,437 25% 658,288 2017 Note: 1.
Rupert Soames investment shares were already owned, 138 pence was used to determine the number of shares he was entitled to invest as this was the market price of the investment shares that were purchased for other participants in the DBP.
Performance Share Plan PSP audited information In 2015 the Executive Directors received awards equivalent to 200% of salary for the CEO and COO and 175% for the CFO.
The shares will normally only vest at the end of the performance period, if the Executive Directors are still in employment with Serco and the performance measures have been met.
The measures are: Performance Weighting Measure of Measure Performance Target Performance period end date Aggregate EPS 1 3rd Statutory Earnings Per Share EPS before exceptional 31 December 2017 items adjusted to reflect tax paid on a cash basis of 10.30p threshold, 25% vesting to 12.50p maximum, 100% vesting, measured as an aggregate over the threeyear performance period.
Relative TSR 1 3rd Total Shareholder Return TSR of median threshold, 30 days following the 25% vesting to upper quartile maximum, 100% vesting announcement of the when ranked relative to companies in the FTSE250 Companys 2017 results.
excluding investment trusts, measured from the 30-day period following the completion of the Rights Issue to the 30-day period following announcement of the Companys 2017 results.
ROIC 1 3rd Pre-tax Return on Invested Capital ROIC of 8.4% 31 December 2017 threshold, 25% vesting to 10.2% maximum, 100% vesting, measured as an average over the three-year performance period.
The structure for vesting is the same for all measures and no shares vest where performance is below Threshold.
Directors Report Remuneration Report 139 Each element of the PSP award is subject to a post-vesting holding requirement that takes the total term of the award i. e. performance period plus holding period to a minimum of five years.
Pre-vesting malus and post-vesting clawback is also applicable to these awards.
Market Percentage Basis price at Face vesting at Performance of Award Award award value threshold Number period 1 Directors Scheme % of salary date pence performance of shares end date Rupert Performance Share Soames Plan nominal cost options 200% 29 May '15 136.9 1,700,000 25% 1,241,782 See above Angus Performance Share Cockburn Plan nominal cost options 175% 29 May '15 136.9 875,000 25% 639,152 See above Ed Casey Performance Share Plan conditional share award 175% 29 May '15 136.9 1,210,863 25% 884,487 See above Note: 1.
The market price at award was the preceding day's Middle Market Quotation MMQ.
A 'Vote Withheld' is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes 'For' or 'Against' a Resolution.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 140 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued External appointments The Board believes that the Group can benefit from its Executive Directors holding appropriate non-executive directorships of companies or independent bodies.
Such appointments are subject to the approval of the Board.
Fees are retained by the Executive Director concerned.
During the year, Rupert Soames and Angus Cockburn served as Non-Executive Directors of Electrocomponents plc and GKN plc respectively.
Ed Casey served as a Director of Talen Energy Corporation.
Fees payable in the year were 55,000, 60,000 and USD61,250 and deferred stock with a face value of USD75,833 respectively.
No other fee-paying external positions were held by the Executive Directors.
Directors shareholding and share interests audited information Current shareholdings are summarised in the table below.
Shares are valued for these purposes at the year-end price, which was 94.5p per share at 31 December 2015.
Number of shares Restricted Weighted Weighted owned Restricted share average average Share outright Vested but share awards awards not Share exercise exercise ownership including unexercised subject to subject to ownership price of price of requirements connected share performance performance requirements vested restricted 3 % of salary persons options conditions conditions met options share awards Rupert Soames 200% 607,000 2,861,349 108,527 See note 3 N a 0.02 Ed Casey 150% 125,840 1,401,389 No N a Nil Angus Cockburn 150% 169,200 1,286,211 89,585 See note 3 N a 0.02 Roy Gardner N a 25,000 N a N a N a N a N a N a Mike Clasper N a 56,000 N a N a N a N a N a N a Ralph D. Crosby Jnr N a N a N a N a N a N a N a Tamara Ingram N a N a N a N a N a N a N a Rachel Lomax N a 40,000 N a N a N a N a N a N a Angie Risley N a 20,508 N a N a N a N a N a N a Malcolm Wyman N a N a N a N a N a N a N a Notes: 1.
Ordinary shares are beneficial holdings which include the Directors personal holdings and those of their spouses and minor children.
Executives are required to retain in shares 50% of the net value of any performance shares vesting or options exercised until they satisfy the shareholding requirement.
Rupert Soames and Angus Cockburn were recruited to the Board in 2014, they have two and three years respectively from appointment to build their investment.
On joining in 2014 Rupert invested 100% of salary, in May 2015 he invested a further 50% of salary ensuring his first two shareholding requirement hurdles were met.
Angus invested 25% of salary on joining ensuring his first shareholding requirement hurdle was met.
Directors Report Remuneration Report 141 Gain on exercise of share awards Number of options Market value on Gain on exercise of exercised Exercise price p exercise p share award Rupert Soames 19,911 0 103.6 20,628 Aggregate gain on exercise of share awards 20,628 Other shareholding information audited information Shareholder dilution Awards granted under the Serco Group plc share plans are met either by the issue of new shares or by shares held in trust when awards vest.
The Committee monitors the number of shares issued under its various share plans and their impact on dilution limits.
The relevant dilution limits established by the Investment Association formerly the ABI in respect of all share plans is 10% in any rolling ten-year period and in respect of discretionary share plans is 5% in any rolling ten-year period.
Based on the Companys issued share capital at 31 December 2015, our dilution level was 2.83% against all share plans and 1.79% against discretionary share plans.
The Group has an employee share ownership trust which is administered by an independent trustee and which holds ordinary shares in the Company to meet various obligations under the share plans.
The Trust held 10,659,290 and 10,540,181 ordinary shares at 1 January 2015 and 31 December 2015 respectively.
Rights Issue The options and awards granted under the Serco Employee Share Plans were adjusted using a standard formula called the 'TERP' Theoretical Ex Rights Price formula.
The TERP formula uses a theoretical ex-rights price and the last 'cum rights' share price this is the last price when the shares were traded with the right to take part in the Rights Issue included.
The theoretical ex-rights price was calculated as 132.00p the theoretical ex-rights price used here is not the same as the theoretical ex-rights price referred to in the Prospectus as it is based on the price on the last dealing day cum rights rather than the closing price on 11 March 2015 and the last cum rights price was 163.00p.
The adjusted number of shares in each Award was increased by a factor of 1.23484848 and each exercise price was reduced by a factor of 0.80981595.
The Remuneration Committee The Committee determines the overall remuneration policy for senior management and the individual remuneration of the Executive Directors and the members of the Executive Committee.
This includes the base salary, bonus, long-term incentives, pensions and terms of employment including those terms on which service may be terminated.
The Committee also determines the remuneration of the Chairman.
Terms of reference The terms of reference of the Committee, a copy of which can be found on the Groups website, are reviewed annually to ensure that they remain appropriate.
Details of the Directors attendance at meetings of the Committee can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on page 96.
Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report 142 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Remuneration Report continued Members of the Committee All members of the Committee are independent.
Non-Executive Directors of the Group are initially appointed for a three-year term, and that appointment may be terminated on three months written notice.
Remuneration Committee members and attendees the Committee met six times during 2015 : Remuneration Committee members Position Comments Angie Risley Chairman of Remuneration Committee from 14 May 2012 Roy Gardner Member from 1 June 2015 Alastair Lyons Member from 10 May 2011 Resigned from the Board on 1 July 2015 Malcolm Wyman Member from 1 January 2013 Tamara Ingram Member from 3 March 2014 Remuneration Committee attendees during the year Position Comments Rupert Soames CEO Attended by invitation Ed Casey COO Attended by invitation Angus Cockburn CFO Attended by invitation Geoff Lloyd Group HR Director Attends as an executive responsible for advising on the remuneration policy Tara Gonzalez Group HR Director, Reward Attends as an executive responsible for advising on the remuneration policy David Eveleigh Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Attends as the secretary to the Committee Steve Williams Deputy Company Secretary Attends as the secretary to the Committee No person is present during any discussion relating to their own remuneration arrangements.
Summary of the Committees activities during the financial year Meeting Regular items Ad hoc items February Consider salary review proposals for the Executive Directors and members Agree the treatment of the share of the Executive Committee: review the final draft of the Remuneration awards under the Rights Issue: Report: confirmation of bonus payable: review of achievement of Approve changes to the PSP, performance conditions for the LTI vesting.
DBP, EOP and Sharesave rules.
April Review the performance measures for the LTI awards: review bonus objectives.
Consider the feedback from shareholder consultation.
May Approve the performance measures for the LTI awards: review bonus objectives.
Update on the Rights Issue adjustments to share awards: Review of wider employee arrangements and conditions across the Group.
August Review bonus objectives: briefing on market trends and Corporate Consider the treatment of the Governance update: update on in-flight share awards.
Contract and Balance Sheet Review items for the bonus plan.
October Review performance of the Executive Directors against bonus objectives: Update on changes to National review initial draft of the Remuneration Report: review Committee terms of Living Wage.
reference: review the Committees annual programme of work.
Directors Report Remuneration Report 143 Advisers to the Remuneration Committee The Committee has been advised during the year by  LLP 'PwC'.
PwC were selected as advisers to the Committee through a competitive tendering process in 2012 and no conflicts of interest were identified.
PwC have provided advice throughout the year mainly around the following key executive reward areas: Support in reviewing the Directors' Remuneration Report Advice on calibration of performance targets Advice on the impact of the Rights Issue on outstanding share awards Informing the Committee on market practice and governance issues Responding to general and technical reward queries.
The advisers attended each meeting of the Remuneration Committee.
Consulting services have also been provided to the Group by PwC in relation to retirement benefits and pay data, accounting and taxation services.
Fees paid to PwC as advisers to the Committee during the year totalled 75,600, fees are charged on an hourly rate basis.
PwC are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group, which oversees the voluntary code of conduct in relation to executive consulting in the UK.
The Committee reviews the objectivity and independence of the advice it receives from PwC each year.
It is satisfied that PwC is providing robust and professional advice.
In the course of its deliberations, the Committee considers the views of the Chief Executive on the remuneration and performance of the other members of the Executive Committee.
The Committee have also received legal advice from Linklaters LLP and Clifford Chance LLP during the year.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: David Eveleigh Secretary 25 February 2016 Financial Statements Directors Report Strategic Report
