Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Governance Directors remuneration report Annual statement from the Chairman The continued support of our shareholders is extremely important to us.
The Committee intends to review its position on clawback with a view to introducing suitable provisions for our business alongside our existing policy on malus, over the course of the next year.
The Committee revisited the topic of disclosure this year, specifically the degree to which it deems the disclosure of performance targets to be commercially sensitive, and the timing of disclosure.
Dear Shareholder Disclosure of performance targets On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our Directors Our targets, which include significant fixed costs relating to rights deals, Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 June 2015. are commercially sensitive.
We operate in a highly competitive market, both in acquiring customers and bidding for key rights, with a discrete Context and business performance number of players, and a number of our direct competitors do not This has been a transformational year for Sky.
By acquiring the Sky disclose their targets.
businesses in Germany and Italy, we have opened up a significant new Nevertheless the Committee acknowledges investor concerns and has growth opportunity whilst continuing to deliver excellent financial and decided to disclose the targets for the 2013 annual bonus and LTIP vesting, operational performance.
There has been strong growth across all our a year earlier than we anticipated in the Remuneration Report last year.
markets, particularly in the UK and Ireland, and we have increased the We continue to disclose performance ranges in advance for EPS growth dividend to our shareholders by 3%.
This represents the 11th consecutive for the Co-Investment Plan and relative TSR performance for the Long Term year of dividend growth, an excellent record by any measure.
The Committee will continue to use its judgement at the These results are particularly strong considering the level of change in end of each year to determine levels and timing of disclosure.
Group revenue is up 5% year on year and operating profit In addition, the Committee has also provided greater clarity on pay and up by 18%.
In the UK and Ireland, we achieved the highest organic customer performance outcomes for the 2015 bonus payment and Long Term growth in 11 years, while in Germany and Austria we delivered record Incentive Plan vesting.
A clearer chart and more detailed commentary customer growth and in Italy we held our customer base stable after three on performance are provided on pages 53 to 55. years of decline.
In total we added almost one million new customers across our five territories, 45% more than in the prior year, to take our customer Impact of the acquisition of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia base past the 21-million mark.
At the same time, we increased our paid-for Following the completion of the acquisitions of Sky Deutschland and Sky subscription products by 4.6 million for the year and saw a significant Italia in November 2014, the Committee considered whether any changes increase in customer loyalty with churn under 10% in each of our markets.
to executive remuneration were required.
Notwithstanding the new Against this backdrop of excellent performance, the business has a strong international and enlarged responsibilities of both Executive Directors platform on which to build and a clear set of plans to deliver long-term as a result of this transaction the Committee decided that existing growth and returns for shareholders.
The long-term sustainability and success of our business is based on a In respect of our multi-year incentive plans that span the transaction relentless focus on our key drivers for growth.
Our remuneration policy period, the Committee made no change to the required performance directly links pay to the achievement of stretching performance targets targets but resolved that to avoid any distortive effect from the which drive our strategy, as set out on page 4.
This principle of linking pay transaction, measurement would be made on a like-for-like basis, to stretch performance has remained unchanged over the past six years, restating either to a UK & Ireland only basis or to a pro forma basis and has helped to maintain the stability and focus of the senior team to for the transaction and disposal of Sky Bet, depending upon when deliver outstanding value to our shareholders.
The Committee ensures the plans commenced.
Targets for all new plans that commence that the performance measures selected in its incentive plans reflect the post-completion are on the basis of the enlarged Group.
key performance indicators of the business and thereby provide a direct link to Skys strategic aims.
Having considered other performance Full details of all targets and the actual performance against these measures, the Committee is comfortable that the current measures, will be disclosed in alignment with our policy on disclosure.
and their inclusion across all three incentive plans, ensures the right link to our strategic KPIs and the proper focus on these results over both Pay and performance outcomes for 2015 the short and long term.
Performance across the Group has been excellent and reinforces that our approach to incentivisation continues to work: our management team Last year the Committee introduced a number of changes to our is delivering the right outcomes for the business and Skys shareholders.
remuneration policy which were well received by our shareholders, including It is against this great set of results that the Committee has decided the the introduction of a cap on annual Long Term Incentive Plan awards, a remuneration for its Executive Directors.
minimum shareholding requirement for Executive Directors, a formal policy on malus, and more explanation and disclosure on performance outcomes.
Sky plc 51 Annual Report 2015 Governance Directors remuneration report Annual statement from the Chairman continued Annual bonus Co-investment Plan Each year the Committee considers the business plan and priorities in This is a highly successful plan for our most senior managers.
It encourages setting one clear, ambitious stretch target for each chosen measure of them to reinvest their earned bonus into Company shares and therefore performance.
The key measures that drive our business plan are product the future of our business.
Vesting is deferred for three years and growth, operating profit and operating cash flow.
Payments earned under dependent on EPS growth, underpinning alignment to shareholders this plan are determined by the performance achieved under each of the interests.
Our Executive Directors reinvested the maximum 50% of their three measures, and the bonus is structured such that there would be a annual bonus in the 2012 Plan.
Over this three-year period the growth material impact on the annual bonus for underperformance.
There is also in earnings per share in the UK and Ireland of 33% was in excess of the no additional payment for performance beyond the stretch targets.
maximum vesting threshold and the matching shares therefore vest in full.
Details are provided on page 53.
Operational performance across the Group has been excellent.
This was led by the outstanding performance of the UK and Ireland business, Remuneration in 2015 16 which delivered our strongest customer growth for 11 years.
Paid-for The Committee follows a policy of maintaining lower levels of fixed pay product growth for the UK and Ireland was 3.3 million, significantly relative to the market.
We are confident that the structure of a high ratio ahead of stretch target.
of variable to fixed pay continues to provide a strong link between pay This strong trading performance combined with a continued focus on and performance and delivers high returns for our shareholders.
So looking operational efficiency and cost control, delivered an adjusted operating ahead to the new financial year 2015 16, while the level of personal profit to 1.4 billion in the UK and Ireland ahead of target.
Operating cash achievement delivered by the Executive Directors would allow for greater flow, which is an important indicator of the financial health of the business increases under the all employee salary review policy, the Committee has and its ability to sustain and grow is operations, was ahead of target at made modest adjustments to the base salaries of the Group CEO and 1.4 billion.
Group CFO of 3%, effective 1 July 2015.
As a result of the excellent performance this year, and in accordance with Long Term Incentive Plan awards of 600,000 for the Group CEO and the rules of the scheme, the Remuneration Committee approved maximum 350,000 for the Group CFO are maintained at the same level as was bonus awards of 200% and 150% for the Group CEO and Group CFO previously agreed last year and in line with our policy.
respectively for this performance year.
The performance measures for the annual bonus, LTIP and Co-Investment Long Term Incentive Plan Plan also remain unchanged.
The business has delivered a remarkable period of sustained performance The Committee considered whether the acquisitions made during the during the three-year period of this Plan, 2012 to 2015.
All three of the year might lead to a change in the long-term incentive arrangements.
operational measures revenue growth, operating cash flow and growth After careful reflection the Committee determined that the LTIP and in earnings per share were exceeded with revenue growth in the UK and Co-Investment Plan, which are both key elements of the total remuneration Ireland of 17%, earnings in the UK and Ireland up by 33% and an average for the broader management team of Sky plc, has been successful in annual operating cash flow in the UK and Ireland of 1.4 billion.
Therefore driving performance, incentivising management and delivering shareholder this part of the Plan will pay out in full.
However, the part of the Plan based returns.
The Committee continues to keep all elements of the remuneration on relative TSR performance will pay out at 75.9%.
The total overall vesting policy and structure under review to ensure it drives the performance is therefore 93%.
of the business and therefore the interests of the shareholders.
This consistently strong company performance has delivered excellent returns for our shareholders, and the Board has proposed a 3% increase in the dividend to 32.8p which is the 11th consecutive year of growth.
Tracy Clarke Committee Chairman A significant element of the value delivered to Executive Directors by this Plan is a direct consequence of the increase in the share price over the three-year performance period.
Our approach to awarding a fixed number of shares each year with no correlation to salary means that year-on-year growth in total remuneration can only be achieved through share price appreciation, particularly when stretch performance targets are being met.
This construct delivers strong shareholder alignment.
By awarding an absolute number of shares as opposed to a percentage of salary, management benefit when the share price increases but are exposed if the share price declines.
In addition, vesting occurs only every two years which helps to ensure that the management team brings a longer-term focus to the business.
This year is a vesting year, so it is important to remember that the LTIP payment this year represents two separate years of grants, not one.
This causes a spike in total pay every other year and distorts the single figure remuneration shown on page 57: as there will be no LTIP payment next year, total remuneration will be significantly reduced in 2016.
The next LTIP vesting will be in July 2017.
52 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Governance Directors remuneration report Annual Remuneration Implementation Report This section sets out how our remuneration policy was implemented during Adjusted Operating Cash Flow: This is a key measure of the underlying the year ended 30 June 2015 and how it will be implemented for the coming health of the business, and strong performance of 1.41 billion ahead year.
It also sets out the link between Company performance and Executive of stretch target continues to support our growth strategy.
Directors remuneration, the context in which our policy operates, details As a result of this excellent performance the Remuneration Committee on our Executive Directors shareholdings and the general governance of recommended that the maximum bonus awards of 200% and 150% of base Directors remuneration.
The remuneration policy is summarised on page salary be awarded to the Group CEO and Group CFO respectively for this 64 to 69 and available to read in full in our 2014 Annual Report which can performance year.
be accessed via our corporate website at sky.
com corporate Annual bonus metrics Variable pay outcomes for the year ended Performance Weighting Performance Achievement against measure performance measures 30 June 2015 UK and Ireland paid- 33% 3.3m Significant out-performance As shown on pages 13 to 15, the business has delivered another year for products growth of exceptional operating and financial performance in what has been UK and Ireland 33% 1,350m Out-performance a transformational year for Sky.
All measures for the plans operating operating profit in the year ended 30 June 2015, and described in this section, are for the UK and Ireland.
UK and Ireland 33% 1,414m Strong out-performance operating cash flow Annual bonus for 2015 performance The annual bonus drives the achievement of annual financial and The Committee judges that immediate retrospective disclosure of operational business goals.
The plan for 2015 for Executive Directors and specific targets is commercially sensitive because we operate in a highly senior executives was based on three equally weighted measures which competitive market both in acquiring customers and bidding for key were identified by the Committee as being key indicators of performance rights with a very small number of players.
We therefore believe that driving growth for our business and returns to our shareholders: early disclosure of our targets would offer an unfair competitive advantage and would be to the detriment of our shareholders.
Paid for Products Growth We will make retrospective disclosure when the targets are deemed Adjusted Operating Profit to be no longer commercially sensitive.
We anticipate this to be two Adjusted Operating Cash Flow years after the end of the performance period.
We believe the concept of threshold, target and maximum performance Vesting of shares under the Co-Investment Plan 20122015 would compromise the drive for growth so the Committee sets one clear Under the terms of the CIP offered on 28 August 2012 for the performance stretch target for each performance measure each year, after careful period 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2015, Executive Directors voluntarily deferred consideration of the business plan and of consensus analyst forecasts.
50% of their earned 2012 bonus into investment shares which were then This year we have provided greater clarity on performance outcomes.
matched by the Company up to 1.5 times the gross equivalent of their The table in the next column sets out the Committees assessment of investment.
performance versus the three measures for the last performance period.
The table below shows the performance conditions for vesting of the The Committee sets stretching targets which must be delivered to achieve matching shares: the business plan and for the Executive Directors to receive the maximum bonus.
There are no payments above maximum for performance above EPS growth performance Match awarded these stretch targets.
annual average growth number of matching shares over three-year term awarded per investment share The Committee will use its judgement to assess the level of bonus if Less than RPI 3% 0.0 a stretch target is not met, taking into account personal performance, RPI 3% 1.0 the performance of the other measures, the underlying performance RPI 4% 1.17 of the business, and other factors which the Committee considers RPI 5% 1.33 to be material to the results achieved.
Payments are earned in direct RPI 6% 1.5 correlation to performance achieved.
Performance against these key More than RPI 6% 1.5 targets is described below: Straight-line interpolation between points Paid for Products Growth: In the UK and Ireland we saw our strongest i. e. on equivalent gross basis operational performance for many years, with exceptional product growth in the UK of 3.3 million which significantly exceeded the stretch The average adjusted UK and Ireland basic EPS growth rate of 10% per target, underpinned by our continued focus on customer quality and year over the three-year period exceeds the threshold for maximum our investment in productivity improvements which drove robust growth vesting.
The Committee has agreed that the matching shares under in both new customer additions and paid-for product sales in a highly the 2012 CIP will vest in full on 28 August 2015. competitive market.
Increased customer loyalty and satisfaction is also reflected in a significant reduction in our churn rate.
Vesting of shares under the Executive Long Term Incentive Plan 2012-2015 The vesting of awards made in 2012 and 2013 for the performance period Adjusted Operating Profit: Strong revenue growth and a successful 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2015 was dependent on operational performance operational efficiency programme resulted in an operating profit measures which determined 70% of the award, and TSR the remaining 30%.
of 1.35 billion, which was ahead of stretch target.
Sky plc 53 Annual Report 2015 Governance Directors remuneration report Annual Remuneration Implementation Report continued The three equally weighted operational performance measures, each of which is a key indicator of Skys continued success, were: Revenue growth: key to our growth strategy Operating cash flow: measures our ability to generate and manage cash EPS growth: measures our bottom line performance Points were awarded for performance on the three operational measures as follows: For EPS, two points are awarded for growth of RPI 3% per year, with the maximum 10 points awarded for RPI 5% per year or more For operating cash flow and revenue growth, one point is awarded for 75% achievement of target on a sliding scale up to 10 points for 105% or more One point equates to 10% of the award vesting, with maximum vesting for 21 points or more, vesting on a straight-line basis between these points Annual Performance Measures are shown in detail in the table below: Average EPS growth Operating cash flow Revenue growth Performance Performance Performance Points achieved Points achieved Points achieved awarded % of target awarded % of target awarded RPI 5% p. a.
0 75% 1 75% 1 Less than 75% 0 Less than 75% 0 As with the annual bonus, the committee will make full retrospective disclosure when the targets are deemed to be no longer commercially sensitive, which is anticipated to be two years after the end of the performance period.
However, the commentary and performance chart below aims to provide greater transparency and clarity for our shareholders.
As with the bonus performance measures, the committee made careful consideration of consensus analyst forecasts and the business plan before setting what it believed to be stretching performance targets.
Payments are earned in direct correlation to performance achieved and performance against each target is described below: Revenue growth: revenue has increased by 17% over the period in UK and Ireland, which is in excess of the performance target, representing excellent growth and strong momentum for the future.
Operating cash flow: A key measure of the underlying health of the business and the ability of the management team to sustain and grow its operations.
Average annual operating cash flow in the UK and Ireland of 1.4 billion was in excess of target.
EPS growth: The top end of the EPS growth range was set for awards in 2012 and 2013 at RPI 5% p. a.
This is equivalent to absolute growth in earnings of 26% over three years if RPI is 3% a year.
This level of growth in earnings was set at a level which exceeded consensus research analysts estimates at the time.
Actual growth in earnings per share over the three-year period was 10%, with average RPI over the period of the scheme of 2.3% p. a.
This element of the plan vests in full, reflecting the value generated for our shareholders over this period.
The actual points awarded for the period are: Actual points awarded Average EPS growth Operating cash flow Revenue growth Actual points awarded Actual points awarded Actual points awarded 10.00 10.00 10.00 The total of 30.00 is well ahead of the 21 points required for full vesting of this element of the award, which comprises 70% of the total.
Despite excellent share price growth and a consistent dividend policy, our TSR performance over the three-year period was an increase of 72.7% compared to the FTSE median of 48.7% with the upper quartile at 90.2%, and as a consequence, 75.9% of this proportion of the award vested on 28 July 2015.
54 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Governance The table below summarises performance over the three-year performance period versus the stretch targets: 2012-2015 Long Term Incentive Plan performance metrics Performance Weighting Performance Achievement against measure performance measures Revenue Growth 23% 115% Out-performance Operating Cash 23% 114% Out-performance Flow EPS Growth 23% 137% Significant out-performance Relative TSR 30% 75.9% Between median and upper quartile The total overall vesting for the LTIP was therefore 93%.
Over the longer term our consistently strong company performance has delivered excellent returns for our shareholders, and the Board has proposed a 3% increase in the dividend to 32.8p which is the 11th consecutive year of growth.
Long Term Incentive Plan, Co-Investment Plan and Sharesave Awards made in the Year Minimum % Maximum % No.
2 Market price at date of CIP matching award was 8.82 on 1 September 2014.
3 Market price at date of Sharesave grant was 8.82 on 30 September 2014.
Performance conditions for the Long Term Incentive Plan Awards made in July 2014 were Year 1 nil-cost option awards.
That is, they relate to the three-year performance period beginning on 1 July 2014 and ending on 30 June 2017, and are subject to the following performance conditions: 1.
Operational targets 70% of the award There are three equally weighted operational performance measures, each of which is a key indicator of Skys continued success: EPS growth Operating cash flow Revenue growth The Committee will make retrospective disclosure of these targets when they are deemed to be no longer commercially sensitive.
We anticipate this to be two years after the end of the performance period.
This means that we will review disclosure of performance targets in our 2019 implementation report, with a view to publishing unless the Committee believes they are still commercially sensitive in the context of the market in which the company operates.
For EPS, two points are awarded for growth of RPI 3% per year, with the maximum 10 points awarded for RPI 5% per year or more.
For operating cash flow and revenue growth, one point is awarded for 75% achievement of target on a sliding scale up to 10 points for 105% or more.
One point equates to 10% of the award vesting, with maximum vesting for 21 points or more, vesting on a straight-line basis between these points.
There is no additional award for achievement above 21 points.
If the minimum range is met each year for all measures, 26% of the shares vest.
The Committee sets a high threshold vesting level in line with our policy of rewarding success not failure.
Maximum vesting is not achievable if performance is below threshold for any one measure.
To earn the minimum of one point on any one of these measures requires the achievement of 75% of target.
Missing two targets would represent a significant and disproportionate reduction in total compensation.
Sky plc 55 Annual Report 2015 Governance Directors remuneration report Annual Remuneration Implementation Report continued Annual performance measures are shown in further detail in the table below: Average EPS Growth Operating Cash Flow Revenue Growth Performance achieved Performance Performance achieved Points awarded % of target Points awarded achieved % of target Points awarded RPI 5% p. a.
0 75% 1 75% 1 Less than 75% 0 Less than 75% 0 The top end of the EPS growth range was set for awards in 2014 at RPI 5% p. a.
This level of growth in earnings was set at a level which exceeded consensus research analysts estimates.
Relative TSR performance 30% of the award The Companys TSR performance is measured relative to the TSR of the constituents of the FTSE 100.
If the Companys TSR performance is below median, the TSR element of the award lapses in full.
For median performance, one-third of the shares subject to the TSR condition may vest, with all the shares vesting for upper quartile performance.
Vesting is on a straight-line basis, between these points as shown below.
TSR Vesting Schedule Payout TSR Payout % of grant Performance 30 Below Median 0% 50% 10% 55% 14% 10 60% 18% 65% 22% 70% 26% 75% 30% Below 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 Median 100% 30% Final TSR rank % TSR calculations are conducted independently by Towers Watson, advisors to the Committee.
Performance conditions for the Co-Investment Plan CIP awards made in 2014 are subject to the performance conditions set out in the table below.
EPS growth performance Match awarded annual average growth number of matching shares over three-year term awarded per investment share Less than RPI 3% 0.0 RPI 3% 1.0 RPI 4% 1.25 RPI 5% 1.5 More than RPI 5% 1.5 Straight-line interpolation between points i. e. on equivalent gross basis 56 Sky plc Median Upper Quartile Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Governance Review of past performance TSR performance The graph below shows the Companys TSR for the six years to 30 June 2015, measured as the value of a 100 holding in ordinary shares at the start of the period.
The performance is shown relative to the FTSE 100, which represents the broad market index against which the Companys shares are traded.
With the acquisitions of Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia the narrow focus of the FTSE 350 Media companies is no longer relevant given the broader scope of the business, and this index, which was shown in previous years, is removed from the chart below.
TSR is a measure of the returns that a company has provided for its shareholders, reflecting share price movements and assuming reinvestment of dividends.
Data is averaged over three months at the end of each financial year.
400 Sky FTSE 100 350 300 287 250 201 200 150 100 50 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Payments made to Executive Directors The table below sets out total remuneration received by the Executive Directors for the financial year ended 30 June 2015 and the prior year ended 30 June 2014.
The vesting pattern of awards under the LTIP is biennial: shares vest every other year over a three-year performance period.
This means that every other year no payment is due as there is no vesting of awards.
The following year, assuming performance conditions are met, there will be a payment which covers the equivalent of two years vesting.
2015 was a year in which the LTIPs awarded for the performance period 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2015 vested.
The single figure for the Group CEO in 2015 is therefore larger than the 2014 figure.
The average increase for employees at that time was 2.5%, rising to 3.5% for those earning less than30,000 per year, with a range of 0% to 10% for performance, promotions and market adjustments.
2 Taxable benefits include company car or car allowance and healthcare.
3 Pension comprises a cash allowance in lieu of company contributions for Jeremy Darroch and Andrew Griffith.
4 Bonus shows the full amount earned shortly after year end in which the performance measures applied, including amounts deferred through the CIP.
The payout for the 2014 bonus was 200% of base salary for the Group CEO and 150% for the Group CFO.
The figures for 2015 are 200% for the Group CEO and 150% for the Group CFO.
The Executive Directors deferred 50% of their bonus into shares through the CIP in 2014 and it is anticipated they will do so for 2015.
5 Long Term Incentive Plan shows the market value of the awards vested immediately following the end of the relevant performance period.
No LTIP shares vested for the performance period ended 30 June 2014.
The figure for 2015 is for LTIP shares which vested on 28 July 2015, using the average share price over the period 1 April to 30 June 2015 of 10.59.
6 Co-Investment Plan shows the market value of the matching shares that vested on 30 August 2014 with a share price of 8.82.
Previously the value of these shares was estimated using the average share price over the period 1 April to 30 June 2014 of 8.81.
It also shows the estimated value of matching shares that are due to vest on 28 August 2015, using the average share price over the period 1 April to 30 June 2015 of 10.59.
Sky plc 57 Value of a hypothetical 100 investment Annual Report 2015 Governance Directors remuneration report Annual Remuneration Implementation Report continued Group CEOs remuneration Disclosure of Performance Targets for 2013 The table below provides a summary of the total remuneration for the The Committee has discussed at length its approach to disclosure of Group CEO over the past six years including bonus payout, LTIP and CIP performance targets.
Whilst maintaining its position that early disclosure vesting levels.
The table highlights the unique structure of our remuneration of targets would be commercially detrimental because of the highly policy, in which vesting of LTIP shares occurs every two years rather than competitive nature of the market in which it operates it considers that the customary 12-month cycle.
As our LTIP awards are made as a fixed performance targets for the 2013 annual bonus and for the Long Term number, the realised value is purely reflective of delivery against performance Incentive Plan that vested in that year are no longer commercially sensitive.
measures and any share price growth over this period, keeping it aligned In setting the targets the Committee gave careful consideration to the to shareholders interests.
business plan and to the research analyst consensus forecasts at the time.
It should be noted that total remuneration for 2013 includes vesting of the The targets and performance for the 2013 annual bonus are shown in the one-off additional LTIP award of 300,000 shares made in 2011 at the time table below.
of the possible News Corporation bid.
The average annual total remuneration paid to the Group CEO over this six-year period, excluding this one-off award, 2012 13 is 9,108,859.
Performance vs Performance Metric Target Performance Target Annual LTIP Paid-for Products Growth 2.75m 2.563m 93% vesting Bonus Operating Profit 1,300m 1,330m 102% payout rates CIP against vesting rates Operating Cash Flow 1,275m 1,396m 109% Single against figure maximum maximum against maximum opportunity opportunity of total opportunity On the basis of this performance the Committee determined that the Year remuneration % % % bonus was paid at 97.5% of maximum for the Group CEO and 96.7% for the 1 2015 16,889,249 100 93 100 Group CFO.
2 2014 4,879,590 100 n a 100 The Long Term Investment Plan that vested in 2013 for the 20102013 3 2013 17,026,982 97.5 100 100 performance period was based on three equally weighted operational 4 2012 4,550,037 100 n a 100 performance measures of average EPS growth, Operating Cash Flow 2011 11,133,554 100 83 n a and Revenue Growth.
Each was considered by the Committee to be 2010 2,678,744 100 n a n a a key indicator of Skys continued success.
TSR was not included as 1 Includes valuation of LTIP shares which vested on 28 July 2015 and CIP matching shares a performance measure for that particular award due to the possible due to vest on 28 August 2015, both using the average share price over the period News Corporation subsequently renamed 21st Century Fox Inc. bid.
2 Includes valuation of CIP matching shares which vested on 30 August 2014 with share price of 8.82.
Previously reported using the average share price over the period 1 April to 30 June 2014 of 8.818.
3 Includes vesting of the one-off additional LTIP award of 300,000 shares made in 2011 at the time of the possible News Corporation bid.
4 Includes first year of vesting of CIP introduced in 2010.
Percentage change in Group CEOs remuneration 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015 The table below shows the percentage change in Group CEO remuneration from 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015 compared to the average change for all employees.
Group CEO % change All employees % change 1 Base Salary 2.5% 3.5% employees earning less than 30,000, 2.5% above 30,000 Taxable Benefits 3.9% 0% Annual Bonus 2.5% 11% 1 Employees were awarded up to 10% for outstanding performance, promotions and market adjustments.
Relative importance of pay spend The table below shows total employee costs and dividend payments to shareholders for 2014 and 2015.
2014 2015 m m 1 Total employee costs 1,044 1,334 Dividend payments 485 549 1 Group total including Germany and Italy.
58 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Governance Points were awarded over the period based on the following table: Average EPS growth Operating cash flow Revenue growth Performance Performance Performance Points achieved Points achieved Points achieved awarded % of target awarded % of target awarded RPI 8% p. a.
0 Less than 75% 0 Less than 75% 0 The targets and actual performance for operating cash flow and revenue growth were as follows: Operating cash flow Revenue growth Performance vs Performance vs Target Performance target Points Target Performance target Points 2010 11 1,000m 1,180m 118% 3.33 9.5% 13.8% 145% 3.33 2011 12 1,200m 1,313m 109% 3.33 5% 4.5% 90% 1.40 2012 13 1,275m 1,396m 109% 3.33 5% 6.5% 130% 3.33 Total 10.00 8.07 These growth rates were calculated excluding the impact of the 53rd week in 2010 11 in order to provide a like-for-like comparison of revenue growth The average EPS growth target of 11.7% RPI 8% was exceeded with actual performance at 23%.
The total points achieved of 28.07 was therefore in excess of the 21 points required for full vesting.
Over the three-year period of the plan, shareholders benefited from excellent performance and the delivery of significant value: almost doubling of EPS from just over 30 pence to 60 pence per share, and returning via dividends and share buy-backs 2.5 billion to shareholders.
Implementation of Remuneration Policy for the coming year to 30 June 2016 The Committee has determined that the remuneration policy will be implemented as set out below for the year ending 30 June 2016.
Base salary The average salary increase for our employees, effective 1 July 2015, was 3.5% for those earning less than 30,000, and 2.5% for all other employees, with increases up to 10% for outstanding performance, promotions and market adjustments.
Whilst the level of personal achievement and expanded roles of the Executive Directors would allow for greater increases under the all employee salary review process, the Committee decided to make modest base salary adjustments of 3% each for the Group CEO and Group CFO, effective 1 July 2015, to recognise their contribution without compromising the long held intent to maintain a well-leveraged package with a relatively low level of fixed pay versus our pay comparator group.
Taxable benefits and pension No changes.
Annual Bonus and Co-Investment Plan No changes.
We expect that both of the Executive Directors will participate in the CIP for this year.
The performance conditions for the vesting of shares are as per the details set out on page 56.
Long Term Incentive Plan award The Committee agreed that Jeremy Darroch would be granted an award of 600,000 shares and Andrew Griffith would be granted an award of 350,000 shares on 29 July 2015.
This is the Year 2 award of the 20142017 Plan.
These awards will normally vest on 25 July 2017 subject to the performance measures being achieved.
The performance conditions for this award remain the same as for those made in 2012 and 2013, and operate using the same methodology as set out on page 54.
EPS growth target is as per page 54 and the TSR vesting schedule is as per page 56.
Sky plc 59 Annual Report 2015 Governance Directors remuneration report Annual Remuneration Implementation Report continued Directors Share Interests As at the end of the financial year, the Group CEO had beneficial ownership of 578,269 shares equivalent to 6.26 x base salary and the Group CFO had beneficial ownership of 146,667 shares, equivalent to 2.5 x base salary, using the year-end closing share price of 10.66.
The Group CEO and Group CFO currently exceed the shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors as described on page 68.
2 Non-Executive Directors affiliated to 21st Century Fox are not permitted to participate in the monthly share purchase plan.
2 The shares were exercised and subsequently sold on 1 September 2014 the Awards granted in 2011 and on 23 October 2014 the Awards granted in 2009 and 2010.
The aggregate value received by the Executive Directors on exercise of their 2009, 2010 and 2011 CIP Matching Awards before tax was 6,009,147.
3 Dividends are payable on shares purchased through the CIP.
During the year the Executive Directors received 81,725.78 2014: 82,168.60.
4 Performance conditions relating to CIP matching awards can be found on page 56.
5 Following the vesting of awards, participants continuing to be employed by the Company have five years to exercise their award.
Sky plc 61 Annual Report 2015 Governance Directors remuneration report Annual Remuneration Implementation Report continued Single Figure for the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors The following table sets out the single figure for total remuneration for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors for the financial year ended 30 June 2015 and the prior year ended 30 June 2014.
2 Andy Higginson retired at the AGM on 21 November 2014.
3 Martin Gilbert replaced Andy Higginson as Senior Independent Director and member of the Governance and Nominations Committee following Andys retirement at the AGM on 21 November 2014.
4 Adine Grate was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee replacing Martin Gilbert with effect from 25 July 2014.
Fees for the Chairman and base Non-Executive Director fees were increased by 2.5% effective 1 July 2015 as detailed in the table below: 1 July 1 July 2015 2014 Chairman all inclusive fee 485,782 473,934 1 Deputy Chairman 30,000 30,000 Board member 63,000 61,500 Additional responsibilities Senior Independent Director 40,000 40,000 Chairman of Committee 25,000 25,000 Member of Committee 10,000 10,000 1 The role of Deputy Chairman is not required to be filled at this present time.
Payments to past Directors and loss of office There were no payments made to past directors and no payments made for loss of office during the financial year.
Shareholder voting outcomes The Company is committed to engaging with shareholders and every year engages with major shareholders and institutional investor groups to talk about remuneration.
This enables the Company to take shareholders views fully into account when making decisions about remuneration.
At the AGM held on 21 November 2014, 92.97% voted in favour of the Remuneration Policy and 86.23% of shareholders voted in favour of the Directors Report on Remuneration.
Resolution Votes For % For Votes Against % Against Total Votes Cast Votes Withheld Approval of the Remuneration Policy 1,313,682,688 92.97 99,341,288 7.03 1,413,023,976 13,646,452 Approval of the Remuneration Report 996,564,957 86.23 159,084,662 13.77 1,155,649,619 271,020,809 The Committee has sought the views of major shareholders since then and has made a number of important changes to its approach to transparency and disclosure of performance targets as set out in the Chairmans statement on page 51.
62 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Governance Membership of the Committee During the year ended 30 June 2015, the Committee chaired by Tracy Clarke met five times.
Nick Ferguson, Adine Grate, and Andy Sukawaty are members of the Committee.
Attendance during the year is shown on page 42.
Martin Gilbert stepped down from the Committee on 24 July 2014 and Adine Grate was appointed in his place with effect from 25 July 2014.
Role of the Committee The role of the Committee is to oversee the remuneration policy so that the Company is able to recruit, retain and motivate its Executives and reward their individual contributions in a fair and responsible manner.
The Committee reviews the design and structure of employee incentives and is responsible for approving the key terms of employment for the Executive Directors or any senior executive who reports directly to the Group CEO.
The full terms of reference for the Committee are available on the Companys corporate website.
The terms of reference were reviewed during the year as part of the normal corporate review process and no material changes were made.
Committee activities during the year The table below shows a summary of the key areas discussed by the Committee during the financial year.
July 2014 November 2014 January 2015 April 2015 June 2015 Performance outcomes for Performance update Performance update Performance update Performance update bonus, LTIP and CIP bonus, LTIP and CIP bonus, LTIP and CIP bonus, LTIP and CIP bonus, LTIP and CIP Target setting for 2014 15 Update on reporting season Review Committee Terms of Benchmarking for Executive Policy review on 2015 Reference Directors Directors Remuneration Review and approve Shareholder feedback and Report remuneration for Executive proxy voting guidance Update on reporting season Directors and Senior Review position on Management disclosure of performance targets Review and approve Directors Remuneration Report Update on meetings with shareholders voting advisory services Advisors to the Committee Towers Watson acted as independent advisors to the Committee throughout the year.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it receives on Executive Directors remuneration is independent and objective.
Terms of reference are monitored throughout the appointment.
Towers Watson subscribes to the Remuneration Consultants Groups Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration.
The Code clarifies the scope and conduct of the role of remuneration consultants when advising UK listed companies.
The fees paid to Towers Watson for their services in relation to directors pay totalled 161,804.
During the year, Towers Watson also provided Sky with advice on pension within its reward strategy, and the operation of its pension and related benefit provisions The Group CEO and the Director for People provide information and advice and attend meetings as required.
The Committee is also supported by the Company Secretary, Finance and Human Resources functions.
No individuals are involved in the decision in relation to their own remuneration.
Sky plc 63 Annual Report 2015 Governance Directors remuneration report Our Remuneration Policy This section describes the Directors Remuneration Policy that was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM and which the Committee intends will be effective until the 2017 AGM.
The Policy table is reproduced in full below.
For ease of reading some subsequent sub-sections, including remuneration on recruitment or appointment to the Board and payments on termination and loss of office, have been omitted but may be referred to in the 2014 Annual Report pages 60-66, available on our website at sky.
com corporate investors annual-report-2014 Remuneration Principles There are five key principles which underpin the remuneration policy for our Executive Directors: Our approach to executive pay is aligned to the interests of our shareholders.
We reward our people fairly and competitively to attract, motivate and retain the skills we need to deliver significant growth.
The level of base pay is decided in the same way as for all employees, based on individual performance and experience, the size and scope of the role and taking account of total remuneration.
The majority of executive pay is tied to the achievement of stretching performance goals linked to the strategic priorities for the business.
Executive Directors will be well rewarded only if they meet or exceed the maximum performance standards set and achieve stretching levels of performance.
We take care to ensure that remuneration does not inadvertently encourage inappropriate risk taking.
Our principles set the foundation for our remuneration policy and ensure that decisions made by the Committee are consistent and appropriate in the context of business priorities, shareholder interests and employee pay.
Summary of the Executive Directors Remuneration Policy The table below shows how our remuneration policy links to our business strategy and its terms of operation.
Any contractual commitments entered into, or awards made before the policy came into effect or a person became a director, will be honoured.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance link Base salary Attracts and retains Reviewed annually, typically Any increase will be in line with Individual and business Executive Directors taking with effect from 1 July.
those provided to employees performance is taken into account of personal within the Company.
account when reviewing Salary is set relatively low versus contribution and size salaries.
the peer group of companies Higher increases may be made of role.
of similar market capitalisation as a result of a change in role to the Company.
or responsibility or other performance-based The Committee looks at pay circumstance.
practices in selected international media companies.
This is in line with our policy for all employees.
Decisions on salary also take into account the performance and experience of the individual, changes in the size and scope of the role, and the level of salary awards across the business.
Pension Provides opportunity for Executive Directors may receive Employer contributions to the N A longer-term saving and or employer contributions into the pension scheme or an equivalent retirement provision.
Sky Pension Scheme, a cash cash supplement are around 16% supplement in lieu of pension, of base salary.
All payments are made as a percentage of base salary.
64 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Governance Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance link N A Other benefits Provides Executive Executive Directors are entitled Benefits provided to Executive Directors are broadly in line with Directors with a range of to a range of benefits including, those offered to all employees.
core and fringe benefits as but not limited to, private medical Where exceptions are made, part of a competitive total insurance, life assurance, ill health the Committee ensures that remuneration package.
income protection, paid holiday, benefits offered are in line sick pay, Sky subscription package, with market practice for similar company car allowance and use roles in similar organisations.
of a company car generally for business travel purposes.
The Committee may make minor changes to benefits, or include other benefits that are deemed appropriate from time to time.
Relocation allowances and benefits may be provided where needed to assist with the relocation or international transfer of an Executive Director and their dependents.
Performance is assessed Annual bonus Drives and rewards the Performance measures and The maximum bonus against a combination of delivery of stretching weightings are reviewed at the opportunity is 200% of base operational and financial annual performance goals start of each year to take salary, and is payable for the objectives which are aligned with the account of current business achievement of stretch determined at the start Companys overall plans.
The minimum payment is zero.
The weighting of the measures Performance against targets The Committee believes the is determined at the start is monitored quarterly and concept of threshold, target and of each year but each measure determined annually based maximum compromises our drive will have a maximum weighting on assessment of performance for growth so we set one clear of 40%.
and ambitious stretch target for each performance measure Further details are disclosed Payment is made only once every year.
The achievement in the notes to the policy table annual results have been audited.
of stretch goals will result in and the Annual Remuneration In exceptional circumstances the a payout at maximum or Implementation Report.
Committee will use its judgement near-maximum.
The Committee to adjust bonus outcomes up or exercises its judgement on down to ensure alignment of pay the level of bonus payable for with performance and with outcomes short of maximum.
shareholder interests, within the policy maximum.
The maximum annual award The performance measure to Co-Investment Encourages personal Executive Directors may invest is 150% of base salary.
determine the vesting of the Plan CIP investment and up to half of their earned annual shares is chosen each year and shareholder alignment: bonus in the Companys shares.
No matching awards are capable is typically a financial measure rewards long-term focus of vesting if performance is These investment shares are such as EPS growth.
and performance below threshold: a 1 for 1 match matched on a gross basis and achievement.
may vest when the minimum Further details on the vest based on performance over of the range is met and all the performance criteria for a three-year period.
Shares are shares vest or 1.5 shares for threshold and maximum matched by up to 1.5 shares for every 1 share invested in line every share invested when the vesting are disclosed in with performance.
maximum of the range is met.
the Annual Remuneration Implementation Report.
Once vested, participants may exercise the awards during a five-year period.
Participation in the plan is voluntary.
Sky plc 65 Annual Report 2015 Governance Directors remuneration report Our Remuneration Policy continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance link The Committee reviews the Performance measures are Long Term Rewards longer-term value Awards are made annually, number of shares to be granted typically a mix of operational Incentive Plan creation and aligns under the terms of the scheme annually.
A typical award for measures and relative TSR.
LTIP Executive Directors rules, based on number of the Group CEO is 600,000 interests with those of shares.
This fide-links the award Operational measures used shares in any 12-month period.
from increasing automatically in the past have included EPS, with salary adjustments.
The maximum award level is operating cash flow and 900,000 shares in any 12-month revenue growth.
Vesting of awards is based on period.
Such awards will only stretching performance over a The weighting of the measures be made in exceptional three-year period.
Awards are may vary but is typically 70% circumstances.
made in Year 1 and in Year 2 with operational measures and 30% vesting of both awards at the 100% of the shares vest when relative TSR.
This means that the performance criteria are vesting of awards occurs every met in full.
If the minimum of other year, with zero vesting the range is met each year in between.
for all measures, 26% of the shares vest.
In instances of gross misconduct all unvested LTIP awards lapse immediately.
This year the company has introduced a policy on malus.
The Committee may use its discretion after having taken independent advice to withhold or vary downwards any unvested awards typically in the event of: the material restatement of the Companys audited results: or actions attributable to participants resulting in material reputational damage to the business.
The Committee will determine how to apply this sanction on a case-by-case basis.
Around 650 employees are eligible for awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
A smaller number of employees around 130 are also invited to participate in the Co-Investment Plan.
All employees are eligible to receive a comprehensive benefits package and the majority are eligible to receive either a monthly or quarterly cash incentive or an annual bonus.
66 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Governance Shareholder alignment Pay scenario analysis updated for 2015 The Committee considers shareholders views as they are received The charts below provide an estimate of the awards that could be received during the year, at the AGM, through shareholder meetings and through by our Executive Directors under the remuneration policy effective from correspondence.
the 2014 AGM showing: We will continue to engage with our major shareholders and welcome Minimum: base salary as at 1 July 2015, plus pension and benefits feedback at any time.
Should we propose to make any major changes as per the table on page 57 fixed pay to the remuneration structure we will seek the views of our major Maximum: fixed pay plus maximum awards for annual bonus shareholders in advance.
200% of base salary for the Group CEO and 150% for the Group CFO The context for setting executive remuneration policy Co-Investment Plan maximum deferral of 50% of the annual bonus into The principles underlying our executive remuneration policy are aligned investment shares and full vesting of 1.5x matching shares and Long to those that underpin reward for our employees as a whole which aim to Term Incentive Plan 600,00 shares for the Group CEO and 350,000 attract, motivate and retain people by offering a market-competitive total shares for the Group CFO remuneration package.
The Committee takes into consideration the pay The Committee sets one clear and ambitious stretch target for each and conditions of all employees when determining the remuneration for performance measure.
If stretch targets are met then 100% of maximum for the Executive Directors.
It does not consult with employees in this process.
the bonus is paid and the shares awarded under the LTIP and CIP will vest in full.
There is no additional payment for achievement over the stretch goals.
Our performance measures and how they operate Executive pay remains firmly tied to the achievement of stretching Awards under the LTIP are made annually but vesting occurs only every two performance goals linked to business strategy.
The measures we use are years.
The impact of this vesting cycle on actual realised pay is shown in the based on the specific areas of our business that drive growth and returns six year single figure remuneration table for the Group CEO on page 58. to shareholders.
We believe the concept of a threshold, target and maximum Jeremy Darroch, Group CEO formula would compromise our drive for growth so we set one clear and ambitious stretch target for each performance measure every year.
Long Term Incentive Plan Co-Investment Plan Annual bonus Annual Bonus Fixed Pay Minimum 100% 1.1m The performance measures for the annual bonus are determined by the committee based on the business priorities for the year.
They are typically a mix of operational and financial performance measures.
The measures Maximum 11% 18% 14% 57% 11.1m are usually a combination of operating profit, operating cash flow, and a measure of product growth.
Each year stretch objectives are set in the m light of the Companys annual business plan and the operating environment.
Andrew Griffith, Group CFO Co-Investment Plan and Long Term Incentive Plan Long Term Incentive Plan Co-Investment Plan Performance measures for the LTIP and CIP are reviewed annually to ensure Annual Bonus alignment with the Companys strategy and shareholders interests.
The Fixed Pay Minimum 100% 0.7m CIP measure is typically compound EPS growth in excess of RPI over the performance period, which ensures close alignment with our shareholders Maximum 12% 16% 12% 60% 6.1m interests.
Performance required for threshold and maximum vesting are described in the Annual Remuneration Implementation Report on page 53.
0.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 6.0 The LTIP measures are typically a mix of operational measures and relative m TSR performance, with a 70 30 split.
The operational measures are usually EPS growth, operating cash flow and revenue growth.
As the conversion of Scenarios are modelled assuming a share price of 10.59 which is the profit to cash flow is a key indicator of the underlying performance of the average share price over the period 1 April to 30 June 2015 with no business it is used as a measure in both the annual bonus and the LTIP.
allowance for share price appreciation.
Our LTIP vesting cycle is atypical and has served the business and shareholders well since it was introduced in 2005.
Vesting occurs only every other year and as a consequence the amount of remuneration delivered to Executive Directors will spike every other year.
This approach encourages focus on the longer term.
The performance ranges for each measure are reviewed annually in the light of the Companys three-year plan, brokers forecasts and historical performance.
Performance at the top end of the range is stretching.
Sky plc 67 Annual Report 2015 Governance Directors remuneration report Our Remuneration Policy continued Other share schemes How the Remuneration Committee exercises discretion Management Long Term Incentive Plan MLTIP The Committee retains discretion relating to annual bonus, LTIP and The Company also operates a MLTIP for selected employees excluding the CIP in line with their rules and according to the remuneration policy.
Executive Directors and senior executives who participate in the LTIP.
These include but are not limited to: Awards under this scheme are made at the discretion of the Group CEO, within the parameters agreed by the Committee.
The MLTIP mirrors the LTIP Timing of a grant of an award payment in design in order to ensure alignment between participants in either plan.
Size of an award bonus payment up to the maximums indicated Executive Share Option Schemes Executive Schemes in the policy table The Company has in place Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Determination of vesting and the application of malus for the LTIP Option Schemes.
No options have been granted since 2004 and no options are outstanding at 30 June 2015.
We do not envisage making any future Dealing with a change of control awards as part of these schemes.
Determination of treatment of leavers based on the rules of the plan Sharesave Scheme and the leaver policy The Sharesave Scheme is open to UK and Irish employees and encourages Annual review of performance measures and weighting and targets them to make a long-term investment in the Companys shares in a tax of the plan from year to year efficient way.
The current legislation provides for employees to save up to 500 per month.
Currently the limit for Sky employees is 250 per month Any use of discretion within the policy framework will be explained although the Company may decide to adjust this amount in future.
Options in the Annual Remuneration Implementation Report.
There may are normally exercisable after either three or five years from the date of be exceptional circumstances under which the Committee may use grant.
The price at which options are offered is not less than 80% of the discretion or judgement in the interests of the business and shareholders.
middle-market price on the dealing day immediately preceding the date of These exceptional circumstances may be the subject of discussion invitation or the average of the three days preceding the date of invitation.
with the Companys major shareholders.
It is the policy of the Company to invite employees to participate in the scheme following the announcement of the year-end results.
Currently, External appointments approximately 10,000 employees participate in these schemes.
It is External appointments for Executive Directors are considered by the anticipated that employees in Sky Deutschland and Sky Italia will be invited Companys Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee to ensure to participate in similar unapproved schemes during 2015. they would not cause a conflict of interest and are then approved by the Chairman on behalf of the Board.
It is the Companys policy that Shareholding guidelines and share ownership remuneration earned from such appointments may be retained by The Committee recognises the importance of aligning Executive Directors the individual.
and shareholders interests through executives building up a significant Jeremy Darroch became a Non-Executive Director of Burberry Group plc shareholding in the Company.
The shareholding requirements are 3x base in February 2014, and serves as a member of their audit, remuneration salary for the Group CEO and 2x base salary for the Group CFO.
For the period 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015, Directors are required to build up their shareholding to the required levels Jeremy earned 80,000 in this role.
There are no shareholding guidelines for Independent Non-Executive Directors but they are able to participate in a monthly share Andrew Griffith became a Non-Executive Director of Just Eat plc in March purchase plan.
See page 60 for further details on Directors interests.
2014, and serves as senior independent director, chairman of the audit committee and as a member of the remuneration and nominations committees.
For the period 1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015, Andrew earned 60,000 in this role.
68 Sky plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2015 Governance Remuneration of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The table below summarises the key components of remuneration for our Chairman and Non-Executive Directors: Element and purpose Operation Fees Reflect individual responsibilities and membership of Board Fees for the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are Committees.
Attract Non-Executive Directors with the skills and reviewed annually having regard to independent advice and experience required to oversee the implementation of strategy.
The Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee determines the fees paid to the Chairman, taking into account the complexity of the role and the time and commitment required.
The Board of Directors determines the fees for the Non-Executive Directors.
Additional fees for membership of or chairmanship of a committee, or for other responsibilities, are payable in addition to the basic fees.
Fee levels for 2015 are disclosed in the table on page 62.
Non-Executive Directors can elect to receive a portion of their fees in the Companys shares, which are purchased on a monthly basis.
Directors who are deemed to be affiliated with 21st Century Fox are not permitted to take part in this facility.
Non-Executive Directors interests are disclosed in the table on page 60.
Benefits Additional benefits may be provided for business purposes, eg provision of a car to travel to from meetings.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to join Skys pension plan.
Non-Executive Directors are eligible to receive a Sky subscription package.
Bonus and Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any Share Plans bonus or share scheme offered by the Company.
Notice and Each Non-Executive Directors appointment is for an initial termination three-year term.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance provisions Code, all Directors submit themselves for annual reappointment.
Non-Executive Directors each have a letter of appointment: these appointments may be terminated without notice.
Any fees payable would be settled at the date of termination.
No continuing payment of fees are due if a Non-Executive Director is not re-elected by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 28 July 2015 and signed on its behalf by: Tracy Clarke Chairman of Remuneration Committee Sky plc 69
