Directors Report Remuneration Report The Chairmans statement How executive remuneration links to our strategy I am pleased to set out Last year we re-shaped our performance measures to align them more explicitly with both shareholders and customers expectations.
We the Remuneration also took the opportunity to introduce additional holding periods for our long-term incentive awards, a feature which better aligns to the Committees Directors time horizons of our business.
The Committee continues to believe that our Remuneration Report overall remuneration policy is strongly aligned to our strategy through the following approach: - Simplicity Our executive pay is made up of DRR for the year ended just four elements: base salary, plus benefits: pension rights: an annual incentive scheme cash and shares : and a long term incentive 31st March 2015. scheme shares.
- A balanced assessment of performance We assess performance through a range This report gives me the opportunity to explain how SSE of measures to ensure a balanced view of pays its Directors and, importantly, how this links to the executives overall performance.
- Customer focus Reflecting our commitment companys strategy.
It is also allows me to give you an to customers, we include customer service insight into the decisions we took during the year and measures in both the annual incentive and the performance share plan.
the context surrounding those decisions.
- Delivering value for our shareholders Dividends and TSR performance continue to feature strongly in our incentive framework to ensure that management interests are aligned with those of our shareholders.
- Stewardship and alignment to the long-term Executive Directors are required to build and maintain a significant personal shareholding in the business, and a two-year holding period extends the overall time horizon of our performance share plan to five years.
We were delighted to receive overwhelming support from shareholders for our remuneration policy at the 2014 AGM, with 99.1% of votes cast in favour.
At our AGM in 2015, shareholders will have the opportunity to vote on our annual Remuneration Report for 2014 15, and we welcome this opportunity for our shareholders to have their say.
Performance out-turns in 2014 15 2014 15 was a challenging year for the energy industry, with the sector coming under significant political and regulatory scrutiny.
As set out on page 26 of our Annual Report, SSE has performed well against the range of measures, in the context of a testing climate.
At SSE we believe firmly that the purpose of our business is to work effectively for both our customers and investors, and the Committee seeks to implement policies that reward both effective customer service and financial performance.
Against this background, the performance outturns for Executive Director incentives were as follows: 90 SSE plc Annual Report 2015
