GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report Dear Shareholder, REMUNERATION DECISIONS IN RESPECT TONY BOURNE OF 2015 COMMITTEE CHAIR Last year the Remuneration Committee Although the Companys performance the Committee delivered its first Directors remained good during the year, the business Remuneration Report DRR following We believe that the Companys was impacted by an increasingly challenging Spire Healthcares listing in July 2014.
I was business environment predominantly current remuneration extremely pleased with the response from driven by external factors.
Performance as shareholders to both the Annual Report on structure is working well and a whole fell short of the stretching EBITDA Remuneration and the Remuneration Policy targets that were set by the Committee at is effectively incentivising our which were presented at our annual general the start of the year and therefore no bonus meeting in May 2015: both received Executive Directors and senior payment will be made in respect of the 2015 extremely positive votes in favour of 98.94% financial year.
management to achieve both and 99.56% respectively.
The first share awards granted under the our shortand longer-term CONSISTENCY IN APPROACH Companys ongoing Long Term Incentive Plan business targets.
The Committee has agreed to maintain the LTIP will be performance tested after the approved remuneration structure for 2016 2016 year end and, therefore, no awards have and is not proposing any amendments to vested under this plan.
the Companys Remuneration Policy for the coming year.
We believe that the current DIRECTOR CHANGES structure is working well and is effectively As announced in March 2016, Rob Roger incentivising our Executive Directors and will step down as Chief Executive Officer on senior management to achieve both our 30 June 2016 and Garry Watts has resumed short and longer-term business targets in a the role of Executive Chairman.
way which supports sustainable shareholder It is expected that Garry will serve in this value creation while also enshrining the capacity for a period up to 12 months from core behaviours and values that have been the date of Robs departure.
Further details integral to Spire Healthcares success to regarding both Robs departure terms date.
During the year, there have been a and Garrys arrangements while in post number of appointments to the wider senior as Executive Chairman are set out in this management team, and the simple and years Annual Report on Remuneration.
transparent remuneration structure we operate has been a crucial factor when REMUNERATION STRUCTURE FOR 2016 attracting some extremely strong candidates The salary for the Chief Executive Officer, to the Company.
Rob Roger, will remain unchanged up The Committee remains committed to until his departure.
The Committee has focusing on pay for performance and determined that, with effect from 1 April rewarding the leadership team in a way 2016, Simon Gordons salary will be increased which aligns them with the interests of by 5% to 367,500.
This is the first raise in his our shareholders, while staying true salary since Admission and reflects Simons to the Companys values.
importance in delivering the Companys growth objectives over the next few years.
76 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The bonus structure will continue to be based on EBITDA and a balanced scorecard Remuneration Committee at a glance of strategic and individual objectives.
One-third of any bonus earned will normally 2015 HIGHLIGHTS be deferred into shares for three years.
The No changes were made to the Executive Directors salaries in 2015.
Committee has also agreed that LTIP awards The Committee reviewed the remuneration framework and concluded that it continues to be granted in 2016 will continue to be to serve the Company well, particularly in light of the strong level of shareholder support subject to appropriately stretching EPS and for its remuneration policy at the 2015 annual general meeting.
No changes have been made to the Companys remuneration policy during the year.
The Committee recognises the importance COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND MEETING ATTENDANCE of fostering a culture of wider share The Remuneration Committee must have at least three members, all of whom must be ownership across the organisation.
independent Non-Executive Directors, and the Board will appoint the Committees Chair.
Therefore, at the annual general meeting, the Company will seek approval from Committee Committee meetings shareholders for the rules of an all-employee Member member since Position in company attended in 2015 HMRC-approved Sharesave Plan SAYE.
Tony Bourne July 2014 Independent Non-Executive 4 4 COMMITTEE EVALUATION Committee Chair Director As part of the Boards wider evaluation John Gildersleeve July 2014 Deputy Chairman and Senior 4 4 completed in 2015, the Committee spent Independent Director time at its meeting in November reviewing Robert Lerwill July 2014 Independent Non-Executive 4 4 its own performance and discussing areas Director of good practice that had been raised.
A number of the Committee had identified Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number eligible the appointment of a permanent Group to be attended.
If a member is unable to attend a meeting, they have the opportunity Human Resources Director as a priority in beforehand to discuss any agenda items with the Committees Chair.
Members biographies order to ensure there is a clear People Plan in are shown on pages 58 and 59. place as the Company grows.
This was addressed with the permanent appointment The Group Company Secretary, or their appointed nominee, is secretary to the Committee.
of Caroline Roberts to the position in November 2015, which should further ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES strengthen the support for the Committees The Remuneration Committee has delegated authority from the Board to determine work in future.
the total remuneration arrangements of the Chairman, Executive Directors and, in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer, senior management.
It also oversees the SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION AND Groups share-based incentive arrangements.
In practice, the Committee agrees the: THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING policy for cash remuneration, executive share plans, service contracts and termination The Committee welcomes any feedback arrangements: from our shareholders and trusts that you framework for the remuneration of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and, in will support the policies and practices consultation with the Chief Executive Officer, senior management: outlined in this report.
As Chair of the reward packages of Executive Directors: Remuneration Committee, I am committed termination arrangements for Executive Directors: to ensuring an open dialogue with our recommendations to the Board concerning any new executive share plans or changes shareholders.
If you have any questions to existing schemes which require shareholders approval: and about the DRR or remuneration generally, basis on which awards are granted and their amount to Executive Directors and senior please contact me via companysecretary@ management under the LTIP.
The Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
com The Committee recommends the 2015 DRR to you for approval and we look forward to your continued support at our annual general meeting in May 2016.
Tony Bourne Chair, Remuneration Committee 16 March 2016 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 77 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Report The Companys Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting held on 21 May 2015 and remains unchanged.
It has been reproduced below as it was presented in the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report for ease of reference.
For clarity where the report included references to implementation of the policy in 2015 these have been updated.
Similarly, updates have been made to the pay scenario chart on page 84 and in respect of the change in the Companys major shareholder that occurred in July 2015.
REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE Fixed remuneration Purpose and Performance Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity measures Salary To provide fixed The Committee takes into account a While there is no defined maximum None remuneration number of factors when setting salaries, opportunity, salary increases normally that is including: take into account increases for full-time appropriate for employees across the Group.
scope and responsibility of the role: the role and to The Committee retains discretion to make the skills and experience of the individual: secure and higher increases in certain circumstances, salary levels for similar roles within retain the talent for example, following an increase in the appropriate comparators: required by the scope and or responsibility of the role, or a overall structure of the remuneration Group.
significant change in market practice or the package: and development of the individual in the role.
pay and conditions elsewhere in The Executive Directors salaries from the Group.
1 January 2016 are: Salaries are normally reviewed annually, Chief Executive Officer: 525,000: and with any increase usually taking effect Chief Financial Officer: 350,000 this will in January.
Whilst no maximum limit exists, individual None Benefits Fixed element A range of role-appropriate benefits may benefit arrangements take into account of remuneration be provided to Executive Directors, including such items as private medical a number of factors, including market providing insurance for the Executive Director and practice for comparable roles within market their family, permanent health assurance, appropriate pay comparators.
competitive participation in an income protection benefits to both Participation in any HMRC-approved scheme, life assurance, an annual health support all-employee share plan is subject to the assessment for the Executive Director retention and maximum permitted by the relevant and their spouse and a car allowance.
recruit people of tax legislation.
the necessary Additional one-off benefits may also be calibre.
provided where the Committee considers this appropriate e. g. on relocation.
Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in any all-employee share plans operated by the Company from time to time on the same basis as other eligible colleagues.
The Committee keeps the benefits package offered to existing and new Executive Directors under review.
Retirement Fixed element Executive Directors can opt to join the The maximum level of retirement benefits None benefits of remuneration Companys defined contribution scheme, is 25% of base salary, and the current to assist with receive a contribution into a personal provision for the Executive Directors is 18% retirement pension scheme, take a cash supplement of base salary.
or any combination of the three.
They are set by taking into account a Retirement The employer defined contribution level, number of factors, including market benefits are the contribution into a personal pension practice for comparable roles at appropriate provided to scheme and or cash supplement are kept pay comparators.
both support under review by the Committee.
For new Executive Directors, the nature and retention and The retirement benefits are not included value of any retirement benefits provided will recruit people of in calculating bonus and long-term be, in the Committees view, reasonable in the the necessary incentive quantum.
context of market practice for comparable calibre.
roles and take account of both the individuals circumstances and the cost to the Group 78 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Variable remuneration Purpose and Maximum Element link to strategy Operation opportunity Performance measures Annual To incentivise Objectives are set annually to ensure that Maximum award Awards are based on a combination bonus and reward the they remain targeted and focused on the opportunity for of financial, operational and achievement of delivery of strategic goals.
Executive individual goals measured over one annual financial, Directors is 150% financial year.
The Committee sets targets that require operational of base salary for appropriate levels of performance, taking At least 50% of the award will be and individual each financial into account internal and external assessed against the Groups objectives that year, a portion expectations of performance.
The remainder are key to the of which is of the award will be based on As soon as practicable after the year end, delivery of the normally performance against strategic the Committee meets to review Groups deferred into an objectives and or individual performance against objectives and strategy.
Details of the determines payout levels.
The Committee under the DBP performance measures for 2015 may adjust payments to ensure they are currently and 2016 are set out in the Annual reflective of overall performance.
A portion of any bonus as determined by A sliding scale between 0% and the Committee is normally deferred into 100% of the maximum award an award of shares under the Deferred pays out for achievement between Bonus Plan DBP.
Currently one-third of the minimum and maximum any bonus is deferred for a period of three performance thresholds.
years although the Committee may vary this approach.
For annual bonuses in respect of 2016, the targets will be based on DBP awards may be in the form of EBITDA and a balanced scorecard conditional share awards or nil-cost of strategic metrics.
options or any other form allowed by the Plan rules.
This deferred bonus element The details of measures, targets is not normally subject to any further and weightings may be varied by performance conditions, although it the Committee year-on-year based is subject to continued employment.
on the Groups strategic priorities.
Further details of the malus and clawback provisions applicable are set out on page 80.
Long Term To incentivise Awards granted under the LTIP vest The maximum Vesting of awards will be Incentive and reward the subject to achievement of performance award dependent on a range of financial, Plan LTIP delivery of conditions measured over a period of at opportunity operational or share price long-term least three years, unless the Committee at grant for measures, as set by the Committee, strategic determines otherwise.
Executive which are aligned with the objectives.
Directors in long-term strategic objectives Awards may be in the form of conditional respect of a of the Group and shareholder To align the share awards or nil-cost options or any financial year value creation.
interests of other form allowed by the Plan rules.
is 200% of the Executive Not less than 30% of an award Further details of the malus and clawback base salary.
Directors with will be based on share price provisions applicable are set out on those of measures.
The remainder will be page 80. shareholders.
based on either financial and or operational measures.
To assist recruitment and At the threshold performance, no retention of more than 25% of the award will Executive vest, rising to 100% for maximum Directors.
For awards granted in 2016, vesting will be based on EPS 50% and relative TSR 50% targets.
The details of measures, targets and weightings may be varied by the Committee prior to grant based on the Groups strategic objectives.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 79 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE In addition, for cash bonus awards in respect RECRUITMENT POLICY PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND TARGETS of 2015 and future years, and for LTIP awards In determining remuneration for new Annual bonus granted after 1 January 2015, the Committee Executive Directors, the Committee will The annual bonus performance measures may also claw back vested awards in certain consider all relevant factors, including the are designed to provide an appropriate extreme circumstances including those calibre of the individual and the external balance between incentivising Executive listed above for up to two years following market, while aiming not to pay more than Directors to meet financial targets for the determination of the relevant is necessary to secure the required talent.
the year and to deliver specific strategic, performance outcome.
The Committee would seek to act in what operational and personal goals.
This balance it considers to be the best interests of the Prior to applying malus or clawback, the allows the Committee to review the Group and its shareholders.
Normally, the Committee will take into account all relevant Groups performance in the round against Committee will seek to align the new factors including, where a serious failure of the key elements of our strategy, and Executive Directors remuneration package risk management or regulatory compliance appropriately incentivise and reward the to the remuneration policy, as set out above.
or serious reputational damage has occurred, Executive Directors.
the degree of involvement of the employee Salary and benefits including any retirement Bonus targets are set by the Committee each in that failure or damage in question and the benefits will be determined in accordance year to ensure that Executive Directors are employees level of responsibility in deciding with the policy table above.
In certain focused on the key financial and strategic whether, and to what extent, it is reasonable instances, the Committee may decide to objectives for the financial year.
In doing so, to operate malus and or clawback.
The appoint an executive director to the Board the Committee usually takes into account a Committee is satisfied that the above on a lower-than-typical salary, with the number of internal and external reference provisions provide robust safeguards against intention of gradually increasing the salary points, including the Groups business plan.
inappropriate payment of incentive awards.
to move closer to market level as they build experience in the role.
Normally, benefits Long Term Incentive Plan LEGACY ARRANGEMENTS will be limited to those outlined in the policy The Committee believes it is important that Directors Share Bonus Plan Awards table above, including a relocation allowance the performance conditions applying to LTIP were granted to Rob Roger, Simon Gordon in certain circumstances.
awards support the long-term ambitions of and Garry Watts in recognition of his the Group and the creation of shareholder The maximum level of variable pay performance as Executive Chairman prior value.
The Committee currently considers excluding any buyouts that may be to Admission to reflect their contribution that a combination of relative TSR and awarded to a new executive director will to the Company prior to Admission.
These financial metrics currently EPS are the be limited to 350% of base salary, which awards were made over shares in the form most appropriate measures to assess the is consistent with the policy table above.
The awards are split into underlying performance of the business, Incentives will normally be granted under the two equal tranches, which normally become while creating alignment with shareholders existing plans: however, where appropriate, exercisable on the first and second and rewarding long-term value creation.
the Committee may tailor the award e. g. anniversary of Admission, respectively.
time frame, form, performance criteria The Committee will keep the measures and Although these awards were made in based on the commercial circumstances.
weightings under review to ensure that the recognition of services provided to the most appropriate measures to incentivise The Committee may buy out remuneration Company prior to Admission, the awards the long-term success of the Group are used.
terms a new hire has had to forfeit on will only be exercisable in full if the 90-day joining the Group.
Buyout awards are average share price prior to the first and RECOVERY PROVISIONS MALUS AND intended to be of comparable commercial second anniversary of Admission is at least CLAWBACK value, and capped accordingly.
If, at the relevant anniversary, the Prior to vesting, the Committee may cancel Committee will take into account all average share price is at or below 224 pence, or reduce the number of shares subject to, relevant factors when determining the the number of shares in the relevant tranche or impose additional conditions on, LTIP, DBP quantum and form structure of any buyout, to which the options relate will be reduced awards and Directors Share Bonus Awards including any performance conditions by approximately 35%.
Where the average in circumstances where the Committee attached to any forfeited awards, the share price at the relevant anniversary is considers it to be appropriate malus.
likelihood of those conditions being met, between 224 pence and 359 pence, the Such circumstances may include: a serious and the proportion of the vesting proportion exercisable will be reduced on misstatement of the Groups audited performance period remaining.
financial results, a serious miscalculation of The service contracts for new appointments any relevant performance measure, a serious will be consistent with the policy described failure of risk management or regulatory below.
Where an Executive Director is compliance by a relevant entity, serious appointed from within the organisation, reputational damage to the Group, or the the policy of the Group is that any legacy participants material misconduct.
arrangements would be honoured in line with the original terms and conditions.
Similarly, if an executive is appointed following an acquisition of, or merger with, another company, legacy terms and conditions would be honoured.
80 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR SERVICE CONTRACTS AND PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE The key employment terms and other conditions of the current Executive Directors, as stipulated in their service contracts, are set out below: Provision Policy Notice period 12 months notice by either the Group or the Executive Director.
This is also the policy for new recruits.
Benefits The Group may agree that certain benefits will be specified within the Executive Directors service contracts.
The current Executive Directors are contractually entitled to private medical insurance for the Executive Director and his family, permanent health assurance, income protection, life assurance, an annual health assessment for the Executive Director and their spouse and a car allowance.
Termination payment It is the Groups policy that service contracts contain provisions that allow the Group to terminate employment by making a payment in lieu of notice PILON equivalent to i 12 months base salary, and ii the cost of specific benefits including retirement benefits.
Upon termination by the Group, the Group can determine whether a PILON is made as a single lump sum or paid in instalments, subject to mitigation.
Where the sum is paid in instalments, the Executive Director has a duty to use reasonable endeavours to secure alternative employment as soon as reasonably practicable.
In the event the Executive Director commences alternative employment with an annual salary of greater than 30,000, there will be a pro rata reduction in the PILON payments.
Immediate termination The service contract of an Executive Director may also be terminated immediately and with no liability to make payment in certain circumstances, such as the Executive Director bringing the Group into disrepute or committing a fundamental breach of their employment obligations.
External appointments Executive Directors may accept one position as a non-executive director of another publically listed company that is not a competitor of the Group, subject to prior approval of the Board.
External appointments to any other company and treatment of any fees are also subject to the prior approval of the Board.
In the event that the employment of an Executive Director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in accordance with the terms of the service contract between the Group and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans in which they participate.
Where an Executive Directors employment with the Group ceases prior to the payment of the annual bonus in respect of a financial year, the Committee in its absolute discretion will determine whether any bonus should be paid and the extent to which deferral into shares should be applied.
Any awards would normally be prorated.
For bonuses in respect of 2015 onwards, clawback provisions will also apply.
For the avoidance of doubt, in the event the Executive Director is dismissed for misconduct, no bonus will be payable.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 81 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued The treatment of share awards made by the Company is governed by the relevant share plan rules.
The following table summarises the leaver provisions of share plans under which Executive Directors may currently hold awards.
Plan Leaver reasons where awards may continue to vest Vesting arrangements Deferred Bonus Plan Death LTIP awards will vest to the extent determined by the DBP and LTIP Committee, which, unless the Committee determines Injury, ill health or disability otherwise, will be calculated on the basis of the achievement Retirement of any performance conditions at the relevant vesting date The transfer of the individuals employing and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the period company or business out of the Group of time that has elapsed between grant and cessation of employment directorship.
Any other scenario in which the Committee determines good leaver treatment is justified The vesting date for such awards will normally be the original vesting date, although the Committee has the flexibility to determine that awards can vest upon cessation of employment.
DBP awards will normally vest in full on the original vesting date, although the Committee has the flexibility to determine that awards can vest earlier.
DBP and LTIP awards will continue to be subject to the malus provisions outlined on page 80 until the vesting of the awards.
LTIP awards granted from 2015 onwards are subject to a clawback provision, as described above.
Any other reason Awards lapse in full.
Directors Share Any circumstance other than dismissal for cause These awards were made in recognition of services provided Bonus Plan to the Company prior to Admission and, as such, are not Legacy arrangements subject to continued employment except in the case of granted prior to dismissal for cause.
Admission Awards vest on the first and second anniversary of Admission to the extent the share price performance targets have been met.
Awards will continue to be subject to the malus provisions outlined on page 80 until the vesting of the awards.
Dismissal for cause Awards lapse in full.
Where Executive Directors participate in any HMRC-approved all-employee share plans, the leaver treatment will be consistent with the relevant legislation and on the same terms as all other employees.
82 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Group seeks to appoint Non-Executive Directors who have relevant professional knowledge and or specific technical skills to support the current expertise of the Board and to match the healthcare sector within which the Group operates.
In the event of the appointment of a new Chairman and or Non-Executive Director, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with those detailed in the relevant table below.
Fees to Non-Executive Directors will not include share options or other performancerelated elements.
Remuneration of independent Non-Executive Directors, with the exception of the Chairman, is determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Committee.
Directors are not involved in any decisions in relation to their own remuneration.
The table below sets out the remuneration policy with respect to Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the Groups bonus arrangements, share incentive schemes or retirement benefit plans.
Approach to setting remuneration for Non-Executive Directors Opportunity Fees are set at appropriate levels to ensure NonThe total fees paid to Non-Executive Directors will remain within the limit stated Executive Directors are paid to reflect the individual in the Articles of Association of the Company.
responsibility taken, as well as the skills and experience Individual fees reflect responsibility and time commitment, as well as the skills of the individual.
and experience of the individual.
Additional fees may be paid for further When setting fee levels, consideration is given to responsibilities, such as chairmanship of committees.
a number of factors, including responsibilities and Any benefits provided will be reasonable in the market context and take market positioning.
account of the individual circumstances and benefits provided to comparable Where appropriate, benefits to the role may be roles.
Expenses reasonably incurred in the performance of the role may be provided.
Travel and other reasonable expenses reimbursed or paid for directly by the Group, as appropriate, including any tax including fees incurred in obtaining professional due on the benefits.
Non-Executive Directors will also be covered by the Groups advice in the furtherance of their duties and any indemnity insurance.
associated taxes incurred in the course of performing The fees as at 31 December 2015 were: their duties may be paid by the Group or reimbursed to Non-Executive Chairman: 257,000: Non-Executive Directors.
Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director: 140,000: Non-Executive Director basic: 50,000: and Committee chairmanship: 10,000.
Under the terms of his appointment, Garry Watts is entitled to private medical expenses insurance for both himself and his spouse and any dependent children, life assurance, annual health assessment for both himself and his spouse and office facilities to perform his duties as Chairman.
Medical expenses insurance and life assurance will be provided under the Groups arrangements or, if he obtains equivalent benefits directly, the Group will meet his costs up to a specified cap.
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment that set out their duties and responsibilities.
They do not have service contracts with either the Group or any of its subsidiaries.
The key terms of the appointments are set out in the table below.
This is the policy for current and any new Non-Executive Directors.
Provision Policy Period In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Chairman and all independent Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at each annual general meeting.
After the initial three-year term, the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are typically expected to serve a further three-year term.
Termination The appointment of the Chairman is terminable by either the Group or the Director by giving 12 months notice.
The appointment of the Deputy Chairman is terminable by either the Group or the Director by giving three months notice.
The appointment of any independent Non-Executive Directors is terminable by either the Group or the Director by giving two months notice.
The Non-Executive Director nominated by Mediclinic International pursuant to the terms of the relationship agreement is terminable without notice.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 83 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued FURTHER DETAILED PROVISIONS The DBP and LTIP, as well as the outstanding legacy Directors Share Bonus Awards, will be operated in accordance with the relevant plan rules which were summarised for shareholders in the Prospectus.
The Committee may adjust or amend awards only in accordance with the provisions of the relevant plan rules.
This includes making adjustments to awards to reflect one-off corporate events, such as a change in the Groups capital structure.
In accordance with the plan rules, awards may be settled in cash rather than shares, where the Committee considers this appropriate.
The performance conditions applicable to incentive awards may be amended on an appropriate basis determined by the Committee, if an event occurs or circumstances arise that cause the Committee to consider the performance condition is no longer a fair measure of performance and, in the case of the Directors Share Bonus Awards, the Committee determines fairly and reasonably that the circumstances prevailing at grant have changed.
For LTIP and Directors Share Bonus Awards, the amended performance condition will be at least as challenging as the original condition.
Under the DBP, LTIP and Directors Share Bonus Awards, participants may receive an additional amount, in cash or shares, to take account of the value of dividends the participant would have received on the shares that vest.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, LTIP awards may vest to the extent that the Committee determines, taking into account the extent to which any performance conditions have been satisfied, and such other factors as the Committee considers relevant in the circumstances, provided that, unless the Committee determines otherwise, awards will be adjusted to reflect the period of time that has elapsed between grant and cessation of employment directorship: DBP awards will normally vest in full: and Legacy Share Bonus Awards may vest based on the per-share price payable to shareholders on the relevant transaction, or, in the case of a winding-up, the share price at the time.
Alternatively, awards may be exchanged for equivalent awards in the acquiring company.
The Committee may make any remuneration payments including vesting of incentives and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above, where the terms of that payment were agreed before this policy came into effect: or at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
The DBP and LTIP incorporate dilution limits.
These limits are 10% in any rolling 10-year period for all plans and 5% in any rolling 10-year period for executive share plans.
Shares issued out of treasury will count towards these limits for so long as this is required under institutional shareholder guidelines.
Shares issued, or to be issued, pursuant to any awards granted on or before the date of Admission will not count towards these limits.
In addition, awards that lapse shall be disregarded for the purposes of these limits.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
ILLUSTRATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY The remuneration arrangements have been designed to ensure that a significant proportion of pay is dependent on the delivery of stretching short-term and long-term performance targets aligned with the Groups objectives, and on delivering shareholder value.
The Committee considers the level of remuneration that may be received under different performance outcomes to ensure that this is appropriate in the context of the performance delivered and the value added for shareholders.
The charts that follow provide illustrative values of the annual remuneration packages for Executive Directors in 2016 under three assumed performance scenarios.
These charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may differ from those shown.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER ROB ROGER CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER SIMON GORDON 3,000k 3,000k 2,500k 2,500k 2,479k 2,000k 2,000k 42% 1,655k 1,560k 1,500k 1,500k 42% 11% 34% 1,042k 1,000k 1,000k 8% 34% 21% 11% 641k 17% 8% 500k 500k 21% 430k 17% 100% 41% 26% 100% 41% 26% 0k 0k Minimum Mid-point Maximum Minimum Mid-point Maximum performance performance performance performance Salary benefits Cash bonus Deferred shares LTIP 84 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Assumed performance Assumptions Fixed pay All performance scenarios Consists of total fixed pay, including base salary, benefits and retirement benefits.
Base salary salary effective as at 1 January 2016.
Variable pay Minimum performance No payout under the annual bonus.
No vesting under the LTIP.
Mid-point 50% of the maximum payout under the annual bonus.
This represents 75% of base salary for both Executive Directors.
One-third of the bonus payable is deferred into shares under the DBP.
This represents 100% of base salary for both Executive Directors.
Maximum performance 100% of the maximum payout under the annual bonus.
This represents 150% of base salary for both Executive Directors.
This represents 200% of base salary for both Executive Directors.
DBP and LTIP awards have been shown at face value, with no share price growth, dividend accrual or discount rate assumptions.
The illustrative scenarios exclude payouts under the Legacy Share Bonus Award, which were granted to the Executive Directors in recognition of services prior to Admission.
REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS THROUGHOUT THE COMPANY The Policy for our Executive Directors is designed in line with the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration across the Group.
When making decisions in respect of the Executive Directors remuneration arrangements, the Committee takes into consideration the pay and conditions for employees throughout the Group.
As stated in the policy table, salary increases are, in practice, normally aligned to the general employee population.
The Committee does not directly consult with our employees as part of the process of determining executive pay.
DIFFERENCES IN REMUNERATION POLICY FOR ALL EMPLOYEES The remuneration of the wider employee population is based on the same reward philosophy, whilst the components of remuneration vary with seniority.
All employees, including Executive Directors, receive a salary and role-appropriate benefits.
Role-specific annual bonus arrangements are operated across the Group.
For more senior roles, a portion of the bonus is deferred on a similar basis to Executive Directors.
Only senior individuals who can have significant influence on the performance of the Group as a whole are invited to participate in the long-term incentive plans.
This provides those individuals with an incentive to help achieve the Groups mediumand long-term objectives and create shareholder value, whilst ensuring their remuneration varies to the extent these goals are achieved.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The structure of remuneration for Board members was first presented to shareholders in the Prospectus prior to Admission.
The Committee is mindful of shareholders views when evaluating and setting ongoing remuneration strategy, and intends to appropriately consult with shareholders prior to any significant proposed changes to the remuneration policy.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 85 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The following table sets out the total remuneration for the Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2015.
This comprises the total remuneration received over the full year from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015.
The prior year comparison represents the full year from 1 January 2014 through to 31 December 2014, including remuneration received from the Group prior to Admission and the incorporation of the Company on 12 June 2014.
Rob Roger Simon Gordon Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 000s 2015 2014 2015 2014 Salary 525.0 450.0 350.0 302.1 Benefits 21.5 16.1 16.6 14.4 Retirement benefits 94.5 80.5 63.0 54.1 Annual bonus including deferred element 195.4 118.2 Long-term incentives Sub-total 641.0 742.0 429.6 488.8 1 Legacy Accrued Incentive Payments 4,450.0 2,050.4 2 Legacy Share Bonus Award 454.8 1,031.1 248.1 562.4 Total 1,095.8 6,223.1 677.7 3,101.6 1 As disclosed in last years report, the Accrued Incentive Payment for Rob Roger was paid wholly in cash, and for Simon Gordon was paid half in cash less the repayment of a loan of 12,890 and half in the Companys shares.
2 In accordance with the requirements of the disclosure regulations, the value of the Share Bonus Award vesting in 2015 is calculated based on the share price at the date of vesting of 3.709 after part of the performance criteria for the first tranche of this award was met, inclusive of accrued dividend equivalents.
It should be noted that as at the year end these vested nil cost options remain unexercised.
ADDITIONAL NOTES TO THE TABLE Salary On Admission, the salary for Rob Roger, Chief Executive Officer, was 525,000 and for Simon Gordon, Chief Financial Officer, was 350,000.
These salaries remained unchanged during 2015.
Benefits The benefits consist of private medical insurance for the Executive Directors and their families, permanent health assurance, life assurance and a car allowance.
Under his contractual terms, Simon Gordon also has an annual health assessment for himself and his spouse.
Under his contractual terms, Rob Roger also has income protection cover.
Retirement benefits The amount set out in the table represents the Group contribution to the Executive Directors retirement planning at a rate of 18% of base salary.
Simon Gordon is a member of the Spire Healthcare Pension Plan and Rob Roger has a personal pension scheme.
Amounts above the HMRC annual allowance are paid as taxable cash supplements.
Annual bonus For the 2015 financial year, the maximum bonus opportunity for Rob Roger and Simon Gordon was 150% of base salary.
The annual bonus targets were set at the beginning of the financial year, with 70% of the award being assessed against EBITDA and 30% assessed against a balanced scorecard based on strategic targets including productivity, customer, quality and staff measures.
The threshold EBITDA target for 2015 was set at 171.0 million and no bonus would be payable if this threshold was not achieved.
Although the Companys performance remained good during the year, the increasingly challenging environment and external factors impacting the business, meant that it did not achieve the minimum EBITDA threshold of 171.0 million.
Although both Executive Directors largely met their individual objectives under the balanced scorecard, the Committee determined that no bonus will be paid in respect of 2015.
86 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DEFERRED BONUS PLAN Under the DBP, one-third of the Executive Directors annual bonus is deferred for three years.
The following awards over shares were granted under the DBP during the year.
These amounts relate to their 2014 bonus which was disclosed in the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts: Type of award Date of award Shares awarded Shares exercisable Rob Roger Conditional Share Award in the 1 June 2015 18,057 1 June 2018 to 1 June 2025 form of nil-cost options Simon Gordon 1 June 2015 10,922 1 June 2018 to 1 June 2025 The share price used to determine the number of deferred shares subject to award was 3.606, the mid-market closing share price on 29 May 2015.
Awards are deferred for a period of three years and are conditional on continued employment.
There are no further performance conditions attaching to these shares although they remain subject to a malus provision.
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN No awards under the LTIP vested in the 2015 financial year and, subsequently, no award is shown in the single figure table above.
Awards under the LTIP were granted on 1 April 2015.
These awards were granted in the form of nil-cost options over Spire Healthcare Group plc shares, with the number of shares that may vest conditional on performance over the three-year period to 31 December 2017.
The maximum award granted to Executive Directors was equivalent to 200% of base salary.
The Committee determined that awards under this plan should be linked to the value created for shareholders over the period, and as a consequence that the awards should continue to be equally weighted against relative TSR and EPS performance targets.
Further details of the performance conditions applying to the 2015 awards are set out below.
EPS 50% of award Relative TSR 50% of award Vesting of this element is based on the adjusted EPS outcome for the Vesting of this element is based on TSR performance measured against 2017 financial year.
the constituents of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
Percentage of the Percentage of the 2017 EPS element vesting TSR performance element vesting Less than 23.8 pence 0% Below median 0% 23.8 pence 25% Median 25% 27.5 pence or more 100% Upper quartile 100% Straight-line vesting operates between these points.
Straight-line vesting operates between these points.
Based on relative TSR performance from 1 January 2015 to 31 December 2017.
The following table provides details of all outstanding awards made to Executive Directors under the LTIP: Type of award Date of grant Number of shares Share price Face value at grant End of performance period Rob Roger 30 September 2014 372,340 2.823 1,050,000 31 December 2016 Chief Executive Officer Conditional Share Award 1 April 2015 290,858 3.610 1,050,000 31 December 2017 in the form Simon Gordon 30 September 2014 248,226 2.823 700,000 31 December 2016 of nil-cost Chief Financial Officer options 1 April 2015 193,905 3.610 700,000 31 December 2017 The share price used to determine the number of shares under each award is based on the average of the mid-market quotation at close of business over the last five dealing days prior to the date of grant.
The face values at grant are equivalent to 200% of base salary.
Both 2014 and 2015 awards are subject to EPS and relative TSR performance conditions.
LEGACY ARRANGEMENTS VARIABLE INCENTIVES RELATING TO THE PERIOD PRIOR TO ADMISSION As disclosed in the Prospectus, the Company granted, conditional on Admission, Accrued Incentive Payments and Share Bonus Plan Awards.
These are legacy arrangements that were adopted and operated prior to Admission.
These figures have been included in the single-figure table above in the interests of transparency: however, it should be noted that they relate to performance delivered prior to Admission.
LEGACY ARRANGEMENT DIRECTORS SHARE BONUS PLAN AWARDS Awards were granted to Rob Roger, Simon Gordon and Garry Watts in recognition of his performance in his pre-Admission role of Executive Chairman to reflect their contribution to the Company prior to Admission.
Details of these awards are set out below.
In order to create further alignment with shareholders, these awards were made over shares in the form of nil-cost options and split into two equal tranches, which become exercisable on the first and second anniversary of Admission, respectively.
Although these awards were made in recognition of services provided to the Company prior to Admission and, as such, are not subject to continued employment, the Share Bonus Awards will only remain exercisable in full if the 90-day average share price prior to the first and second anniversary of Admission is at least 359 pence.
If, at the relevant anniversary, the average share price is at or below 224 pence, the number of shares in the relevant tranche, to which the awards relate, will be reduced by approximately 35%.
Where the average share price at the relevant anniversary is between 224 pence and 359 pence, the proportion exercisable will be reduced on a pro rata basis.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 87 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued As the awards were made in respect of the period prior to Admission, they are not subject to continued employment, except in the case of dismissal for cause, and remain subject to the malus provisions detailed in the Remuneration policy.
No further awards will be made under this arrangement.
The 90-day average share price on the first anniversary of Admission was 3.438 and, as a result, the first tranche of the award up to 50% of the overall award vested between the minimum and maximum level.
The balance of the award under this tranche thereafter lapsed.
Further details are set out in the table below.
The amounts shown in the single-figure table represents the additional shares vesting during the year above the minimum level.
As at the year end the vested awards under the first tranche of the award remain unexercised.
The following table provides details of the first tranche of Directors Share Bonus Awards: Minimum Maximum exercisable award exercisable award Type of award No.
of shares Shares vested Shares lapsed Rob Roger 245,500 383,000 367,517 15,483 Chief Executive Officer Conditional Share Simon Gordon 133,900 208,900 200,455 8,445 Award in the form Chief Financial Officer of nil-cost options Garry Watts in respect of his role 156,250 243,700 233,853 9,847 as Executive Chairman prior to IPO The following table provides details of the second tranche of Directors Share Bonus Awards: Minimum Maximum exercisable award exercisable award No.
of shares Vesting date Type of award Rob Roger 245,500 383,000 Chief Executive Officer Conditional Share Simon Gordon 133,900 208,900 Vesting date for all Award in the form Chief Financial Officer participants: 23 July 2016 of nil-cost options Garry Watts in respect of his role 156,250 243,700 as Executive Chairman prior to IPO These awards were originally granted on 4 July 2014.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The following table sets out the total remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2015.
The prior year comparison represents the period from 12 June 2014 through to 31 December 2014.
Total remuneration 000s Fees Benefits 2015 2014 Tony Bourne 60.0 60.0 30.0 John Gildersleeve 150.0 150.0 75.0 Dame Janet Husband 60.0 60.0 30.0 Robert Lerwill 60.0 60.0 30.0 1 Danie Meintjes 18.2 18.2 2 Dr Supraj Rajagopalan 3 Simon Rowlands 22.0 22.0 Total 370.2 370.2 165.0 1 Danie Meintjes was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 20 August 2015.
As a Non-Executive Director nominated by the principal shareholder, his fees are paid to a subsidiary within the Mediclinic International group.
2 As a Non-Executive Director nominated by Cinven Funds, Dr Supraj Rajagopalan did not receive a fee.
Dr Supraj Rajagopalan ceased to be a Non-Executive Director on 29 June 2015.
3 As a Non-Executive Director nominated by Cinven Funds, Simon Rowlands did not receive a fee.
From 23 July 2015, Simon Rowlands received a fee for being a Non-Executive Director.
88 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CHAIRMAN Garry Watts Garry Watts as NonGarry Watts as NonExecutive as Executive Executive Chairman Chairman Chairman 000s 2015 2014 2014 Salary fees 257.0 143.3 114.0 Benefits 1.2 2.2 1.0 Retirement benefits Annual bonus 144.2 Long-term incentives Sub-total 258.2 289.7 115.0 Variable incentives prior to Admission Legacy Accrued Incentive Payment 1,298.7 1 Legacy Share Bonus Award 289.2 656.3 Total 547.5 2,244.7 115.0 1 In accordance with the requirements of the disclosure regulations, the value of the Share Bonus Award for 2015 is calculated based on the share price at the date of vesting of 3.709 after part of the performance criteria for the first tranche of this award was met, inclusive of accrued dividend equivalents.
It should be noted that as at the year end these vested awards remain unexercised.
NOTES TO THE TABLE Benefits Only Garry Watts has a contractual entitlement to benefits, which consist of private medical insurance for himself and his family: life cover for himself only: annual health assessment for himself and his spouse: and office facilities to enable him to perform his duties as Chairman.
Reasonable expenses incurred by any Non-Executive Director will be reimbursed by the Company.
Chairman As disclosed in the Prospectus, Garry Watts was entitled to a time prorated bonus for the period prior to Admission, in respect of his previous role as Executive Chairman.
Details of the Legacy awards relating to performance prior to Admission are set out on pages 87 and 88.
On Admission, Garry Watts was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman and, in line with corporate governance guidelines, in that role he did not participate in any future incentive plans.
DEPARTURE TERMS FOR ROB ROGER As announced in March 2016, Rob Roger will step down from the Board on 30 June 2016 after more than nine years with the business.
On departure, Rob Roger will not receive any cash termination payment or payment in lieu of notice.
His outstanding LTIP awards will lapse on departure.
He will not receive a bonus in respect of 2016.
The Committee has determined that he will retain his outstanding award under the Deferred Bonus Plan which is due to vest in 2018, as this relates to performance in 2014.
Awards under the Legacy Deferred Share Bonus Plan will be treated in accordance with the plan rules, and the unvested element will vest to the extent that the relevant share price hurdles are achieved.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 89 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued IMPLEMENTATION FOR 2016 The following table summarises how remuneration arrangements will be operated for 2016.
Shareholders will note that, for the second year, the maximum opportunity under the incentive plans will also remain unchanged.
Salary and Following the year end, the Committee reviewed the base salary for Executive Directors as part of the annual salary benefits review process.
The Chief Executive Officers salary will remain unchanged for the coming year.
The Committee has determined that with effect from 1 April 2016, the Chief Financial Officers salary will be increased by 5%.
This is the first increase since Admission and reflects both Simon Gordons growing contribution towards the execution of the strategy as well as his importance in delivering the Companys growth objectives over the next few years.
2016 salary 2015 salary Rob Roger Chief Executive Officer 525,000 525,000 Simon Gordon Chief Financial Officer 367,500 350,000 No changes to benefits for 2016 benefits include private medical insurance, permanent health assurance, income protection, life assurance, an annual health assessment and car allowance.
Company contributions to the Executive Directors retirement benefits remain at 18% of salary.
Annual bonus The maximum opportunity for Executive Directors will remain at 150% of salary.
In view of his departure, Rob Roger will not receive a bonus in respect of 2016.
The performance targets in respect of the 2016 bonus will be based on EBITDA, and a balanced scorecard based on strategic targets linked to productivity, customer, quality and staff measures.
The detail of targets for the coming year is commercially sensitive: however, the Committee will look to provide expanded disclosure regarding bonus outcomes in next years report.
One-third of any bonus earned will be deferred into shares for three years.
LTIP Conditional award over shares will be made in 2016 of 200% of base salary in the form of nil-cost options.
Rob Roger will not be granted an award in 2016.
Performance will be measured over the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018.
Awards conditional on relative TSR and adjusted EPS targets.
The EPS target range has been set in the context of external market conditions anticipated over the period.
The EPS hurdle has been set so that vesting above 50% would require significant outperformance of market expectations.
The EPS target range requires growth from current performance levels and the Committee is satisfied that the range is appropriately stretching and challenging.
Threshold Maximum 25% vests 100% vests TSR v FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts 50% Median Upper quartile Threshold Target Maximum 25% vests 50% vests 100% vests Adjusted EPS outcome in 2018 50% 20.0p 21.5p 23.3p For both performance metrics, there is straight-line vesting between points shown.
No vesting of element for performance below threshold.
Shareholding Executive Directors are expected to build up and maintain, over a period of five years, a shareholding equivalent to twice guideline their respective base salaries.
As at the date of this report, both Executive Directors have holdings that exceed this guideline.
Non-Executive The current fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors are shown in the following table.
Directors Role Fee per annum Non-Executive Chairman 1 January 2016 to 13 March 2016 257,000 Deputy Chairman Senior Independent Director 140,000 Basic fee for other Non-Executive Directors 50,000 Additional fee for chair of a Board committee 10,000 Executive As announced in March 2016, Garry Watts resumed the role of Executive Chairman on 14 March 2016 in light of Rob Rogers Chairman intention to leave the Company.
It is expected that Garry Watts will undertake this role for up to a 12 month period following Rob Rogers departure date on 30 June 2016.
While in post as Executive Chairman, Garry Watts will receive a salary of 600,000 and a cash bonus of up to 150% of salary which will primarily be based on EBITDA performance.
He will not receive any pension allowance or LTIP awards for this role.
90 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDING AND SHARE INTERESTS AUDITED The table below sets out the directors shareholdings in the Company.
As noted above, Executive Directors are expected to build up and maintain a holding equivalent to twice their base salary.
There is no requirement for Non-Executive Directors to hold shares in the Company.
Shareholding Guidelines As at 31 December As at 31 December Proportion of shareholding 1 2015 2014 guideline achieved Executive Directors Rob Roger 518,216 518,216 154% Simon Gordon 262,596 262,596 121% Non-Executive Directors Tony Bourne 11,904 11,904 n a John Gildersleeve 4,761 4,761 n a Dame Janet Husband 10,231 4,761 n a Robert Lerwill 23,809 23,809 n a 2 Danie Meintjes 0 0 n a Simon Rowlands 214,516 0 n a Garry Watts 266,532 266,532 n a 1 Calculated based upon the closing share price on 31 December 2015 of 3.129, both Executive Directors significantly exceed the guideline of 200% of salary.
2 The starting shareholding for Danie Meintjes is shown as at the date of his appointment as a Non-Executive Director on 20 August 2015.
There have been no changes to Directors shareholdings between 31 December 2015 and the date of this report.
The table below sets out the Directors interests in shares of the Company which remain unvested or have vested but are unexercised as at 31 December 2015.
Unvested awards are structured as nil-cost options.
Shares Unvested and subject to Unvested and not subject Vested and not subject to 1 2 3 performance conditions to performance conditions performance conditions Executive Directors Rob Roger 800,698 263,557 367,517 Simon Gordon 517,131 144,822 200,455 Non-Executive Directors Garry Watts 87,450 156,250 233,853 John Gildersleeve Simon Rowlands Tony Bourne Dame Janet Husband Danie Meintjes Robert Lerwill 1 Awards granted under the LTIP 663,198 for Rob Roger and 442,131 for Simon Gordon, plus the proportion of the Directors Share Bonus Plan that is delivered dependent on share price performance on the second anniversary of Admission 137,500 for Rob Roger, 75,000 for Simon Gordon and 87,450 for Garry Watts.
Rob Rogers outstanding LTIP awards 663,198 shares will lapse in full on his departure from the Company.
2 Consists of the proportion of the Directors Share Bonus Award that is not subject to performance 491,000 for Rob Roger, 267,800 for Simon Gordon and 312,500 for Garry Watts plus awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan in respect of the 2014 bonus 18,057 for Rob Roger and 10,922 for Simon Gordon.
3 Consists of awards vesting under the first tranche of awards under the Directors Share Bonus Award that vested on the first anniversary of Admission and remain unexercised as at the year end.
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 91 GOVERNANCE Directors Remuneration Report continued LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT Non-Executive Director Date of appointment Notice period Date of expiry Tony Bourne 24 June 2014 2 months 21 May 2018 John Gildersleeve 24 June 2014 3 months 23 July 2017 Dame Janet Husband 24 June 2014 2 months 21 May 2018 Robert Lerwill 24 June 2014 2 months 21 May 2018 1 Danie Meintjes 20 August 2015 Not applicable 20 August 2018 2 Simon Rowlands 24 June 2014 2 months 23 July 2016 Garry Watts 4 July 2014 12 months 23 July 2017 1 Pursuant to the relationship agreement dated 22 June 2015 between the Company and Remgro Jersey Limited, under which Remgro Jersey Limited is entitled to nominate for appointment to the Board one Non-Executive Director, Danie Meintjes was appointed to the Board on 20 August 2015.
Danie Meintjes is considered to be a non-independent Non-Executive Director.
2 Following the sale of their shareholding in the Company by Cinven Funds, Simon Rowlands remained a Non-Executive Director and a letter of appointment dated 23 July 2015 was issued to him.
Due to the senior position Simon continues to hold with Cinven Partners he is considered to be a non-independent Non-Executive Director.
SERVICE CONTRACTS Each of the Executive Directors, who will both put themselves up for re-election at the annual general meeting to be held on 19 May 2016, are employed under ongoing service contracts with the Group.
These contracts do not have a fixed term of appointment.
A copy of each Executive Directors service contract is available to shareholders at the registered office for inspection.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH The graph below illustrates Spire Healthcare Group plcs TSR performance against the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts since Admission.
180 160 140 120 100 80 60 23 July 2014 31 December 2014 31 December 2015 Spire Healthcare Group plc FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts The table below shows the total remuneration paid to the Chief Executive Officer.
2015 2014 Chief Executive Officers single figure of remuneration 000 1,095.8 6,223.1 Annual bonus payout % of maximum 0% 34% LTIP vesting % of maximum PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF THE DIRECTOR UNDERTAKING THE ROLE OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration based on salary, fees, benefits and annual bonus between 2014 and 2015 for the Chief Executive Officer.
Chief Executive Other Officer employees % change % change Base salary 0 1% Benefits 20% 4% Annual bonus 100% 100% The Chief Executive Officer did not receive a salary increase in 2015.
92 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The table below illustrates the year-on-year change in the total remuneration costs for all employees and shareholder distributions.
million 2015 2014 % change Total remuneration 253.0 283.11 11% Distributions to shareholders 12.4 n a 1 Included in total remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2014 are exceptional bonuses paid in relation to the Companys Admission: see notes 7 and 8 on pages 117 for further details.
ADVICE PROVIDED TO THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE During the course of the year, Deloitte LLP provided external advice to the Committee and its total fees were 33,850 2014: 60,500.
Deloitte LLP has voluntarily signed up to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting during the year.
The Committee is comfortable that the Deloitte LLP engagement partner and team that provides remuneration advice to the Committee do not have connections with the Company that may impair their independence.
During the year, Deloitte LLP also provided unrelated tax and consultancy services to the Group.
The Executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Group Human Resources Director and Simon Rowlands attended Committee meetings by invitation in order to provide the Committee with additional context.
No individual participates in discussions regarding their own remuneration.
STATEMENT OF VOTING AT 2015 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The following table sets out the voting in respect of the resolutions to approve the Companys Remuneration Policy and the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report, put to shareholders at the Companys annual general meeting held on 21 May 2015: Resolution Votes for % of vote Votes against % of vote Votes withheld Approve the Remuneration Policy 337,796,831 99.56% 1,485,857 0.44% 147,141 Approve the 2014 Directors Remuneration Report 335,669,514 98.94% 3,607,223 1.06% 153,092 The Directors were pleased with the response received from shareholders to the resolutions proposed.
This report on directors remuneration will be put to an advisory vote at the annual general meeting on 19 May 2016.
The Directors confirm that this report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and reflects the provisions of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts & Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and was approved at a meeting of the Directors held on 16 March 2016.
In line with best practice, it is next intended to present the remuneration policy to shareholders for approval at the annual general meeting in 2018 unless any alterations are required before then.
SHARE PRICES The market price of a Spire Healthcare Group plc ordinary share at 31 December 2015 was 312.9 pence and the range during the year was 279.9 pence to 401.6 pence.
Tony Bourne Chair, Remuneration Committee 16 March 2016 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 93
